08 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,||Vizag gas leak claims 11 lives; over 350 hospitalised||Eleven people, including a six-year-old girl, died and over 350 were admitted to hospitals after styrene monomer gas leaked from a chemical plant belonging to LG Polymers India at R.R. Venkatapuram in Visakhapatnam on Thursday. The gas leak began around 3.30 a.m. in the plant, which is situated in the midst of a densely populated area. It was set up in 1961 in the area, then a suburb. The gas reportedly spread over a radius of about 3 km, affecting at least five villages — R.R. Venkatapuram, Padmapuram, B.C. Colony, Gopalapatnam and Kamparapalem. About 2,000 people were evacuated from the 3-km radius. Visakhapatnam Police Commissioner Rajeev Kumar Meena said that among those killed, two were accidental deaths — a 19-year-old medical student fell from the balcony of the second floor of his house after he was blinded by the fumes and the other fell into a well while trying to escape the gas. The others were declared brought dead at hospitals. Of those affected, 100 have been shifted to King George Hospital (KGH), where the condition of 20 was stated to be critical. They have been put on ventilator, said P.V. Sudhakar, Principal, Andhra Medical College. Chaotic situation According to eyewitnesses, people initially thought it was a fire accident. But as the pungent smell spread, people rushed out of their homes, carrying children and supporting the elderly. Many, running out of their houses leaving doors unlocked, fell unconscious on the road. Two people, who tried to flee on a two-wheeler, died after the vehicle fell into a drain. The police reportedly received an emergency call at 4 a.m., and by 4.20 a.m. the first team reached the spot. Collector V. Vinay Chand, who was supervising the evacuation process, said people were shifted in about 30 ambulances, police jeeps and government vehicles. State Road Transport Corporation buses were also pressed into service. The gas is not lethal but prolonged exposure to it could affect the central nervous system, which may lead to depletion of oxygen to the brain and cause nausea, vomiting and breathlessness, said KGH Superintendent Arjuna.  CM visits hospital Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy reached Visakhapatnam from Amaravati in a chopper and visited the affected persons in KGH. He announced compensation of Rs. 1 crore for family members of the deceased. “This amount includes the compensation to be paid by the company,” he said. He also announced that a four-member committee, headed by the Special Chief Secretary, Environment and Forests, would inquire into the incident.
08 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Four States want U.P. labourers to stay||Uttar Pradesh was the first State to announce plans to bring back migrant workers from other States by buses and other means as the lockdown took effect in late March. Now, the Punjab, Karnataka, Haryana and Gujarat Chief Ministers have dialled their U.P. counterpart Yogi Adityanath to prevent the flight of workers and the grounding of economic activity. On Tuesday and Wednesday, Mr. Adityanath received calls from the four Chief Ministers, assuring him that migrant workers from his State needn’t leave and would be taken care of as a graded exit from the lockdown looms. While the Chief Ministers are worried that economic revival in their States post lockdown would be hampered as more labourers left, Mr. Adityanath had, a month ago, put in place some systems to change the status quo in Uttar Pradesh. Job creation “More than a month ago, Yogiji set up a committee with Agriculture Produce Commissioner Alok Sinha and representation from the Rural Development, Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME), Labour and Panchayati Raj Departments. As MSME Minister, I was told that the mandate of the committee was to explore ways to ramp up employment opportunities to those returning. The goal we have been given is around 15 lakh jobs, with a target of five lakh jobs for my department alone,” said Siddharth Nath Singh, Minister for MSME. It was three weeks after the setting up of the committee that Mr. Adityanath declared he would coordinate with other States to bring migrant workers back. Till date, 6.5 lakh migrants have returned. “In those three weeks, we have worked hard to ramp up banking proposals. I held three meetings with banks and we have cleared more than 20,000 loan proposals for tiny businesses [which can employ 4 people, excluding the owner] pending since before the pandemic hit. This credit flow will kick in once the lockdown is lifted,” he said.
08 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||India registers 3,561 new cases, 89 deaths in a day||India registered 3,561 new COVID-19 cases in the past 24 hours, taking the total to 52,952. With 89 deaths, the tally mounted to 1,783 on Thursday. The country currently has 35,902 active cases, with All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) director Randeep Guleria stating that according to data released by experts and going by the current trend, the cases are likely to peak in June-July. “While predictions vary from May to August and keep changing depending on parameters used according to modelling data and the way our cases are increasing currently, it is likely that our case peak can come in June and July. There are many variables to this and an exact prediction isn’t possible,” said Dr. Guleria. According to data from the Union Health Ministry on Thursday, 15,266 persons have been cured so far with 1,084 patients cured in the past 24 hours. However, the State Health Departments put the total number of cases at 54,299, of which 36,761 are active. The number of deaths rose to 1,832.
08 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,||Gasping villagers rush out at dawn||It was around 3.30 a.m. on Thursday when thick fog engulfed villages in the R.R. Venkatapuram locality. The unusually foggy dawn in summer surprised the early risers, who suspected it was due to a fire accident nearby. But they were caught unawares by the pungent smell and breathlessness. As news spread and people indoors also sufffered from nausea and dizziness, the residents understood that something had gone horribly wrong. People came out of their houses and ran helter-skelter but many fell unconscious on the road. Sensing that there might have been a mishap at LG Polymers India, situated in the middle of the locality, some residents dialled the police. ‘A flight for survival’ “As we opened doors, we saw people running on the streets. Women carrying children, men carrying small bags stuffed them with valuables that they could lay their hands on. The thoroughfares were soon filled with people screaming and running. People even did not care to lock their houses. It was a run for survival,” said Babu Rao, a resident. Police reached the spot immediately on jeeps, patrol vehicles and ambulances in tow. And the evacuation began. Several buses also joined the operation. Some people left in their own vehicles, while auto-rickshsaw drivers picked up neighbours. Police also rescued many residents from the surrounding areas, who had locked themselves up in their houses in panic.
08 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,||Expert panel set up to identify the cause||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Thursday announced the constitution of a five-member expert committee to inquire into the gas leak incident at LG Polymers here in which 10 persons died and over 350 others were hospitalised. The committee will be headed by Special Chief Secretary (Environment and Forests) and comprises Industry Secretary, the Visakhapatnam Police Commissioner, Secretary (Pollution Control Board) and the district Collector. Mr. Jagan, who rushed to the city by helicopter on hearing the news, visited the affected people at the KGH. Later addressing officials, he said the committee would also suggest measures to prevent a repeat of such incidents. If the committee suggested shifting of the plant, the government would take it up with the multinational company. The Chief Minister expressed surprise over the absence of an alarm system at the plant.  ‘Team spirit on display’ He said the district administration, police and disaster management teams rose to the occasion by evacuating people in the vicinity of the plant and rushing the affected persons to hospitals. “From what I understand, the situation was challenging, but personnel of various wings worked as a team to shift over 350 people to various hospitals, including some who were in an unconscious state,” he said. On the occasion, the CM announced that a compensation of Rs. 1 crore each would be paid to the families of the deceased. “Whatever the company pays, which will be taken care of by the government, we will chip in with the rest to ensure the compensation comes to Rs. 1 crore,” he said. In addition, the CM also promised a job to one dependent of the family of the deceased. Besides, he announced Rs. 25,000 for primary care and Rs. 1 lakh each to those hospitalised. The CM also promised Rs. 10 lakh each to those put on a ventilator. “No one has to pay a single rupee for hospitalisation,” he pointed out.  ‘Will stand by villagers’ Mr. Jagan said five villages — RR Venkatapuram-I, RR Venkatapuram-II, SC / BC Colony, Padmanabhapuram and Nandamuri Nagar— have been affected and people in these villages would be under stress. “We promise to give financial help to the tune of Rs. 10,000 to each of the 15,000 families in these villages,” he said. He asked the Collector to organise free medical camps and shelter homes and provide quality food to the affected people. He said Chief Secretary Nilam Sawhney, District in-charge minister K. Kanna Babu and Tourism Minister Avanthi Srinivas would camp in the city for the next two days to monitor the situation.
08 May 2020||Bengaluru,||Delayed start to academic year to see paring down of syllabus||Students enrolled in schools affiliated to the State board will not have to struggle with vast study material in a short span of time during the coming academic year, which will be truncated because of the COVID-19 pandemic. The government has decided to reduce the syllabus and slash the number of chapters in each subject for all classes. The State government is likely to defer the commencement of the academic year. Minister for Primary and Secondary Education S. Suresh Kumar on Thursday held a meeting with department officials and urged them to frame policies keeping in mind the current situation. “The Minister asked the department to prepare an urgent action plan for possible omission of excess chapters in textbooks of all classes. A phase-wise action plan based on the possible loss of academic time will be worked out,” said a statement from Mr. Kumar’s office. There will, however, be one addition to the curriculum: COVID-19. Students from classes six to 10 will study about the pandemic that has brought the world to its knees. The government has also decided to ensure that these students will study learning modules of all diseases. Students will also have to take an examination at the end of the year. All teacher-training modules will also have a module on COVID-19 as the education system will undergo a huge change after the pandemic, said a senior official of the department. In addition to this, teachers have been asked to make videos for all subjects and all classes on the department’s YouTube channel ‘Makkala Vani’. This will be available permanently for students and teachers to refer. The move to reduce the syllabus has been appreciated by educationists and child rights experts. “It is a thoughtful move by the government as the burden on the children will be reduced. There is no point in conducting online classes and making it stressful for students. Moreover, online teaching is not as effective as classroom teaching and learning,” said Nagasimha G. Rao, child rights activist. He, however, warned that the syllabus would have to be cut with caution so that all the basic concepts are still covered. “There should be no other basis on which the chapters are cut and no politics and discrimination should come to play,” he said.  Number of chapters in each subject for all classes to be slashed All teacher-training modules to also have module on the pandemic Teachers told make videos for all subjects and all classes on ‘Makkala Vani’ YouTube channel
08 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Some relief for migrants as first batch departs||Relief, hope and anticipation to meet family members after days of being locked down in the national Capital gripped over 1,000 migrant workers on Thursday as they boarded a special train to Madhya Pradesh. The workers, who were mostly staying at government shelters since the lockdown began, were brought to the New Delhi railway station in special DTC buses followed by police vehicles. Eighteen-year-old Sharman Kumar, a resident of M.P.’s Chattarpur district, said he had come to Delhi in February to earn a living. “I came to live with my brother who has been working here for a long time. My mother and two sisters are back home. Soon after my arrival the lockdown began and we were out of work. Not only could I not send any money home, I could not even go back and be with my family. I am glad that finally I am getting to return home,” he said. Avdesh, 23, a daily wage earner who had arrived in the Capital on March 20, said, “We got our names registered as we wanted to return to our villages, but we had lost hope as every second day someone would come and take down our details and then disappear. Finally, today [Thursday] morning, we were told that we can go home.” While the train departed around 8 p.m., by 6 in the evening approximately 60 buses had reached the railway station. North Delhi District Magistrate Deepak Shinde said 81 migrant workers from the district were allowed to go after screening. They were given food, water and tickets free of cost. However, some workers like Rajendra Prasad Misra and Shyam, residents of M.P.’s Khargone district, said they were being sent back against their wishes. “We were told that if we continue to stay here, we might die due to the pandemic. We have been living in this city for over two decades now. I could not even collect my bank documents as they are with someone else. We told the authorities that we do not wish to return as we have no family there, but they told us that everyone is being sent back so we have to go,” said Mr. Shyam, who used to work in restaurants.
08 May 2020||GURUGRAM,||Gurugram workers allege being turned away on religious grounds||Several Muslim workers at Richa & Co., a garments unit based in the Udyog Vihar Phase-III area of Gurugram, have alleged that they were turned away from the company’s gate on Thursday citing their religion and told to wait till “there were orders from the higher-ups”. The company, however, denied the allegations, saying it had a large Muslim workforce and had never imposed religion-based restrictions. Three workers, employed as tailors, spoke to The Hindu . They said they had been working with the company for the past two to six years. Babul Haq, staying at Dundahera on the Delhi-Gurugram border, said he found his name and that of 50 others written on a separate piece of paper. The personnel manager told them there was no work for “those offering namaz and observing fast” as of now. He claimed that at least 50 Muslim workers were turned away. Mohammad Ferdos Ali, another worker, said he did not have enough money to pay rent and his landlord had been pressing him for it. ‘No work till Ramzan’ Lalchan Ali, the third worker, said Muslim staff were made to stand in a queue and told to go back. “The manager told me that Muslims, if allowed, will be called back to work after Ramzan,” he said. The men said they would not be able to sustain themselves if they were not allowed to get back to work. The company’s general manager, Amardeep Dagar, denied the allegations. “A lot of Muslims work with us. In fact, most of the tailors are Muslims. We never imposed religion-based restrictions,” said Mr. Dagar. He said the allegations were “propaganda” and assured that the matter would be looked into, if there was any such complaint. The company’s deputy manager, Amit Kumar, said only four workers had been turned away since they did not have movement pass. The Muslim workers, however, claimed that many Hindu workers also did not have movement passes but were allowed inside.
08 May 2020||Hyderabad,||No trains for these migrant workers||Chaos and confusion prevailed among migrant workers as they rushed to different railway stations in the city in the hope of catching a train home only to be turned back. “I registered for travel at the Narayanguda police station on May 5. All of us are registered for travel but when we went to Kacheguda railway station, we were turned away. We were told there are no trains,” said Raj Kumar, who works as a mason in the city. The group of 25 people consisting of his family and friends began to walk towards their home town – Baloda Bazaar, Bhatpara in Chhattisgarh – a distance of about 800 km. “We have children and women, so we are walking slowly,” said Mr. Kumar. Another group of migrants walked to the Secunderabad railway station, only to be turned away. “We came from Chegunta but they didn’t let us reach the station, though we had registered for travel to Bokarao,” said Ranjit Ravidas. “No, we didn’t get any message or call about the departure of the train,” said Ravidas who registered at Pet Basheerabad P.S. During the registration process, police officials repeatedly clarified that individuals registered for travel would get a call or a message. The token given by the police does not have any contact details. As word about absence of trains spread among migrant workers, many of them continued to walk towards their home. Some of them assembled near the lay-by beyond the Outer Ring Road and began haggling with truck drivers for a ride. “They are asking for Rs. 1,500 till Nagpur. We can spare only Rs. 300,” said Farooq Khan, who completed 500 km of his 2,000-km journey towards Ramala in Uttar Pradesh from Nandyal in Andhra Pradesh. “We are asking for money because we will have to pay people on the way. We know the situation is bad,” said a truck driver who covered the rear part of the vehicle with a tarpaulin to hide people. After sometime, Farooq, who works in a footwear shop, and his friends struck a deal for Rs. 800 per person to Nagpur. “We cannot wait any longer for trains. We have some money left and that will get over if we stay here. We are not getting enough food here. We will starve if we stay here,” said Rameshwar Kurrey, whose group was walking towards Mahasamund in Chhattisgarh.
08 May 2020||CHENNAI,||580 cases take T.N. past 5,000-mark||A day after recording an all-time high of 771 cases of COVID-19, the State reported 580 fresh cases and two more deaths, with Chennai alone accounting for 316 patients. Tamil Nadu’s tally of COVID-19 cases surpassed the 5,000-mark on Thursday, climbing to 5,409 two days after crossing the 4,000-mark. The total number of samples tested increased to 2.02 lakh; the day’s sample count stood at 14,195. Two women died — a 56-year-old resident of Tiruvallur district, admitted to the Government Kilpauk Medical College Hospital on May 1, died at 4.30 p.m. on May 6, and a 48-year-old resident of Chennai, admitted to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital on May 3, died at 3.30 a.m. on Thursday. Both had co-morbidities, according to the bulletin issued by the Directorate of Public Health and Preventive Medicine. Another 31 persons were discharged from hospitals, taking the total number of persons cured in the State to 1,547. As on date, there are 3,822 active cases in T.N. The number of persons admitted to isolation wards of various hospitals with symptoms of COVID-19 stands at 3,935. Twenty-two districts have reported fresh cases, the majority of which are linked to the Koyambedu cluster. Most of these districts have been reporting cases from the cluster after daily wage labourers working at the market returned to their native districts. With 316 cases, Chennai accounted for a total of 2,644 COVID-19 cases. The neighbouring district of Tiruvallur reported 63 cases, taking its count to 192. With 45 new cases, Villupuram surpassed 200 cases, while Perambalur had 33 and Cuddalore 32 cases. There were 24 cases in Ariyalur, 17 in Tiruvannamalai, 13 in Chengalpattu, seven in Ranipet, five in Tiruchi, four in Krishnagiri, three each in Theni and Tirunelveli, two each in Kancheepuram, Karur, Pudukottai, Ramanathapuram, Thanjavur, Tirupattur and one each in Kallakurichi, Thoothukudi and Vellore. Health officials said they were able to track the majority of persons who had returned to their native districts from Koyambedu market, and added that the contact tracing was “very strong”. Nineteen more children aged 0 to 12 have tested positive. This takes the total number of children affected in the State to 273. As on date, the State has tested 2,02,436 samples and 1,92,574 individuals. Testing of 1,196 samples is under process. (*This is inclusive of two deaths cross-notified to other States and one patient who died after testing negative for the infection)
08 May 2020||HYDERABAD,||3 migrants among 15 new COVID cases||The total number of COVID cases in Telangana touched 1,122 as 15 more cases were reported on Thursday including that of three migrants. The State Health department officials stated that 12 cases are from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) and the other three migrants from Mumbai. For the first time, ‘migrants’ section was mentioned in the medical bulletin issued by the departments. Besides this, 45 people were discharged. Tests are being conducted on everyone coming to Telangana from other States. The three migrants who reached here tested positive during the testing process. Of the total 1,122 cases 400 are active cases, 693 were discharged, and 29 people suffering from the disease have died. While zero positive cases were reported till date in three districts, no new case was reported in the past 14 days in 22 districts.
08 May 2020||May 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Karnataka to restart trains for migrants||Facing flak over cancellation of trains for migrant workers, the Karnataka government on Thursday made a U-turn and decided to restart trains to nine north Indian States from Friday. The first ‘Shramik Special’ train will leave for Bihar on Friday, while consent from other States is awaited. Sources said a decision was taken by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Thursday, after the Opposition and workers’ organisations expressed outrage. An internal assessment by the Home Department is said to have warned that labour unrest may go out of hand if trains are not restarted. N. Manjunath Prasad, nodal officer for inter-State travel, has written to Indian Railways and governments of nine States — Jharkhand, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Manipur, Tripura, West Bengal, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, and Odisha — requisitioning at least one train to these destinations every day from May 8 to 15. The Karnataka government has sought two special trains every day to Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand, West Bengal, and Odisha, as most of the migrant workers come from these States and make up the bulk of those registered on Seva Sindhu, a portal for travel out of the State.
08 May 2020||Mumbai,||SBI cuts lending rate, FD interest||State Bank of India, the country’s largest lender, has reduced the marginal cost of funds based lending rate (MCLR) by 15 basis points across all tenures. With this, the one-year MCLR would be 7.25%, with effect from May 10. “Consequently, equated monthly instalments on eligible home loan accounts (linked to MCLR) will get cheaper by approximately Rs. 255 for a 30-year loan of Rs. 25 lakh,” SBI said in a statement. The lender also cut the retail fixed deposit rate by 20 bps for up to three years maturity, citing adequate liquidity, effective May 12. The SBI also introduced a new deposit product for senior citizens.
08 May 2020||May 08 2020 00:00 IST,||First day first show||
08 May 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi court orders FIR over ‘communal remarks’||A Delhi court has ordered registration of FIR against two women for allegedly passing communal remarks against Muslims living in Lal Kuan here while also violating lockdown norms by roaming without permit. “If incidents like the one in question are not taken to law, it will lead to communal disharmony,” the judge said.
08 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Four States want U.P. labourers to stay||The Chief Ministers of Punjab, Karnataka, Haryana and Gujarat have dialled their Uttar Pradesh counterpart Yogi Adityanath to prevent the flight of workers and the grounding of economic activities. U.P. was the first State to announce plans to bring back migrant workers.
08 May 2020||New Delhi,||City reports one death and 448 new cases||The Capital on Thursday reported one death and 448 new COVID-19 cases. This is the highest single-day jump so far, said government officials. The total number of cases stands at 5,980 while the death toll has touched 66.
08 May 2020||May 08 2020 00:00 IST,||‘No shortage of beds in govt. hospitals’||Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar has said that there is no shortage of beds in government hospitals across the State. In Chennai, the occupancy in the 1,800-odd beds in the hospitals is currently just above 50%. “The number of patients in government hospitals in many districts is in single digits,” the Minister told The Hindu on Thursday.
08 May 2020||CHENNAI,||STCs to promote e-payment for tickets||When bus services resume after the COVID-19 lockdown is lifted, State Transport Corporations (STCs) will encourage digital payments for tickets and operate at 50% seating capacity in Tamil Nadu.
08 May 2020||UDUPI,||12 with symptoms admitted to hospitals||As many as 12 persons with symptoms of COVID-19 were admitted to hospitals in Udupi district on Thursday. A press release from the Department of Health and Family Welfare said that of the 12, eight are suffering from Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) and four from Influenza Like Illness (ILI). Eight of them are men and four women, the release said.
08 May 2020||Bengaluru,||Restaurants, pubs may get nod to sell alcohol||In all likelihood, people in Bengaluru and other parts of Karnataka will be allowed to buy alcohol from their local bars and restaurants. Sources in the Excise Department said that an official order will be issued shortly.
08 May 2020||Bengaluru,||‘Positive’ to negative: Dept. to take action||Taking serious note of the confusion that led to two “positive” persons testing negative after a re-test, the State Health and Family Welfare Department on Thursday said it would initiate disciplinary action against those responsible.
08 May 2020||Chennai,||Retirement age of govt. staff raised to 59||The Tamil Nadu government on Thursday increased the age of superannuation of State government employees to 59 years, in an attempt to give itself a temporary relief from a financial burden of about Rs. 5,000 crore. The order applies to those in regular service and who will retire beginning May 31, a G.O. issued by Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam said.
08 May 2020||Cuddalore,||Eight injured in fire at Neyveli power station||Eight persons, including two employees of NLC India Ltd, were seriously injured when a fire broke out in the furnace of a boiler in one of the units of Thermal Power Station II in Neyveli on Thursday. Two of the employees and six contract workers sustained burns of various degrees. Two of the injured sustained over 70% burns and are said to be critical.
08 May 2020||CHENNAI,||Flight carrying stranded persons to arrive today||The first flight carrying nearly 200 Indian nationals stranded abroad to the city will land on Friday night. The passengers will be taken to institutional quarantine centres for stay for two weeks. Passengers who want to stay in hotels will be allowed to do so, a pressnote issued here said.
08 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||NDRF team evacuates 1,200 families||National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) 10th Battalion Commandant Zahid Khan, who closely monitored the rescue operations in the gas leak incident in Visakhapatnam, said the trained chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear (CBRN) defence team of the force rushed to the spot and evacuated 1,200 families to safe locations, and 400 people were admitted to hospital. “Six areas were affected by the gas leak, with the residents of R.R. Venkatapuram bearing the brunt of it,” Mr. Khan told The Hindu . The NDRF Regional Response Centre team was attending to the rescue operations along with Fire Services, and police and revenue personnel at R.R. Venkatapuram and other villages. “Styrene gas leaked around 3 a.m. The NDRF team went inside the LG Polymers facility and shifted the victims to King George Hospital,” the Commandant said.
08 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||$40 charge for sea evacuation||An “evacuation service charge” of $40 per head would be collected from Indians embarking on Naval ships from the Maldives, the Indian High Commission said. The charge, described by officials as reasonable and nominal, marks the first time passengers being evacuated by the Navy are being charged. “This amount would be collected at the service fee collection counter after completion of the immigration process at the Velana international airport,” the mission said on Twitter. The Navy saidINS Jalashwahad arrived off the port of Male on Thursday morning. It is scheduled to set sail from Male to Kochi on Friday morning with about 750 persons. This is the first of the two ships sent to the Maldives under Operation Samudra Setu launched by the Navy for the evacuation of Indians stranded due to the pandemic.INS Magar, the second ship, is scheduled to reach the Maldives on May 10. Defence sources and MEA officials had confirmed that sorties on naval ships and Air Force aircraft would be on payment basis and that would be determined by the Ministry of External Affairs in consultation with the Department of Military Affairs. On the precautions to be followed on board, the Navy said, “The ship will be zoned to prevent intermingling of the crew with the evacuees.” INS Jalashwa, the Navy’s Landing Platform Dock (LPD), has a capacity to generate 3MW of electrical power, 60,000 gallons (212 tonnes) of fresh water a day and has extensive medical facilities. The ship has been provided relief and COVID-19 protection material, as well as medical and administrative support staff, the Navy added. INS ShardulandINS Airavatare heading to the United Arab Emirates (UAE) for evacuation and are in addition to the civilian aircraft being sent. However, official sources said modalities at the port of entry at the UAE are still being finalised and should be in place over the weekend.
08 May 2020||New Delhi,||Air India’s website poses a major hurdle||Many Indians and foreign citizens planning to fly out in one of the special flights arranged by the government are fighting against all odds to book a ticket, which include an inefficient and snag-prone Air India website. Many have stormed the airline’s timeline on Twitter to complain about incomplete transactions, unresponsive buttons, website crashes and “misleading information” on visa norms. “The website is unstable. It crashed last evening when I was booking a ticket to Newark. In this chaos, most of the seats were already booked,” said Shyamal Subramanyam, a U.S.-based scientist planning to travel from Pune. “The website has contradictory information and travel advisories. I know their advisory for U.S. travellers, which says only U.S. citizens and holders of permanent residency will be allowed, is not a requirement laid down by the U.S. government. It also contradicts the Home Ministry order which allows Indians with a visa valid for a year,” said another traveller planning to go to Newark. When these questions were posed to an Air India official, he replied, “The website is a non-issue. We are dealing with a mammoth logistical issue. In any website, the coding is such that a sudden spurt in traffic will lead to problems in the beginning but this stabilises over a period of time.” Sanchit Vir Gogia, chief analyst & CEO, Greyhound Research, said, “Typically, airlines do demand mapping over a few [financial] quarters and a few months and then do the server sizing and the website works fine. But during an unplanned traffic surge, there are problems. This happens often but it doesn’t justify that their website was crashing. All it requires is to move the surge to a public cloud.” What is missing is an efficient interface, especially at a time thousands of passengers are under distress. “A website which is frequently inaccessible, difficult to navigate, or poorly designed, inevitably detracts from the airlines image,” IndiGo’s Chief Commercial Officer Willy Boulter said.
08 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘India taking all possible steps’||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Thursday said India was taking all possible steps to save lives during the COVID-19 pandemic as well as responding to calls for help from other countries. “Today, India is making every effort to save the life of every Indian and is also fulfilling its global obligations equally seriously,” he said. Mr. Modi was delivering the keynote address during a virtual Buddha Purnima celebration organised by the Culture Ministry and the International Buddhist Confederation. He said the teachings of Buddha were more relevant today as the world went through an upheaval. “The message and resolve to remove the difficulty of every life have always shown direction to India’s civilisation and culture. Lord Buddha has further enriched this culture of India...Buddha is synonymous with service and dedication...And look at the good fortune of all of us, at this time we are seeing many people around us who serve others, treat a patient, feed a poor person, clean a hospital, maintain law and order on a road... they are all working round the clock. In India, outside India, every such person deserves a salute, a tribute.” Buddha’s teachings were “even more relevant” today when there was “turmoil in the world”, he noted and and cited those related to mercy, compassion and acceptance. “... Beyond the profit and loss, able and unable, for us, this hour of crisis is to help others as much as possible to forward the hand of help,” he said.  Beyond the profit and loss, able and unable, for us, this hour of crisis is to help others as much as possible to forward the hand of help Narendra Modi Prime Minister
08 May 2020||Bhopal,||Factory working hours increased in M.P.||Madhya Pradesh on Thursday allowed employers to increase working hours in factories by four hours, from eight to 12. It has also allowed up to 72 hours a week in overtime. “The increased working hours are applicable only if employees are willing to work. And they must be paid for overtime,” Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan said while announcing the changes to labour laws. Newly opened industrial units can organise third-party inspections. They will be exempted from the requirement of keeping registers and inspections. Industries can change shifts at their convenience. New industries will be exempted from all Sections of the Factories Act, 1948, except for Sections 6, 7, 8, 21-41 (H), 59, 67, 68, 79, 88 and 112. “...we have relaxed the Sections for three months and proposed to the Centre to extend the relaxation for 1,000 days,” Mr. Chouhan said during a live video address from Bhopal. Exemption for new units The new units will be exempted from the entire Section in the Act on ‘right of workers’ that empowers workers to obtain details of their health and safety at work. Further, the employer is not bound to provide to workers ventilation, lighting, toilets, sitting facilities, first aid boxes, protective equipment, canteens, crèches, weekly holidays and interval of rest. Further, maintenance of a register of adult and child workers and allowing for advance payments will not apply to new units. Mr. Chouhan said the aim was to generate employment opportunities, encourage industrial activities, bring in investments, protect the rights of workers, bring about transparency in the administrative procedures, re-rail industries hit by COVID-19 and convert the challenges of a distressed economy into opportunities. “Many firms across the world want to relocate now. And we want to invite them here. The changes, with workers’ rights kept in mind, became necessary as investors were stuck in a web of laws and red-tapism,” Mr. Chouhan said. The government has said factory registration will be done in a day now, instead of 30 days. “If the official concerned doesn’t give the go-ahead within a day, he will have to pay a fine to the aggrieved firm,” said Mr. Chouhan. And the licence should be renewed after 10 years, instead of a year. The State government has proposed to the Centre to change the definition of factories. Those using electricity in the manufacturing process and employing at least 20 workers should be registered, against the existing condition of those using electricity and employing at least 10.
08 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Air passengers perplexed over protocols||Two flights returned to India on Thursday with 363 passengers, including nine infants, on board Air India Express flights from Abu Dhabi to Kochi and from Dubai to Kozhikode. A flight from New Delhi departed for Singapore at 11.15 p.m. to bring back stranded Indians. The government has decided to allow foreign nationals and Indian citizens to book a ticket on outbound flights to Singapore, the U.K. and certain destinations in the U.S. But the government’s standard operating protocols have only thrown more questions, some of which have been answered below based on information from government officials. How can passengers travel to an airport located in a different city or State to catch a flight? After being flooded with queries, the Ministry of Civil Aviation clarified on Wednesday, “as per MHA guidelines, except in containment zones, movement on roads [with seat restrictions] is duly permitted” to travel to reach an airport in a different city. Passengers are being helped by the District Commissioner to procure e-passes. Can passengers book a transit flight? For instance, can a traveller wishing to travel to Canada book Air India’s flight to London and then book another airline for the onward journey as there are no flights announced by the government yet? Air India is operating only “point to point flights as of now”, said a senior airline official. Passengers on outbound flights are allowed only if the destination country permits travellers from another country to enter. Therefore, while Air India is flying to 12 countries, only flights destined for Singapore, U.K. and Chicago, Newark, San Francisco and Washington in the U.S. will ferry passengers from India. It is expected that there will be flights to Canada in subsequent phases and the Indian government is pursuing the matter with Canadian authorities. Are H1B and H4 visa holders allowed to board flights to the U.S.? The Air India website says only Permanent Residency visa holders and U.S. citizens are allowed, but this information is different from the MHA order that requires a person to have a visa valid for a year or a Green Card or OCI Card. It is also not clear from the MHA order whether a visa needs to be valid for a year from the date of issuance or the date of travel. These questions did not receive a response. An official of the Ministry of External Affairs said a meeting would be held on Friday to provide clarity on some of the questions posed to it. What are the quarantine facilities planned by the government for passengers arriving? The order issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs on March 5 states that passengers found to be symptomatic on arrival at an Indian airport will be taken to a medical facility as per the protocol laid down by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. However, all other passengers will be sent to a quarantine facility arranged by the respective State and Union Territory governments. While many State governments are in the process of identifying these facilities, those like Delhi have issued an order saying that these will be a paid service such as hotels. The Delhi government has also asked all its District Magistrates to ready these facilities under their jurisdiction. A list of these hotels is yet to be released. What are the criteria for selecting who gets to board one of the flights returning stranded citizens to India? The Ministry of Home Affairs order which lays down guidelines for the repatriation exercise says that priority will be given to “compelling cases in distress, including migrant workers/ labourers who have been laid off, short-term visa holders faced with expiry of visas, persons with medical emergency/ pregnant women/ elderly, students and those required to return due to the death of a family member.
08 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Management Aptitude Test can be taken at home||Applicants for the Management Aptitude Test (MAT) — for MBA course admissions in more than 600 business schools across the country — can now take the test sitting at home. Due to the COVID-19 pandemic and lockdown, MAT authorities have decided to introduce an Internet-based test with remote proctoring through artificial intelligence-based tools this year. “Given that social distancing will be the norm in the foreseeable future, remote proctoring of examinations and tests is the way forward, for both students and recruiters. It is secure, with AI-based live proctoring by invigilators and you can take it from the safety of your home any time,” says Rekha Sethi, director-general of the All India Management Association, which conducts the examination. The MAT was approved by the Human Resource Development Ministry as a national-level standardised test in 2003, and is conducted four times a year in about 60 cities in February, May, September and December. Although not as prestigious as the Common Admission Test (CAT) developed and used for admission into the elite Indian Institutes of Management, MAT scores are used as input for the admission process in at least 600 B-schools. Approximately one lakh candidates appear for the test each year. So far, candidates have had two options: to write a paper-based or computer-based test. The AIMA is now adding the option of an Internet-based “anytime-anwhere” test as well. Candidates can choose to appear for the test from within their own homes if they have a computer with a webcam and internet connectivity which meets certain technical specifications. Invigilation will be done remotely using artificial intelligence-based tools which have been tested in similar international tests. Candidates found to be violating pre-specified behavioural norms will first be warned, and then disqualified if they repeat the offence. AIMA says it is scheduling a series of mock tests to allow candidates to familiarise themselves with this new mode of testing.
08 May 2020||HYDERABAD,||‘Rich State’ Telangana reels under double whammy||Telangana, often touted as a ‘rich state’ by its Chief Minister K.Chandrasekhar Rao, finds itself reeling under the twin blows of the economic slowdown that preceded the COVID-19 pandemic and the lockdown. While slower economic growth left its finances substantially dependent on GST compensation, the State’s own revenues have now hit rock bottom due to the latest public health crisis and the drastic measures taken to mitigate it. Mr. Rao, who has extended the lockdown in the State till May 29 despite a trying financial situation that has resulted in the State receiving barely 5% of its own revenue in April, has given indications that his patience is wearing thin with the Centre not responding to his various suggestions to infuse funds into economy. The lockdown was announced a few weeks after the State presented its Budget outlay of Rs. 1.82 lakh crore for 2020-21, with an increase of 28.7% over the revised estimate of 2019-20. At the time, the outlay was perceived as being ambitious given the country’s economic slowdown and the fact that the GSDP growth rate at current prices for 2019-20 was revised down to 12.1%, from 14% in 2018-19. But no one could have foreseen the havoc wrought on the State’s revenue and growth estimates by the pandemic. The budget had earlier estimated the State’s fiscal deficit for 2020-21 at Rs. 33,000 crore. The State, which used to be proud of its robust revenue growth rate, became eligible for GST compensation in 2019-20 as its own revenue growth fell sharply to 7%, from the 16.1% expansion recorded in 2018-19. The recommendation of the 15th Finance Commission cut the State’s share in Central tax devolution to 2.1% from 2.4%. And delays and shortfalls in the release of the State’s share of IGST and GST compensation added to its woes. The overall income for Telangana, including Central funds and loans, is about Rs. 15,000 crore a month with the State’s own tax revenue amounting to Rs. 10,800 crore to Rs. 11,000 crore. But Telangana’s income from all sources was only Rs. 1,600 crore in April, with the State’s own tax revenue slumping by 95% to Rs. 500 crore, Mr. Rao had said recently. Making a case for liberal sanction of funds to the States at a time when they were reeling under the impact of slowdown, compounded by the COVID-19 crisis, and yet spending from their meagre resources on relief and welfare of the poor and migrant workers, Mr. Rao’s argument is that the broad fiscal policy rests with the Centre. “Either Centre should sanction more funds to the States or transfer power to the States to make their own decisions,” he said. Mr. Rao has also repeatedly — once in a videoconference on the ongoing crisis with the Prime Minister and also in a written representation — urged the Centre to accord sanction for what he termed ‘Helicopter money’ (a direct infusion of money to the public by the RBI or the Central government) and increase the FRBM limit from 3% to 5%. The FRBM limit increase would enable the State to raise more loans from the market — Rs. 50,000 crore as against Rs. 30,000 crore for the year 2020-21. Another appeal is for a moratorium on loan and interest repayments for six months to let the State get a breather from its financial stress. Mr. Rao pointed out that even for running special trains to take migrant workers to their home States, the Railways were collecting the fare from the States. “ I feel sorry for the Centre’s indifference towards the States’ problems. We will wait for some more time and have our own plan of action,” a visibly disappointed Mr. Rao said during a recent conference with the media. Revenue from sales tax and VAT on petroleum products, State excise duty on liquor and stamp duty and registration fee are the main revenue sources for the State (amounting to Rs. 52,400 crore) while SGST is expected to generate Rs. 27,600 crore. The SOTR was estimated at more than Rs. 85,000 crore for 2020-21. But in April, there was zero revenue from excise and liquor (against Rs. 1,400 crore), stamps and registration (target of Rs. 880 crore) and motor vehicle tax (estimated Rs. 400 cr.) while the VAT on petroleum products was only about Rs. 50 crore as against normal revenue of Rs. 1,500 crore. The State GST was also only about Rs. 350 crore to Rs. 400 crore against Rs. 3,000 crore. The State borrowed Rs. 4,000 crore from the market in April, as against the Rs. 2,500 crore it would normally borrow in a month. Against the income of Rs. 1,600 crore, the government had to spend close to Rs. 10,000 crore in April including Rs. 1,800 crore towards salaries and pensions at 50% and 75% deferment, Rs. 2,400 crore towards debt servicing, Rs. 870 crore towards Aasara pensions, Rs. 830 crore towards power subsidies, Rs. 2,400 crore towards COVID-19 relief assistance of Rs. 1,500 to every white ration card holder and 12 kg of rice and releases to the health department. The State also stood guarantor for a loan of Rs. 25,000 crore availed by the Civil Supplies Corporation to procure paddy, fine rice for the current rabi season. The cut in the State’s share in Central devolution saw the State receiving only Rs. 982 crore in April, as against Rs. 1,200 crore. “We pulled through with some savings apart from borrowings and what trickled in from Centre under Centrally Sponsored Schemes and about Rs. 200 crore of donations to the CMRF” officials said, speaking on the condition of anonymity. Telangana’s government spends close to Rs. 40,000 crore on welfare schemes and its budgeted capital expenditure of Rs. 44,000 crore includes Rs. 22,000 crore of capital outlay for the creation of assets. Its debt servicing expenditure for the year was put at Rs. 21,131 crore.
08 May 2020||New Delhi,||Venkaiah, Birla look into ‘virtual’ panel meetings||Rajya Sabha Chairman M. Venkaiah Naidu and Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla have directed the Secretaries-General of both the Houses to explore the feasibility of holding “virtual” meetings of the standing committees, following a growing demand from various committee chairpersons and members. The decision was taken on Thursday after the two presiding officers met at Mr. Naidu’s residence. With a prolonged lockdown and all domestic flights shut down, the two, as per a statement from the Rajya Sabha Secretariat, felt that conventional meetings of the committees might not be possible in the near future and there was need to enable alternative means. The budget session of Parliament abruptly ended on March 23 and there had been no meetings of parliamentary panels since then. Confidentiality clause So far, both the Secretariats had maintained that committee meetings can’t be held via videoconferences since it violates the confidentiality clause. “The government reveals crucial information at these meetings. How can anyone ensure that the member at the other end of the video call is alone and no one else is sitting in the meeting other than him or her,” a Lok Sabha official said. The Secretaries-General have been asked to examine in detail the pros and cons of holding such meetings by videoconference by taking into consideration the present Rules of Business, the practices and experiences of various countries in respect of such virtual meetings and the time required to enable secure technology platforms required for such mode of meetings. “The report of the two top officials of Parliament will form the basis for a considered decision by both the Presiding Officers in the matter,” a press note said. Chairman of the IT committee Shashi Tharoor and Chairman of the committee on Home Affairs Anand Sharma had written to Mr. Birla and Mr. Naidu seeking permission to hold meetings, but were denied. After this, Chairman of the committee on Labour B. Mahtab wrote to Mr. Birla, urging him to reconsider his decision citing extensive use of videoconferencing for parliamentary work in many nations. Many other MPs, too, had flagged the issue. Congress MP Manish Tewari, who is a member of the standing committee on Finance, had written to panel chairman Jayant Sinha, urging him to arrange for a meeting since the pandemic has worsened the already precarious economic situation.
08 May 2020||PUNE,||Maharashtra breaches 17,000 mark; 1,216 new cases||A staggering 1,216 new COVID-19 cases were reported from Maharashtra on Thursday as the State breached the 17,000-case mark to reach 17,974. A record single-day surge of 43 fatalities saw the State’s death toll soar to 694. As per the State Health Department, 26 of the fatalities were from Mumbai city (including that of a Mumbai resident who died in Sindhudurg district in the Konkan, and two other residents each hailing from Bihar and Manipur respectively) to take the city’s death toll to 437 till date, while seven deaths were reported from Pune district to take the cumulative fatalities there to 129. Five deaths were reported from Vasai-Virar in the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR) to take the area’s toll to nine, while two deaths were reported from Solapur district to take its cumulative toll to 10, one from Akola city as the district’s toll surged to 13, while one death each was reported from Palghar and Aurangabad. This was Palghar’s second reported fatality while Aurangabad’s too has now risen to 13. “About 67% of deaths reported on Thursday had high-risk co-morbidities such as diabetes, hypertension and heart disease,” said State Surveillance Officer Pradeep Awate. As many as 207 were discharged, taking the cumulative discharged till date to 3,301.
08 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||U.S. pat for India’s role in Afghanistan||The U.S. recognises India’s “constructive contribution” to Afghanistan, said U.S. Special Representative for Afghanistan reconciliation Zalmay Khalilzad, who came to Delhi on Thursday and met with External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar and National Security Adviser Ajit Doval to brief them on progress in the peace process that has faltered in the past few weeks. Expressing “deep concern” about the increase in violence in Afghanistan, Mr. Jaishankar and Mr. Doval made a particular mention of the need to protect “Afghan Hindus and Sikhs,” and said India supported the call for a ceasefire to deal with the coronavirus pandemic. “The U.S. side recognised India’s constructive contribution in economic development, reconstruction and humanitarian assistance to Afghanistan. They laid importance to India’s crucial and continuing role in sustainable peace, security and stability in Afghanistan,” a statement issued by the Ministry of External Affairs said after the meeting, which was also attended by U.S. National Security Council Director Lisa Curtis and U.S. Ambassador to India Kenneth Juster. Protection of rights The statement said that India reiterated its continued support for strengthening peace, security, unity, democratic and inclusive polity and protection of rights of all sections of the Afghan society, including Afghan Hindus and Sikhs. Mr. Khalilzad is in the middle of a three-city trip to Doha, Delhi and Islamabad. “At each stop, he will urge support for an immediate reduction in violence, accelerated timeline for the start of intra-Afghan negotiations, and cooperation among all sides in addressing the COVID-19 pandemic in Afghanistan,” a U.S. State department release. The trip is meant to build support for the full implementation of the U.S.-Taliban agreement, which has been derailed by differences between the Afghan government and the Taliban over the release of prisoners. Regional talks In Delhi, Mr. Khalilzad was due to “discuss the important role of India in a sustainable peace in Afghanistan and the region.” India was not included in a UN-coordinated “6+2+1” meeting of Afghanistan, its neighbours and U.S. and Russia on April 16, an exclusion New Delhi is understood to have protested. However, Afghan officials have hinted that they are speaking to the UN, U.S. and others about a broader “6+4” formation for regional talks on Afghanistan soon, which would include India. The MEA declined to comment on whether Mr. Khalilzad had discussed this further. In a reminder of India’s concerns over Pakistan’s role, the MEA said Mr. Jaishankar and Mr. Doval “emphasised that putting an end to terrorist safe havens and sanctuaries is necessary for enduring and sustainable peace and stability in Afghanistan”.
08 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Nod for abolition of 9,304 MES posts||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh has approved a proposal for the abolition of 9,304 posts in the Military Engineering Service (MES), the Defence Ministry said on Thursday. This is in line with the recommendations of the Lt. Gen. D.B. Shekatkar (Retd.) Committee, which had suggested measures to enhance combat capability and rebalance armed forces’ expenditure. “In line with the recommendations made by the Committee, based on the proposal of Engineer-in-Chief, MES, the proposal of abolition of 9,304 posts in MES out of the total 13,157 vacancies of the basic and industrial staff has been approved by the Defence Minister,” the Ministry said in a statement. One of the recommendations was to restructure the civilian workforce in a manner that the work of the MES could be partly done by departmentally employed staff and other works could be outsourced, it stated. It was aimed at making the MES an effective organisation with a leaner workforce, well equipped to handle complex issues in an efficient and cost- effective manner, it added. The 11-member committee, appointed by the late Defence Minister Manohar Parrikar in 2016, had made about 99 recommendations, from optimising defence budget to the need for a Chief of the Defence Staff. These recommendations, if implemented over the next five years, can result in savings of up to Rs. 25,000 crore in defence expenditure. Of these, the first batch of 65 recommendations pertaining to the Army were approved in August 2017.
08 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,||Unconscious and breathless victims fill hospitals||A little girl, about five years old, survived after treatment at a 30-bed hospital at Gopalapatnam. She looked around, perhaps not knowing what was happening as a doctor and nurse made her sit on a bed. “Someone brought her here, placed her on the bed and left. We do not know who her parents or relatives are. Her condition was critical when she was brought here. We managed to rescue her and now she is okay,” said the doctor treating her, even as he rushed to tend to another patient. Many local youth rose to the occasion and rushed the sick to hospitals. Several ferried children and others to safer places on two-wheelers and left beside the highway about 5 km away. The little girl may have been brought by someone and her rescuer may have rushed back to help others, it is suspected. Tough measures A young man with a handkerchief tied around his wrist, blood oozing out, was seen outside the hospital. “I broke a windowpane to rescue someone and my wrist got cut in the process. Had we got the information a bit earlier, we [local youth] could have rescued more persons,” said the good samaritan, who did not even wish to reveal his name. Similar scenes were witnessed at the King George Hospital (KGH), where over 100 people are being treated. The hospital witnessed a stream of ambulances, Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation buses and police vehicles ferrying the affected people. Despite the lockdown, even auto-rickshaws were seen carrying people. “We just picked up unconscious people from their houses and those lying on the roads, and shifted them to hospitals. Many, including children, are separated from their families. We will unite them later,” said inspector Raghuveer Vishnu.
08 May 2020||Srinagar,||‘Naikoo was under the radar for six months’||The J&K Police on Thursday said it had been “tracking the movement of Hizbul Mujahideen’s chief operation commander Riyaz Naikoo for the past six months” and received the “pinpoint tip-off” on him two days ago. Meanwhile, 34 people, including 18 police personnel, were injured and a civilian reportedly was killed in clashes in Pulwama, forcing the authorities to continue the suspension of Internet and calling services on mobile phones for the second day on Thursday. “We busted five of Naikoo’s hideouts this year. He was under the radar for the past six months. We also carried out multiple unsuccessful raids to nab him. Of late, we managed to arrest six or seven of his overground workers and they were interrogated. Finally, we got a pinpoint tip-off about his presence two days ago,” Inspector-General of Police (IGP), Kashmir Vijay Kumar said at a press conference in Srinagar.  Mr. Kumar said Naikoo was the third top militant commander, besides Qari Yasin and Burhan Koka, killed since January in Kashmir. Protests in valley This year, security forces had managed to kill 64 militants in 27 operations, and arrested 25 militants, the police said. Meanwhile, one civilian was killed and 34 people were injured in protests in south Kashmir sparked by the killing of the militant commander. Jehangir Yusuf Wani, 32, a resident of Pulwama, reportedly died of bullet injuries on Wednesday. “Around 15 people who threw stones and 18 police personnel were injured in the protests,” Mr. Kumar said.
08 May 2020||CHENNAI,||No scientific studies report styrene gas causing deaths||Gas leak from LG Polymers, which led to the death of at least seven people in Visakhapatnam, is suspected to have been caused by styrene gas. The most common health problems when exposed to styrene involve the nervous system — both the central and the peripheral nervous systems. According to the Atlanta-based Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), the health effects due to inhalation of styrene gas include tiredness, feeling drunk, slowed reaction time, concentration problems, balance problems and changes in colour vision. The styrene concentrations that cause these effects are more than 1,000 times higher than the levels normally found in the environment. According to the U.S.-based Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), short-term exposure to styrene can lead to respiratory effects, such as mucous membrane irritation, eye irritation, and gastrointestinal effects. Chronic exposure affects the central nervous system with symptoms such as headache, fatigue, weakness. It can also cause central nervous system dysfunction including memory, visuomotor speed, hearing loss and peripheral neuropathy. Clinical studies of volunteers and workers exposed to styrene have demonstrated both the central and the peripheral nervous systems toxicity. The number of studies of styrene clinical neurotoxicity is rather small. Acute exposure to styrene via inhalation at 376 ppm for 25 minutes had resulted in nausea, a sense of inebriation and headache. But no studies have been carried out to understand the harmful effects from exposure at extremely high concentrations lasting a couple of hours. Currently, no studies have reported deaths from short-term exposure to styrene gas. Hence, it is not clear if the deaths were caused by styrene gas or some other chemical or a combination.
08 May 2020||May 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Some relief for migrants as first batch departs||Even as several migrant workers boarded the Shramik Special train to Madhya Pradesh on Thursday, over 40 labourers from various districts of the State resumed work at a construction site here in south Delhi’s Sadiq Nagar area, officials said. A total of 48 people, including six women and four children, from Madhya Pradesh were stranded at the construction site at Sarvodaya Kanya Vidyalaya due to lockdown, they said. “When construction activities were allowed by the government a few days ago, the labourers were not inclined to return to work and wanted to be sent home. But today, all the labourers resumed work after rigorous persuasion,” said DCP (South) Atul Kumar Thakur.  (With inputs from Saurabh Trivedi)
08 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Plea in SC seeks waiver of fees for next semester||A petition has been filed in the Supreme Court to intervene with the government and direct private and public colleges, including unaided institutions, to waive fees for the next academic semester in the wake of the hardships in families due to COVID-19. “Payment of semester [bi-annual] fees for public and private colleges and universities which stands due should be waived off or a partial payment of fees shall be issued in as much as the parents of university students are in no financial as well as mental state to provide high tuition fees for the upcoming semester because of the heavy losses and zero income in every employment sector and industry from past 40 days,” a petition filed by NGO, Justice for Rights Foundation, and some students observed. It referred to how the Central Board of Secondary Education had released a notification to the States to “take steps to ensure that the fees and other expenditures by the parents are met.” “However Respondent No. 1 [Centre] has not placed any centralised policy for colleges and universities,” it said.
08 May 2020||New Delhi,||‘Construction of Rath Yatra chariots allowed’||The Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has allowed the construction of chariots for the annual Rath Yatra at Jagannath Puri in Odisha. In a letter to the Chief Secretary of Odisha, who had sought clarification from the Ministry in the wake of the ongoing lockdown, the Home Ministry said that no religious congregation should be permitted as it was a workplace and not a public place that was accessible to all. The Home Ministry said that the complete segregation of the construction site should be ensured and social distancing norms followed. “The decision regarding the holding of the Rath Yatra is to be taken by State government, keeping in view the conditions prevailing at that time,” the Ministry said. The Rath Yatra is expected to be held on June 23.
08 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||JEE-Advanced to be conducted on August 23||The Joint Entrance Examination-Advanced, the examination for admission to the Indian Institutes of Technology, will be held on August 23, Human Resource Development Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank said on Thursday. It was earlier scheduled for May 17. The HRD Minister also announced changes to expand the Prime Minister’s Research Fellowship this year. The scheme offers financial support of Rs. 70,000 per month to PhD scholars at all IITs and Indian Institutes of Science Education and Research (IISER), as well as the Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru, the NIT at Tiruchirapalli and six top Central universities. The modifications announced on Thursday will allow other NITs to join the scheme if they are among the top 25 institutions under the National Institute Ranking Framework (NIRF). It will also open the doors for lateral entry into the programme for students who have already completed one or two years in a PhD programme at these institutions. Students who have completed their pre-doctoral studies at a non-PMRF institution earlier required a GATE score of 750 in the relevant subject. Now, a GATE score of 650 or above will be considered sufficient.
08 May 2020||New Delhi,||IMD includes PoK in weather forecasts||The India Meteorological Department’s Regional Meteorological Centre has started including cities in Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK) in its forecasts, a departure from its previous format, officials said on Thursday. The IMD has started including Gilgit-Baltistan and Muzaffarabad, which are parts of PoK, under the Jammu and Kashmir meteorological sub-division since May 5, said Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the Regional Meteorological Department that gives forecast for the northwest meteorological division of the IMD. IMD Director-General M. Mohapatra said it had been mentioning areas under PoK under its daily weather bulletin ever since the State was bifurcated into Union Territories in August last year. The development assumes significance as India has maintained that the area under PoK belongs to India. The inclusion of Muzaffarabad and Gilgit-Baltistan comes amid Pakistan’s Supreme Court allowing elections in Gilgit-Baltistan this week, to which India had strongly reacted.
08 May 2020||May 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Four States want U.P. labourers to stay||“We want that more and more of our people needn’t travel out for work,” Mr. Singh said. He said that while this was for creating jobs via domestic entrepreneurship, the State had also set up three desks — the Japan, South Korea and U.S. desks — to deal with international companies that might want to relocate to Uttar Pradesh. Mr. Adityanath’s economic adviser K.V. Raju (who has earlier worked with Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Gujarat) is one of those taking care of these issues. A new normal is being created with regard to life in the COVID-19- affected world, and one of the most dramatic changes, if pulled off, could be for Uttar Pradesh to provide employment to its people within the State.
08 May 2020||May 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Karnataka to restart trains for migrants||N. Manjunath Prasad, nodal officer for inter-State travel, has written to the Railways and the governments of nine States — Jharkhand, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Manipur, Tripura, West Bengal, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, and Odisha — requisitioning at least one train to these destinations every day from May 8 to 15. Two trains sought Karnataka has sought two special trains every day to Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand, West Bengal and Odisha, as most of the migrant workers come from these States and make up the bulk of those registered on Seva Sindhu, a portal for travel out of the State. Bihar has approved only one train per day. “The State is ready to run as many trains as needed. But trains can be organised only after receiving consent from the States. There are logistics issues in these States owing to return of so many migrants,” he said.
08 May 2020||May 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Gasping villagers rush out at dawn||“There was thick fog on the road. Some people fell unconscious on the road while running. We were frightened and locked ourselves in the house. Many police personnel also fell sick,” said Mani Kumar, a mechanical engineer from the area. People came running till the Simhachalam-Pendurthi road. Locals in the surrounding areas of Pendurthi, Gopalapatnam provided them with water. “We had breathing problems and were unable to see the road properly due to fog. I heard few fell in the drains while running,” said Ramana, another resident of RR Venkatapuram. Man falls off terrace A man went up to the terrace of his house to see what exactly happened. But, he fell off the terrace and sustained severe injuries. He was shifted to a hospital. Around 20 animals including cattle and stray dogs reportedly died. Many villagers also went to the LG Polymers plant site and staged a protest demanding stringent action against the authorities.
08 May 2020||May 08 2020 00:00 IST,||India registers 3,561 new cases, 89 deaths in a day||Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Thursday said that in comparison to other countries, India was in a better condition as the fatality rate was 3.3% and recovery rate was 28.83%. Testing increased “Currently there are 4.8% patients in ICU, 1.1% on ventilators and 3.3% on oxygen support of the active cases. The testing capacity has increased in the country and it is now standing at 95,000 tests per day with 327 government laboratories and 118 private laboratories. Cumulatively 13,57,442 tests have been done so far for COVID-19,” he said. The Minister said that currently there were 180 districts with no new cases in the past week, 180 districts with no new cases in 7-13 days, 164 districts which had not had any new case in 14-20 days and 136 districts with no new cases since the last 21-28 days. “There are 13 States/Union Territories — Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Arunachal Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Goa, Jharkhand, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir UT, Kerala, Ladakh, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram and Odisha — which have not reported any case in the last 24 hours. While Daman and Diu, Sikkim, Nagaland and Lakshadweep have not reported a single case till date,” Dr. Vardhan said. The Union Minister said India now had 130 hotspot districts, 284 non-hotspot districts and 319 non-affected districts. As of now India had 821 dedicated COVID hospitals with 1,50,059 beds and 1,898 dedicated COVID Health Centres with 1,19,109 beds along with 7,569 quarantine centres. Dr. Vardhan on Thursday launched the ‘Sanjivani’ App and two AYUSH-based studies related to COVID-19. The Minister said COVID-19 management had provided a potent platform for alliance between the Health Ministry, the AYUSH Ministry and other scientific bodies.
08 May 2020||May 08 2020 00:00 IST,||SBI cuts lending rate, interest on fixed deposit||It would offer an additional 30 bps interest rate on five years and above tenor only. “To safeguard the interests of senior citizens in the current falling rate regime, the bank introduces a new product ‘SBI Wecare Deposit’ for senior citizens in the retail TD [term deposit] segment,” SBI said. This scheme would be in effect up to September 30, 2020. Since deposit rates for senior citizens are already 50 bps higher than the rate for other depositors, under this scheme the effective deposit rate would be 80 bps higher than the ordinary deposit rate. However, the additional 30 bps would not be payable in case of premature withdrawal of such deposits, SBI said
08 May 2020||May 08 2020 00:00 IST,||HC takes up case suo motu||Taking cognizance of the gas leak accident at LG Polymers in Visakhapatnam on its own, the Andhra Pradesh High Court has directed the Central and State governments to explain the laws applicable to it. It has observed that the lessons should have been learnt from the Bhopal gas leak tragedy. While posting the matter to next week, the court appointed High Court Bar Association president Y.V. Ravi Prasad as amicus curiae . Chief Justice J.K. Maheswari and Justice K. Lalitha Kumari said it is not to be treated as an adversarial litigation, but one that is intended to support the State government’s measures. CJ’s poser The Chief Justice sought to know how such an industrial unit was located in a highly populated area and said he took note of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy’s visit to the site of the accident and the Prime Minister being apprised of the situation. The judges have reportedly made some oral observations on the incident and the manner in which it should have been dealt with.
08 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,||Problem in temperature controls led to the leak||Following the leak of styrene monomer gas from a chemical plant belonging to LG Polymers at RR Venkatapuram in Visakhapatnam on Thursday, the company and the district administration took up elaborate sprinkling of water inside the plant and in the affected areas. The company was earlier called Hindustan Polymers. It was taken over by the South Korea-based LG Chem in 1997 and it manufactures polystyrene, a basic material used in fibreglass and rubber for making toys and appliances, according to a company official. At the site, general manager of the plant Mohan Rao told the media that it was not running for the last 40 days due to the COVID-19 lockdown. “There are two tanks that store styrene monomer, a raw material for polystyrene. It happened in a tank of 2,400 tonne capacity, which contained 1,800 tonnes of styrene. If the plant had been running, the material would have been fed into the reactor.” As per preliminary investigation, the plant had just began functioning and there was some problem in the temperature controls. “Due to which, it appears that styrene monomer, which is stored at minus 20 degrees Celsius in liquid form, vapourised and burst out of the safety valves and spread across a 1.5-3 km radius, affecting the population,” Collector V. Vinay Chand said. The Gopalapatnam police have registered a case against the management of LG Polymers under Sections 278 (making atmosphere noxious to health), 284 (negligent conduct with respect to poisonous substance), 285 (negligent conduct with respect to fire or combustible matter), 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others), 338 (causing grievous hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others and 304 (II) of the IPC.
08 May 2020||New Delhi,||Chemicals airlifted from Gujarat to neutralise gas||Around 500 kg of chemicals were airlifted from Gujarat and sent to Visakhapatnam on Thursday to neutralise the impact of the hazardous gas styrene that leaked at a plant. Due to the lockdown, officials at LG Polymers Private Ltd, where the gas leak took place, requested the government authorities to arrange a chemical called 4-Tertiary Butylcatchol (PTBC), available with a chemical factory in Gujarat, to contain the reaction at an early stage. “The matter was discussed in the Home Ministry and within 20 minutes, the chemical was arranged and dispatched from the Daman airport to Visakhapatnam,” a senior government official said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi chaired a high-level meeting to take stock of the steps taken. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, Home Minister Amit Shah and Ministers of State for Home Nityanand Rai and G. Kishan Reddy participated. Randeep Guleria of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences said at a press conference that the chances of a long-term impact on residents, similar to the 1984 Bhopal gas tragedy, was less and it was an “illness that is universally not fatal”. “Irritation in throat can lead to breathing difficulty, wheezing and respiratory distress. It affects the brain leading to headache, nausea, vomiting, unsteadiness and problems in walking. In cases of high exposure, it can lead to coma and an irregular heartbeat. Effect on skin is mild and can also affect eyes,” he said. He said there was “no specific antidote and no treatment to reverse” its impact and the treatment was mostly supportive. “On exposure, clothes are to be removed, exposed eyes can be washed with water… some will have to be put on ventilators. Many will require oxygen facility. Nebulisation can also be given. In serious cases, steroids have been given. This is an illness that is not universally fatal.”
08 May 2020||New Delhi,||CSIR contributes to genome database||The Council for Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) has submitted as many as 53 genome sequences of the novel coronavirus to a global genome database, a move that may help in better understanding the virus and developing a vaccine. The country’s premier research and development organisation is also planning to submit the data of another 450 genome sequences of the virus by May 15, its Director-General Shekhar Mande said. The CSIR’s Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (IGIB), Delhi, the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB), Hyderabad, and the Institute of Microbial Technology, Chandigarh, are currently sequencing the genomes of the novel coronavirus. Other CSIR institutes are also expected to join the process.
08 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||IAF’s Mi-17 helicopter force-lands in Sikkim||A Mi-17 helicopter of the Indian Air Force (IAF), on a routine air maintenance sortie from Chaten to Mukutang in Sikkim, made a forced landing on Thursday morning. All six personnel — four IAF crew and two Army personnel on board — were safe and one sustained an injury, the IAF said. The helicopter got airborne at 6.45 a.m. and en route, it force-landed 10 nautical miles short of the designated helipad due to bad weather, the IAF said.
08 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Cong. sets up helpline for U.P. migrants||The Congress on Thursday launched a helpline to help the stranded migrant workers from Uttar Pradesh even as the political slugfest continued over charging train fares from the migrant workers who are being ferried by Shramik Specials. In a series of tweets, Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra, who is party in charge of U.P., said the government needed to be ‘compassionate’. “... Today is Buddha Purnima. The voice of the Buddha was the voice of compassion. There should be compassionate treatment of migrant workers and they should be supported - this should be our effort. It is not enough to repeat the voice of God. The government will have to execute it,” said Ms.. Vadra.  The party also launched a ‘UP mitra’ (friend) helpline [73999 01414] to assist stranded workers from the State in other States as well as those who are from other areas and are currently stuck in the State.
08 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||189 Shramik trains run so far: Railways||The Railways has so far run 189 ‘Shramik Special’ trains, transporting about 1.9 lakh migrants stranded in different parts of the country. “Today [Thursday], so far we have run 40 Shramik Special trains, taking the total tally of such trains to 189 trains,” a railway spokesperson said, adding that a couple of more such trains were planned for Thursday. Till Wednesday, the railways had run 149 Shramik Special trains. Each train, with 24 coaches, can carry 1,000-1,200 passengers. Separately, the Railways said that it has converted 5,231 coaches into COVID Care Centers. These can be used for very mild cases in areas where the State has exhausted facilities and needs to augment capacities. Of the 215 railway stations earmarked for the deployment of these ‘COVID Care Centres’, the Railways will provide healthcare facilities at 85 stations. At the remaining 130 stations, the requesting States will need to provide staff and essential medicines.
08 May 2020||New Delhi,||2 BSF personnel succumb to COVID-19||Two Border Security Force (BSF) personnel died and 41 others tested positive for COVID-19 on Thursday. One of the deceased was at the BSF headquarters in Delhi when he complained of uneasiness and was rushed to the hospital on May 3. He died 24 hours later. The other personnel who died was suffering from a critical disease and had contracted the infection while visiting a hospital in Delhi.
08 May 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Health expert warns against herd immunity strategy||K. Srinath Reddy, health expert and adviser to the Odisha government, warned against pursuing the herd immunity strategy to overcome the COVID-19 pandemic. “Herd immunity might prove to be dangerous as it carries the risk of high fatality. It is better to focus on herd protection by emphasising on disease containment,” Dr. Reddy said during an interaction with Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik on Thursday.
08 May 2020||Ahmedabad,||388 new cases in Gujarat||Gujarat’s COVID-19 cases jumped to 7013, with the addition of 388 new cases on Thursday. Number of fatalities thus far is 425, including 29 deaths on Thursday. The pandemic continues its run with over 300 cases and over 20 deaths a day for the last five days. In Ahmedabad, 275 cases and 23 deaths were reportedtaking the number of cases to 4,991 and deaths to 321.
08 May 2020||Bhopal,||Case fatality rate surges to 5.9% in Madhya Pradesh||Eight persons died of COVID-19 in Madhya Pradesh on Thursday while undergoing treatment. The death toll climbed to 193, said the Directorate of Health Services. Two persons died in Indore, Bhopal and Ujjain each and one in Jabalpur and Khargone each. The case fatality rate has surged to 5.9%, according to a bulletin issued by the Directorate. Meanwhile, 114 new cases were reported across the State during the day, taking the count to 3,252.
08 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Firm must not be allowed to go scot-free’||Trade unions on Thursday demanded action against the LG Polymers chemical plant in Visakhapatnam. They also demanded compensation for the victims. In a statement, the All-India Trade Union Congress said the incident “again brings forth the issues of occupational safety and health, not only for those who are at the work place but also for all those who happen to be living in the vicinity of such plants”.
08 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||NHRC issues notices to Centre, A.P. government||The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) on Thursday issued notices to the Central and Andhra Pradesh governments on the gas leak in Visakhapatnam. It took suo motu cognisance of media reports of the incident, which it said was a “serious violation of human rights”.
08 May 2020||LUCKNOW,||Agra prisoner tests positive despite no contact with visitors||An inmate of the Agra Central Jail has tested positive for COVID-19 despite having no contact with outsiders for the last one-and-a-half months. On the advice of the Chief Medical Officer of Agra, his sample has been sent for recheck. The RT-PCR test of the inmate, a murder convict from Jhansi, was found positive during his stay at the S.N. Medical College, an official said.
08 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Thousands throng liquor shops disregarding distancing norms||Thousands of tipplers crowded Tasmac shops across Tamil Nadu (except those in Chennai) on Thursday, as liquor outlets reopened after 43 days. COVID-19 safety protocols like physical distancing and the wearing of masks were thrown to the wind, sparking serious concerns about the spread of the virus. Protests were held in several places against the reopening of liquor outlets in the midst of a pandemic. Though customers were required to maintain a six-feet distance between each other, and the Madras High Court had ordered the ‘rationing’ of liquor, such directives were hardly put into practice. Serpentine queues were seen in several places, and many customers were either not wearing masks or wearing them improperly. Despite the police having warned that residents of Chennai would be arrested if they travel to the neighbouring districts of Chengalpattu, Tiruvallur or Kancheepuram just to buy liquor, some managed to get hold of a few bottles. Though some of them were caught by the police, others escaped scrutiny due to the difficulty of verifying Aadhaar cards in crowded shops. Only 100 shops in the three neighbouring districts were opened, as the remaining 400-odd outlets were located in coronavirus containment zones or areas bordering Chennai. Spike in cases Though Tasmac had earlier said it would open 3,850 shops across the State, 150 outlets were not opened, in the wake of the spike in COVID-19 cases on Wednesday. “If new cases emerge [in] fresh spots, we will close the outlets there,” an official said. The police, however, said people were stopped a few hundred meters away from the shops, and tokens were issued to them. “People were allowed into shops in batches,” said a police officer. At some places, people started queuing up near the shops from as early as 3 a.m. to obtain tokens. “We have never had such long queues even during the festive season,” a manager of a liquor outlet said. Tipplers in Tiruppur, who were asked to bring umbrellas to maintain physical distancing, were seen using them to “reserve spots”.   (With inputs from Bureaus)
08 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Flight from Dubai with 200 stranded Indians will arrive today||A flight from Dubai, carrying Indian nationals stranded abroad, will land in the city on Friday night. The repatriation flight, with nearly 200 passengers onboard, will be the first that the city airport will handle. Preparations have been on at Chennai airport to receive them. A set of officials from the State government visited the airport on Thursday morning to inspect the facilities. The flight is expected to land around 8 p.m., sources said. Soon after the passengers enter the airport, their temperature will be checked, and they will have to complete immigration and other procedures. Before they exit, staff from the Health department will collect swab samples to test for COVID-19, the sources added. Officials of the Airports Authority of India (AAI) said that they have cleaned and fumigated the terminals and arrangements are in place to receive the passengers. “There will be sanitisers placed at many points and floor markers have been placed in front of immigration counters to ensure passengers maintain physical distance. We will make sure the process is smooth,” an official said. The incoming passengers will then be taken in buses to institutional quarantine centres where arrangements have been done for them to stay for two weeks. Passengers who want to stay in hotels will be allowed to do so, sources said. Between May 8 and 12, five flights have been scheduled to arrive in Chennai — two from Dubai and one each from Kuwait, Kuala Lumpur and Muscat. Options to be given “A passenger can opt for free accommodation provided by the government at the institutional quarantine centres. Those who want to be in hotels can do so, from the list of choices we give them,” a source said. Passengers will be given the option to choose hotels of various price brackets — between Rs. 1,500 and Rs. 2,500 a day. “There is a set menu for all passengers, including those staying in hotels. Also, they will be given ‘kabasura kudineer’ every day,” another source said. Most hotels have put in place a set of protocols for such guests. The staff will not enter individual rooms, and will provide bedsheets that the guests can change. The staff will also ensure luggage is sanitised on arrival. Food, coffee and tea will be packed and provided in the rooms. Guests can call and make requests for other things, explained a hotelier. One hotelier said they had agreed to provide around 30 rooms for use by guests. “These are for guests who want better accommodation and our rates include taxes," he said. Another hotelier said many in the industry were hesitant to rent out rooms for this purpose since people might end up remembering their properties as COVID-19 confinement hotels.
08 May 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||No shortage of beds in govt. hospitals, says Health Minister||Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar has said that there is no shortage of beds in government hospitals across the State. In Chennai, the occupancy in the 1,800-odd beds in the Omandurar Tamil Nadu Government Multi Super Specialty Hospital, the Rajiv Gandhi General Government Hospital, Stanley Government Hospital and others is currently just above 50%. “The number of patients in government hospitals in many districts is in single digits. Asymptomatic patients who cannot afford home quarantine facilities are being moved to care centres. In Chennai, we have about 500 such patients quarantined in the Trade Centre and two private colleges,” the Minister told The Hindu on Thursday. Asymptomatic persons testing positive for COVID-19 and opting to remain quarantined at home are being allowed to do so after a 24-hour hospitalisation at a government facility, the Minister added.  Chronic conditions After ascertaining their health parameters through a series of tests, such patients with no co-morbid conditions like diabetes, uncontrollable hypertension or other chronic underlying conditions will be given a kit containing medicines as per the treatment protocol and discharged on doctors’ advice. “Allowing asymptomatic patients to remain under home quarantine is a recommendation by the Government of India and other medical experts. We closely follow up on the health condition of those under home quarantine and render medical advice through video-conferencing from the control room,” he said. “A mobile X-ray unit is also being deployed for their benefit,” he said. Medical kits A medical kit given to a patient under home quarantine has 20 face masks, Zinc supplements, Vitamin-C tablets, a diet chart and Indian medicine packets. Nilavembu and Kabasura Kudineer have proved to be good immunity boosters, effective in recovery. “Since Indian medicines are also considered effective in prevention, we are distributing about 2 lakh sachets to front line workers, including police personnel,” he said.
08 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Opposition parties stage black-flag protest||Opposition parties in Tamil Nadu, led by the DMK, on Thursday staged a black-flag protest, condemning the alleged failure of the Central and State governments in combating COVID-19 and the economic impact of the lockdown. The parties also opposed the reopening of Tasmac liquor outlets. Leaders and functionaries of the parties, including DMK president M.K. Stalin, TNCC leader K.S. Alagiri and MDMK founder Vaiko, staged protests from their respective homes or party offices. Later, Mr. Stalin, in a statement, said that the slogans raised by the people highlighting the failure of the government in controlling the spread of COVID-19 should have echoed in the ears Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami and created alarm. “The Chief Minister must give up his indifference and lackadaisical approach and focus on preventing the further spread of the disease which has assumed dangerous proportions,” he said. Lack of planning Reiterating that it was a mistake to conclude that the lockdown alone would eradicate the disease, Mr. Stalin said that proper planning and a scientific approach would have prevented the spread of the virus from the Koyambedu market to other districts. He also alleged that allowing people to crowd in the market had thoroughly exposed the government’s failure in implementing the lockdown. Mr. Stalin said that the decision to open liquor shops had shown the government’s irresponsibility, because it was known to everyone that it would result in community spread. He also demanded that Rs. 5,000 each be given to the poor as assistance. At the CPI(M) office, the party’s polit bureau member G. Ramakrishnan, State secretary K. Balakrishnan and Secretariat member K. Kanagaraj raised slogans against the government.
08 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Addressing panic has been a major challenge’||A pronounced challenge during the COVID-19 lockdown for hospitals has been that of assuaging people in the community who are in panic, said Preetha Reddy, vice-chairperson, Apollo Hospitals. “The anxiety has made people fearful of coming to a hospital for medical treatment. However, there cannot be a lockdown in providing medical care,” she said. Across the Apollo network of hospitals, 620 isolation beds are dedicated for treating COVID-19 patients,” she added. In Chennai, an exclusive facility to treat COVID-19 patients at the Apollo Speciality Hospitals in Vanagaram has so far admitted and treated 201 patients since March 28, Ms. Reddy said. Among the patients were a 90-year-old woman and her 60-year-old son. Both were discharged from the hospital after making complete recovery. Many other patients, in the high-risk category due to their age, have also recovered and been discharged. A few of them did require ventilator support, she said. “The patients are being managed in floors exclusively marked for managing COVID-19 cases. The floors have been transformed into isolation facilities, which includes private rooms and ICUs, all equipped to function as negative pressure rooms. A total of 50 beds are in readiness,” she told The Hindu.  On managing the costs involved, she said the virulence of SARS-CoV-2 was higher compared to similar viruses. Therefore, in treating COVID-19 patients, there were new elements that added to the cost of care, she said. The hospital provides four to six personal protective equipment (PPE) for every person coming in contact with the patients. Managing patients Explaining how patients were managed, she said that patients arriving at the hospital were triaged and categorised into either of the three categories depending on the severity of their condition, clinical presentation and existing co-morbidities — category A, B or C. Category A and category B1 patients are considered to have a mild infection, requiring only symptomatic treatment on an out-patient basis. They are advised home quarantine with regular monitoring of symptoms. Category B2 patients are considered to have a moderate infection, requiring in-patient care, while category C patients are considered to have a severe infection as they usually present with critical clinical parameters, often requiring life-saving treatment, on presenting to the emergency room. These patients are admitted to the COVID-19 ICUs and are given 1:1 nursing care and other supportive treatment. Apollo Hospitals has initiated the “Apollo Project Kavach”, a comprehensive response plan for COVID-19, Ms. Reddy said.
08 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||STCs to promote e-payment for bus tickets||When bus services resume after the COVID-19 lockdown is lifted, State Transport Corporations (STCs) will encourage digital payments for tickets and operate at 50% seating capacity in Tamil Nadu. In a circular to heads of STCs, Transport Department Principal Secretary Dharmendra Pratap Yadav asked officials to explore issuing of day passes, similar to the monthly passes, to avoid exchange of currency. Besides, they should promote the use of QR code-based payments, mobile wallet payments and other e-payments, he said. As part of Standard Operating Procedures to be followed by the eight STCs, including the Metropolitan Transport Corporation, he said only 50% of the passenger capacity would be allowed on buses. There will be a separate entry for passengers to board (rear door) and alight (in the front). Markings should also be made for passengers to sit and stand, enforcing physical distancing and the buses should be mandatorily disinfected after every trip. ‘Avoid crowding’ Senior officials of the eight STCs have been directed to ensure adequate frequency of bus services on high demand routes to avoid crowding. No buses with air-conditioning should be operated. Bus conductors should also be ‘crowd managers’, ensuring that passengers wear masks. Commuters must maintain a minimum of six-feet distance between each other at bus stops. Bus drivers must wear masks and gloves. They will be separated from the passengers by a transparent screen covering the driving area.
08 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Over 26,000 people with vehicles have left T.N.||Over 26,000 people have left Tamil Nadu and 2,000-odd persons have come into the State ever since the inter-State borders were opened for movement of people using their own vehicles. Meanwhile, over 54,000 natives of Tamil Nadu stranded abroad have registered for returning to India. An officer involved in the coordination of movement of people across inter-State borders acknowledged that there were some issues being sorted out with other States, even as the Centre’s standard operating procedures (SOPs) were being followed by Tamil Nadu.  He told The Hindu that e-passes were being issued for either going out of the State or coming in after considering certain aspects regarding whether people were residing in “red zones” and whether they were vulnerable in terms of their age. Asked about the possibility of special trains for migrant workers, a senior official said: “We were planning for two trains, but since the Odisha High Court has passed an order, we are rescheduling the plan.” The Odisha High Court had on Thursday directed the Odisha government to ensure that only persons who have tested negative for COVID-19 were allowed to return to the State. “In light of this order, we may finalise a train for taking migrant workers from Coimbatore to West Bengal,” the official added.
08 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Market at Thirumazhisai to be ready by May 9||The new market at Thirumazhisai will be ready for occupation by May 9 and measures are being taken to ensure physical distancing, according to the Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority (CMDA). The market is likely to be opened on May 10. Some of the wholesale vegetable traders have decided to shift to the temporary market. M.Thyagarajan, president, Koyambedu Vegetables, Fruits and Flowers Merchants Association, said: “We have decided to shift to the new market after an inspection on Thursday morning. Basic facilities are yet to be provided. We hope more facilities will be added when the market is opened.” The Koyambedu wholesale market was closed temporarily on May 5 after the area turned into a COVID-19 hotspot. Smaller markets in T.Nagar and Kodambakkam procured vegetables from other parts of the State and Andhra Pradesh for sales. Mr. Thyagarajan said the stock of onions and potatoes that was left unsold at Koyambedu was also diverted to the city’s smaller markets. However, vegetables were being sold at a higher rate. Meanwhile, work is on to set up the market in Thirumazhisai. D.Karthikeyan, member-secretary, CMDA, said about 200 shops were being set up at the market and the sales would be over by 8.30 a.m.
08 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Seven zones account for most cases||The Greater Chennai Corporation has identified seven zones that have reported a majority of COVID-19 positive cases, said Corporation special nodal officer J. Radhakrishnan. On Thursday, 316 positive cases were reported in the city. As many as 451 containment zones have been created to prevent the spread of infection. Mr. Radhakrishnan told mediapersons on Thursday that Thiru. Vi. Ka. Nagar, Royapuram, Kodambakkam, Anna Nagar, Teynampet, Tondiarpet and Valasaravakkam zones had reported most of the positive cases in the city. In three of the zones, the number of positive cases had gone up because of many residents in just one ward testing positive for COVID-19. For example, in Tattankulam, 96 persons living on one street had tested positive for COVID-19. Pointing to the concentration of cases in a few residential areas, Mr. Radhakrishnan said 50% of the cases had been reported in 20 wards of the city. There were 200 wards in the Corporation with a population of around 70 lakh. ATMs, offices closed The civic body had identified focus areas, in addition to the ones in north Chennai. Stressing on the need to assess the risk of ATM and public toilets in containment zones becoming the sources of infection, Mr. Radhakrishnan said teams of officials had analysed the situation. “ATMs in containment zones have been closed. We will start mobile ATM for residents. All offices in the containment zones have been closed,” he said. Pointing to the low rate of case fatalities in Chennai because of advanced health care facilities, Mr. Radhakrishnan said it was just 0.9% in the city. “We have focussed on vulnerable population. We request residents with symptoms to come forward for testing. Delayed referrals are a challenge,” he said. 6,900 quarantined “We have launched herbal food for residents on quarantine in Loyola College. Some areas have shown good results for Indian medicine. Around 6,900 traders associated with Koyambedu have been quarantined. Around 1,300 of them are in Chennai,” said Mr. Radhakrishnan. He requested patients’ family members not to visit hospitals and COVID-19 care centres, where crowding had been reported. “Urban primary health centres will supply all medicines to vulnerable population. We need residents’ support,” said Mr. Radhakrishnan.
08 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 patients protest at Chennai Trade Centre||Nearly 250 “asymptomatic and stable” COVID -19 patients, who were shifted to a facility at the Chennai Trade Centre in Nandambakkm, staged an agitation on Thursday morning alleging inadequate medical care and “suffocating” environment. According to police, three days ago 246 patients were shifted from various hospitals. On Thursday a few more were brought to the centre. By afternoon they started arguing with the medical staff saying there was no ventilation and improper care. The staff called the Nandambakkam police station following which an inspector and his team arrived and spoke to the patients, mostly in their 30s. “Some of them claimed that they did not get proper medical attention and a few complained of suffocation inside the facility. They wanted to go out. We spoke to them from a distance. A few of them said that only nurses were attending to them and wanted doctors to treat them. Basically all of them were agitated,” said a police source. The police finally pacified them and brought the situation under control.  A few of them said that only nurses were attending to them and wanted doctors to treat them police source
08 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tasmac rakes in Rs. 170 cr.||The Tamil Nadu State Marketing Corporation on Thursday sold liquor worth Rs. 170 crore. The revenue came from just 3,700 shops. The cash cow of the State government sells liquor worth Rs. 85 crore to Rs. 90 crore a day, on average. Those tracking the liquor industry said that if Chennai shops too had opened, the sales would have crossed the Rs. 200-crore mark. Tasmac salesmen in Madurai, Tiruvallur and Coimbatore region said that they saw a 15-20% increase in sale, compared to other days.
08 May 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||State raises retirement age of government employees to 59||The Tamil Nadu government on Thursday raised the age of superannuation of its employees to 59 years, in an attempt to give itself some relief from a near Rs. 5,000-crore financial burden. “This will apply to all those who are in regular service as on date and due to retire on superannuation from May 31, 2020,” a G.O. issued by Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam said. Preparatory measures The decision, which was preceded by moves such as a freeze on the hike in dearness allowance till June 2021 and the suspension of encashment of earned leave for a year, would be applicable to teaching and non-teaching staff in government and State-aided educational institutions, employees of all constitutional/statutory bodies, public sector undertakings (PSUs), including State corporations, local bodies, boards, commissions, societies, etc. “The relevant provisions under Rule 56 of the Tamil Nadu Fundamental Rules will be modified to the above extent. Necessary amendment to the above rules will be issued accordingly,” the G.O. stated. Though the order did not specify any reason for the decision, a senior official told The Hindu: “About 25,000 State government employees are scheduled to retire during the next one year and a financial burden of about Rs. 5,000 crore that will accrue towards retrial benefits has been ‘postponed’ for a year.” On superannuation, retired employees are given a lumpsum, including gratuity, commutation and other pension benefits. Another official pointed out that the current year’s budget had a provision for the payment of gratuity to the tune of Rs. 2,763.63 crore and the encashment of leave by fresh pensioners of about Rs. 2,220 crore, both of which the government would not have to incur during the course of the year in the wake of the decision. The extension of service for the 25,000-odd employees would not lead to any “significant rise” in the salary expenditure as the government’s original estimates was drawn up on the premise that vacancies would be filled this year. Mixed reaction There has been a mixed response to the State government's decision. Employees who would be reaching the age of superannuation this year welcomed the decision and felt that the latest action of the government would generate “greater goodwill” among the staff towards the administration. However, the Joint Action Council of Tamil Nadu Teachers' Organisations-Government Employees' Organisations (JACTTO-GEO) opposed it. In a statement, JACTTO-GEO pointed out that the temporary measure would severely affect the employment opportunities of youth in government service for a year. It said that it suspected that the State government was moving towards handing over vacancies in various departments to private players on contract. “This decision of the Tamil Nadu government has put a question mark on social justice and also the fate of 69% reservation in the State,” it said. The organisation recalled the Audiseshiah Committee’s report, on the basis of which the State government was already making plans to reduce the number of government employees. The Tamil Nadu Government Employees’ Association announced that it would organise an agitation against the government’s decision on May 8.
08 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||6 Thai nationals get interim bail||The Madras High Court on Wednesday granted interim bail to six Thai nationals arrested by the Erode police on April 9 on charges of having spread COVID-19 to many people by indulging in a religious propagation, though they had visited the country only on a tourist visa. Justice G.K. Ilanthiraiyan granted bail to them for eight weeks on condition that they should stay in Chennai till further orders and their place of stay should be informed to the Commissioner of Greater Chennai Corporation so that they remain under monitoring. According to the prosecution, an FIR was registered against the six persons after the complainant, tahsildar Parimaladevi, informed the police that the accused had come to India with another person in March. They had stayed in some of the mosques in Erode town and indulged in propagating their religion. Though two of them tested positive, they continued their activities.
08 May 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||65 police personnel test positive in city||Over 84 uniformed personnel, including police and fire service personnel have tested positive so far for COVID-19 across the State with Chennai topping the list with 65. Of them, 45 police personnel are from Chennai City Police, including a deputy commissioner of police, an inspector and a dozen sub-inspectors have tested positive for COVID-19. On Thursday, an assistant commissioner of police in Flower Bazaar police district and an inspector of police tested positive. They have been admitted to city hospitals and adequate medical care has been given to them. In addition to police personnel, 15 personnel from the Fire and Rescue Services Department and three Home Guards have been admitted to city hospitals for treatment. On Thursday, the Police Recruitment School in Kancheepuram district was closed temporarily after one of the trainees tested positive.
08 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Convalescent plasma therapy trials soon||The Madras Medical College and Madurai Medical College will soon start trials for convalescent plasma therapy for the treatment of specific coronavirus disease (COVID-19) patients. Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar confirmed that Madras Medical College/Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH) has got the nod for taking up the trial. Officials said RGGGH has got approval for both the multi-centre trial under the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) and also for institutional trial with separate approval from the Drug Control General of India and Clinical Trial Registry of India. The ICMR has initiated a multi-center clinical trial. Both RGGGH and Madurai Medical College are part of this trial. Health Secretary Beela Rajesh said both RGGGH and Madurai Medical College would start the trials shortly.
08 May 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Many shops in busy areas remain shut||On Thursday, the second day of relaxations, most of the shops on Cross Cut Road, Variety Hall Road, and Oppanakara Street remained shut in the Coimbatore Corporation limits. Roadside food or tea sellers, flower vendors, and autorickshaws were back to business in a few places. Industries and shops in rural areas started functioning. Nearly 20 textile units in town panchayats in the district had commenced operations. While use of masks seemed to be accepted, personal distancing remained elusive in most places. Members of the Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Coimbatore, met District Collector K. Rajamani on Thursday and appealed to him that shops that were not in the negative list need to be permitted to function. “The Collector has given permission. He said the retail outlet should not be in a multi-storeyed building, should not have AC and all precautionary measures should be followed. But standalone shops in some areas are not able to open,” said C. Balasubramanian, vice-president of the Chamber. Another trader said the number of retail outlets that were opened on Thursday seemed to be more than that of Wednesday. “There are some teething problems. But these will settle down in a day or two,” he said. In the case of industries, those within the Corporation limits, especially the MSMEs, most of the industry owners said they were waiting for the government permission to commence operations. “We hope to start functioning from next week,” said one of them. The district administration had permitted pumpset units and large-scale industries in the district to operate. These units need components and spares. If the micro and small-scale units were not allowed to open shutters, it would not be possible for the larger industries also to operate their facilities for long, said J. James, president of Tamil Nadu Association of Cottage and Tiny Enterprises. In Tiruppur, District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan inspected a couple of garment units to see if all precautionary measures were followed on the premises.
08 May 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Salem railway division earns Rs. 99.69 lakh||Salem division of Southern Railway has earned Rs. 99,69,733 in April, amid the lockdown, through its parcel cargo services and the daily parcel express trains. According to a data, the earnings of the daily parcel express special train between Shoranur and Chennai earned Rs. 17,30,978 and the earnings of other Parcel Cargo Express Trains (PCET) in April was Rs. 82,38,755. The daily parcel express special trains are operated till Chennai to facilitate the transport of essential commodities during the lockdown.  Services of daily parcel express special trains have been extended till May 15, according to the sources. For parcel bookings, commercial inspectors of Salem Division shall be contacted at 90039 56955 (Coimbatore), 96009 56238 (Tiruppur), 96009 56231 (Erode) and 90039 56957 (Salem).
08 May 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Workers assemble at rly. station||Following rumours of a special train service for migrant workers to Odisha, over 20 workers assembled at the Coimbatore Railway Station on Thursday evening. Railway sources said the Odisha government did not confirm the operation of the special train on Thursday. The workers were later sent back. There has been no confirmation of any train services for migrant workers leaving from Coimbatore on Friday, the sources said.
08 May 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||HCL donates protection equipment||HCL has joined hands with the Coimbatore district administration in their effort to contain spread of COVID-19. It has provided protection equipment such as masks, personal protective gear, hand sanitisers, and hands free wash basins to safeguard the lives of frontline health workers in the district. According to a press release, HCL has provided protection equipment, including 7,000 PPE kits, complying to the SITRA and HLL specifications, 20,000 masks, 55 litres of sanitiser and two hands-free wash basins to the district administration. These are being routed to the frontline workers of Coimbatore district working in the ESI Hospital, Coimbatore Medical College Hospital, District Health Centres and conservancy workers across the district.
08 May 2020||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Eight sustain burns in NLCIL fire||Eight persons, including two employees of NLC India Ltd (NLCIL), were seriously injured when a fire broke out in a furnace of a boiler in one of the units of Thermal Power Station II in Neyveli on Thursday. Engineers and contract workers were at the spot at the time of the accident and thick smoke billowed out of the unit. Two employees — Sarbudin and Paavadai — and six contract workers — Ranjith Kumar, Manikandan, Balamurugan, Jaishankar, Anbalagan and Shanmugam — sustained burns. Two persons were in critical condition with 70% burns.. Power generation in three units of 210 MW unit each was stalled following the accident while all other units in the station and the other thermal power plants functioned as usual. According to a senior official of NLCIL, “the accident occurred at around 5 p.m. in Unit VI. A loud explosion was heard on the furnace of the boiler located at a height of 82 metres.” The temperature in the furnace on the top of the boiler was typically above 1,000 degrees Celsius when a fire broke out. Fire emanated from the boiler injuring the workers who were at the site.” Preliminary investigations revealed that a fire broke out in the furnace. It could have been either due to an implosion or the structure could have been weak.
08 May 2020||Dindigul,TAMIL NADU||Ex-MLA raps State govt.||When the government claimed that concern for the welfare of the common man was the reason for not reopening tea shops, what prompted it to open TASMAC outlets across the State, said former CPI(M) MLA K. Balabharathi here on Thursday. Participating in a protest on Chatram Street with a small group of party workers, she raised slogans against the reopening of TASMAC outlets. When the COVID-19 pandemic was threatening mankind and people were being cautioned to practise social distancing to check the viral inffection from spreading, opening of TASMAC outlets only showed that the State government was not interested in saving the lives of people, but only in filling its coffers, Ms. Balabharathi said. When the number of positive cases shot up, officials attributed the spike to the vegetable market at Koyambedu in Chennai. Under such circumstances, social distancing had to be maintained and people should be told to remain indoors. When residents stayedremained indoors for the last 43 days, reopening of TASMAC outlets was set to bring in more bad news as cases of domestic violence and harassment would rise. Palani DMK MLA I.P. Sendil Kumar and others staged a demonstration in front of their houses to show their protest against the government’s decision to open TASMAC outlets.
08 May 2020||Dindigul,TAMIL NADU||4,496 hotel rooms identified for foreign returnees in Dindigul||Collector M. Vijayalakshmi on Thursday said 4,496 beds in 36 private hotels had been identified in the district to accomodate foreign returnees. Presiding over a meeting with hoteliers and representatives from the hotel owners association, the Collector said that as per a government circular, each district had to identify hotels (with boarding/lodging) so that foreign returnees belonging to the respective city/towns/districts could be accommodated for 14 days as per the Health Ministry protocol mandated for COVID-19. Hoteliers willing to rent their rooms for quarantine purposes were asked to come forward at the meeting. They were told that payment would be made to them directly by the foreign returnees. On the basis of their consent, 4,496 beds from 36 private hotels were ready in Dindigul town, Kodaikanal and other parts of the district, officials said. The hotels were categorised as A, B and C on the basis of tariff and foreign returnees could stay in a room of their choice in isolation for the mandated period. They should confine themselves to their rooms and not venture out. In the event of non-cooperation, hoteliers should inform the authorities. Later, the Collector told reporters that they were making the arrangements to meet any eventuality. If people stranded abroad returned home, they could be quarantined in the hotels for a brief period. Some educational institutions in the district had also been identified to accommodate foreign returnees willing to shell out money for their stay. The government would give them free space in educational institutions, which would also house those with COVID-19 symptoms, but not positive patients, she said. With the rise in number of positive patients, the city was witnessing increase in containment zones. At the same time, those who had completed the quarantine period were being allowed to go or the restrictions were relaxed, the Collector added.
08 May 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Plea against reopening tannery units on Sipcot premises||Members of the Perundurai SIPCOT Affected People Welfare Association have urged the district administration to not allow the reopening of tannery units on the Sipcot premises till the lockdown ends. In an email to District Collector C. Kathiravan, the Association coordinator S. Chinnasamy has alleged that the 15 tannery units and over 100 dyeing and processing unit located on the Sipcot premises discharged untreated effluents into drains and open spaces, contaminating the ground water in and around the premises. “The association is striving hard to protect the environment for the last two years.” Mr. Chinnasamy further said that all the industries on the Sipcot premises remained closed during lockdown and would be reopened as the State government had given permission for its operations. But tannery and processing units functioning in Erode Corporation limits and in municipality areas have not been permitted to reopen. These units have planned to transport the raw materials to the units on Sipcot premises and process it there, he added. “This will further degrade the environment in the area and the administration should not permit the units to function until the lockdown ends,” he added.
08 May 2020||Karaikal,TAMIL NADU||Public in Karaikal ignore social distancing norms||The Karaikal district administration has observed that the desired level of cooperation from the residents has been lacking in the current phase of lockdown, after some restrictions were eased with effect from May 4. People have been coming out to the streets in large numbers, violating social distancing norms, much to the chagrin of the district administration. Only a collective effort would be effective in preventing the spread of the virus, District Collector Adarsh Sharma said, urging the sections of the population vulnerable to infection to necessarily stay indoors. The district administration has been emphasising that people above 65 years of age, pregnant women, children below 10 years of age, and patients with co-morbid conditions like tuberculosis, kidney problems and other ailments must desist from coming out, the Collector said. The social distancing norms need to continue even beyond the third phase of COVID-19 lockdown, he said. On Thursday, the administration took additional measures to regulate movement of vehicles and people at the check posts on the district’s borders. The movement at the border will be restricted to goods carriers for movement of essential and non-essential materials; government vehicles with valid identity cards; medical emergencies; frontline workers; and agricultural implements for sowing and harvesting, the Collector said.
08 May 2020||KOCHI,TAMIL NADU||Kerala’s shortfall in Q1 estimated at Rs. 80,000 cr.||In a quick assessment of the impact of COVID-19 and the lockdown on Kerala economy, the State Planning Board has estimated that the State will suffer a shortfall of Rs. 80,000 crore in gross value addition (GVA) in the first quarter of the current financial year. With negligible production of goods and services, the loss to monthly value addition during a month of lockdown could be about 80%, according to the assessment report. For March 2020, “assuming about 10 days of total production loss and decreased economic activity from [the] middle of March, we estimate the shortfall in gross value addition to have been roughly Rs. 29,000 crore. For the first quarter of 2020-21, the entire month of April is affected with near-total disruption in economic activity. It is expected that many of these will continue in May and in subsequent months. This will mean a loss of roughly Rs. 80,000 crore in Quarter 1, assuming the normal production level in 2020-21 to be about 5% higher than in 2019-20,” says the report, which has made the calculation based on data from the Directorate of Economics and Statistics and suggestions from the Chairperson of the State Statistical Commission. Direct and indirect losses to the economy were calculated on the basis of an input-output model. Sector-wise losses Sector-wise losses for agriculture, animal resources, dairying, fisheries, industries and trade, tourism, transport, information technology, power, labour including women’s employment and remittances from Non-Resident Keralites assessed by members and chiefs of divisions of the Planning Board also formed part of the preliminary estimate submitted to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. Among industries, most manufacturing enterprises lost about 10 days of production in March, but manufacturing of petroleum products, which account for 20% of the total value added to the State’s manufacturing sector, continued to operate. Units processing food and beverages, which account for 14% of the total value in manufacturing, operated at 50% of capacity while the rest saw total closure. “It can be assumed that 70% of the manufacturing production in the State was lost due to the lockdown and the disruptions which started from the third week of March. Some of the major factories in the State producing chemicals have started operations from the middle of April... the shortfalls in manufacturing GVA in Kerala are expected to be Rs. 1,500 crore during March and Rs. 4,500 crore in April. The shortfalls in GVA may come down to Rs. 2,000 crore in May and Rs. 500 crore in June,” it is estimated.
08 May 2020||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Mango pulp industry all set to restart||With the mango pulp production season set to commence in a week’s time, with a lurking virus, the pulp industry here is seeking support from the government for seamless operations. The pulp industry’s production season, slated to commence in mid-May and continue till mid-July, is faced with questions of operations amid fears of infections in the partly labour intensive industry. Mathiazhagan, president, Mango Pulp Industries Association of Krishnagiri, told The Hindu the factories are keen to start operations in a limited scale with precautions, but also fear a crackdown in the event of an infection inside the pulp production facilities. The pulp industry is by far largely mechanised with little manual handling except in the preliminary stages of loading and unloading and feeding of fruits in the cold storage for ripening. However, the industry owners fear an administrative backlash if any worker got infected. “There are 45 factories in Krishnagiri. While our pulp factories will make all necessary safeguards to enable the production cycle, there is also the fear of any infection in a factory leading to a crackdown on the industry as a whole. In that event, the perishables stored in the cold storage will bring in huge loss,” says Mr.Mathiazhagan. The pulp production cycle will start in the second week of May for consumption next year. The factories are starting to get mangoes from farmers albeit only half of the volume compared to the previous years. The domestic and export market consumption is in summer. “What we produce now will be lifted next year during summer. Last year’s pulp produce for the domestic market remains locked down in the factories.” The factories were already stuck with 40% of the pulp stocks from last year meant for domestic consumption this summer, says Mathiazhagan, who has slashed his procurement from 1250 tonnes a day to 600 tonnes a day. “There is uncertainty. The pulp is released for domestic consumption in March at the start of the summer. With COVID-19, last year’s pulp for domestic market has got locked down.” But, the export orders were lifted in time in January. The real test is the opening up of the factories and allowing labour to come in and participate all through the season without any infection. Over 8000 tonnes of raw fruits are stocked and allowed to ripen slowly during a seven-day period in a big unit. The production requires labour at the loading, ripening stages of the fruits and up to the time the fruits reach the conveyor belt. From there on, the industry is completely mechanised. “It is possible to function with 50% reduction in staff, but we also need the assurances from the authorities. In case if they seal down a unit in the event of an infection, it will affect the whole industry,” he says. Linked to the fortunes of the industry is the mango grower. The industry has not received the kind of support that Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh governments have given its farmers, says Mr. Mathiazhhagan. Last year, the two neighbouring governments gave a subsidy of Rs. 2.50 a kg for farmers, when the prices fell to Rs. 5 a kg. Pulp factories including Mathialagan’s own units in the two States were reimbursed the subsidy by the governments, he says. “This will encourage farmers, prevent panic among them,” he adds.
08 May 2020||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Four test positive in Krishnagiri||Four COVID-19 positive cases were reported from Shoolagiri on Thursday. The patients, a 33-year-old male, two women aged 44 and 48 years respectively and a 12-year-old girl were identified as contacts of two previous cases in Shoolagiri. They are undergoing treatment at the Hosur government hospital. Collector S.Prabhakar visited Shoolagiri on Thursday and reviewed the containment measures.
08 May 2020||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Policeman killed in accident||A traffic police personnel, who was posted on duty at a checkpost on Hosur-Begaluru highway, was killed in a road accident during the early hours of Thursday. According to police, M. Settu, an head constable with traffic wing of Sipcot police station, was posted for duty at Jujuvadi check post here on Wednesday night. On Thursday, a truck ran over Settu killing him on the spot. Sipcot police recovered the body and sent it to Hosur Government Hospital. Sipcot police have registered a case and are investigating. Police have detained the driver of the truck.
08 May 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||They return in droves after being homebound for long||Much to the excitement of tipplers, anxiety of womenfolk and protest by opposition parties, TASMAC-run liquor shops resumed business in Madurai on Thursday after about one-and-a-half months of closure during COVID-19 lockdown. Out of the 122 liquor shops in city, except for seven shops in containment zones, the rest were open, and in rural areas, out of 136 shops, 102 were opened. Between 50 to 100 persons were standing in queues outside many of the shops. But the crowd was huge in shops in K. Pudur and BB Kulam. Police personnel ensured that the buyers followed physical distancing norms. A group of women and children from Sellur attempted to block opening of two shops. Though they managed to down their shutters for a while, additional police personnel arrived and dispersed them and the shops were opened again. MP Su. Venkatesan, DMK district secretary G. Thalapathi, Congress district secretary Karthikeyan and leaders of MDMK and VCK also took part in a protest. Despite the State government’s announcement that only people aged above 50 years would be allowed to buy liquor from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m., a relatively younger man managed to grab four bottles of liquor and could not hide his glee. He turned ecstatic on touching the bottles after so many weeks. K. Parijatham, 40, a resident, said reopening of TASMAC shops would only re-kindle the urge to drink among people who had almost forgotten the habit. “In the last 43 days, many did not drink. Family quarrels came down. But, now, the men will borrow money for drinking and start beating wife and children,” she said. At a time when the places of worship are closed, several shops remain closed and even tea stalls are not allowed to open, what made the government to reopen TASMAC shops, wondered P. Karnan, another resident. “When people get drunk, social distancing will definitely go for a toss,” he said.
08 May 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Womenfolk tremble as TASMAC outlets reopen||For 30-year-old Panchu, a domestic worker from Thuvariman near Madurai, opening of TASMAC liquor outlets on Thursday rekindles haunting memories of the violence that she had to endure from her alcoholic husband before the lockdown. She says denial of access to liquor during the lockdown had actually motivated her husband to give up alcohol. However, now the hope of a positive change in her family has been replaced with fear and anxiety. “The COVID-19 outbreak had, indeed, a positive impact on our family. During the lockdown, my husband worked in farmlands for two days a week and earned Rs. 500 per day. It was the first time he gave his full earnings to the family. But, all our hopes of a better life have been dashed now,” she says. Like Ms. Panchu, wives of many alcoholics, who are from low-income families, are worried that the reopening of Tasmac outlets will further worsen their economic condition, pushing them to the brink of starvation. K. Kala, who also works as a domestic worker, says many households have not paid her salary due to the lockdown and that the family solely depends on her husband’s income. “With the relaxation of lockdown norms, my husband can work at construction sites and earn around Rs. 500 per day. However, all the money will now be used by him to purchase alcohol,” she says. The move has also instilled the fear of contracting COVID-19 infection from their husbands. “We are worried as physical distancing will go for a toss when they stand outside TASMAC outlets. Also, they tend to spend extra time with their friends after consuming alcohol, exposing themselves to many people,” she adds. The reopening of the outlets has also robbed addicts of the opportunity to give up liquor, says C. Ramasubramanian, a senior psychiatrist and founder of M.S. Chellamuthu Trust and Research Foundation. “The permanent solution to alcohol addiction is a change of mental attitude, for which restricting easy access to alcohol is important,” he says. Sekar (name changed), chairman of Alcoholics Anonymous group in Madurai, says many alcoholics had overcome withdrawal symptoms in the initial days of the lockdown and started to adopt more positive practices in their everyday routine. Dr. Ramasubramanian also says when addicts consume liquor after a gap of a few weeks it might affect their physical and mental health. “It can also lead to a spike in the number of alcoholics who might need medical help at de-addiction centres, further burdening the health infrastructure,” he adds.  It has robbed addicts of the opportunity to give up liquor  C. RamasubramanianPsychiatrist
08 May 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Self-immolation bid by woman, daughter||The trepidation of many a woman that re-opening of liquor shops will rob the new-found peace at home rang true when a woman and her daughter resorted to self-immolation following a wordy quarrel between the woman and her drunk husband in Alanganallur near here on Thursday. Police said that S. Parameswari, 37, and her daughter S. Archana, 18, were in a critical condition after they suffered serious burn injuries. They have been admitted to Government Rajaji Hospital here. Within hours of re-opening of the TASMAC-run IMFL retail outlets in the State afer about one-and-a-half months of lockdown, construction worker Sivakumar returned home drunk carrying two more bottles of liquor bought from a local liquor shop. A quarrel erupted between the couple. When Parameswari attempted self-immolation, their son pacified and prevented her. However, when the wordy duel continued, Archana, who was doing her first-year graduation in a city college, doused herself with kerosene and lit herself up. When Parameswari attempted to save her, she also suffered burns. The Alanganallur police are on the lookout for Sivakumar. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline ‘104’ and Chennnai-based Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044 24640050.
08 May 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||The devout profess their devotion||The entry of Lord Kallazhagar into the Vaigai, a highlight of Chithirai festival, which was supposed to happen on Thursday, did not take place this year in view of pandemic. Every year, lakhs of people from various parts of the State will come together to take part in the festival. The pandemic prevented the festivity. Yet many devotees chose to tonsure their heads or heads of their children as usual on the banks of the Vaigai at Alwarpuram and under the Yanaikkal bridge on Thursday and demonstrated their devotion to the Lord. ‘The enactment of lifting of Manduga Maharishi’s curse will take place inside the temple between 4.30 p.m. and 5.30 p.m. on Friday. It will be live telecast on the Hindu and Religious Charitable Endowments department’s official website - www.tnhrce.gov.in, YouTube and Facebook page,’ said Deputy Commissioner (in-charge) T. Anitha.
08 May 2020||Nagapattinam,TAMIL NADU||Grievance meet for farmers conducted through videoconference||The complaint of farmers that the periodic grievance redressal meeting had not been conducted in the district for long due to the COVID 19 lockdown was addressed on Thursday by the district administration through conduct of an interaction through videoconferencing. Collector Praveen P. Nair addressed the groups of farmers who had assembled under the guidance of Assistant Agricultural Officers at the offices of Block Development Officers. Two farmers from each location consolidated the talking points of the rest in the groups. After explaining to farmers the works undertaken under 'Kudimaramathu' scheme during 2020-21, the Collector listened to the farmers who requested that a recommendation must be made to the government for release of water from Mettur dam during June owing to the comfortable storage position. The farmers said they were looking forward to expanding the area of cultivation for the Kuruvai crop. They also sought completion of pending works under Kudimaraamathu scheme before June. The farmers urged the district administration to eliminate delay in securing insurance for the crops. Their other demands were lifting of controls on transport of vegetables and fruits. The farmers who took part in the meeting enthusiastically appreciated the administration for redressing their grievances through videoconference.
08 May 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||‘Consult States to classify affected areas’||The Centre should consult States before classifying COVID-19 affected places as red, orange and green zones, said Puducherry Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy. In an audio message released to the media, he said local governments would be in a better position to classify the places taking into account the situation on the ground. In the case of a person testing positive, it would be appropriate to seal the place of the resident rather than the entire locality. States would be in a better position to take an appropriate decision in this regard, Mr. Narayanasamy added. The Chief Minister said the Centre should not take a uniform decision on extending the nationwide lockdown. He reiterated the demand for more financial assistance for States to deal with the growing revenue shortfall. The Union Territory continued to maintain strict vigil in the borders, he said, adding that only vehicles carrying essential items and patients with valid medical documents for treatment would be allowed entry.
08 May 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||10 COVID-19 patients discharged in Salem||Ten persons, who were undergoing treatment for COVID-19 at the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital here, were discharged on Thursday. The discharged patients include four women from Salem, four from Namakkal and one from Dharmapuri. District Collector S.A.Raman, Hospital Dean R.Balajinathan, Medical Superintendent P.V.Dhanapal, Deputy Director of health services J.Nirmalson and other senior officials cheered the patients on their discharge. The patients were advised to be under quarantine for 14 days. Mr.Raman said that strict measures were being taken to prevent the spread of the disease in the district. The major challenge now was to identify inter-State migrant workers and quarantine them, he said and added that close to 500 workers returned from Maharashtra on Wednesday night. “They were checked at the Thevettipatti check post. The workers were from 30 districts in the State and they were sent to their respective districts. The Collectors have been alerted,” he said. Dr.Balajinathan said that so far, 29 patients from Salem had recovered from the disease. At present, six patients from Salem and one from Dharmapuri were undergoing treatment at the hospital.
08 May 2020||Srivilliputtur,TAMIL NADU||Andal’s garland sent to Kallazhagar||As part of the ritual of Chithirai festival, the garland, toy parrot and silk adorned by Goddess Andal, were sent for decorating Lord Kallazhagar of Alagarkoil on Thursday. Though the procession of Lord Kallazhgar and its major highlight of entry into Vaigai river could not be held as the grand festival was cancelled owing to COVID-19 pandemic, the authorities of Andal Temple sent it as per the ritual. “This ritual has been going on for several years and the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments did not want to break it,” said temple Executive Officer A. Elangovan. Usually, the silk, garland and toy parrot arrive when Lord Kallazhagar arrives Prasanna Venkatachalapathi Temple. However, since the festival has been cancelled and the Lord Kallazhagar has not left his abode, the garland was taken to Kallazhagar Temple in Alagarkoil. “The garland, vasthram and toy parrot would be dedicated to the Lord on Friday,” Mr. Elangovan said.
08 May 2020||TENKASI/virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Doctors, nurses quarantined in resort||Doctors and nurses, who are taking care of COVID-19 positive patients at Government Hospital here, have been quarantined in a private resort at Courtallam at the initiative of Collector G.K. Arun Sundar Thayalan. Of the 51 positive patients in Tenkasi district, 16 have been discharged even as 35 patients, all from Puliyangudi, continue to get treatment in the hospital. Of this, 26 are undergoing treatment in Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital while nine have been admitted in the Tenkasi Government Hospital. As per the protocol, doctors and nurses treating positive patients should be quarantined for a week after being on duty for seven days. So, the 13-member team of doctors and nurses have been quarantined in a private resort. “Since the doctors and the nurses are doing laudable job round the clock, they are quarantined in a private resort, for which the Collector has made all arrangements. They will be in 13 separate cottages, where nutritious food would be given to them,” said Jeslin, Superintendent, Tenkasi Government Hospital. Sources in the Department of Public Health said no positive case was reported in Tenkasi district on Thursday. No fresh case Virudhunagar district also reported no fresh positive case for the second consecutive day on Thursday. The district has so far reported 35 positive cases. The number of active cases went down to 11 after two more patients were discharged on Thursday. So far, 24 patients have returned home after they were treated at Government Rajaji hospital in Madurai.
08 May 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Bluetooth stethoscopes at affordable price||The Thanjavur Meenakshi Hospital has developed bluetooth enabled stethoscope for use by medical practitioners in view of COVID-19 pandemic. According to a hospital release, the institution had started using bluetooth stethoscopes once the novel coronavirus started spreading in the country in March. As the cost of the equipment was high, the institution invented a cost-effective equipment with the materials available in the country. The equipment was tested successfully by the institution in its day-to- day activities. As the smart device detects sounds and sends signals to the smartphone from the stand alone diaphram unit, it helps maintain the much needed social distancing between the patient and the medical practitioner, said Cardiologist Kesavamurthy.
08 May 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Black flag demo held||Members of the Cauvery Rights Retrieval Committee (CRC) staged a black flag demonstration in the delta region urging the Union Government not to dilute the powers of the Cauvery Water Management Authority by bringing it under the Ministry of Jal Shakti. Protesting the move and demanding immediate appointment of the Chairman for the Authority, the CRRC members staged demonstrations in front of their houses on Thursday evening by holding black flags and raising slogans condemning the Union Government. The committee coordinator, P. Maniarasan led the demonstration in front of his house at Kalaignar Nagar, Thanjavur.
08 May 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Centre’s help sought to bring back students||SASTRA Deemed University in Thanjavur has appealed to the External Affairs Ministry to help its students, pursuing their research internship programme in foreign universities, to return to India safely. Around 100 students have gone for research internship at various universities in USA, UK, Denmark, Spain, Netherlands, Sweden, Germany, Australia, Malaysia, Canada, Japan and other countries. Their short-term visas were about to expire since their academic sessions were coming to a close. The institution has appealed to the Ministry to ensure the safe return of its students ensuring flight availability from appropriate destinations, sources said.
08 May 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Core activities resume at railway workshop||Core activities at the Golden Rock Railway Workshop here resumed after a gap over 40 days following permission granted by the district administration to operate. In line with the directive issued, various shops within the sprawling workshop began to function with 33% attendance. Employees who reported for duty on Thursday were checked using thermal scanners at all the entry gates of the workshop and were given hand sanitisers and masks. Workshop authorities told The Hindu on Thursday that a little over 1,200 employees below the age of 55 years and mostly residing within the city limits reported for work. Those employees residing within the containment zones have been advised to stay at home. Safety kits containing a couple of masks and a bottle of hand sanitiser were provided to every employee. The workshop has put in place 33 pedal operated hand washing units at various spots to enable employees to frequently wash their hands with water and sanitiser. The authorities said personal distancing was maintained by the employees at their respective work spots. Instruction has been given to disinfect the premises and vehicles twice daily besides disinfecting the toilets every hour during the period of work. The workshop would function from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m in single shift. Chief Workshop Manager Shyamadhar Ram inspected all the shops inside the workshop premises to ensure that the prescribed norms were being followed. A few days ago, administrative work resumed at the workshop with restricted staff. During the lockdown period, the workshop with skeletal staff had manufactured mild steel cots for railway hospitals, converted over 100 passenger coaches into quarantine/ isolation coaches, made pedal operated hand washing units and PPE for use by railway doctors and para-medical staff.
08 May 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Koyambedu effect: 68 test positive in central region||Sixty-eight persons, most of them from Perambalur and Ariyalur districts, tested positive for COVID-19 in the central region on Thursday. Thirty-three patients from Perambalur, 24 from Ariyalur, two each from Karur, Pudukottai and Thanjavur districts and five patients from Tiruchi were among those who tested positive. Most patients are individuals who returned to their home towns after working at the Koyambedu market or their close contacts. In Perambalur district, 33 patients, including a 25-year-old woman, tested positive for the infection. The patients have all been admitted to the Perambalur District Headquarters Hospital and are undergoing treatment. “All patients are asymptomatic and have nothing to worry about. A total of 24 of the 33 had travelled to Perambalur in a single lorry and had, therefore, spread the infection,” official sources here said. On Thursday alone, samples from 83 people were collected and have been sent to the K.A.P. Viswanatham Government Medical Hospital in Tiruchi for testing. Among them were 59 people who visited the GH with cold and fever symptoms and 10 people who had travelled from Maharashtra. The patients who returned from other districts and from Chennai are all being quarantined in a school which has been turned into a quarantine facility, an official said. Ariyalur district saw 24 people test positive for the virus increasing the total number of cases to 246, making it the district with the largest number of cases in the central region. Of the 24, 14 people returned to the district from Chennai, nine people were their immediate contacts, including family members while one person travelled from Kanchipuram. The swabs for all the patients were lifted on May 2, official sources said. The district administration has decided to home quarantine asymptomatic patients as the numbers have seen a sharp increase, officials here said. As on Thursday, 154 patients are in-home quarantine, 60 patients have been admitted to the Ariyalur District Headquarters Hospital, 17 are at a special COVID Care Centre set up by the district administration while nine were admitted to Tiruchi GH. Swabs have been lifted for 415 more individuals and have been sent to the testing centres in Tiruvarur and Tiruchi. Officials of the district administration have said that the lockdown would not be relaxed in the district until the number of cases reduce. People are requested to visit the nearest Primary Healthcare Centre or the District Headquarters Hospital if they suffer from cold, cough or fever, or have returned to their homes recently after travelling to other districts or states. They can also call the 1077 helpline for further assistance. In Tiruchi, five men tested positive for the novel coronavirus. These cases have increased the total number of cases in the district to 62, of which 51 have recovered and returned home. Officials here said that over 300 people had returned to Tiruchi over the last week from other districts in the State. Samples were collected from all of them and the results of 256 were given on Thursday. Three tested positive among the 256. Meanwhile, two men hailing from Tiruchi district and residing in Salem and Karur districts also tested positive. Both are being taken care of at the respective Government Hospitals in those districts, official sources here said. A total of 36 patients, including 11 from Tiruchi, nine from Ariyalur, 13 from Perambalur, two from Pudukottai and one patient from Karur are currently undergoing treatment at the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Government Memorial Hospital. In Karur, two persons, a 55-year-old man and a 25-year-old man, who had returned from Maharashtra earlier this week, tested positive on Thursday. They have been admitted to the Government Medical College Hospital here which is a designated COVID-19 hospital for the region. In Pudukottai, two patients, both 32-year-old men from Viralimalai district who had returned after working at Koyambedu market tested positive. Both are asymptomatic and have been admitted to Dr. Muthulakshmi Reddy Memorial Government Headquarters Hospital in Pudukottai itself. “We have been asked not to send asymptomatic patients to Tiruchi. They will all be treated within the district itself,” an official source here said. In Thanjavur district, a 27-year-old male tested positive for COVID-19 and is undergoing treatment at the Thanjavur Medical College Hospital.
08 May 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Migrant workers return home, quarantined||Of the over 500 migrant workers who travelled from Maharashtra and arrived at Salem early on Thursday morning, 133 who belonged to the central region were sent to their home-towns on buses arranged by the Tamil Nadu government. The men have all been quarantined at various facilities in their home districts. A total of 21 men were from Pudukottai, nine from Perambalur, 12 from Ariyalur, 29 from Nagapattinam, 23 each from Tiruvarur and Tiruchi and 16 from Thanjavur district have been quarantined. The 23 men from Tiruchi district, besides two drivers, have been quarantined at the Kallikudi Market complex in Manikandam near here. Health department officials lifted throat swabs from the men who had been working at an electrical equipment manufacturing company in Maharashtra. The workers had made private travel arrangements to reach Salem and had to shell out up to Rs. 2,500 per person for the trip, they said. They had requested the authorities in Maharashtra to send them home since March but received no response. “They finally approached us last week and said they would make arrangements but did not return after that. We decided that we could not wait any more and applied for permission to travel,” said Ajith Kumar a 23-year-old who hails from Thottiyam in Tiruchi. The Maharashtra government allowed 508 men to travel to Tamil Nadu on Tuesday morning, he said, and the journey took them 48 hours, including the huddle at Salem. “We underwent testing at Maharashtra before boarding the buses too. We hope we will be sent home as soon as these tests come back negative,” Mr. Ajith said. The journey from Maharashtra to Salem was particularly taxing as the vehicle they travelled in did not stop anywhere for any meal, says G. Madhan Kumar from Ariyalur district. “The driver only stopped to urinate but did not even care to ask if we were hungry. Even he did not eat. We shelled out so much money for the ride which was not worth it,” he said. Once at Salem, food packets were given by the Tamil Nadu officials who also ensured that they boarded the right buses to their home districts, all for free, he said. Mr. Madhan worked at a pharmaceutical company in Yavatmal district in Maharashtra as a salesperson along with 12 others who also hailed from Ariyalur. Although their respective workplaces made special arrangements for their stay, the men longed to be at their homes, especially after news of cases increasing in Maharashtra caused anxiety. “I have not been able to visit my parents since I left for Maharashtra 10 months ago and now I cannot wait to reach home,” Mr. Ajith said.
08 May 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||All roads lead to Tasmac outlets||The Tamil Nadu State Marketing Corporation (Tasmac) resumed the sale of liquor through its outlets in Tiruchi and other districts in the central region on Thursday. Except 20 outlets, which were in containment zones, all 163 outlets out of 183 were reopened amid tight security in Tiruchi district. As liquor shops had remained closed for the past 42 days, many queued up in front of the outlets from morning itself to buy their favourite brands. Though the outlets were scheduled to open at 10 a.m., tipplers began arriving at the outlets even before 8 a.m. at various places in the city. In some places, including Woraiyur and Puthur, enthusiastic tipplers placed bags and footwear well in advance so as to “book” their place in the queue to buy liquor. Barricades were erected at least for 10 to 15 metres from the Tasmac outlets to ensure queue discipline. The customers were allowed to stand in queues only after getting tokens. They had to show their Aadhaar card to get tokens. In several areas, police had taken up responsibility of issuing tokens. The police had to step in to bring normalcy at Woraiyur and Puthur, where the tipplers jostled for their place. However, there was orderliness in the outlets located at Cantonment. “Crowd management is good. I did not feel uncomfortable in getting token and standing in a queue,” said J. Kumar of Subramaniapuram, who bought liquor at an outlet in Cantonment. Opinion was divided among the tipplers on reopening the Tasmac outlets. While a section of the crowd argued that the State government should not have reopened the outlets, others viewed that it was inevitable. Some alleged that sale of liquor on the sly was rampant during the last 42 days. “Liquor bottles were sold at 10 times more than the actual price. Some sneaked to rural areas to get arrack,” alleged T. Sriram, a city resident who felt the reopening of the shops would put an end to such practices. D.S. Durai Murugan, District Manager, Tasmac, told The Hindu that though there were some issues here and there in maintaining social distancing norms in the first two hours, it had stabilised after that. The crowd management would be in place for a few more days. Ariyalur The resumption of sale of liquor through Tasmac outlets began on a brisk note in different parts of the district on Thursday. Out of 53 outlets, 35 resumed business. Outlets, which were located in the containment areas, continued to remain closed. Karur Tipplers stood up in long queues in front of the Tasmac outlets in Karur district to buy liquor after about six weeks. Brisk business was reported in most of the 95 outlets in the district. At least four police personnel were posted at each Tasmac outlet to manage the crowd. Thanjavur Tasmac outlets in Thanjavur district resumed business on Thursday. According to sources, 99 out of 169 Tasmac shops reopened on Thursday as the other shops were situated within 5-kilometre radius of the containment zones. Tiruvarur At Tiruvarur, the sale of liquor commenced as scheduled with less number of customers turning up at some of the shops in Nannilam taluk. Pudukottai Tipplers turned out in good numbers on Thursday to buy liquor from TASMAC outlets across the district amid scaled up security arrangements. Barring 18 liquor outlets which remained shut since they were situated in the containment zones, the remaining 125 shops in the district were opened after a gap of over 40 days. Police and TASMAC officials said personal distancing was maintained by and large at the shops with customers wearing masks to buy liquor. Police personnel assisted by volunteers and Friends of Police were deployed at all liquor outlets in the district to ensure personal distancing.
08 May 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Black flag demonstration marks reopening of liquor outlets||Cadre of the DMK and its allies on Thursday staged a black flag demonstration, protesting against the re-opening of Tasmac outlets, in Tiruchi and in other areas in the central region. The members, along with their family members, stood up in front of their houses holding black flags. As a mark of registering their protest, some of them wore black. K.N. Nehru, principal secretary, DMK and MLA, Tiruchi West, stood up in front of his house in Thillai Nagar. While Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi, MLA, staged a protest at Viswas Nagar, N. Siva, DMK Rajya Sabha Member, joined the protest in front of his residence at SBI Officers’ Colony in Cantonment. Criticising the State government for re-opening the Tasmac outlets, Mr. Nehru said it was unnecessary at a time when the people were waging a battle against COVID-19. It had diverted the attention of the official machinery from controlling the virus, he contended. Arrested A group of 20 members of the Makkal Adhikaram were arrested here on Thursday after they staged a protest opposing of the opening of TASMAC outlets. The members led by the outfit’s zonal coordinator Chezhian assembled near a couple of TASMAC shops along Salai Road in Woraiyur area and raised slogans against the opening of the shops. They were arrested by the police and released in the afternoon. A case has been registered against them in Woraiyur police station. A group of MDMK members assembled in Woraiyur area and raised slogans against the opening of the liquor outlets and dispersed. Police sources said they were not arrested but a case was booked against them. Thanjavur While, at Thanjavur protest demonstrations were held in front of the shop at Pookara Street. Flower vendors objected to the reopening of the shop in their area while their shops remained shut in view of the coronavirus scare. Police thwarted attempts to stage demonstrations at Kumbakonam and at Vilar by the general public. Pudukottai At Venkadapuram in Alangudi taluk in the district, a group of villagers expressed their opposition to the functioning of a particular TASMAC outlet due to its location. Revenue and police officials spoke to the villagers who gave up their protest later with sales continuing in the outlet. CPI cadre also staged protests against the opening of the shops.
08 May 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||‘Allow tea stalls to open’||The Tamil Nadu Vanigar Sangankalin Peramaippu has urged the State government to allow reopening of tea stalls in the State. While welcoming the relaxations in the lockdown announced by the government, Ve. Govindarajalu, general secretary of the organisation, regretted that tea stalls have been excluded from the list of businesses that are allowed to open. While almost all stand alone shops, except malls and commercial establishments, have been allowed to be open, it is unfortunate that tea stalls are not allowed to function, he said. “A majority of tea shops are small businesses run by ordinary people with small investments. All these people have been rendered without income for the past 45 days,” Mr. Govindarajalu said. A majority of the people were in the habit of drinking hot beverages such as tea or coffee and the tea stalls were serving them. Moreover, a large number of milk producers were also supplying milk to the tea stalls and their livelihood has also been affected due to the continued closure of the stalls, he said. The government can insist on all employees wearing masks and maintaining personal distancing norms. Also the tea stalls may be directed not to allow more than five persons on their premises at any given time, Mr.Govindarajalu suggested.
08 May 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||BHEL Tiruchi restarts production||Bharat Heavy Elecrtricals Tiruchi resumed production on Thursday with about one-third of the workforce in two shifts, after a gap of 44 days of nationwide lockdown. Employees residing in the township attended the work in two shifts: 7.45 a.m. to 12.30 p.m., and 1.15 p.m. to 6.00 p.m. Officials in executive level continued to attend work from 9 a.m. to 5.30 p.m. Sanitisers were placed at the entry points and all employees wore face masks as a mandatory requirement. Downloading of Aarogya Setu app was emphasised, sources said. All employees were subjected to thermal screening. Those in distant locations who could not turn up were deemed to be working from home. Differently abled people, pregnant women, those with children below five years of age, and employees above 55 years with health complications were also permitted to work from home, sources said.
08 May 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Hotel employee found dead after consuming liquor||A man aged around 40 years was found dead in the Big Bazaar Street in Tiruchi on Thursday after having allegedly consumed liquor on a day when TASMAC outlets began to function. Police identified the deceased as Saravanan who had been working as a cleaner in a hotel along the same street. Police sources said Saravanan who had consumed liquor was found dead on the roadside in the evening. The body was shifted to the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital for post mortem. The Fort Police registered a case under section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure.
08 May 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Man murdered||A 23-year-old man was murdered in front of his house at Perur near here on Thursday evening. Police identified the victim as K. Ranjith. Police sources said a two or three member gang had committed the murder and fled from the crime scene. Police conducted enquiries at the spot to identify the accused. The motive behind the murder was under investigation. The Jeeyapuram Police are investigating.
08 May 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||‘Inebriated’ man kills mother||A labourer hacked his mother to death on Thursday. Police said R. Rajan, 42, of Chettikulam under Koodankulam police station limits, attacked his mother R. Jayamani, 60, living in the same area as she refused to register a house in which she is living, in his name. He was allegedly under the influence of alcohol. Jayamani sustained deep cut injuries on her head, and died on the spot. Police found that Jayamani, a mother of four girls and son Rajan, had conducted marriages of three daughters and planned to conduct the marriage of the last one with the money she could get by selling the house.
08 May 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Send us back home: migrant workers||Nearly 200 migrant workers working at apparel factories at Nethaji Apparel Park staged a road roko at Perumanallur on Thursday demanding that they should be sent to their respective hometowns. The workers burnt tyres and plants removed from the median of the Salem-Kochi National Highway near New Tiruppur Area during the protest. They are said to be without employment due to the COVID-19 lockdown, police sources said. The apparel park housed 54 garment production factories and most of them took up orders for exports. Only nine were functional now and a few more were getting ready to start operations. About 15,000 workers were employed at the units in the park and at least 5,000 were migrant labourers, said industry sources. District Superintendent of Police Disha Mittal, Avinashi Deputy Superintendent of Police L. Baskar along with other police personnel rushed to the spot. Ms. Mittal and Mr. Baskar held talks with the workers, following which the protest was withdrawn, the police sources said. The officers also spoke with officials from the industrial park regarding the workers’ conditions. Most of the protesters were from Odisha, Bihar and Uttar Pradesh, who were living in about 350 residential units opposite the Nethaji Apparel Park. The workers could be sent to their hometowns only after receiving the approval of the respective State governments, the sources noted. Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan said the district administration held talks with the officials of the Apparel Park to commence operations in the knitwear units, as only a few units resumed work on Wednesday. “Once work starts, we expect the problem to settle down,” he said. Following a complaint from Perumanallur Village Administrative Officer Gandhimathi, the police arrested 10 protesters in the evening. The police sources said the 10 migrant workers, who were from Bihar (5), Uttar Pradesh (3) Odisha (1) and Madhya Pradesh (1), allegedly instigated the protest. They were remanded in judicial custody.
08 May 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Panchayat president lodges plaint||President of Kavandachipudur Village Panchayat R. Selvi (33) on Thursday alleged that a ward member used casteist slurs against her. In a petition, submitted to Superintendent of Police Disha Mittal and District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan, she alleged that the ward member tried to attack her and block her COVID-19 relief activities. She requested action against the ward member under Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act.     With Udumalpet Municipality being declared as COVID-19 orange zone, Tiruppur district has only one block in the red zone at present. Tiruppur Block, which includes Tiruppur Corporation, continues to be the red zone, according to the zone-wise map shared by District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan on Twitter. No new COVID-19 cases were reported in the district since May 3.
08 May 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Mobile ATM inaugurated in Tiruppur city||District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan inaugurated a mobile ATM at the Collectorate in Tiruppur city on Thursday. The Federal Bank’s mobile ATM unit was inaugurated in the presence of District Revenue Officer R. Sukumar, Lead District Manager N. Sathiyamoorthy and Deputy Vice-President of Federal Bank in Tiruppur Rajan Joseph. The Mobile ATM will be stationed at major junctions, apartments and residential areas.
08 May 2020||Udhagamandalam,TAMIL NADU||Woman electrocuted||A 20-year-old woman was electrocuted when she was drying clothes and a livewire came into contact with the clothesline near Kunnakombai, near Coonoor, on Thursday. Police identified the deceased as A. Mangammal, 19. She died on the spot. Police have registered a case and are investigating.
08 May 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Not much crowd in Virudhunagar||Virudhunagar district did not see any uncontrollable crowd at the 166 TASMAC shops that opened across the district on Thursday. While eight shops could not be opened as they fell under containment zones, authorities did not open two other shops in Watrap and Seithur following local opposition against the opening. A police source said that only a handful number of people were on the queue when the shops opened at 10 a.m. In many shops, police did not face any trouble in regulating the crowd as it was smooth going. By and large, there were no complaints of people not following social distancing. “Probably, people were getting liquor bottles in black market like some of the cases reported in few places. Similarly, local people were also involved in illicit brewing of arrack. Hence, there was no excitement among tipplers,” an official said. Meanwhile, Opposition parties staged peaceful protests in various parts of the district against the opening of TASMAC shops. DMK MLAs, including Thangam Thennarasu, Virudhunagar MP Manickam Tagore and CPI district secretary P. Lingam participated in the protest and displayed placards.
08 May 2020||May 08 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||A beeline for the bottle on Day One||Serpentine queues marked the reopening on Thursday of liquor vending outlets of the Tamil Nadu State Marketing Corporation (Tasmac), after these remained shut for over 40 days owing to the lockdown to prevent the spread of COVID-19. While most of the outlets across the western region opened, those in the containment zones remained shut. The queues extended well beyond the barricades put up in front of the outlets. Umbrellas and footwear served to book spots in the queues that formed well before the scheduled opening of the shops at 10 a.m. In Coimbatore, Tasmac officials said 206 out of 295 liquor outlets functioned in Coimbatore district on Thursday. The rest 89 remained closed as they fell in the COVID-19 containment zones. The elite air-conditioned outlets also did not function. No untoward incident was reported till the close of sale at 5 p.m., the officials said.  Spaniards, the early birds  Two Spain nationals were the first to buy liquor bottles at a Tasmac outlet on Siddhapudur Road in Coimbatore city, when it reopened on Thursday morning. The duo stood in the queue from 9.15 a.m., and left the counter with four bottles of liquor. They went to the Tasmac outlet as the hotel they stayed in Coimbatore did not serve liquor owing to lockdown restrictions. Two other Spain nationals, staying in the same hotel, also joined the queue for their quota of spirits. The lockdown had forced the four to stay on in Coimbatore. Though Tasmac officials initially mandated that Aadhaar must be produced to buy liquor, this was given up later owing to heavy rush. Wearing of mask was made mandatory to line up at the outlets. In Tiruppur, the re-opening of the outlets was largely incident-free. Out of the 238 outlets in the district, 217 were opened, a senior Tasmac official said. Some shops identified as potential overcrowding points were not opened. Umbrellas were used to reserve spots in the queue much before the shops opened. On Tuesday, Tiruppur Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan announced that customers must use umbrellas to ensure physical distancing in the queues. Many roadside shops in Tiruppur city sold umbrellas and masks since Wednesday near the Tasmac outlets. According to local sources, umbrellas that were usually priced at Rs. 100 were allegedly sold for Rs. 180. A senior officer with the Tiruppur City Police said nearly 950 police personnel were deployed across the city. Another officer with Tiruppur District Police said that the police were deployed at every outlet based on the crowd expected.  Three arrested  Tiruppur North police arrested three persons on charges of bursting crackers and distributing cakes near Tasmac outlet no. 1953 in M.S. Nagar on Thursday. S. Chellavelu (55), T. Arun (29) and S. Saravanan (29) allegedly burst crackers during a birthday celebration, police said. They were booked under Sections 285 (Negligent conduct with respect to fire or combustible matter), 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 269 (Negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code and remanded in judicial custody. In Salem, 163 out of 216 outlets reopened, with police, home guards and volunteers managing the crowd. The outlets in the containment zones remained closed. As many as 600 police personnel were deployed across 153 outlets that functioned in Namakkal District. In Salem, each customer was given only up to 750 ml of liquor of any variety and the Aadhar details were collected to ensure that liquor was sold to only persons within the district. Hand washing facilities were arranged at many places and some customers even held umbrellas to ensure physical distancing. But, the distancing norms went for a toss at many places though the staff at the shops kept insisting on it through the public address system. Near the new bus stand in Salem, one-way traffic had to be followed owing the crowd at two Tasmac outlets located close to each other. To control the crowd, tokens were distributed at a government school near Kandhampatti. But, this was shelved as the local people protested. In Namakkal, there was no rush at the outlets as the district administration had not suspended the colour-coded card system for people to venture out on particular days. District Collector K. Megraj visited outlets on Salem Road here and reviewed arrangements. In Erode, the scorching sun did not deter the forming of long queues from 8 a.m. at the Tasmac outlets. Of the 203 shops in the district, 143 reopened. Those in the containment zones and near bus stand and railway station remained shut. Disinfectant was sprayed around the shops and hand sanitisers were given to all the customers, after which they were allowed to purchase liquor. A minimum of five policemen were posted at each Tasmac shops in Erode city, and no untoward incident was reported at any of the shops. Erode Collector C. Kathiravan said customers must wait in the queue under their umbrellas to ensure physical distancing from Friday.
08 May 2020||May 08 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Tipplers set cash registers ringing in southern districts||With a mask on their face and an Aadhaar card in their hand, hundreds of people of different age groups thronged TASMAC shops across southern districts on Thursday. The outlets were closed for the past 44 days due to lockdown in the wake of COVID-19. Of a total 96 wine shops in Tirunelveli district, 89 did business; it was 60 of 69 shops in Tenkasi district. Sixteen outlets situated in containment/problematic zones in the two districts remained closed. Before sale of liquor began at 10 a.m., disinfectants were sprayed about two hours earlier in the outlets and on barricades erected to regulate the crowd. Contrary to expectations of roaring response, the shops registered only moderate sale till noon as the first three hours were allotted for those aged above 50. Soon, the salesmen resorted to selling liquor to all customers irrespective of age. The situation changed in the afternoon, as tipplers below 40 years of age rushed to the shops during their allotted time. Since bars were not allowed to open, bushes and trees close to the shops became open settings for those in haste. Interestingly, TASMAC’s ‘Elite Shop’ that sold only premium brands in 750 ml or 1 litre packs attracted a huge crowd from 10 a.m. Among them were a large number of youth in their twenties and thirties even though it was not their allotted time. All started gathering even before a shop near Vaaikkaal Paalam in Palayamkottai, for instance, opened. While regular outlets ceremoniously asked customers to produce their Aadhaar card to get purchase tokens, there was no such restriction in the elite ones, where liquor brands in the range of Rs. 1,500 a bottle sold like hotcakes. Latecomers were forced to buy costlier varieties priced at Rs. 2,500 and above. Only after a police officer warned the elite shop salesman to check Aadhaar cards, customers produced it to prove their identity. In Thoothukudi district, 138 out of 145 wine shops did roaring business. In Kanniyakumari district, 100 of the 113 liquor shops recorded brisk sale. The remaining shops located in containment zones and near Kerala border did not open. Fire broke out in two liquor shop godowns, both situated in a commercial complex at Irumbili in Colachel, and sale was suspended. Police said liquor bottles meant for Thursday’s sale were stocked in the godown. Even before fire and rescue services personnel from Colachel extinguished the blaze, liquor bottles worth a few lakh rupees were damaged. They suspected that miscreants set fire to the gowdown through a window.
08 May 2020||May 08 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||580 cases take T.N. past 5,000-mark||Most of these districts have been reporting cases from the cluster after daily wage labourers working at the market returned to their native districts.  2,644 cases in Chennai With 316 cases, Chennai accounted for a total of 2,644 COVID-19 cases. The neighbouring district of Tiruvallur reported 63 cases, taking its count to 192. With 45 new cases, Villupuram surpassed 200 cases, while Perambalur had 33 and Cuddalore 32 cases. There were 24 cases in Ariyalur, 17 in Tiruvannamalai, 13 in Chengalpattu, seven in Ranipet, five in Tiruchi, four in Krishnagiri, three each in Theni and Tirunelveli, two each in Kancheepuram, Karur, Pudukottai, Ramanathapuram, Thanjavur, Tirupattur and one each in Kallakurichi, Thoothukudi and Vellore. Health officials said they were able to track the majority of persons who had returned to their native districts from Koyambedu market, and added that the contact tracing was "very strong". Nineteen more children aged 0 to 12 have tested positive. This takes the total number of children affected in the State to 273. As on date, the State has tested 2,02,436 samples and 1,92,574 individuals. Testing of 1,196 samples is under process. (*This is inclusive of two deaths cross-notified to other States and one patient who died after testing negative for the infection)
08 May 2020||May 08 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Re-opening unwise’||While liquor consumers were in high spirits owing to the reopening of Tasmac outlets, the Opposition parties and the public across the western region condemned it, and called it an unwise decision that would only defeat the efforts to contain the spread of COVID-19. In Coimbatore, Singanallur MLA N. Karthik and four party functionaries staged a protest in front of his house at Anna Nagar near Peelamedu as part of Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam’s State-wide agitation against the reopening of the Tasmac outlets. Tamil Nadu Congress Committee working president Mayura Jayakumar staged a similar protest in front of his house near Ramanathapuram. Demanding the closure of the outlets, Hindu Makkal Katchi leader Arjun Sampath sought the intervention of the Madras High Court in the issue. The Manithaneya Makkal Katchi staged protests at various places. Women assembled in places like Pudur near Thodamuthur seeking the closure of the outlets. Members of Tamilnadu Ilangyar Katchi held placards near a Tasmac outlet on Siddhapudur Road and demanded its closure In Tiruppur, a group of children from Palladam submitted a petition against the reopening of the outlets. Five boys and three girls-- aged five to 12 -- petitioned Palladam Tahsildar D. Sivasubramanian to disallow the reopening of the outlets, and termed the government’s decision “disappointing” Tiruppur MP K. Subbarayan took part in a ‘black shirt’ protest announced by the DMK. He also hung a placard around his neck and sat at the office of his party, the Communist Party of India, on Tiruppur-Uthukuli Road. In Salem, the functionaries and cadres of various Opposition parties wore black shirts and held placards outside their houses to condemn the reopening of the outlets. District secretary of Tamil Nadu Vivasayigal Sangam A. Ramamoorthy condemned the State government’s move. In Erode, the DMK and its allies staged a black flag protest. Erode South District DMK secretary S. Muthusamy, Erode District Congress Committee (South) president Makkal. G. Rajan, and the Communist Party of India cadre staged protests in various parts of the district. Four persons, including two women, of SSP Nagar in Villarasampatti were arrested by the police late on Wednesday for allegedly threatening to organise a protest against the reopening of the outlets.
08 May 2020||May 08 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Treating head and neck emergency||Most of us don’t know when to take a situation seriously and seek medical attention, and when to deal with it ourselves at home. To this end, I have compiled a list of emergencies related to ear, nose, throat, head and neck that should be dealt with on priority and the appropriate protocols to be followed at this time. If you face issues related to the ear, nose and throat repeatedly, this article should help ease your worries regarding seeking treatment. And for my fellow medical professionals, I hope these practical tips will help serve their patients better. Nose bleed Pinched nostrils, proper positioning and patience are the initial steps. Avoid forceful blowing of the nose to clear blood clots Apply local decongestants soaked cotton pledgets Chemical cauterisation, if necessary (avoid electro cautery) Elderly patients and patients with brisk bleeds that cannot be directly visualised require treatment in a hospital setting. Temporary nasal packing with inflatable balloons is preferred. Apply ice to the palate to reduce nasal blood flow by up to 25% If all these measures fail, attempt endoscopic control with full PPE.   Nasal blockage Tips for nasal foreign bodies Look directly and remove Next option is to sniff out the foreign body, closing the other nostril Final option is removal under general anaesthesia as per COVID-19 protocol  Tips for ear foreign bodies Look and remove without use of suction apparatus Syringing to remove small, non-wedged objects Tissue adhesive may be used for objects that are difficult to grasp, but avoid adhering to the ear canal. Apply glue to the end of a cotton swab stick and hold on the foreign body for 20 to 30 seconds, then remove. Impacted foreign bodies that may swell should be attended to urgently Tips for throat foreign bodies X-ray will give clues to where it is lodged It should be treated as an emergency and utmost precautions taken as these are aerosol generating procedures. (Button batteries and magnets as foreign bodies should be treated as absolute emergencies for removal) Any planned surgical procedures and establishing tissue diagnosis for treatment planning is regarded as a priority. All such patients in the follow up period, exhibiting sudden signs or complications like bleeding,airway distress etc should be treated urgently.  Sudden hearing loss Acute onset of one-sided hearing loss occurs over hours. Patients may present with vertigo and a few will have permanent hearing loss. After a quick clinical assessment, appropriate therapeutic measures are put in place, including imaging and audiometric testing. Although, unsure of literature during COVID-19 times, it is better to start steroids and antivirals. Steroid injections inside the ear drum are a viable option to attempt reversal of the damage caused. Ludwig’s angina and acute epiglottitis Both these clinical conditions warrant close monitoring as life-threatening airway obstructions can manifest in a short time. COVID-19 airway protocol is to secure the airway along with a course of third generation cephalosporins and an attempt to aspirate rather than incision and drainage. Surgical airway readiness is the need of the hour with proper PPE in place. The “golden hour” concept of treatment is important in preventing mortality and morbidity.
08 May 2020||May 08 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Man held for uploading child pornographic video||Karumathampatty police arrested a 29-year-old man on charges of uploading child pornographic video from a Facebook account last year. C. Ranganathan, a resident of Kaduvettipalayam near Karumathampatty, was arrested by the police on Wednesday. The police said that they found a child pornographic video in his mobile phone which he had uploaded using a Facebook account in May last year. The accused was traced using the IP address of the mobile phone. He was arrested under provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act and the Information Technology Act. He was produced before a magistrate and remanded in judicial custody. Over 10 hurt in accidents Coimbatore district saw several road accidents on Thursday, the day on which Tasmac outlets were reopened after a gap of over 40 days. While two accidents involving two-wheelers were reported at Athupalam and Thadagam road, a car travelled by youngsters turned turtle near Thondamuthur after the driver lost its control. The emergency ward of the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital received more than 10 accident victims on Thursday according to its staff. Fire accident A fire occurred at a spinning mill near Vellakoil on Thursday. No persons were injured in the fire accident, officials from the department of Fire and Rescue Services said. Over 10 personnel from Vellakoil Fire Station rushed to the spot to douse the fire. Officials said that the cause of the fire is under investigation.
08 May 2020||May 08 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||2,500 bottles of soft drink seized for improper labelling in Coimbatore||Officials of the Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) on Thursday seized 2,500 bottles of soft drink from a manufacturing unit near Madukarai in Coimbatore district as they did not have proper labelling. FSSAI’s designated officer in Coimbatore K. Tamilselvan, and food safety officers S. Vijayaraj and K. Sivanandam conducted a surprise raid at Dhanam Beverages belonging to Chidambaran on Palathurai Road at Thirumalayampalayam, near Madukkarai. They found 2,500 bottles of 200 ml soft drink that did not have proper label mentioning manufacturing date, batch number, etc. FSSAI had received a complaint regarding this in its WhatsApp helpline number. Laboratory examination According to Dr. Tamilselvan, samples of the seized soft drinks were lifted for laboratory examination. The seized items were worth around Rs. 50,000. WhatsApp helpline of FSSAI can be reached at 94440-42322.
08 May 2020||May 08 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Corpn. completes installation of LED bulbs in street lights||Coimbatore Corporation had switched off street lights on several streets in the city and gone in for powering only alternate lights or lights on a side of the streets to save power during the lockdown period, Commissioner Sravan Kumar Jatavath told The Hindu . Given the fact that there was hardly any vehicle movement in the evenings, particularly after 7 p.m., the Corporation had decided to power only some of the lights on streets. This was, no doubt, to save power, he also said and clarified that the Corporation would maintain minimum lighting on streets. Meanwhile, the Corporation has completed installation of LED bulbs in almost all street lights and taken up fixing automated switches. The Corporation had taken up work to replace existing bulbs in all 58,878 street lights at Rs. 74.70 crore under the Smart Cities Mission. It took up the work sometime during December 2019 and continued work till the imposition of lockdown, said the civic body sources. After the government lifted some of the lockdown restrictions, the Corporation resumed the work and completed it a few days ago. The only place where the Corporation was yet to fix the bulbs was on Trichy Road, where it had deferred because of the flyover work. It would fix the 1,500-odd bulbs once the Highways Department completed the flyover work. The Corporation had also fixed 500 of the 3,500-odd automated switches, the sources said. The bulbs would start and stop glowing at the predetermined time. Alternatively, the Corporation could switch on or off the lights using either computers or mobile phones. The Corporation would soon resume the work to fix the meters and complete it in a month thereafter. There would be no delay in the work because the Corporation had stocked all the automated meters needed. The sources also said the Corporation had identified 10,000 poles without street lights and would soon start fixing bulb fittings and the LED bulbs. The energy saved by switching over to LED bulbs and switching off some lights during the lockdown period would be known only later as the Corporation was yet to go for an energy audit, the sources added.
08 May 2020||May 08 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Only parcel food at Amma canteens in Erode Corporation limits||To prevent people from gathering in large numbers at Amma canteens in the corporation limits, only parcel food is given at the canteens here from Thursday. There are 11 canteens in the corporation limits in which over 20,000 people are consuming free food during the lockdown period. Since people gather in large number for getting food three times a day, there are fears of outbreak of virus. Hence, the corporation has decided to give food only as parcels and people were asked to bring tiffin boxes or containers to get the food. Corporation Commissioner M. Elangovan said that free food is to be served till May 17 and the number of people consuming food at the canteens is on the rise every day. Only 15 people can consume food at a time in the canteens while others have to wait in long queue maintaining personal distancing. Also, food is being served in areca leaves as plates are limited. “To prevent people from gathering at the canteens, food is given as parcels and people should bring their own boxes”, he added. He said that people who come without boxes will be given food in areca leaves and they will not be allowed to consume it at the canteens. “They should eat outside the canteen”, he added.
08 May 2020||May 08 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Black shirt protest held||Condemning the sale of liquor through TASMAC’s retail outlets even as people faced threat to their life in the wake of a pandemic, Opposition parties staged demonstrations in several southern districts on Thursday. A group of Congress functionaries, including former Union Minister R. Dhanushkodi Athithan and Tirunelveli city district president Sankarapandian staged a protest at Jothipuram in Palayamkottai. Led by their Tirunelveli district secretary K.G. Bhaskaran, CPI(M) cadre staged a demonstration on the party office premises on Reddiyarpatti Road near Government College of Engineering. Hindu Makkal Katchi cadre staged a demonstration near a liquor shop opposite Nehru Open Auditorium. Police arrested 13 protesters. DMK cadre wearing black staged demonstrations in Tirunelveli, Thoothukudi, Tenkasi and Kanniyakumari districts.
08 May 2020||May 08 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore district||As on May 7   Persons in hospitals: 196 (Male -72, Male child – 2, Female – 121, Female child - 1) Govt. hospitals – 160 Private hospitals – 36 Persons tested +ve: 146 (No new case on Thursday) Active cases: 4 Recovered: 141 Death: 1    House quarantined: 1,167 Positive: 114 (No fresh cases on May 7) Active cases: 2 Discharged from ESI Hospital: 112
08 May 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Migrant worker collapses on hospital premises, dies||A worker who was walking to Jharkhand from Khanapur in Belagavi died in Chikkodi on Thursday. Babulal Singh (42) of Raipur in Jharkhand collapsed at the entrance of the taluk hospital and died. He and his fellow travellers were stopped at the Karnataka-Maharashtra border by the police and taken to the hospital for medical test. He was among the 13 persons who had reached Chikkodi from Khanapur hoping to go back to their home town 1,900 kilometres away. They had left Khanapur on Sunday and reached Chikkodi on Wednesday. Doctors at the Chikkodi hospital said that the death was due to a heart attack. The other workers have been admitted to the taluk hospital.
08 May 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Dalit leader murdered||A young leader from a Dalit organisation was killed in Gokak town on Thursday. Siddu Arjun Kanamaddi (27), a leader of the Adi Jambava Sene, was killed near his house. Three unidentified persons assaulted him with machetes and rods. His family members took him to the government hospitals in Gokak and then to Belagavi, but he did not survive. The police said that enmity between two groups in the town led to the attack.
08 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Positive’ to negative: DHO to issue notice to private hospital||Taking serious note of the confusion that led to two “positive” persons testing negative after a re-test, the State Health and Family Welfare Department said it will initiate disciplinary action against those responsible. The department confirmed that the repeat samples of all the three — two policemen and a pregnant woman — taken for a third confirmatory test were negative again. The reports from NIV, Bengaluru unit came on Thursday evening. Bengaluru Urban District Health Officer (DHO) G. Srinivas told The Hindu that a notice will be issued to the private hospital in BTM Layout where the pregnant woman’s samples were collected and sent to a private lab. “We will issue a notice to the hospital on Friday through the Bengaluru Urban Deputy Commissioner asking why the samples were sent to a private lab that is not ICMR approved in Karnataka. The lab’s Delhi centre is ICMR approved and in Karnataka it is only a collection centre,” he said. “When there are so many government and ICMR-approved private labs in Bengaluru, why were the samples sent to a particular lab that is not even ICMR approved?” he said, adding that the department will now have to write to the Centre to remove the two cases from the total positive cases in Bengaluru. S. Suresh Kumar, Primary and Secondary Education Minister, who is the COVID-19 spokesperson for Karnataka, said the pregnant woman and the policeman have been discharged from the COVID-19 ward in Victoria Hospital and have been isolated. “The woman has gone to a nursing home of her choice and her family members, who also tested negative, are also in the same nursing home. Action will be initiated against those responsible for the confusion,” he said. Attributing the confusion, with regard to the policeman’s sample testing, to entry of the same name twice in the ICMR Specimen Referral Form (SRF) filled in the hospital where the samples were collected, the Minister said: “It is an unfortunate thing that should not have happened. We are aware of the stress that the policeman would have undergone after he was informed about his positive result. As the policeman had visited Hanur in Chamarajnagar, the district administration has quarantined several of his contacts there”. Replying to queries as to why the two were admitted in a COVID-19 ward when there was doubt about their reports and not in an institutional isolation facility, Health Commissioner Pankaj Kumar Pandey said: “In the woman’s report although the result was positive, the interpretation said inconclusive. As per norms, we cannot keep positive patients in an isolation facility.”
08 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Restaurants, pubs likely to be given permission to sell alcohol||In all likelihood, people in Bengaluru and other parts of Karnataka will be allowed to buy alcohol from their local bars and restaurants. Sources in the Excise Department said that an official order will be issued shortly. “These establishments will have to sell bottles at the MRP as the order is being issued to ensure that the stock is cleared,” said an excise official. He added that they will only be allowed to sell existing liquor and not procure new stock. Since Monday, around 3,950 retail shops and 829 MSIL stores have been given permission to sell liquor. “We will now grant permission to those who have CL-7 and CL-9 licences to sell liquor. This includes boarding and lodging facilities as well as bars and restaurants,” the official said. Sources in the Federation of Wine Merchants’ Association, Karnataka, said they feared that the permission could be temporary, to exhaust stocks that remain locked inside bars. “We have been asking permission to operate regularly so that we can manage our overheads,” sources said. The federation also shot off a memorandum on Thursday to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, highlighting their problems. On May 6, it had asked the State government to allow the sale of liquor by other licence holders, too. In the memorandum, they pointed out that there were huge stocks of beer lying in bars that would expire soon. Bar owners said they procure liquor from the government-run Karnataka State Beverages Corporation Ltd. “As the government is not in a position to take back the stock, we told the government officials that we want permission to sell only so that we do not incur losses,” said a member of the Karnataka State Hotels’ Association. He said they were waiting for the government to issue orders after which the hotels would work out the modalities. “We want clarity on whether the government would allow deliveries as well. We have been told that they have currently given a nod only for takeaway,” a hotelier said. There are 1,400 boarding and lodging centres and 3,600 bars and restaurants in the State.
08 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Govt. relief for construction workers brings little cheer to most migrants||Workers at a Nayandahalli labour colony have stayed put there for a month, fighting the urge to somehow get back home. Out of work and out of money, they did not want to leave without getting paid. “It has been five months since we got paid by the builder. We have even filed a police complaint. There are about 250 of us stuck in the colony, depending on government ration and unable to go home or lead a decent life by getting paid for the work we put in,” said Anang, who is from Odisha. The State government’s relief announcement for construction workers — a one-time payment of Rs. 5,000 — does not bring cheer to Anang and many like him, who are not registered workers. Some builders started the process of registration only recently — a measure, workers say, that is too little, too late. “Yesterday, they were distributing forms for registration. On the one hand, there are pending dues. On the other, the registration process will take time when they have started doing it only now. We just want to go home after getting our dues. We no longer can bear this,” he said. Trade unions also said Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa’s relief measures for construction workers might do little for the vast majority, comprising mainly migrant workers who are not even aware of the need to register. Counting workers N. Shivanna, general secretary of the State construction workers’ union affiliated to the All-India Trade Union Congress, said that as of February-end, there were around 21.7 lakh construction workers registered. “But it won’t be surprising if the actual number is double this, as a majority of migrant workers are not covered. In fact, many from Karnataka may not have registered.” N.P. Samy, president, Karnataka State Construction Workers’ Central Union, said, “There is also the issue of MGNREGA workers, who partly do construction work, being included, raising the total number. Of those who engage only in construction work full time, many migrants are not registered as they move constantly,” he said. He also pointed out that it may take time for the relief to reach beneficiaries, given the sheer number and logistics involved. Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Association of India (CREDAI) chairman Kishore Jain, who is a member of the Karnataka Building and Other Construction Workers’ Welfare Board, said the labour cess fund belongs to construction workers and efforts were being made to ensure that it reached them, and not the middlemen. “Labourer attrition rate is very high. So registration is a continuous process. We have also suggested a shramik card like Aadhaar so it benefits anyone who is a construction worker, irrespective of where they move to,” he said. But the priority for many at present is not monetary help.A worker from Konanakunte, who is a native of Jharkhand, said, “They got us registered yesterday though we came in January. But I just want to go home. Money is not what I want now.”
08 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Consider granting temporary toll exemption to transport farm produce: Karnataka HC to Centre||The High Court of Karnataka has directed the Union government to consider whether an exemption from payment of toll for a limited period can be granted to farmers on national highways for transporting farm produce considering the exigencies arisen due to COVID-19. This will enable the farmers to transport their produce without payment of toll fee as, in the present day situation, it is impossible for them to pay toll fee at various NH points, the Court observed. A special Division Bench, comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice B.V.Nagarathna, issued the direction while hearing PIL petitions related to issues arisen due to lockdown. The Bench told the Centre to place before the Court the decision to be taken in this regard by the next date of hearing. Earlier, it was pointed out to the Court that when farmers are finding it very difficult to get a goods vehicle for transporting the produce, the toll has become an additional burden as farmers are forced to sell the produce at low rates and that they are not in a position to recover even the cost of operations. Noticing that the National Highways Fee (Determination of Rates and Collection) Rules, 2008 granting exemptions from payment of toll does not cover farmers when they carry produce by a goods vehicle, the Bench found it necessary for the Centre to consider the issue of granting exemption from toll payment for a limited period for the farmers. Meanwhile, the Bench directed the State government to ensure that at district and taluk levels, regular meetings are convened by the Deputy Commissioners/Officers of the Agriculture, Horticulture and Sericulture Departments for hearing the grievances of the farmers in the area. The Bench said that the meetings, to which representatives of various farmers’ organisations can also be invited, should be convened immediately to solve the issues faced by the farmers. The Bench issued this direction after Counsel for the Karnataka State Legal Service Services (KSLSA) pointed out that farmers are finding it difficult to sell their produce as they are unable to transport from one district another due various issues including toll and non-availability of transport facility.
08 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State reports 30th casualty||Another death was reported in the State on Thursday, taking the toll to 30. A 55-year-old woman from Davangere, with diabetes and hypertension, was admitted with a complaint of Severe Acute Respiratory Illness (SARI) to a designated COVID-19 hospital in Davangere. She was put on a ventilator and succumbed to the infection on Thursday, said S. Suresh Kumar, Primary and Secondary Education Minister. Meanwhile, 12 new cases were also reported on Thursday taking the total number of positive cases to 705. The new cases include three each from Davangere, Kalaburagi and Badami in Bagalkot and one each from Bengaluru Urban, Belagavi and Dharwad. From three cases in April last week to 44 cases now, Davangere has reported four deaths so far. With 42 active cases, this district is now the second highest after Bengaluru. However, it continues to be in the orange zone. Meanwhile, to make the testing process more effective, the Health Department in a circular has asked district authorities sending samples to various labs to ensure that samples are categorised into ‘A’, ‘B’ and ‘C’ groups on the basis of priority. While samples of suspected death cases, follow-up positive samples of primary and secondary contacts (symptomatic and asymptomatic), symptomatic healthcare workers and SARI cases will be under group ‘A’ , samples of ILI patients will be in group ‘B’ and others in group ‘C’.
08 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Spike in violent crime over last 3 days: Police||A party at a house in R.T. Nagar on Thursday ended with a man being stabbed by his room-mates during a drunken brawl. When the police entered the house, they found liquor bottles strewn around, which led them to suspect that the gang were under the influence of alcohol. “The accused fled the house. A special team has been formed to track them down,” said a police officer. This is the fourth murder reported in the city along with 11 attempts to murder and 32 assault cases linked to alcohol consumption in the last three days. On May 5, a 35-year-old welder was stabbed to death by his friend during a party in his house in Maruthi Nagar. On Wednesday, the police opened fire and arrested rowdy sheeter Prabhu in Bagalagunte, who was on the run after allegedly stabbing his rivals. According to the police, Prabhu stabbed his rival to death and seriously wounded his younger brother while under the influence of alcohol. “He attacked us when we went to arrest him,” said a police officer. The spike in crimes comes after a relative lull during the lockdown when liquor shops were closed. “Since the lockdown and prohibition of liquor, and along with strict enforcement on our part, the crime rate in Bengaluru had dropped drastically over the last few days. However, there has been a sudden rise in violent cases as soon as liquor shops opened and other restrictions were eased,” said a senior police official. He added that it is difficult to contain such cases as most were taking place within homes and private places. Another police official admitted that there appears to be a link between the resumption of alcohol sales and an increase in violent crimes. “It’s a fact that alcohol contributes to crime even during normal days,” he said. However, health professions have cautioned against linking alcoholism to crime. “Though it could be one of the reasons, there are other factors to be taken into consideration. Unless there is comparison with previous data, it’s wrong to attribute the sale of alcohol as the sole reason for the rise in crime,” said Pratima Murthy, professor, Department of Psychiatry, and chief, De-addiction Services, National Institute of Mental Health and Neuro Sciences. To combat rise in crime, the police have intensified patrolling at public places at night time, especiallynearparks and open spaces. According to the police, there has also been a rise in the number of accidents due to drunk driving. “Most of the non-fatal cases related to drunk driving go unreported as the traffic police have suspended special drives,” an official added.
08 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||CET online application||Karnataka Examinations Authority (KEA) has given one final chance for students to apply online for CET 2020. The KEA, in a release, said students who have not applied for the exam can apply online and pay the fee from 6 p.m. on May 8 till 6 p.m. of May 18 to become eligible for admission to various professional courses in 2020. For details, visit http://kea.kar.nic.in. The editing option will be enabled finally from 6 p.m. on May 20 till 6 p.m. of May 22 for all the fields.
08 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||On final day, KSRTC runs 185 services||The free bus service by Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) for migrants who wanted to return to their home towns in other parts of Karnataka ended on Thursday. The KSRTC operated 185 buses and ferried around 5,500 people to 43 destinations on the day. In all, from May 3, the KSRTC has operated 3,610 buses, transporting around 1.1 lakh people to over 75 destinations for free. From Bengaluru alone, it operated 2,288 buses, facilitating the transportation of around 70,000 people. Shivayogi C. Kalasad, MD of KSRTC, said that the first three days saw the highest number of operations as the demand was high. “On May 4 alone, we operated around 800 buses; it was around 500 buses each on May 3 and 5,” he said. Mr. Kalasad also said they had observed a sharp decrease in the number of people travelling from Bengaluru city in the past two days. “The easing of COVID-19 lockdown restrictions in the city might have prompted some workers to stay back,” he said.
08 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Labour Dept. makes a U-turn on issuing notice to employers on wages||In another U-turn, the Labour Department, which on Wednesday had decided to issue notice to employers for not paying salary or full wages for April, stopped execution of this order within less than 24 hours after it received more than 700 complaints from workers. The decision not to issue notice to employers came apparently after Labour Minister A. Shivaram Hebbar directed officials on Thursday not to. Sources said that by then, the department had received 730 complaints from aggrieved workers on its helpline. Labour Secretary P. Manivannan had taken to Twitter on Wednesday night to announce that the Labour Ministerhad directed officials to issue notice to employers who had not paid the salary/full wages to workers for the month of April. He urged those in distress to report to the department helpline. However, on Thursday, the Minister directed officials not to issue notice to industry units. Sources said the Minister’s direction came under pressure from industry bodies. This is the second time the Labour Department has made a U-turn on its decision to implement mandatory payment of wages. In the second week of April, an order making payment of wages mandatory and no retrenchment of workers was withdrawn in haste after industry bodies met senior officials. Task force meeting Meanwhile, the 16-member task force set up last week to deal with wage and retrenchment issues, which met on Thursday for the first time, also deliberated on the matter. One of the task force members said that the industry representatives had promised to look into the issue and ask for wages to be paid by employers. “Since the task force is a body comprising both industry and trade union representatives, it is easier to coordinate on such issues,” a source said. To reduce complaints of non-payment of wages or retrenchment in the MSME sector, the members urged the State government to announce a package that can be used for payment of wages. “The MSME sector, which has been affected for nearly three years now, has to be financially strengthened,” a source said.
08 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Micro menus, fewer tables: The changing dynamics of dining out||The pandemic has ensured that dining out will never be the same again. Restaurants are planning to introduce a slew of measures once they are given permission to allow diners to eat in. For one, customers will have fewer dishes to choose from as restaurant owners work within financial and labour constraints. In addition to this, wait time at the restaurants may increase as there will be fewer tables due to social distancing. Some establishments may also reduce the number of hours they remain open as a cost-saving measure. There are around 3,500 hotels affiliated to the Bruhat Bengaluru Hotels’ Association. Veerendra Kamat, treasurer of the association, said they had a meeting with Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa where they requested they be given permission to operate. “However, the Chief Minister told us they would have to get the nod from the Central government,” said Mr. Kamat. Though most restaurants provided takeaway during the lockdown, hoteliers say they have been badly affected by COVID-19. “Takeaways during the lockdown contributed to only 20% of the revenue,” Mr. Kamat added. It will be up to each restaurant owner to map out a reopening plan. “It’s like starting a new hotel. We will have to take into account the number of workers and cooks we have. We will also have to look into other logistics,” he said. Seating capacity in restaurants will decrease drastically. “For instance, only two people will be allowed to sit on a four-seater table, to ensure adequate distance between customers,” Mr. Kamat said. Chandrashekhar Hebbar, president, Karnataka State Hotels and Restaurants’ Association, said many hotels will have to adopt open kitchens to win the trust of customers and to show the process is hygienic. “We will also need to do thermal screening of customers and keep sanitisers at our hotels,” he said. It’s unlikely that Bengalureans will throng to restaurants even after lifting of restrictions. Many people who regularly eat out said they would refrain at least for the first few weeks after the lockdown is lifted. “During the lockdown, I have been trying to avoid ordering in. When I start going to office, I would prefer to order online and avoid restaurants,” said Harish S., a software employee.
08 May 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||CM promises more sops for farmers||Chief Minister B.S Yediyurappa on Thursday assured farmers that the government would soon come out with a new set incentives for them for incurring distress owing to the COVID-19-induced lockdown. “The government will make its stand clear soon by announcing supportive measures for the farming community,” he said. The government had, on Wednesday, announced a compensation of Rs. 25,000 a hectare for flower growers. During an interaction with representatives of farmers, he said the government has set up an agri war room for addressing the grievances of farmers on the supply of inputs for taking up sowing activities during the kharif season. Under the PM-Kisan Samman Yojana, a sum of Rs. 3,755.16 crore has been disbursed among 50.77 lakh farmers. During 2020-21, a sum of Rs. 2,000 each was credited to the bank accounts of 47.81 lakh farmers, he said. Meanwhile, KMF has been directed to procure maize from growers.
08 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Liquor sale||On Thursday, when the new excise rates kicked in, liquor worth Rs. 165 crore has been lifted from Karnataka State Beverages Corporation. This includes 27.56 lakh litres of Inidan-made liquor worth Rs. 152 crore and 5.93 lakh litres of beer worth Rs. 13 crore.
08 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Arrival of stranded Kannadigas delayed||The arrival of 10,823 people from Karnataka stranded in other countries, initially scheduled to begin on Friday, has been delayed by a few days. Health Commissioner Pankaj Kumar Pandey said the Government of India has released a new schedule of arrival for these people. “The details of passengers arriving in the first batch will be released soon. All those who arrive will be quarantined,” he said. Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar, who inspected the screening facilities at Kempegowda International Airport in Bengaluru on Thursday, said all safety measures have been taken for the screening and quarantine of all the passengers, now expected to start arriving from Monday. Arrangements have been made to quarantine them in hotels, hostels, and school buildings. He also urged locals need not panic as adequate safety measures are being taken to prevent any spread of infection.
08 May 2020||DHARWAD,KARNATAKA||One more positive case||A 35 year-old person (P-705) from Navalur Agasi (Kolikere) in Hosayellapur here tested positive for COVID-19 on Thursday. He was suffering from cough, cold and fever. This is the 12th COVID-19 positive case in the district, a release said.
08 May 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||‘Yettinahole work will be completed at the earliest’||Minister for Water Resources Ramesh Jarkiholi on Thursday said the State government would take all measures to complete the Yettinahole comprehensive drinking water project at the earliest. He was speaking to journalists during his visit to the project site near Sakleshpur. The project, to carry water from the Western Ghats to the dry areas of the State, has a long history dating back to 2008. The Minister said the government would take all the stakeholders into confidence and complete the project. “We will not play politics over the issue of providing drinking water to people. There is an estimation that 24.1 tmcft of water will be available during the rainy season for supply to seven districts. I am hopeful that we will succeed in implementing this,” he said. The construction of check-dams is almost completed. The first phase of the work will be done soon. Some workers have gone to their native States, but officials will take measures to finish the work, he said. Regarding the delay in land acquisition, the Minister said the officials concerned would address the issues and land-losers would get their money soon. MLAs H.K. Kumaraswamy (Sakleshpur), K.M. Shivalinge Gowda (Arsikere), C.N. Balakrishna (Shravanabelagola), Hassan Zilla Panchayat president Shwetha Devaraj and other officials accompanied the Minister during his visit.
08 May 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Transformed railway coaches kept ready at 14 stations||South Western Railway has placed railway coaches converted to function as COVID Care Centres at 14 railway stations in the railway zone. The Railways converted the coaches to function as isolation wards to provide additional beds for COVID-19 patients as and when required. South Western Railway has converted a total of 320 coaches as COVID Care Centres. A release said that these coaches will be used for medical cases suspected or confirmed and categorised into very mild and mild. Individual coaches for suspected and confirmed cases of COVID-19 are being ensured to avoid cross infection. As per standard operating procedure issued by Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, each person will be assigned in individual cabins. If the situation warrants, up to two confirmed patients will be assigned a cabin, the release said. These COVID Care Centres are kept ready in Bengaluru, Hubballi, Mysuru, Yesvantpur, Harihar, Shivamogga Town, Hosapete, Hassan, Arsikere, Bagalkot, Talaguppa, Vijayapura, Belagavi and Vasco-da-Gama in Goa. South Western Railway has said that nodal officers would be designated in coordination with the State government for allocation of trains. The rakes would be stabled at the respective railway stations only on requisition of the State government and provision of necessary manpower. After the allocation by the Railways, the train shall be placed at these 14 stations with necessary infrastructure, and handed over to the Deputy Commissioners or designated officers, the release said. South Western Railway has said that while it would provide provide necessary healthcare staff at Hubballi, Bengaluru, Mysuru and Yesvantpur railway stations, the manpower for other centres would be provided by the State governments.
08 May 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Kalaburagi registers three more cases||Three more positive cases of COVID-19 were reported in Kalaburagi on Thursday taking the total number of cases to 67 in the district. P-697, a 35-year-old man, from Kareem Nagar area in Kalaburagi city and a primary contact of P-642, P-698, a 36-year-old woman from Islamabad Colony in Kalaburagi and a contact of P-641 and P-699, a 41-year-old woman from Islamabad Colony in Kalaburagi and a primary contact of P-641 are the new cases.
08 May 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Minister seeks report on source of infection in Dakshina Kannada||Minister in-charge of Dakshina Kannada Kota Srinivasa Poojary has directed the district administration to conduct an inquiry and submit a report to the government on the source of COVID-19 infection in the district, including the cases reported from First Neuro Hospital at Padil in the city. He gave the direction after three more persons, including two women and a girl, tested positive in the district on Wednesday. The Minister, who chaired a meeting with the Deputy Commissioner and the District Health and Family Welfare Officer here on Wednesday, said that the inquiry and a report are required to remove doubts in the minds of people on the source of infection. Meanwhile, of the 22 positive cases in Dakshina Kannada, nine cases were linked to the private hospital. One among the nine patients is a staff member of the hospital which has been declared as supervised isolation centre. The others were those who had taken treatment there and their primary and secondary contacts. One among the nine patients has died. In addition, according to Deputy Commissioner of Uttara Kannada K. Harish Kumar, a patient who tested positive in Bhatkal, Uttara Kannada, recently, has history of having contact with those who had visited that hospital. According to Health Department officials, the first victim of the disease, a 50-year-old woman from Bantwal, was also visiting that hospital to see her ailing mother-in-law. Later, the infection spread to four persons in Bantwal. A six-member expert committee of medical professionals in Mangaluru is now studying whether the infection spread from the Bantwal woman to Padil or from the Padil hospital to the Bantwal woman. It is because all other positive cases reported in the district have history of travelling to Dubai or Delhi but not the ones reported from Bantwal and Mangaluru. According to District Health and Family Welfare Officer Ramachandra Bayari, 210 persons, all primary and secondary contacts of that hospital, were quarantined after the first positive case was reported from the private hospital.
08 May 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||More donations to Mysuru zoo||A third Karnataka Minister has come to the rescue of Mysuru zoo, whose revenue has fallen to zero with its closure since over a month ago. Responding to a call from his colleague and Minister for Cooperation S.T. Somashekhar, who is also the Minister in charge of Mysuru, Minister for Urban Development B.A. Basavaraj (Byrati Basavaraj) on Thursday handed over a cheque for Rs. 84 lakh to the zoo authorities. The amount was raised from his K.R. Puram constituency in Bengaluru. Mr. Somashekhar, who had earlier raised Rs. 73.6 lakh and Rs. 45.3 lakh on two occasions from Yeshwantpur constituency, gave away a cheque for Rs. 21.14 lakh. This means Rs. 1.05 crore was raised for the zoo on Thursday. In total, the zoo has received Rs. 2.32 crore from Mr. Somashekhar, Mr. Basavaraj, and Minister for Food and Civil Supplies Gopalaiah. The zoo spends about Rs. 2 crore a month on maintenance, including the feeding of animals, and it relies entirely on gate collection since there is no aid from the government.
08 May 2020||Shivamogga,KARNATAKA||MGNREGA workers donate to fund||Amid distress and job loss, workers enrolled under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) in Madikechilur village near here donated part of their wages to the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund to tackle COVID-19. Minister for Rural Development and Panchayat Raj K.S. Eshwarappa visited Madikechilur on Thursday to review the work on removing silt from the Ramappanakere water tank taken up under MGNREGA. During his visit, the workers handed over a cheque for Rs. 35,000. For 2020-21, as many as 726 workers are enrolled under MGNREGA in Madikechilur village. The local gram panchayat has prepared an action plan for the development of Ramappanakere tank that includes work on strengthening of the bunds, repairing the feeder canals, and removal of silt and weeds.
08 May 2020||UDUPI,KARNATAKA||Quarantine must for those coming from other States||A meeting on precautionary measures against COVID-19 in Udupi district here on Thursday decided that those from other States desirous of coming to Udupi should apply on the Sevasindhu website and obtain passes and travel in private vehicles. The meeting of legislators of the district chaired by Shobha Karandlaje, MP, at the Deputy Commissioner’s Office here, also decided that those who entered Udupi district after getting passes would be divided taluk-wise at the check-posts on the borders of the district. Then these persons would be handed over to the officers of the respective taluk headquarters so that they could be put under compulsory quarantine in places marked by the administration. Many from the district were working as employees in Mumbai and other States, and were desirous of returning. Those interested in coming to Udupi should register on the website: https://sevasindhu.karnataka.gov.in/Sevasi- ndhu/English.
08 May 2020||Vijayapura,KARNATAKA||Dulkhed is one-entry one-exit check-post||Deputy Commissioner Y.S. Patil has said that as per a government order for setting up one-entry one-exit check-post for monitoring the movement of people entering or going out to different States, Dulkhed check-post has been converted into such point. Speaking to media persons at the check-post on Thursday, Mr. Patil said that as the National Highway, where the check-post is set up, connects most North Indian States, Dulkhed has been converted into one-entry one-exit check-post. It has 10 counters to collect details of visitors.
08 May 2020||May 08 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Three wards free of containment zones||Three wards are now free of containment zones with no new cases being reported for a period of 28 days. The three wards are Hosahalli (124), Karisandra (166), and Ramaswamypalya (62). In a video message on Thursday, BBMP Commissioner B.H. Anil Kumar confirmed this and said that a new containment zone in Malleswaram ward (45) had been set up with a new case being detected there. According to the BBMP’s war room report, there were three wards with containment zones in Bommanahalli zone, one in Mahadevapura zone, five each in East, South and West zones, and two in Rajarajeshwarinagar zone. Barring five containment zones – Beguru (192), BTM Layout (176), Shivajinagar (92), Hogasandra (189), and Malleawaram (45) – the remaining wards will be free of containment zones by month-end, the report said. Meanwhile, the commissioner clarified that there was no shortage of staff in the BBMP’s fever clinics. He said that separate teams had been constituted to screen travellers coming to the city.
08 May 2020||May 08 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Karnataka school syllabus to be pared down||In addition to this, teachers have been asked to make videos for all subjects and all classes on the department’s YouTube channel ‘Makkala Vani’. This will be available permanently for students and teachers to refer. The move to reduce the syllabus has been appreciated by educationists and child rights experts. “It is a thoughtful move by the government as the burden on the children will be reduced. There is no point in conducting online classes and making it stressful for students. Moreover, online teaching is not as effective as classroom teaching and learning,” said Nagasimha G. Rao, child rights activist. He, however, warned that the syllabus would have to be cut with caution so that all the basic concepts are still covered. “There should be no other basis on which the chapters are cut and no politics and discrimination should come to play,” he said.   The move to reduce the syllabus has been appreciated by educationists
08 May 2020||May 08 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Entries invited||Entries have been invited for the Kannada Pusthaka Sogasu-2019. Contact 080-22484516, 080-22107704 or visit www. kannadapustakapradhikara.com
08 May 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||291 care centres for returnees in Alappuzha||The district administration has set up 4,678 isolation rooms in 291 COVID-19 centres across the district to house people coming from abroad and red zone localities in other States. COVID-19 care centres have been arranged in hotels, homestays, resorts, lodges and hostels. Officials said that all the rooms were bath-attached. More facilities would be converted into COVID-19 centres if needed. According to the district administration, 74,984 people from Alappuzha are working aboard. Another 22,827 people from the district are living in other States. Meanwhile, the second train from the district carrying stranded migrant workers to Bettiah in Bihar departed from Alappuzha on Thursday. The train is transporting 1,140 commuters.
08 May 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Low price, rain put plantain ryots in a fix||The sharp decline in the price of the Nendran variety of plantain following the lockdown coupled with widespread damage to the crop in the summer rain have put farmers in Wayanad district in a fix. The price of the Nendran variety at the Sulthan Bathery market was Rs. 20 a kg on Thursday as against Rs. 43 a kg during the corresponding period last year. Usually, farmers in the district get a better price for the crop during festive seasons like Onam and Ramzan, but the lockdown during Ramzan resulted in low price for the produce, according to traders. “Earlier, we had bulk enquiries for the crop from markets across the State. But now, enquiries come only from markets in Malappuram and Ernakulam,” said A.T. Hamsa, a banana trader at Ambalavayal. Widespread damage to crops, including plantain, was reported in the heavy summer rain and winds that lashed the district for the past several days. The Agriculture Department has estimated crop loss at Rs. 102.84 crore. As many as 18,65,190 bunched and non-bunched banana plantains cultivated on 18,65,190 hectares got uprooted by heavy winds. The estimated crop loss in the plantain sector alone is Rs. 100. 96 crore. Summer rains also affected crops like coffee, pepper, cassava, rubber plantations, and arecanut and coconut palms on 958.03 hectares, especially in Kaniyampetta, Panamaram, Thariyode, Padinjarethara, Vellamunda, Muttil and Poothadi grama panchayats. As many as 12,678 farmers stand affected.
08 May 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||Special train takes 1,140 UP natives back home||As many as 1,140 Uttar Pradesh natives, who were stranded in various parts of the district, returned home by a special train from Kannur to Lucknow around 5.50 p.m. on Thursday. They were transported to the Kannur railway station in 38 KSRTC buses. Each 50-seater bus had 30 persons on board in accordance with social distancing norms. The returnees included women and children. Each person was charged a ticket price of Rs. 930. The workers underwent check-ups at the camps before being shifted to the railway station. They are expected to reach Lucknow by Saturday. Another train carrying migrants will leave for Jharkhand from Kannur on Friday.
08 May 2020||Kasaragod,KERALA||Kasaragod heaves a sigh of relief||The Kasaragod district, which had the highest number of COVID-19 cases in the State, heaved a sigh relief on Thursday as all the patients, except one affected by SARS-CoV-2, have been discharged from the hospital after treatment. On Thursday, two people, including a 29-year-old man from Chemannad panchayat and 38-year-old woman from Chengala panchayat, who contracted the disease from affected patients were discharged from the hospital after treatment. With this, as many as 177 patients were cured of the disease in the district. The district has just 976 persons under observation and of them, 29 are in hospital. Of the 4,960 samples sent for tests, 4,389 turned negative. District Medical Officer A.V. Ramdas said special camps had been opened to monitor those entering the district through the railway station.
08 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Factories told to check for toxic gas||With the Visakhapatnam gas tragedy claiming 10 lives, industrial units in the State have been asked to check for toxic gas accumulation in their storage systems before resuming operations. All underground and overhead storage tanks should be checked for accumulated toxic gases, suggested a 16-point circular issued by P. Pramod, Director of Factories and Boilers. There were around 40 major industrial units which were prone to major accident hazards, said Mr. Pramod. It is estimated that there are around 150 major units that could be classified as hazardous ones. Small units such as ice plants and latex-based industrial units too may resume functioning after the lockdown period. The factories have been directed to safely flush their process pipelines for clearing toxic fumes. Pipeline test The vapour which might have got accumulated in the line should be neutralised and all pipelines leak-tested before making the units functional. Proper personal protection equipment should be ensured for workers engaged in the initial cleaning and start-up process to address any possible leakage or presence of toxic gases. All detection systems, including sensors for toxic and inflammable gas and emergency systems, should be made functional and relevant start-up procedures adhered to. Emergency services should be kept on standby or on-site emergency plans activated for meeting unforeseen situations. The department has instructed that all buildings should be ventilated before admitting any personnel. A designated safety officer should verify that the buildings are properly ventilated. Meanwhile, environmentalists said the Visakhapatnam incident should serve as an eye-opener for Kerala, as a large number of chemical factories functioned in the Aluva, Edayar, Eloor and Kalamassery belt of Kochi. Some units had become non-functional and hazardous waste, both in the liquid and gas forms, was stored in them, C.R Neelakandan, environmental activist, said. Purushan Eloor, environmentalist, demanded a safety audit in the industrial units in the Eloor-Edayar belt where such accidents had taken place earlier. PCB directive The Kerala State Pollution Control Board (PCB) has asked all chemical and other industrial units handling toxic chemicals/materials to resume the operations only after adopting safety and pollution control measures. The units that have been functioning during the lockdown period should maintain their safety and pollution control measures, K.P. Sudheer, PCB chairman, said.
08 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Malathy Teacher passes away||Malathy G. Menon, Thiruvathira dancer and teacher, who is credited to have re-introduced to society the dance form that was earlier confined to Nair and Namboothiri households, died here on Wednesday. She was 84 years old. Malathy Teacher, as she was popularly known, had an array of disciples who took the art form to thousands of women in Kerala and Malayali groups beyond the State’s borders. She gave Thiruvathira its mega avatar, with the first performances involving 300 dancers being organised in Alappuzha and at Changampuzha Park in Kochi. She founded Parvanendu, the Thiruvathira school, after she retired as a Hindi teacher from the Government Higher Secondary School at Panampilly Nagar in 1992. Born to Mundakkal Damodaran Pillai of Thripunithura and Karthiyayani Amma of Kumabalm, she was initiated into Thiruvathira by her mother. But it was later in life that she took to the art form with a zeal that earned her a number of accolades, including the Folklore Academy Award, Kerala Sangeetha Nataka Akademi Award and Kerala Folklore Academy Fellowship. Pinnal Thiruvathira is a new form of the dance developed at her school. She entered the Limca Book of Records for her efforts to train and put together a Pinnal Thiruvathira performance of 3,000 women. She also acted in a few films and commercials. The cremation was held at the Ravipuram crematorium on Thursday. She leaves behind her husband K.N. Govindankutty Menon, daughters Sudha Rani and Usha Rani, and son Jayaprakash.
08 May 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Leaving behind agonies in Gulf, Usman to return home||In his 47 years in Doha, K.K. Usman, a Malayali businessman from Nadapuram in Kozhikode, has never seen his fellow expatriates so desolate and in despair. After spending 45 days in home quarantine while he watched the mounting struggle of his fellow countrymen, Mr. Usman finally heaved a sigh of relief after the Indian embassy in Qatar confirmed his air tickets to home along with that of his eight months-pregnant daughter, who could not have flown out after May 24 owing to fitness reasons, and her three children. Their flight, initially scheduled for Thursday, was later postponed to Saturday. He said that for a small country with a total population of just over 26 lakh, Qatar has been reporting on an average 900 positive cases a day with the total number of cases exceeding 18,000 so far. “For the past nearly two months, every Malayali organisation here has been distributing food kits to expatriates. It was painful to see otherwise independent people leading dignified lives dependent on those food handouts,” said Mr. Usman who runs a food distribution business. He warned that there would be unprecedented job loss in the West Asian country and that businesses would have to start from the scratch. He strongly deplored the exorbitant ticket fare of 800 riyals (Rs. 16,520) collected from expatriates during such a crisis and that too for a service operated by a budget airline like Air India Express. He said that he had travelled home for anything between 350 and 500 riyals during normal times. “It’s a shame for a country which had airlifted over a lakh of stranded people for free during the Kuwait war,” Mr. Usman said. He said that the Indian Embassy, which had closed the registration for returnees after the number touched 40,000, had resumed it again. “But as of now, two flights, one each to Kochi and Thiruvananthapuram, have been scheduled from Doha with no disclosure on more flights. Considering that a flight carries only 200 passengers, one can imagine how long it will take to take the last stranded person home,” he said.
08 May 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Local businesses feel the heat as migrants leave||Dinesh G. has no clue how to run his plastic unit at Perumbavoor after six migrant workers employed by him over the past three years chose to return home to Odisha. While their initial travel plans went awry after the special train they were to board was cancelled, they remain stay put at a camp in Aluva determined to take the next train whenever it is operated. “While footloose migrants are mostly staying back, those employed in companies for monthly wages and maintained by employers at their expense during the lockdown are the ones returning now, dealing a major blow to local enterprises. If more migrants return, there will be a scramble for the remaining ones even at higher wages and poaching will soar,” Mr. Dinesh said. Cheap labour Benoy Peter, executive director, Centre for Migrants and Inclusive Development, warned that the return of migrant workers in large numbers would push all sectors into severe crisis. “Their cheap labour could be hardly replaced as even the expatriates returning from blue collar jobs are unlikely to take up the menial jobs under exploitative conditions,” he said. Even as the construction sector has witnessed a minor revival with relaxations in lockdown, V.S. Shahajan, a small-time construction contractor, remains sceptical of the future in the wake of the return of migrant workers. “It is near impossible to replace migrants with local workers who are not as regular and disciplined as the former. This would delay the completion of works while pushing up wages exponentially,” he said. Baiju T. Alias, who employs 200-odd migrants in his two plywood factories at Perumbavoor, said that it was unfair and unthoughtful to send back migrants now when things were beginning to change.
08 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Water supply from Chowara plants hit||With the asbestos roof of the old water treatment plant at Chowara blown away in the thunderstorm on Wednesday night and power lines broken by an uprooted tree, pumping from the old and new plants was affected. The electric lines had snapped around 5.30 p.m. on Wednesday and were restored on Thursday afternoon, facilitating pumping from the plants by 3.30 p.m. on the day. According to senior officials at the Kerala Water Authority (KWA), damage caused to the roof could be pegged at about Rs. 20 lakh. Another Rs. 5 lakh would be needed for refurbishing the area and other repairs. A detailed assessment is being prepared. Restoration work would take time, but temporary work was on, said the officials. The old water treatment plant at Chowara, set up in 1912, generates 10 million litres per day (mld) and supplies water to Nedumbassery, Kanjoor, Sreemoolanagram, Chengamanad, Parakkadavu and part of Kunnukara and Cochin International Airport.
08 May 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Confusion over return via road||The latest decision of the State government making institutional quarantine mandatory for people coming from red zones of other States has put the district administrations in a tight spot. Officials said monitoring people returning from red zones was tough in the absence of a centralised system to receive and redirect people from red zone areas. “The returnees are assigned an isolation centre from the check-posts and there are no mechanisms in place to update the data with the district administrations. For instance, 165 persons returned to Kottayam from the red zones till 5 p.m. on Wednesday. We have been unable to confirm if all of them actually reached the quarantine centre as most of them were travelling either in taxis or private cars,” the official added. As on Thursday, 500 people returned to Kottayam through the State’s borders. Among them, 202 entered through Walayar while 147 returned through Kumily. The check-posts at Manjeswaram and Aryankavu recorded the entry of 72 and 50 persons respectively. Train for workers The authorities have so far issued passes to 797 persons for returning to Kottayam and are slated to consider 1,580 more applications in this regard. Meanwhile, the district administration has prepared a list of 20,998 migrant workers who want to return home. Among them, West Bengal leads the tally with 14,092 persons, followed by Assam (2,455), Bihar (1,446) and Odisha (1,030). Officials said the district administration was now awaiting a directive from the State government to complete procedures such as issuing medical certificates and arranging food. The trains are being scheduled at the State level and workers from Bihar and Odisha are likely to be the first to return as these two States have already agreed to receive back the workers. “Workers from West Bengal and Assam may have to wait for some more time as the State government has not yet reached an agreement with these two States,” pointed out the official.
08 May 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Lack of clarity forces govt. to change tack||The government has temporarily suspended issue of travel pass for Keralites returning from other States reportedly because the ground-level surveillance staff are not informed of the whereabouts of those who have already come back since Wednesday. Sources said the Health Department staff stationed on the State borders were not collecting specific details of those who were returning. Members of a family who returned by car from Karnataka through the Walayar border told The Hindu on Thursday that the health staff checked only the travel pass and examined their body temperature. The number of passengers in the vehicle and their identity proof too were taken note of. Where they were heading to, if they were coming from a red zone where possibility of COVID-19 transmission was high, and details of those who were at home were not sought. Members of the ground-level rapid response teams (RRT), which include Health Department staff, local elected representatives and police personnel, were not informed of their arrival at many places. A health inspector in Malappuram district claimed that the arrival of a three-member family in his jurisdiction was informed by the local residents hours after their return. In other words, the District Collectors, who are issuing the travel pass, were not reportedly getting details of the returnees from other States in time, he said. If information about the arrival of a group of people is not passed on to the RRT, surveillance might get delayed. They might also infect others in the vicinity even if instructions had been to go in 14-day home quarantine, he added. Thus, the issuance of travel pass was reportedly suspended to ensure that those who had already returned were quarantined properly and their details are included in the surveillance mechanism. Mandatory quarantine Now, the government wants everyone returning from red zones to be at its quarantine centres for a minimum of 14 days. Earlier, those returning from other States were asked to be in a seven-day home quarantine. Also, the returnees would have to give details of the location where they would be in quarantine on the border itself. Local bodies and the police would have to be informed about the travel details and it should be uploaded on the COVID-19 Jagratha web application.
08 May 2020||Malappuram,KERALA||219 COVID-19 care centres in Malappuram||The district administration has arranged 219 buildings as COVID-19 care centres across Malappuram with the objective of housing returning expatriates in quarantine. The buildings include hotels and tourist homes near the Karipur airport. Minister for Higher Education K.T. Jaleel said here on Thursday that the government was duty-bound to ensure good healthcare for the expatriates returning home. The returnees will be subjected to a thorough health check-up outside the airport, and those showing disease symptoms will be shifted to Government Medical College Hospital either at Kozhikode or at Manjeri. The others will be shifted to the special COVID-19 care centres. Those from other districts will be sent to their respective districts in KSRTC buses. A handful of people from Kottayam, Thiruvananthapuram and Alappuzha districts would be given taxi facilities, said Mr. Jaleel. 85 to go home Mr. Jaleel said 85 out of the 189 passengers reaching Karipur would be allowed to go home and enter into self-quarantine. Fifty-one of them were returning for emergency medical needs and 19 were pregnant women. There were seven children below 10 years of age and six elderly people. There were two people with their test reports having proved negative for COVID-19. Out of the 189 passengers, 85 were from Malappuram. Among them were 14 on medical emergencies, two pregnant women, three children below age 10, and four above 75 years of age. “These 23 people will be sent home directly. They will have to remain in self-quarantine for two weeks,” said Mr. Jaleel. The remaining 52 people, if they do not have any health issues, will be shifted to Safa Hospital COVID-19 care centre at Kalikavu. As many as 100 bath-attached rooms have been readied at this COVID care centre for isolating the returning expatriates. The Minister said that KSRTC buses would be used to shift the passengers to the care centre. They will have to remain in COVID-19 care centre for seven days. If their tests after seven days are negative, then they will be allowed to go home. However, they will have to remain in home quarantine for another week. In the flight reaching Kochi from Abu Dhabi, there were 23 people from Malappuram. Mr. Jaleel said five of them would be allowed to go home and enter into self-quarantine. The remaining 18 passengers will be brought to the International Students Hostel on Calicut University campus for quarantine.
08 May 2020||Palakkad/Malappuram,KERALA||Five wards declared hotspots in Palakkad||The Kerala State Disaster Management Authority on Thursday declared Malappuram district as free of any COVID-19 hotspot. However, three wards in Kuzhalmannam grama panchayat and two wards in Thenkurissi grama panchayat were declared hotspots in Palakkad district. In Kuzhalmannam panchayat, wards 10, 11 and 15 were declared hotspots. Wards 12 and 15 in Thenkurissi panchayat were also included in the list of hotspots. Alathur and Thirumittacode panchayats were removed from the list. The panchayats of Maranchery and Kalady in Malappuram district were exempted from the list of hotspots, leaving the district to heave a sigh of relief. However, district health officials said that it was not the time to relax. “We ought to continue our vigil,” said District Medical Officer K. Sakeena.
08 May 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Pathanamthitta goes COVID-free for 25th day||No new case of COVID-19 was reported from the district for the 25th day on Thursday. The total number of home quarantined persons in the district on Thursday evening was 298, and 296 of them came from other States. The medical bulletin released by District Collector P.B. Noohu on Thursday said only five persons remained in the isolation wards of three major government hospitals in the district. Two each are at the General Hospital in Adoor and at the District Hospital in Kozhencherry, while one person is at the Pathanamthitta General Hospital. 185 discharged A total of 185 persons, including the 17 persons cured of COVID-19, were discharged from the isolation wards of various hospitals in the district as on Thursday evening. Mr. Noohu said so far 17 throat swabs sent from the district tested positive for COVID-19 while 4,125 others tested negative. Sample results The Health authorities are awaiting the clinical examination results of 163 throat swab samples from the virology laboratory in Alappuzha, he said. Meanwhile, the 154 surveillance squads deployed by the Health Department screened 14,027 people for fever and other symptoms of COVID-19 at 15 border points in the district on Thursday. Forty-eight of them, who came from outside the State, were advised quarantine for 14 days.
08 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Thermal optical cameras at airport||The State’s first thermal and optical imaging camera with Artificial Intelligence-powered face detection technology has been temporarily installed at T-2 (terminal-2) of the Thiruvananthapuram international airport to screen the Non-Resident Keralites (NoRKS) arriving from West Asia and other countries for fever. The camera will be first used for screening the passengers who will arrive by the IX 374 from Doha at 10.45 p.m. on May 10.  20 at a time A technician of the Amsterdam-based firm that supplied the gadget and a qualified doctor will be behind the camera to monitor the temperature. Four health desks are placed behind the camera for completing other formalities. As per the standard operating procedure, only 20 flyers will be allowed to leave at a time from the airport to the terminal to ensure social distancing. Those showing high temperatures can be scanned at a safe distance using the camera and the potentially sick can be identified easily. After completing the formalities and health screening only will the flyers be allowed to move to the second floor where the immigration wing functions. Procured using the Members of Parliament Local Area Development Scheme (MPLADS) funds of Shashi Tharoor, MP, the Rs. 7.45 -lakh camera was first used for scanning migrants at the Thiruvananthapruam Central railway station before they were allowed to board the Shramik Special to Jharkhand. As the airport will have to check the temperature of the flyers arriving even after the repatriation flights, the AAI has decided to install four thermal optical imaging cameras, two each, at T-1 and T-2.
08 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Government may have to go for fresh Budget||The State government may have to go in for a fresh Budget for 2020-21 to reset its priorities and channelise funds for addressing the COVID-19-induced challenges. Despite executing a systematic plan of action in containing the virus spread and holding the fatality rate, the State has still not emerged from the woods and hence will have to sustain its level of preparedness to meet grave exigencies in the weeks ahead. This calls for a thorough overhauling of the budget proposals drawn up during the pre-COVID days with a greater accent on health care, social welfare and allied sectors. The massive influx of Non-Resident Keralites (NoRKs) has made it imperative to shore up the testing and quarantine facilities. This calls for routing of more resources for health care and to local bodies for taking up such initiatives. The alarming dip in the State’s own tax revenues, fall in Central transfers and a cry for assistance from various sectors point to the need for reworking the Budget proposals, sources said. The Budget had warned that in addition to the dip in Central transfers for various schemes, tax devolution from the divisible pool would take a major hit. The projections and revenue expected from various sources have all gone awry and the only option left before the government is to draw up fresh proposals to overcome the current crisis. The COVID-19 crisis has intensified the financial stagnation that the Budget had warned of engulfing the Gulf countries and compounded the woes of the repatriates. Since the prospects of returning to their workplaces are too bleak at present, the government would have to consider a fall in remittances and allied issues. Plan projects Capital expenditure and some Plan projects that have no immediacy will have to be deferred and stringent austerity measures, mainly cut in non-Plan expenditure, have to be adopted to make optimum use of the available resources. Since the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB) is executing infrastructure development projects to a schedule, a cut in Plan projects would not cause a major impact. Details of redrafting the proposals would largely depend on the recommendations of the expert committee constituted for studying COVID-19 impact, sources said.
08 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Lax safety norms alleged at care centre||Complaints have emerged over the functioning of the government-run quarantine facility at the Mar Ivanios College hostel that is witnessing scant regard towards adhering to the COVID-19 precautionary norms. The corona care centre that functions on the college premises currently accommodates 177 asymptomatic people who have been placed under observation after arriving from COVID-19 hotspots in various parts of the country. Some of the residents reached Thiruvananthapuram from various red zones in the country after gaining entry through the inter-State border at Inchivila during the last few days. While the group was initially permitted to go to their houses, they were soon shifted to the facility where they have been quarantined for 14 days. Worried over the centre’s functioning, a youngster who came from Rajasthan two days ago has cried foul over the lack of efforts being made by the district authorities in enforcing social distancing norms and other guidelines at the hostel. “I had spent the last two months at a hostel in Kota where the residents had meticulously adhered to the COVID-19 safety measures. Shockingly, no such efforts could be seen at the corona care centre here. Large numbers of residents roaming around without masks and gathering at various points are common sight. Many remain ignorant of the need to maintain social distancing, particularly when several facilities, including washrooms, are shared by the all. We face the grave threat of contracting the disease if any one of the residents is infected,” he said. District Collector K. Gopalakrishnan visited the facility on Thursday evening and assured the residents that the complaint would be looked into.  503 under observation The district administration placed 503 people under observation on Thursday, thereby increasing the number of people being monitored as part of the COVID-19 containment efforts to 3,166. As many as 2,941 people were quarantined at their houses in the district. Forty eight people were being treated at hospitals after developing symptoms. The Thiruvananthapuram City police penalised 144 people on Thursday for failing to wear masks outdoors. Fifty others were booked for other lockdown violations. The police also seized 19 vehicles. The Thiruvananthapuram Rural police registered 234 cases, arrested 240 people, and confiscated 128 vehicles. As many as 189 people were booked for failing to wear masks. The police have lifted restrictions imposed on vehicular flow at Pappanamcode. Kizhakke Mukkola, Kachani, Chenkottukonam, and St. Andrew’s Road will be opened for traffic subsequently.
08 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Exam timetable decision on May 11||The timetable for the higher secondary and SSLC examinations will likely be finalised on Monday. The Chief Minister had on Wednesday announced that the examinations would be held between May 21 and 29. A notification on the examination schedule is expected on Monday. Students are aware of the date the examinations will resume and only the fresh timetable needs to be published, senior Education Department officials said on Thursday. Valuation will be held in camps. Valuation camps The officials said practical difficulties could arise in conducting valuation in red zone districts, but in other places the valuation would get under way on May 13 and the process would continue. The Director of General Education will conduct a videoconference with Deputy Directors of Education on Friday to determine the arrangements for the examinations in the districts. Decisions on travel arrangements for teachers for valuation would be taken on the basis of feedback received during the videoconference. The schedule for Plus One and Plus Two examinations would be worked out in a manner that minimum students reached the exam centres on a day. The government aimed at completing the examinations by the end of May, the officials said, unless the Union government turned down the proposed dates or there was a surge in cases here. Directions had been given to the Exam Secretary for scheme finalisation online, they said.
08 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Demand for reduced airfare||A one-way fare of Rs. 13,000 for flights operated by Air India Express from West Asia, failure to ensure social-distancing norms for flyers, and the slow pace of the Vande Bharat mission have come in for flak. It appears that the all-time low price of the ATF (aviation turbine fuel) and humanitarian concerns have not been taken into account while fixing the airfare, it has been pointed out. Several Non Resident Keralites (NoRKs), especially those who have lost their jobs and the labour class who have failed to get salary, are postponing their trip. Demands have come up from the expatriates and others to provide free tickets for the distressed and cash-strapped NoRKs who will also have to undergo compulsory quarantine in a government facility upon reaching Kerala. The inability of the airline to adhere to the social-distancing norms and laxity in using wide-bodied aircraft have come in for criticism as two lakh NoRKS have expressed their desire to return. Since AIE flights can carry only 177 passengers, only 2,478 can be ferried on 14 flights earmarked for the State. The offer of the UAE and Kuwait to fly in stranded NRIs free of cost and the roping in of West Asia-based airlines that have wide-bodied aircraft would have quickened the repatriation process, it has been pointed out. The four airports can handle five to 10 flights a day and this would have facilitated the shifting of one lakh NoRKs in at least two weeks. Airline sources said it is not possible to enforce the social-distancing norms in the seating arrangements. “Controlled atmosphere prevails in the interior of the aircraft and it does not matter where the flyer sits as the air is being recycled.” The sources said the airfares have been fixed by the Civil Aviation Ministry and it is ‘moderate’ as the B 737-800 aircraft is going empty to collect the NoRKs. For all the AIE repatriation flights to Kerala, the fare has been pegged at Rs. 13,000.
08 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Govt. to reduce State’s food dependency on other regions||The State government on Thursday geared for reducing Kerala’s dependence on other regions for food by prioritising and speeding up agriculture production. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan addressed a conference via video link with District Collectors and elected members of local self-government institutions (LSGIs) to prepare 1.9 lakh hectares of fallow land for intense and precision farming in the run up to Onam. Role for local bodies Officials ruled out collectivising production and said local bodies would farm fallow land with the consent and participation of the title holders. The State would uphold their right to ownership. The conference flagged the possibility that food-producing regions in the country could suspend exports to Kerala if global adversities such as the COVID-19 crisis dented their agricultural production. Food protectionism Kerala, as a predominantly consumer State, had to break its dependency on food imports from neighbouring States. It had to guard against possible food protectionism by large-scale producers. However, Kerala lacked sufficient land to produce food for its population. Hence, it would harness the latest technology to maximise agricultural production in minimal space. The State would invest Rs. 3,860 crore in rearing foodgrains, fruits and vegetables. Inland and marine pisciculture, dairy farming, animal husbandry and traditional fishing sectors would benefit from the stimulus. Harvest season Mr. Vijayan insisted that the harvest season for the first crop of vegetables and fruits should coincide with Onam when consumption peaked. Households must rear vegetable gardens and breed fish in backyard ponds. He declared the formation of agriculture clubs to channel the resourcefulness and enterprise of the youth into increasing the State’s food production and make farming an agreeable and rewarding venture. Cold chain He promised the institutionalising of a cold chain process to store, preserve and transport vegetables, fruits, meat, milk and poultry from farm to the table. A fleet of refrigerated trucks would ferry the produce from farms to markets. Mr Vijayan said the State could spare 1,40,000 hectares to cultivate edibles inter-cropped with cash crops. Agriculture Minister V. S. Sunil Kumar, Industries Minister E. P. Jayarajan, Local Self-Government Minister A. C. Moideen, Fisheries Minister J. Mercykutty Amma and Chief Secretary Tom Jose attended the conference.
08 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Long wait for stranded Keralites||Hundreds of Keralites held up in the various States following the lockdown are waiting for the government’s decision to arrange transport facility for their return. The worst hit are those who cannot afford private vehicles to reach the six designated check-posts on the State borders and those staying in northern India and such places from where it will take days to commute by road. High fares being demanded by operators and confusion over procedures are the main hurdles. With many hostels earmarked for quarantining people, students are facing the threat of evacuation . As much as 1,177 students from Kerala are stranded in Delhi, Punjab, Haryana, and Himachal Pradesh. Those who have registered on the website of the Department of Non Resident Keralites Affairs and covidjagratha.kerala.nic.in are awaiting government’s decision. As they cannot give vehicle details, they are unable to get digital pass.“Taxies are demanding over Rs. 50,000 to take me to Thiruvananthapuram from Visakhapatnam. I am waiting for the government decision as the fare is on the higher side to travel 1,500 km. Taxi drivers are citing the lack of return passengers for the higher fare,” Sunil P.S., an AI employee stranded in Visakhapatnam, said. Several Malayali organisations and contract carriage operators are trying to help the stranded. But, social distancing norms are posing problems as only half the seating capacity can be allowed. As there will be passengers only to Kerala, fares will go up as operational costs will have to be met. “We are trying to operate two buses from Visakhapatnam to Ernakulam. Only 25 can be carried in a bus as social-distancing norms have to be followed. The fare will be in the range of Rs. 6,000 to Rs. 7,000 and many cannot afford it. We are trying to send 12 persons who were provided accommodation by us. Many are awaiting their turn,” George Thomas, secretary, Kerala Kala Samiti said over the phone. The government is yet to take a call on arranging trains or buses for them to return to the State. The Centre had not responded to the Chief Minister’s request for using Shramik Special trains to bring the stranded Keralites back home.
08 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||More pour in through check-posts||Malayalis from other States continued to enter Kerala on Thursday through six designated check-posts. As many as 354 Keralites entered the State through the Inchivila check-post here on Thursday. While 338 came from Tamil Nadu, 12 came from Karnataka, and four from Telangana. According to official sources, 84 people came from places that were designated as COVID-19 red zones. Among them, 38 people were sent to the corona care centre in the Mar Ivanios College hostel. The remaining people, who included children, pregnant women and senior citizens, were transported to their homes in ambulances. As many as 2,623 people have crossed the Manjeswaram check-post on the Kerala-Karnataka border so far. Only 541 people crossed the check-post on Thursday though 851 passes were issued for the day . At Muthanga on the Kerala-Karnataka border, 234 passengers crossed the check-post in 80 vehicles till 3.30 p.m. Among them, 31 persons were institutionally quarantined. A total of 185 persons entered Kollam through the Aryankavu check-post on Thursday. Unregistered travellers and those from red zones were shifted to monitoring centres and the rest have been placed in home quarantine.  1,828 via Walayar As many as 1,828 people reached here through Walayar during the day. And the arrival of the people continued through the night. In the last three days, 6,384 people reached Kerala through Walayar in 2,564 vehicles. More than 50 people who arrived from red zones were shifted to corona care centres after they were examined at Chembai Music College here.
08 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Capital city all set to receive returning expats||District Collector K. Gopalakrishnan has said that all arrangements are in place to receive the Non-Resident Indians (NRIs) who will arrive in the State capital on a special flight from Doha on Sunday. Mr. Gopalakrishnan said that seven help-desks had been set up to screen passengers and identify those with symptoms of the disease to be shifted to the Government Medical College Hospital, Thiruvananthapuram. All passengers, excluding pregnant women, children below 10 years of age, and senior citizens, will be placed in quarantine in the facilities identified by the district administration.
08 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State seeks special train for stranded students||The government on Thursday reiterated the demand for a special train from New Delhi to Kerala to bring students stranded in North India to their home State. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had earlier raised the demand with Prime Minister Narendra Modi. He had requested that a non-stop train be deployed from New Delhi on a pre-set date so that students would have sufficient time to reach the capital and board it for their ride home. Mr. Vijayan asked authorities of Jamia Milia University in New Delhi to give more time to students to vacate their college hostels. Officials said nearly 1,200 students from Kerala were stranded in New Delhi, Himachal Pradesh, Punjab and Haryana and the State was extremely concerned about their safety and well-being. Their parents were in touch with the Chief Minister’s Office to ensure they were supplied with food and adequately housed. An official said the students would have to go into mandatory institutional quarantine for 14 days.
08 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Govt. mulling mass making of medical items||The government has constituted an expert committee to submit recommendations for the manufacture of medical devices and equipment by State-owned enterprises. This follows an interaction by Industries Minister E.P. Jayarajan with experts representing various institutions that develop and manufacture medical equipment. The committee will look into the possibility of mass manufacture of items such as ventilators and baggage disinfection scanners for the present campaign against COVID-19 and in the long term. Representatives of the Vikram Sarabhai Space Centre (VSSC), Naval Physical and Oceanographic Laboratory (NPOL), HLL Lifecare and other institutions informed the government that they are ready to join hands with public sector units for the initiative. The meeting decided to equip the Kerala State Drugs and Pharmaceuticals for large-scale manufacture of generic drugs.
08 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Corporation mask campaign||The city Corporation has launched a campaign to manufacture 5 lakh reusable masks in houses for distribution in the city to prevent the spread of COVID-19. Minister for Tourism Kadakampally Surendran inaugurated the campaign. Actor Indrans is the brand ambassador for the campaign. The Corporation will purchase the masks for Rs. 10 and distribute these for free in the coastal areas and financially backward areas, Mr. Sreekumar said.  The masks in green or blue should be 7.5 inches long and wide, and the elastic straps should also be 7.5 inch long.
08 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||14-day quarantine for all NoRKs||Non Resident Keralites (NoRKs) returning to the State with COVID-19 negative certificate will have to undergo seven-day institutional quarantine and seven-day home quarantine even if they test negative after institutional quarantine. Revised orders Those testing positive for COVID-19 after seven days will be shifted to a designated hospital as per the revised orders issued by the Department of Non-Resident Keralite Affairs (NoRKA) on Thursday. To home district Those being shifted to an institutional quarantine identified by the government will be sent to their home district from the four international airports where they arrive. The District Collectors will arrange the transport facility to the district concerned, according to an official release issued here on Thursday.
08 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||No new cases in State||No COVID-19 cases were reported in the State for the second consecutive day on Thursday. In fact, all of this month, except for two days, there were no new cases in the State. With five patients reported to have recovered from their disease on Thursday, the State now has only 25 COVID-19 patients undergoing treatment. Of the 502 cases reported so far in the State, 474 have recovered from their disease. The number of those under government surveillance is 16,693, of which 310 persons are isolated in hospitals and the rest in home quarantine.
08 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Mullappally demands special buses||Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president Mullappally Ramachandran on Thursday flagged the desperation of Keralites stranded in other States due to the COVID-19 ban on public transport. He said the government was morally obliged to operate special bus services to bring them home.
08 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Mayor hands over house keys||Mayor K. Sreekumar handed over keys to flats to beneficiaries of the city Corporation’s Kannammoola Puthenpalam housing scheme on Thursday. In the first phase, houses were given to seven beneficiaries.
08 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||MBA course||The Cooperative Academy of Professional Education (CAPE) has invited applications for the two-year full- time MBA programme with specialisation in Finance, Marketing, Human Resources and Operations offered by the Institute of Management and Technology at Punnapra. For applications form and details, visithttp://imtpunnapra.org/online-admission-2020-2021or dial 9746125234 or 8129659827.
08 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Financial aid for workers||Workers in small and big factories, cooperative hospitals and plantations falling within the ambit of the Kerala Workers Welfare Fund Board can apply for financial assistance under the COVID-19 package. For details, dial 0471 2570440 or 9497678044 or visitwww.labourwelfarefund.in.
08 May 2020||May 08 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||On their toes||
08 May 2020||May 08 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Showering benevolence||
08 May 2020||May 08 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||In homeland||
08 May 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Woman from Hindupur dies of COVID-19||A 70-year-old woman from Hindupur died on Thursday taking the total number of deaths due to COVID-19 to seven in Anantapur district, while the figure of those tested positive touched 109 with 40 of them getting discharged till Thursday and five being shifted to State COVID Hospital in Tirupati for better treatment. District Collector Gandham Chandrudu said on Thursday that the Hindupur Government Hospital old block was converted into COVID hospital. Of those lodged in a quarantine centre at the SVIT College near Anantapur, 27 tested positive and the remaining who were tested negative would be sent back to their respective States. Joint Collector S. Dilli Rao asked officials to complete the process early so that transport arrangements could be made for them. So far 284 persons were sent to other States and 125 to other districts within the State, Mr. Dilli Rao added.
08 May 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Donation||The AP Private Engineering Colleges’ Management Association (APPECMA) has donated Rs. 2.56 crore to the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund to be utilised for the fight against COVID-19, the association has said. A cheque for the amount was handed over to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy at his office.
08 May 2020||Bengaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Penniless and hungry, a long march home on other side of Vindhyas||Thousands of migrant workers from the city, a majority of them young men in their 20s and 30s, have begun the long march home to Uttar Pradesh and other States in North India. Though the State government on Thursday announced that it would restart the Shramik Express trains to the northern States, they have not turned back to Bengaluru. National Highway 44 is dotted with small groups of people, their faces covered in handkerchiefs or masks, carrying luggage and bottles of water. Despite facing several challenges on the road — uncertainty over their next meal, the soaring mercury, and difficulty in crossing borders — their resolve to reach home remains firm. Mohammed Naushad, 28, who sold readymade garments on the pavements of Majestic, began his journey home towards Bhagpat district, Uttar Pradesh, early on Thursday morning. “We have waited long enough for the lockdown to end and for a seat on a train home. We have had enough of the government, so we decided to walk home,” he said. But is it feasible to walk home that far? “We have Googled and know that we have to cover over 2,300 km to reach home in Gorakhpur. But this is the only way. It will take a few weeks, but we will definitely get there,” said Rajesh Paswan, 31, a painter. Most of them plan to walk early in the morning, rest in the afternoon, and resume late in the night to avoid the summer heat. Amit Kumar, 31, a carpenter walking to Sonbhadra district in U.P., said they were aware that some of them could even die on the way home.. “But it is better to die on the road home than to die of hunger in this city,” he said, as he broke down. Their hope is to reach Hyderabad, where they believe they can catch trains to Uttar Pradesh “If not, we will continue our walk from there as well. More people will join us,” said Ram Lal, a native of Gorakhpur. Though the State government has said economic activities will begin, the migrant workers don’t seem to care. “There has been no work for over a month now. Our contractors haven’t paid us anything. Help stopped coming by after May 3 when government announced work can begin. But there is no work. We started running out of money and, despite our best efforts, could not find a ticket on a train home. The landlord began pestering us for rent. We decided to leave before we ran out of all our money,” said Ravi Pratap Singh, a painter. Another painter, Adarsh Rav, 19, carried with him a bucket he used to mix paint and a bag of clothes — his only belongings. He has Rs. 700 on him for the long journey home. Most of the people The Hindu spoke to had less than Rs. 1,000 with them. Many have received money deposited in their accounts through mobile payment gateways from their families back home. Wherever possible, they hitched rides on goods vehicles plying on the highway, sometimes paying for it. A group of nine workers from Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh, working in Mandya, walked beyond Chickballapur and hitched a ride to Anantapur in a tempo. “While some drivers ask for money, some give us free rides out of kindness. We have spent nearly Rs. 500 each for rides in our journey so far,” said Nouman Tyagi. Border closure The authorities have been trying to get the workers off the roads, but to little effect. The Karnataka police rounded up nearly 300 workerswalking on NH 44 late on Wednesday night and housed them in two marriage halls at Kodigehalli, where they are being given meals. Meanwhile, the Andhra Pradesh police have erected a check-post at Chilamathur in Anantapur district, where they are not allowing any migrant workers on foot to enter the State. T. Venkateshwarulu, sub-inspector, Chilamathur police, manning the check-post, said they were sending back the migrant workers back towards Karnataka. However, those who seek to walk back home over 2,000 km are not to be deterred by such hurdles. “There will obviously be other routes through the villages to bypass the check-post on the highway. Will the policemen be there even at night?” asked Mr. Ram Lal. Acts of kindness What seems to be keeping these workers going is the small acts of kindness from strangers. Ramesh Singh, who was walking with a group of 10 or so persons, was stopped by a biker on Wednesday night. Learning of their journey home, the biker gave each of them Rs. 1,000 and said this was all he could do at that time. Anji, who works with a private firm, distributed free meals to those on foot along the highway on Thursday afternoon. “I work with a company whose owner sent me on this mission to help these poor people,” he said. While thankful for these acts, what the workers eagerly look forward to is any vehicle that can offer them a lift.
08 May 2020||Chennai,ANDHRA PRADESH||580 new cases take T.N. past 5,000-mark||Andhra Pradesh witnessed two more deaths due to COVID-19 and detected 56 new positive cases. A 55-year-old woman died in Karnataka. For the second consecutive day, no COVID-19 cases were reported in Kerala on Thursday. With five patients reported to have recovered from their disease on Thursday, Kerala had 25 COVID-19 patients undergoing treatment. Of the 502 cases reported so far, 474 had recovered. The number of people under government surveillance stood at 16,693, of which 310 persons were isolated in hospitals and the rest in home quarantine. The State had tested 35,171 samples so far for COVID-19, of which 34,519 were negative. Of the 3,035 sentinel samples collected for testing from priority groups in the population, 2,337 turned out to be negative. Kerala now had 33 hotspots, having taken 56 places off the list. The death a 55-year-old woman of Davangere, with diabetes and hypertension, took Karnataka’s toll to 30. She was admitted for Severe Acute Respiratory Illness to a COVID-19 hospital in Davangere, said S. Suresh Kumar, Minister of Primary and Secondary Education. Meanwhile, 12 new cases were reported on Thursday. With these the total number of positive cases rose to 705. The new cases included three each from Davangere, Kalaburgi and Badami in Bagalkote and one each from Bengaluru Urban, Belagavi and Dharwad. Vizianagaram in Andhra Pradesh lost its green tag as it reported its first three cases. The overall tally went up to 1,833 and the number of active patients stood at 1,015. So far, 38 patients had died and 780 recovered. Two deaths, one each in Krishna and Kurnool districts, among the worst-hit, were reported. Of the new cases, 16 were in Krishna, 10 in Guntur, seven each in Kurnool and Visakhapatnam, six in Kadapa, four in Nellore and three each in Anantapur and Vizianagaram districts. Also, 51 patients were declared to have recovered during the past 24 hours. Vizianagaram district’s first three cases came after almost two months (56 days) since the first case was reported in the State. It was the only green zone district until now. Neighbouring Srikakulam lost the tag recently. Vizianagaram would be considered an orange zone district.  (With inputs from Bengaluru and Thiruvananthapuram Bureaus)
08 May 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Second COVID positive case in Chittoor||The Chittoor police on Thursday evening declared the Lalu Gardens locality of the town as red zone, after a man tested positive to COVID-19, taking to the total to two cases in the corporation limits. According to officials, case is a resident of Krishna Puram village of neighbouring Gudipala mandal. He visited his business associate in recent days and remained in Chittoor due to lockdown. It was found that he had been to the Koyambedu Market in Chennai last month. The COVID-19 task force officials rushed to the locality and shifted the man’s associate to a quarantine facility in Chittoor. Last week, an Ambur resident who used to frequent Chittoor to see his wife tested positive to the virus. First case in Madanapalle Madanaplle Town registered its first COVID-19 positive case on Thursday. According to Deputy SP A. Ravi Manohar Achari, a youth of Danduvaripalle village of Madanapalle mandal, working as software engineer in Chennai, reached Punganur town by lorry. He went to the local hospital to undergo a test. Owing to lack of kits, he was referred to Area hospital at Madanapalle. He reached Madanaplle by bike. The swab test at Madanapalle turned positive. Following this, he was shifted to Chittoor hospital for isolation.
08 May 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Despite big bloom, Kuppam area growers reap misery||Over three thousand floriculture farmers in the tri-State junction of Kuppam are staring at a bleak future, with business coming to a halt across Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu ever since March 22, the day on which the Janata Curfew was announced. Kuppam region, which enjoys moderate weather throughout the year, is known for producing some of the best quality flowers of prime varieties. The floriculture belt is spread over 2,000 acres in Kuppam, Shantipuram, Gudupalle, V. Kota, Baireddipalle, Palamaner and Gangavaram mandals. The floriculture mostly involves small and marginal farmers here, making it a cottage industry. The varieties that enjoy high demand are chamanti, rose and jasmine. The hues and shades, an array of exquisite varieties, bring hoards of merchants to the region from Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. The farmers, who call themselves horticulturists and floriculturists, do business with flower merchants in Bengaluru, Chennai, Coimbatore and Vijayawada. Four express trains transport their produce to these cities. It is estimated that over six tonnes of flowers find their way to the markets there daily. Apart from this, merchants arrive here from Kolar and Chennai to lift the stocks by road. Krishnappa, who owns a green house in Shantipuram, said that during the last one and a half months, his business prospects went south. “We have two marriage seasons, one in each half of the year. We send high quality roses of the choicest varieties and hues based on the demand from customers. Locally, we sell roses for Rs. 8 per flower. The same is sold for Rs. 40 apiece in metro cities. Ever since the lockdown, our business has come to a complete stop with no marriages or any other functions,” he said. Another young farmer Gowtham of Kuppam said he never saw anything like this in his 15 years of experience. “We feel like breaking down as we see flowers withering before our eyes,” Mr. Gowtham said.
08 May 2020||CUDDALORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||8 injured in fire in thermal power station in Neyveli, two critical||Eight persons, including two employees of NLC India Ltd (NLCIL), were seriously injured when a fire broke out in a furnace of a boiler in one of the units of Thermal Power Station II in Neyveli on Thursday. Two employees Sarbudin and Paavadai and six contract workers — Ranjith Kumar, Manikandan, Balamurugan, Jaishankar, Anbalagan and Shanmugam — sustained burn injuries of various degrees. Two of the injured suffered over 70 % burns and their condition is said to be critical. According to a senior official of NLCIL, “The incident occurred around 5 p.m. in Unit VI. A loud explosion was recorded in the furnace of the boiler located at a height of 82 metres. The temperature in the furnace on the top of the boiler was typically above 1,000 degrees Celsius when a fire broke out. Fire emanated from the boiler injuring the workers who were at the site.” Preliminary investigations revealed that a fire broke out in the furnace. “It could have been either due to an implosion or the structure could have been weak,” he said. The injured were rushed to the NLCIL General Hospital and later referred to a private hospital in Tiruchi. Fire tenders battled for over an hour and put out the blaze. “TPS-II has seven units of 210 MW each and presently three units have been shut down until . all safety aspects are ensured. NLCIL will take care of the treatment and well being of the injured and their families,” he said.
08 May 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Guntur officials gear up for influx of workers, students||Moving on from containment of COVID-19, the local administration faces the onerous task of dealing with an influx of migrant workers and students from neighbouring States and abroad in the coming days. Sources in the government expect a minimum influx of 10,000-15,000 in every district and the local administration has been asked to take steps to ensure community quarantine centres are in place. In the case of foreign returnees, there is a proposal for paid quarantine in hotels and the officers are working on costing of this proposal. The government has issued guidelines on community quarantine and has begun equipping village/ward secretariats with quarantine facilities. Each village secretariat is to be equipped with 10-15 beds and the local administration is identifying more such facilities. Meanwhile, the woes of daily workers, students on their way home have been increasing. With no clear policy on the movement of migrant workers, the local administration is confused. At some check-posts, the police are not allowing anyone on foot or by vehicle, while one can see small groups of daily workers walking on the national highways. Desparate gamble From risking their lives by travelling in country boats, to hiding in containers to evade the police, people are forced to take risks which can endanger their lives. In the early hours of Wednesday, four students travelling by a boat were caught by the police while they were trying to cross the River Krishna at Pondugula village. The students took a boat from Vadavalli village and were planning to proceed to Prakasam, their home district. “We were alerted by villagers and we took another boat to reach them. We urge people not to take chances, ’’ said a police officer. Early on Thursday, a group of migrant workers heading for Visakhapatnam from Martur in Prakasam district in a container were caught by the Gurazala police at Pondugula. Police say the Revenue Department should enumerate the workers and arrange for their transportation. As the lockdown enters the last phase, confusion persists over the fate of migrant workers.
08 May 2020||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||King of fruits now delivered at your doorstep||The joint collaboration of the horticulture department and department of posts, Telangana Postal Circle, to deliver the ‘king of fruits’ at the doorstep of consumers overcoming the limitations of social distancing in these times of COVID crisis has evoked tremendous response in twin cities. Postmaster General K. Sandhya Rani, who flagged off the department vehicles here on Wednesday, said that they were happy to partner with the horticulture department and reach the end consumer at their doorstep with their favourite variety of mangoes and other fruits too. “Our teams have expertise in transportation and door delivery. There are no restrictions for postal department vehicles as they come under essential services,” she said. Within a few days of the horticulture department taking orders over the phone and then through its website Tfresh.org from May 3, orders have been placed so far for 40 tonnes of mangoes and two tonnes of sweet lime, informed commissioner of the horticulture department L. Venkatram Reddy. Three tonnes of the fruit were already delivered and 12 tonnes would be delivered on Friday. Responding to the positive response, Ms. Sandhya Rani said she was not surprised given the good quality, naturally ripened and hygienically handled fruits. If the demand persists, it will be continued post lockdown, she said. The postal department has a fleet of 60 vehicles, out of which 45 are normally busy with speed post and other deliveries. Due to lockdown, only 20 vehicles were engaged for regular work and the remaining being used for transporting medicines and PPEs. “We are leveraging our traditional strength of network to reach out to new sectors to be of help to organisations and people,” she said. Mr. Venkatram Reddy said so far, they received orders worth Rs. 6.1 lakh for mangoes with Banaganapalli variety leading followed by Himayat. Several customers texted their feedback on excellent quality. The mangoes are sourced from Kollapur in Nagar Kurnool, Jagityal, Mancherial, Sattupalli in Bhadrachalam district and Siddipet. On an average 10 to15 tonnes are being sourced per day and the five kg package is priced at Rs. 350 to Rs. 450. The prices vary based on quality, grade, farmers’ rate and transport cost. Customers can track order through the QRP code on the stack and the geotag from the farm the mangoes are sourced from, he said. Delivery will take about four to five days after an order is placed.
08 May 2020||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Vande Bharat Mission’ begins, first batch of evacuees arrives||The Vande Bharat Mission to bring stranded Non-Resident Keralites back home in the wake of a global lockdown following the COVID-19 pandemic got off to a firm start with two flights from the Gulf carrying 363 passengers touching down at the Cochin and Karipur airports on Thursday night. The first flight carrying 177 adult passengers and four children from Abu Dhabi landed at the Cochin international airport at 10.08 p.m. The Air India Express flight was initially scheduled to land at 9.40 p.m. The passengers included 48 pregnant women. The special flight carrying 182 Malayali expatriates, including five children, from Dubai reached Karipur at 10.35 p.m. The passengers on the Kochi flight had been issued affidavits to be submitted on arrival on the flight itself. The flight was received at a specially prepared bay and passengers used the specially designated aerobridge for disembarking. They also underwent an initial temperature test using thermal gun as they disembarked. After this they underwent a thermal screening. The baggage belt number five was deployed. The baggage area and the baggage were disinfected using ultraviolet light. Pregnant women were given a choice either to use taxis arranged by the airport authorities or to use their own transport to proceed, said a communication from the airport authorities. Eight KSRTC buses and 40 taxis were made available for the passengers for onward journey. Five immigration counters manned by 10 officials processed the papers. According to sources, three buses took 60 passengers to the Thrissur and Guruvayur quarantine facilities. The pilot, co-pilot and crew of the Air India Express flight expressed pride at being chosen for the mission. Captain Anshul Shiromg, co-pilot Rizwin Nazer and crew Deepak, Riyanka, Anjana and Tashi Bhutia had received training on infection containment at the Government MCH, Ernakulam, on Wednesday. They said they were not afraid of taking up the task and had support from their families for undertaking the mission. At Karipur, the health authorities subjected the passengers to thermal scanning soon after they left the flight and entered the aerobridge. District Medical Officer K. Sakeena and her team counselled them about the importance of self-isolation and social distancing. Those who showed disease symptoms were shifted to Governement Medical College Hospitals at Kozhikode and Manjeri. Those who needed urgent medical care, pregnant women, children below 10 years of age, senior citizens above 75 years, and those with negative results were allowed to go home. However, they will have to remain in self-quarantine for two weeks. All others from the district were sent to the Safa Hospital COVID care centre at Kalikavu. Passengers from Kozhikode, Wayanad, Palakkad, Kannur, and Kasaragod were sent to the corona care centres in their respective districts.
08 May 2020||KOCHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Migrant workers in Kerala stage protest||Disgruntled migrant workers from West Bengal, numbering over 500, took out a protest march to Koothattukulam town along the eastern suburbs of Kochi on Thursday morning demanding trains to return home. When the police stopped them, they laid siege to the road near the private bus stand. The police had to resort to caning to disperse them around 7.30 a.m. More migrants who were on their way to the town were stopped on their tracks and turned away by the police. “Since there is no migrant camp in Koothattukulam town, they probably assembled a few kilometres away and marched to the town. We have reports that they were planning to march up to the police station to exert pressure for arranging a train,” the police said. The police said they were forced to resort to caning since the migrants were not willing to see reason. “Arranging trains is obviously beyond the mandate of the police,” said a senior police officer. Following the incident, the police carried out announcements in Hindi in and around the town warning registration of cases against any such similar unlawful assembly. Strict vigil is being maintained in Koothattukulam town after a truck driver from Tamil Nadu, who had delivered supplies in the market, was tested positive on his return earlier this month. Protest in Ponnani Meanwhile, migrant workers staged protests at Veliyankode and Perumpadappu, near Ponnani, demanding that they be sent home immediately. The police chased away the protesters. The protesters demanded arrangement of more trains for them to return home. They decried the cancellation of certain special trains planned to take them back home. A few trains had been cancelled following lack of clearance from States such as Bihar and Odisha. Officials said they were willing to send back all those who were desperate to go home, if their respective State governments were prepared to accept them.
08 May 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Discharged patients overtake new cases in Kurnool||Adoni in the district has shown a slight rise in the number of positive cases after Kurnool city and Nandyal that account for the majority of the 540 cases in the district. While there were only seven new positive cases reported on Thursday, the number of patients getting discharged also increased phenomenally and it reached 194 leaving only 167 persons under treatment in hospitals. The number of persons discharged on Thursday was 26 and 20 on Wednesday, which Finance Minister Buggana Rajendranath Reddy described as the achievement of District Collector G. Veerapandian’s team and doctors at the COVID-19 hospitals. “We are not shaken by the large number of COVID positive cases, but tried to take it in our stride and fought against it containing it from spreading to new areas,” the Minister said after his visit to Adoni town on Thursday along with Adoni MLA Y. Sai Prasad Reddy. He termed infection coming to Kurnool district as ‘unfortunate’, but asked people not to worry about it or get terrified. Testing increased The large number of cases in Andhra Pradesh was due to the large number of tests done per day and in the State Kurnool district was testing the highest number of samples, which was throwing the number of positives up. “Government was taking care of all positive persons in the best possible way and it has no reason to hide or not declare the number of positive cases,” he added. Return of labourers Expressing his anguish over some resentment locally over migrant labourers coming into Kurnool district, Mr. Rajendranath said people should not resort to such practices as they were natives of this district and coming after enduring hardship for over 40 days during lockdown. There were many migrant labourers from other States and the administration was taking all steps to screen them and send them to their native States, he added.
08 May 2020||ONGOLE/NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Only one active case in Prakasam||It was a triumphant moment for the medical professionals when, from two designated COVID-19 hospitals in Ongole, eight persons were discharged on Thursday bringing down the active cases to just one. With this the total number of persons cured so far reached 59 out of the 60 infected. Meanwhile, in Nellore district, four more persons tested positive for the dreaded disease, taking the total number of confirmed cases to 96. The number of active cases stood at 34 as 59 were discharged on recovery. Three persons had succumbed to the viral disease. No fresh cases “No fresh case has been reported in the district since April 21. Only a 64-year-old man from Ongole is still under treatment now,” said Government General Hospital Superintendent D. Sriramulu. COVID-19 nodal officer John Richardson led a team of medical professionals in giving a warm send-off to the seven discharged from the Government General Hospital said one patient was discharged from private KIMS hospital here. All the patients hailed from Ongole, Chirala and Ravinuthala.
08 May 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Body of woman found in convent well||A 21-year-old novice, Divya P. John, of the congregation of Basilian Sisters (Daughters of St. Macrina) convent attached to the Metropolitan Archdiocese of the Syro-Malankara Church at Paliyekkara in Thiruvalla, was found dead in a well near the monastery on Thursday. The novice had been staying at the convent for five years. The police said the incident occurred around 11.30 a.m. Fire and Rescue Services personnel rushed to the spot following a phone call from the monastery that a person had jumped into the well. The Thiruvalla police have registered a case. The police suspect it to be a case of suicide.
08 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala stops issue of entry passes||The State government on Thursday clarified that persons seeking to enter Kerala from COVID-19 red-zone localities in other regions in the country would have to go into institutional quarantine for a mandatory period of 14 days. They would have to pay for their food and board. Those who attempted to dodge the sequestration would face prosecution under the provisions of the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance 2020. The government exempted pregnant women, persons above the age of 60, and children under the age of 14 from the regulation. They could isolate themselves at home. However, the government would use a combination of geo-location indicating mobile phone applications, daily visits by health workers and police officers, and monitoring by members of local self-government to ensure that the returnees remained healthy and isolated adequately at their homes. Those who arrived without entry pass at the six designated entry ingress points would be sent to institutional quarantine irrespective of the district from which they commenced their journey to Kerala. The Union Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) had categorised 130 localities in the country as “most vulnerable districts in the red zone”. An official said a considerable number among the estimated 70,000 persons who had applied for entry into Kerala via the portal of the Department of Non-Resident Keralites Affairs hailed from epidemic hotspots in Maharashtra, Karnataka, and Tamil Nadu. 30,000 passes issued He said the government had issued passes to 30,000 applicants. It had temporarily stopped the issuance of new passes to prevent the quarantine facilities from being overwhelmed by the returnees. The police would prosecute arrivals who did not report to quarantine centres after being allowed to proceed in their vehicles from the border check-post.
08 May 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Hotels told to prepare for arrival of expats||With the Centre planning to bring home Indians stranded in other countries, the district administration is banking on the hospitality sector to accommodate arriving expatriates. District Collector Bharat N. Gupta on Thursday appealed to the scores of hotels and lodges in Tirupati, which have been closed due to the lockdown, to accommodate the expatriates for the mandatory 14-day quarantine period. He asked hotel managements to get themselves registered with the Revenue Divisional Officer if they were interested in hosting the returnees. “As far as payment is concerned, the hotels will have to deal with the guests directly. The chain of hotels under the aggregator ‘OYO’ has expressed interest in hosting expatriates,” Dr. Gupta said at a review meeting on Thursday. The Collector also the go-ahead to small-scale trade and construction activity all over the district barring containment zones. “Migrant workers will get enough work here now, but if they still want to leave for their home States, they may do so by getting registered with the respective Tahsildars, provided the host State agrees for inward arrivals,” he Superintendent of Police (Tirupati Urban) Avula Ramesh Reddy visited the arterial streets of the city, cautioning the public not to take the lockdown relaxation lightly. He warned the public not to go out of their homes unless there was a valid reason to do so, and that too only after wearing masks.
08 May 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Devotees miss a ‘visual treat’||Hundreds of devotees missed out on the grand ‘Vasanthotsavam’ this year, which is being conducted behind closed doors in ‘Ekantham’ at the Tiruchanur Sri Padmavathi Ammavari temple here. The three-day festival, which began on Wednesday and ends on Friday, is being conducted as a private affair in the presence of a handful of priests and officials. With the processional deity of Goddess Padmavathi was seated on a pedestal at Srikrishna Mukha Mandapam in the temple, the temple priests performed ‘Snapana Tirumanjanam’ (celestial bath). Deputy Executive Officer Jhansi Rani, attended the rituals.
08 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vizianagaram loses green tag as it reports first three cases||The State has witnessed two more deaths due to COVID-19 and has detected another 56 positive cases after testing 8,087 samples during the past 24 hours. The tally has gone up to 1,833 and the number of active patients now stands at 1,015. So far, 38 patients have died and 780 have recovered. Vizianagaram district reported its first three cases after almost two months (56 days) since the first positive case was reported in the State. It was the only green zone district in the State until now as declared by the Centre. Its neighbouring district Srikakulam lost the tag recently. The State now has no green zone districts and Vizianagaram would be considered as orange zone district. 51 recover As many as 51 patients have recovered from the disease during the past 24 hours. Two deaths, one each in Krishna and Kurnool districts, which are among the worst-affected ones, were reported. Of the new cases, 16 were reported in Krishna, 10 in Guntur, seven each in Kurnool and Visakhapatnam, six in Kadapa, four in Nellore and three each in Anantapur and Vizianagaram districts. Kurnool tops The district-wise tally is: Kurnool (540), Guntur (373), Krishna (316), Nellore (96), Kadapa (96), Chittoor (82), Anantapur (83), Prakasam (61), West Godavari (59), East Godavari (46), Visakhapatnam (36) and Srikakulam (5), Vizianagaram (3) and other State cases are 27. As most of the fresh cases were being detected in the existing clusters, Kurnool, Guntur and Krishna continue to bear the brunt. The three districts now account for 67% (1,229) of the total positive cases in the State. The remaining 10 districts account for 33% of the cases, that is, 604. So far, the State has tested 1, 49, 361 samples and has achieved 2, 987 tests per million population ratio. Of the total tests conducted, 1.22 % turned positive in the State.
08 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Inter spot valuation to begin on May 11||Education Minister Adimulapu Suresh on Thursday directed the officials of the Intermediate Board to begin the process of evaluating the answer sheets of the Intermediate examinations from May 11. Addressing a video conference with officials of the Board, the Minister said evaluation of the answer sheets in ‘green’ and ‘orange’ zones could be taken up from May 11, while the ones pertaining to the ‘red zones' would have to wait till complete lifting of lockdown. Pointing to the fact that the AP State Council for Higher Education (APSCHE) had already announced the dates of all Common Entrance Tests, the Minister said the process of evaluation of Inter answer sheets would have to be expedited and the results announced at the earliest. A total of 10,64,442 students (5,46,162 from the first year and 5,18,280 from the second year) in the State took the examinations in March this year. The evaluation of around 60 lakh answer sheets had to be postponed owing to outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic. Buildings identified The Minister said that the buildings to be used as evaluation centres had been identified and nearly 25,000 evaluators would work in two shifts (from 8 a.m. to 1 p.m. and from 1 p.m. to 6 p.m.). Each evaluator would handle 15 answer sheets in each of the shifts. He said the process would be carried out amid all precautions. The evaluators would wear masks and maintain physical distance. They would have to stay put at the same place till the completion of the process. Responding to a plea by Intermediate College Principals’ Association president Rajaram and Government Junior Lecturers’ Association secretary V. Ravi that candidates above 55 years be exempted from evaluation duties, the Minister said any exemption would be given in tune with the norms stipulated. By June-end, the Intermediate Board would upload on its website theory classes and videos related to practicals. Kadapa district Regional Joint Director K. Chandrasekhar was made in-charge of this section. Intermediate Board Secretary V. Ramakrishna, Controller of Examination V. Ramesh, Regional Intermediate Officers, Regional Joint Directors and other officials of the 13 districts attended the review meeting.
08 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Invoke IPC provisions against company management: BJP||The government should invoke the provisions of the IPC against the top-level management of LG Polymers and impose heavy penalty against the factory, said BJP spokesperson Kilaru Dileep on Thursday. In a letter to the State Chief Secretary, Mr. Dileep said the reasons for gas leak had to be found out and remedial action taken in consultation with experts. Till then, the company should not be allowed to operate, he said. There should not be any laxity on the part of the government in making the company implement the safety protocols as per international standards, he added. “Till the lockdown is completely lifted, the company should not be allowed to commence its activities,” he said. Mr. Dileep said there were some important aspects to be noted. “LG Polymers stands on government ceiling surplus land valuing hundreds of crores of rupees and the company dragged the government into litigation when the government tried to resume the land. Despite this, how did the APPCB grant Consent for Establishment (CFE) and Consent for Operation (CFO) in 2019 for the unit’s expansion? The APPCB did not take clearance either from the State government or the Union Ministry of Environment,” he said. When the first phase of the lockdown ended, NOC had been granted to LG Polymers, ostensibly on the ground that it was an “essential industry,” he said. “By no stretch of imagination, a plastics manufacturing unit can be called essential,” he pointed out.
08 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Gas leak a reminder of dark side of EDB, governance deficits’||Prof. K.R. Shyam Sundar of XLRI - Xavier School of Management, Jamshedpur, has commented that the LG Polymers gas leak tragedy is a reminder of the dark side of ease-of- doing business and governance deficits. He has observed that after the Bhopal gas tragedy, the Central government had laid down guidelines relating to hazardous processes under the Factories Act. According to those guidelines, every occupier of a factory which handles or uses hazardous processes and or substances should constitute a safety committee and certain powers were vested with workers in matters related to safety at workplaces. Besides, onsite emergency plans were supposed to be drawn up and disaster control measures disseminated to the workers and general public living in the vicinity of such factories. Given the ongoing generous liberalisation of inspection system, it is difficult to say whether these crucial provisions have been implemented or not. Neither the Factories Act nor the proposed Occupational Safety Code (OSC) addressed those concerns. In fact, the OSC has done away with the extant second schedule that deals with 'permissible levels of certain chemical substances in work environment'. A host of issues are to be sorted out if incidents like the one that happened in Vizag were to be prevented in future, he asserted.
08 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Shift polymers factory to SEZ, demands Naidu||TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu has urged Union Minister of Commerce and Industry Piyush Goyal to initiate a thorough inquiry into the gas leak incident at the LG Polymers factory in Visakhapatnam and stressed the need to close down the unit immediately. In a letter to Mr. Goyal on Thursday, Mr. Naidu said, “It is necessary to shift the unit to the Special Economic Zone (SEZ). Further, it is important to focus on the long-term ill-effects on the health of the people.” Urging the Central government to depute medical experts to treat the victims as the city might not have persons with the expertise to treat those affected by Styrene gas, Mr. Naidu said, “The situation should be tackled keeping in mind the rising number of COVID-19 cases in the city.” “Equipment that estimates the extent of area affected should also be provided so that people residing in that radius can be evacuated. With head of cattle too falling victim, it is necessary to deploy veterinary experts too,” he said. He marked a copy of the letter to Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan, NMDA Member Secretary, State Chief Secretary Nilam Sawhney.
08 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||RTC staff unwilling to work at wine shops||Leaders of the AP State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC - now merged with a newly-created Public Transport Department - PTD) Employees’ Union (EU) have taken strong exception to the deployment of RTC staff at liquor shops. In a statement on Thursday, the EU State president Y.V. Rao and general secretary P. Damodar Rao said in the wake of the lockdown, the RTC staff had been working as volunteers or helping in delivering essential services for people in need for over a month. But from May 5, the PTD employees in some districts were asked to help the police control the crowds at liquor shops. Asserting that this was not right, they sought the intervention of the Principal Secretary, Department of Transport M.T. Krishna Babu and APSRTC Vice-Chairman and Managing Director to ensure that the RTC employees are spared this duty immediately.
08 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||SSC exams: Minister elicits views of teacher unions||If the SSC Board (10th class) examinations are held at all, the students should be made to sit in their respective schools and take the exams amidst physical distance between each student, according to representatives of teacher unions. Education Minister A. Suresh held a video conference with them on Thursday to elicit their views on conduct of the 10th class examinations. He said the government wanted to conduct the exams after two weeks of the relaxation of the lockdown and invited their suggestions on the issue. The teacher unions representatives said evaluators should either be allowed to take the answer sheets home or the authorities should establish more number of valuation centers. Arrangements should be made to take students and the teachers to the examination centres.
08 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Web-based meet held on Indo-Swiss project||The Bureau of Energy Efficiency (BEE) organised a webinar on Indo-Swiss Building Energy Efficiency Project (BEEP) in association with Housing, Municipal Administration and Urban Development and Energy Departments of Andhra Pradesh, AP State Energy Conservation Mission (SECM) and the Federal Department of Foreign Affairs of the Swiss Confederation from New Delhi on Thursday. Principal Secretary (housing) Ajay Jain said that the A.P. government agreed to the implementation of BEEP in the housing programme for Economically Weaker Sections (EWS) in AP with the help of BEE and Swiss Confederation with the assistance of SECM. The State government would construct around 30 lakh houses for EWS in 14,097 YSR Jagananna Colonies.
08 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||VMC staffers among 16 new cases in Krishna||Two staffers of the Vijayawada Municipal Corporation have tested positive for COVID-19 on Thursday, according to VMC officials. Following the detection of the positive cases, Municipal Commissioner V. Prasanna Venkatesh ordered closure of the VMC office premises for three days. Officials of the public health wing began disinfectant spraying on the premises on Thursday. One of the two COVID patients is an officer involved in the food distribution activity in the city and the other is an attender in the community development cell. Also, a private driver who took part in the food distribution activity on behalf of donors for the corporation also tested positive. Meanwhile, the district reported 16 fresh COVID cases and most of them are from the city. The district so far has 316 positive cases, and 11 were dead while 123 persons recovered. Test results of 2,368 samples are awaited in the district.
08 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Frequent mishaps mar safety record of city||The major accident at LG Chem, a South Korean company, leading to leakage of styrene liquid on Thursday has once again brought into focus the fact that Visakhapatnam, the major industrial hub of Andhra Pradesh, is sitting on a powder keg. The city known for its topography like a spoon-shaped basin with hill ranges in three sides and the Bay of Bengal on the other, has little scope for an escape route by the two million-plus residents in the event of a major catastrophe. Already, industrial pollution has reached alarming proportions adversely affecting critical mass. The city was exposed to its worst-ever accident when HPCL Visakh Refinery vapour cloud explosion in September 1997, killing at least 60 persons. Panic buttons were pressed when the oxygen house explosion at Visakhapatnam Steel Plant in 2012, killed 19 persons. HPCL Visakh Refinery again hit the headlines for the wrong reasons in August 2013, when the seawater cooling tower collapsed leading to the death of 28 persons. Frequent accidents at Jawaharlal Nehru Pharma City at Parawada, and a few fatal accidents at Hetero Drugs, Divis Laboratory and other industries/clusters had raised serious concern among the denizens. Deteriorating air ambient quality, rising automobile and noise pollution and occasion reports on fish-kill due to discharge of untreated industrial effluents have always concerns among environmental activists. The city was given a critically polluted tag by the Central Pollution Control Board in its Comprehensive Environmental Pollution Index in 2009. However, the moratorium imposed on greenfield and brownfield projects was subsequently lifted due to improvement in emission norms by the CPCB. Plans remain on paper The talk of on and off-site disaster management plans, regular third party inspection and social audit have remained on paper, despite repeated promises by the powers-that-be. “To contain the spate of accidents, regular inspection by the authorities is a must and in case of any lapse the licence for production should be revoked ,” Rebbapragda Ravi, an NGO activist, said.
08 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Local youth rise to the occasion||A girl, aged around five, opened her eyes at the 30-bed hospital at Gopalapatnam. Bewildered by her surroundings, she looked around in a daze as a doctor and nurse attended to her. The girl, a resident of RR Venkatapuram, was among the survivors of the gas leak. “Someone brought her here, placed her on the bed and left. We do not even know who are her parents are or her relatives. Her condition was critical when she was brought here. We managed to rescue her and she is out of danger now,” said a doctor at the hospital, while going from one patient’s bed to another. Local youths step up Many local youths rose to the occasion and rushed people to hospital. Many youths took children and others to safer places on their two-wheelers and left them on the highway about five kilometres away from RR Venkatapuram. A young man with a handkerchief tied around his bloody wrist was seen outside the hospital. “I broke a window pane to rescue someone and injured my wrist in the process. Had we received the information a little earlier, we could have rescued more people,” said the youth, who left before he could be asked for his name. He was in a hurry to get back to the affected area and see if there were more people that were in need of help. Good Samaritans Heartrending scenes were witnessed at King George Hospital (KGH) where more than 100 people were admitted in different wards. The hospital witnessed a long stream of ambulances, APSRTC buses and police vehicles, ferrying people affected by the gas leak. Auto-rickshaw drivers too joined in the efforts. “We looked for people lying on the roads and shifted them to hospital. Many people have been separated from their families, particularly children, and we will unite them later,” said police inspector Raghuveer Vishnu. Announcements were made on loudspeakers from the Sri Shirdi Sai Baba temple at Appayyanagar, about five kilometres away from the mishap site at around 9 a.m., urging people to remain indoors. VMRDA Chairman Dronamraju Srinivas said that Chief Minister Jagan Mohan Reddy had directed authorities to rush the victims to nearby private and corporate hospitals, apart from KGH. Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao, who rushed to KGH, assured all possible means of treatment to the victims.
08 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Demand for closure of LG Polymers grows louder, negligence alleged||Clamour for the closure of LG Polymers plant is growing with people from various walks seeking it for criminal negligence. CITU State president Ch. Narsinga Rao blamed the management for the accident and sought prosecution of senior officials and action against officials who accorded the clearances to the company to go ahead with the expansion. ‘HPCL accident’ INTUC leaders Mantri Rajasekhar and Neerukonda Ramachandra Rao expressed shock at the major accident and demanded the government immediately shutdown the unit . “The incident again refreshed the memory of HPCL Visakh Refinery vapour cloud explosion which had killed at least 60 people in 1997,” he said. ‘Perferential treatment’ Former Minister and TDP leader Bandaru Satyanarayana Murthy said despite repeated industrial accidents, LG Polymers was being given preferential treatment by the authorities in getting all the clearances to operate its unit in the city and go for expansion. “A survey should be conducted on all hazardous industries in Visakhapatnam and take steps to close them to prevent recurrence of such accidents,” he said. “Pungent smell and magnitude of the accident itself typified the criminal negligence on the part of the management and the unit should be closed,” senior BJP leader N. Vishnu Kumar Raju said. Former MLA Palla Srinivasa Rao said the management had not yet taken up responsibility for the accident and did not bother to provide rescue and relief operations for the victims. CPI (M) city president B. Ganga Rao said the unit should be closed immediately and a safety audit should be conducted on all the industries in the city. Social activist and former IAS officer E.A.S. Sarma demanded severe action against the management and wondered how the foreign company operating in India conducted its operations “so casually and carelessly” at a time when nationwide lockdown was being enforced . ‘Ease of doing business’ He said that foreign companies like this one were moving into India as the Union Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change in the name of “ease of doing business” was progressively relaxing the environment clearance procedures and encouraging polluting industries to set shop in the country.
08 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Poison gas could have triggered series of explosions’||The styrene gas that leaked from LG Polymers which has killed at least 11 people and created panic in several areas of Visakhapatnam leading to fleeing of homes in the vicinity of the plant is a poisonous, inflammable gas used in plastic engineering industry, and could have triggered a series of explosions, according to experts. Plant in residential areas Early morning leakage from LG Polymers, which manufactures general purpose polystyrene, high impact polystyrene and coloured polystyrene caused panic in several areas of the city in the industrial belt Mindhi and Gajuwaka. “Depending on the intensity of inhaling the poisonous gas, a person could face complications in the lungs and inhaling oxygen. It could lead to fatality due to damage to central nervous system,” Dr. C.V. Rao, Director, GITAM Institute of Medical Sciences, said. Dr. D Raghunatha Rao, former Director, Homi Bhabha Cancer Hospital and Research Centre said styrene is primarily used in the production of polystyrene plastics and resins. Acute (short-term) exposure to styrene results in mucous membrane and eye irritation, and gastrointestinal effects. He said chronic (long-term) exposure to styrene leads to multiple complications. He said studies on its impact are inconclusive on the reproductive and developmental effects of styrene. Elderly more affected Several studies did not report an increase in developmental effects in women who worked in the plastics industry, while an increased frequency of spontaneous abortions and decreased frequency of births were reported in another study. The gas leak could affect more in the case of elderly and people with respiratory ailments, said Dr. K. Satya Vara Prasad, Director of Visakha Institute Medical Sciences. Dr. Avinash Pathengay, senior consultant ophthalmologist, LV Prasad Eye Hospital, said the gas could affect central nervous system, peripheral neuropathy and severe weakness and fatigue.
08 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Company deploys team to ascertain cause||The LG Polymers management on Thursday said that they had mobilised their technical teams to work with the investigating authorities to arrive at the exact cause of the fatal chemical accident at its plant located at R.R. Venkatapuram in the city. Reacting over the incident, the company in a release expressed its deepest condolences to the deceased and their families. At this moment, their top priority was to work closely with the local government and the authorities to ensure medical help to all those affected by the incident.  Safety standards “As a responsible global citizen it is our responsibility to ensure the health and safety of all local residents and our employees. We hold international environment and safety standards with the highest regard and will do our best to cooperate with the authorities to ensure there is no further recurrence,” the release said.
08 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Panicked residents flee colony||The usually bustling VUDA Colony at Gopalapatnam in the city wore a deserted look following the gas leak from LG Polymers early Thursday morning. Many, who woke up with the commotion in the neighborhood, thought that some COVID-19 sanitisation measures were being undertaken and attributed the smell to it. However, when they came to know about the gas leak, they immediately packed their bags and left the area. Those who had nowhere to go, initially rushed onto the roads armed with masks, biscuits and a bottle of water. Such people returned later to collect valuables and clothes to leave for the night to the places of their relatives and friends. One such resident, M. Srinivas, left for Gajuwaka on two motorcycles with wife and two grown up children. Another, Venkatesh, left with his wife to Adavivaram. People left to Gajuwaka, Pendurti and other areas with news about another leak spreading and no confirmation about it being plugged. Almost all the 110 families living in the colony left for various places. Rumours of burglaries However, soon rumours spread that thieves were targeting the deserted houses. There was no confirmation about any such incident taking place. The Colony Residents’ Welfare Association representatives, however, asked the security personnel to resume their duty in the afternoon.
08 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CPI(M), PAV call for judicial inquiry||The CPI(M) District Committee has demanded the arrest of the management of LG Polymers for ‘their negligence’, which resulted in the death of 11 persons on Thursday. The leakage of styrene gas from the chemical plant was an indication of the failure of the management in ensuring safety, party State president Ch. Narasinga Rao, district secretary K. Lokanadham and city secretary B. Ganga Rao alleged in a statement to the media on Thursday. The representatives also noted that 200 persons were undergoing treatment at the King George Hospital (KGH), while 100 others were admitted to other hospitals. It was unfortunate that a large number of children were among those affected. ‘Demand to shift plant ignored’ They said that they had visited the mishap site along with CITU leaders and later visited the victims in hospitals. The party had also arranged food to over 2,000 persons, who had left their homes. They demanded that a judicial inquiry be launched into the accident and cancellation of the licence given to the company. They alleged that the mishap occurred when the management tried to restart production around 1 a.m. and the leakage of 2,000 tonnes of chemicals started. The management had failed to issue a warning to the people in the neighbourhood, which they alleged was a heinous crime. They recalled that the CPI(M) had been demanding shifting of the plant in view of the growing population in the area. Meanwhile, in a letter to the Chief Minister, the Praja Arogya Vedika (PAV) also demanded that the government should order a judicial inquiry into the incident. PAV general secretary T. Kameswara Rao and State president M.V. Ramanayya also wanted a committee of health experts to be formed to study all the people affected by the gas tragedy to protect them from the present and also possible future health complications.
08 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||City police force battles health emergency of a different kind||After almost two months of being on their toes battling the COVID-19 pandemic, the city police force found itself face to face with a health emergency of a different kind on Thursday. As the styrene monomer vapours began leaking from the LG Polymers plant at RR Venkatapuram at 3.30 a.m., a distress call went out to the police at 3.45 a.m. Police immediately swung into action and the first team to reach the spot was from the Gopalapatnam police station, at around 4 a.m. The team was guided by Zone-II DCP Uday Bhaskar, who also reached the site by 4 a.m. Almost 70% of the police force was present at the spot by 4.30 a.m., and Commissioner of Police Rajeev Kumar Meena arrived at the spot by 5 a.m. “Initially, it was difficult to enter the village because of darkness and the heavy styrene vapour fog. However, by wearing masks, we began making announcements through loudspeakers and blowing sirens that are fitted to our vehicles,” said Mr. Uday Bhaskar. “In some cases, we had to break the doors open to rescue the residents, as they were either asleep or probably unconscious. We had to mobilise men to carry them to the waiting police vehicles,” said Mr. Meena. A team from the local unit of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) came to the rescue of the local police at around 6 a.m. Well-equipped with protective suits and carrying oxygen cylinders, they undertook a house-to-house search and rescue operation.
08 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Case booked against firm||The police have registered case against the LG Polymers under Sections 278 (making atmosphere noxious to health), 284 (Negligent conduct with respect to poisonous substance) among others of the IPC following a report from VRO M.V. Subba Rao.
08 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Meter reading undertaken in five districts||APEPDCL CMD S. Naga Lakshmi on Wednesday said that meter reading has been undertaken in Srikakulam, Vizianagaram, Visakhapatnam, East and West Godavari districts for all consumer services. The provisional bill for the month of April was sent through text message. Now, APEPDCL has started taking meter readings from March to May. The total units used in two months are being billed.
08 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||15 COVID-19 cases reported in 48 hours||About 15 positive COVID-19 cases have been reported in Visakhapatnam district in the last 48 hours. While seven have already been confirmed in the State health bulletin, officials are likely to announce about the new cases on Friday. It may be noted that as per State health bulletin released on Thursday, seven new COVID-19 cases were reported from various areas here in Visakhapatnam district. Among the seven, five are said to be from Dandu Bazaar, while one each are from Sri Haripuram and KRM Colony, said Andhra Medical College, Principal, Dr P.V. Sudhakar. With the new cases, the number of COVID-19 cases in the district will be 46 and active cases is 24. The total number of discharges will be 22, as one more person has been discharged from GITAM Institute of Medical & Science Research (GIMSR). Officials said that eight more cases were reported from the several places in the urban areas on Thursday. Health officials said that among the eight, three are from Danu Bazaar alone. The new cases are likely to be officially announced on May 8. If this is confirmed, the total number of COVID-19 positive cases in the district will be 54.
08 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Gas leak delays special train||The gas leak at the LG Polymers plant at RR Venkatapuram has caused anxiety and inconvenience to 500-odd people, from Andhra Pradesh, coming by a special train after being stranded at Mt. Abu in Rajasthan for over 50 days due to the lockdown. They had gone to participate in an annual ‘Milan’ programme slated for March 20. The train started from Abu Road at 1.30 a.m. on Wednesday. It was stopped at Alamanda in Vizianagaram around 8.30 a.m. in view of the threat to passengers due to the leakage. “But for the stoppage due to the gas leak, we would have reached Visakhapatnam by 7 a.m. Our train reached Visakhapatnam at 1.30 p.m.,” said B.S. Anand, who also came by that train.
08 May 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Focus shifts to testing migrants||The district, which had been in the green zone for almost six weeks, was now bracketed under the orange category with the identification three COVID-19 positive cases on Thursday. On Wednesday, a 60-year-old woman from Chilakalapalli village of Balijipeta mandal in the district tested positive for the virus in Visakhapatnam, where she had gone for undergoing treatment for a kidney disease. The three new cases were a 24-year-old fisherman who was among the 900 of his ilk who had returned from Veraval in Gujarat, a 39-year-old woman from Duggi village of Sitanagaram mandal, and a 29-year-old woman from Piridi village near Bobbili. The two women, along with their family members, returned from Nellore a few days ago. While the fisherman, a native of Poosapatirega, was being treated at the Maharaja Institute of Medical Sciences, the women were admitted to MR Government Hospital for treatment. Social distancing Influx of migrant workers was said to be the reason for the spurt in positive cases in the district. With three cases surfacing in a day, the district administration swung into action by conducting tests on the migrant workers while asking them to maintain social distancing at the quarantine centres. District Collector M. Hari Jawaharlal and Superintendent of Police B. Raja Kumari, in high-level meeting, directed the officials to implement the COVID-19 protocol strictly. Parvatipuram MLA A. Joga Rao and district panchayat officer K. Suneel Rajkumar visited Chilakalapalli and advised the family members of the kidney patient to be in home quarantine. They advised the villagers to wear masks and maintain social distancing. In the light of the experience in Vizianagaram, the Srikakulam district administration too swung into action . Around 3,000 migrant workers, who included fishermen from Gujarat, had returned to the district recently and put up at the quarantine centres. ‘Masks, umbrella must’ District Collector J. Nivas directed in-charges of all quarantine centres to conduct medical tests quickly on all the returnees. As many as 1,000 tests were being conducted every day in the district where five cases had been reported so far. However, all the cases had surfaced prior to the arrival of the migrant workers. The Collector said that Rs. 1,000 fine would be imposed on those not wearing masks or carrying an umbrella while standing in the queue lines for buying liquor.
08 May 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||People cross inter-dist. border despite ban||Even as the inter-district travel has been banned as part of the lockdown imposed to check the COVID-19 pandemic, hundreds of people from different parts of Visakhapatnam moved towards Kothavalasa in Vizianagaram district after the gas leak accident occurred at the LG polymers at R.R. Venkatapuram locality on Thursday. The accident site is hardly 15 km from Kothavalasa and people living in the nearby areas fled in panic. People living in NAD junction, Gopalapatnam, Pendurthi and other places ran for safety towards Chinatalapalam, Mangalapalem, Kothavalasa and other places. The police personnel deployed at Chintalapalam checkpost could not control the people who came in huge numbers. The roads saw a traffic jam with the arrival of people in cars and bikes. Police allow entry The Police Department was forced to allow the people to cross the inter-district border. “People had no option but to reach Kothavalasa and the nearby villages to protect themselves from gas leak. The inter-district travel has been banned. But, it is matter of life and death here,” said B. Arun Kumar, a business man. Sri Gurudeva Charitable Trust founder Raparthi Jagadish Babu and his team distributed breakfast, milk, tea to the families in Pendurthi, Chintalapalam, Mangalapalame and other places. Mr. Jagadish Babu said the food prepared for the poor affected by the lockdown was served to the victims of gas leak accident.
08 May 2020||May 08 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Promoting hygiene||
08 May 2020||ADILABAD,TELANGANA||Tiger sighted near Khairguda mines||An adult male tiger which had ambled into the forest of Asifabad in Kumram Bheem Asifabad district from Maharashtra a few months back was sighted directly by people at large in the Vattivagu stream near Khairguda mines on Thursday morning. Excited people made video recording of the movement of the tiger, named A2, in the stream bed from a distance. “The tiger has been moving in the area for sometime now and is being monitored by our teams round-the-clock,” said Mancherial District Forest Officer Shivani Dogra, who also holds charge as DFO KB Asifabad. “We are talking to people about restricting their movements in the area where the big cat is moving too,” she added. The tiger was also sighted directly in Bellampalli Range in Mancherial district last month. “There was cattle kill on April 17 in Charlapalli paddy fields,” recalled Bellampalli Forest Range Officer Syed Mazharuddin. The Forest Department has been paying compensation for cattle kills promptly. This helps reduce fear and anxiety among farmers.
08 May 2020||ADILABAD,TELANGANA||BRF||An Adivasi couple ended their lives by consuming poison in an agriculture field on the outskirts of Kampur village in Narnoor mandal on Thursday. According to police, parents of Soyam Seethabai (20) had decided to marry her off. She and her boyfriend, Pendur Ganesh (22), went to an agriculture field and took the extreme step. (Roshni - Suicide prevention helpline: +914066202000.)
08 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Trees axed to give way to flyover||In violation of rules pertaining to protection of greenery and environment, more than the permitted number of trees have been felled on the road between Uppal junction and Narapally, to make way for construction of an elevated corridor. Not just that, after being penalised for felling the trees, the agency is said to have gone ahead and felled even more trees, in the hope of getting away by paying a bigger penalty! The 6.4-km six lane Uppal-Narapally flyover is expected to decongest the road for traffic from L.B. Nagar, Secunderabad Railway Station, Ramanthapur and Warangal Highway. The project, part of the Strategic Road Development Plan (SRDP) of the State government, is being funded by the Central government and executed by the National Highways wing of the Roads & Buildings department. The works have been allotted to a private construction agency in 2018, for completion within 24 months. The R&B department had applied to the forest department for permission to cut a total of 1,119 trees, which were coming in the way of construction, way back in June 2018. The number was later revised to 1,017 trees, including those on the central median. The proposal went for the scrutiny of the District Tree Protection Committee, which, after inspection of the site, granted permission to cut only 427 trees. Further, the committee has ordered for translocation of 50 trees, and retention of the remaining 540 trees. However, the department has subsequently sought permission for translocation of the remaining trees too, as they were right on the median and could damage the foundation of pillars. Even trees on the footpath need to be removed as utilities like electricity poles were to be shifted there, the application said. Even before the proposal received any response, several trees that were marked for protection by the committee have been felled, allege environmentalists. Upon enquiry, it was admitted by the officials too. “Our preliminary enquiry revealed that 70-odd trees have been felled in contravention of rules, and we have penalised the agency for the same,” a forest official revealed. Even after paying Rs. 1 lakh penalty, the agency carried its mission further and felled more trees on the stretch, the official said. The number and extent of the second instance of felling still needs to be inspected and estimated, for penalising the agency a second time, the official said. Notwithstanding the violations, the department is trying to reach a truce now, by allowing the agency to go ahead with the work after translocation of the remaining trees. “The ficus trees are on the median, and cannot survive anyway. An NGO has come forward to translocate the trees, and we are coordinating with the Roads & Buildings department about the same,” the official said.
08 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Government reports on shelter homes are vague: HC||Observing that reports of the GHMC and Women and Child Welfare department in two PIL pleas relating to shelter homes were superficial, the Telangana High Court on Thursday directed them to file detailed reports by May 15. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy said the content of the reports was vague and did not have specific information. A lawyer S. Nanda wrote to the HC, seeking a direction to the government to provide details of shelter homes meant for homeless set up by the government due to lockdown. Retired professor P.L. Vishweshwar Rao addressed a separate letter on the conditions of shelter homes set up for street children, women and migrant workers. The HC took up both letters as PIL pleas and sought reports from the GHMC and the Women and Child Welfare department that furnished reports separately. Perusing the reports, the CJ said the GHMC gave superficial information about the persons living on streets during lockdown. Precise details like how many of them were workers, physically challenged and mentally ill were not provided to assess the situation, the bench noted. The lawyer expressed apprehensions that COVID-19 could spread with some homeless people eating, sleeping and even attending nature’s calls on pavements. Some of these pavement dwellers could be migrant workers and beggars, the advocate mentioned. The GHMC vaguely said homeless persons were shifted to shelter homes without providing any specific information about the categories of persons and the places they were sent to, the bench observed. Mr. Visheshwar Rao, who expressed his contentions through video-conferencing as party in person, said the government had to help the street children, helpless women and migrant workers irrespective of availability of funds. Mr. Rao said the authorities were not permitting non-governmental organisations to reach out to street children and women in need of help. The civic body’s report says NGOs were allowed to help street children but no information was given about which NGOs were accorded permission. Advocate General B.S. Prasad said he got the details from government and sought time to collate them and file the report.
08 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||End of lockdown may see spanking fresh roads||Road re-carpeting works taken up under the Comprehensive Road Maintenance Programme (CRMP) are proceeding at a brisk pace during the lockdown period, taking advantage of the sparse vehicle movement. Close to 63% of the targets fixed for the period up to June have been achieved by the agencies to which the works have been handed over, a statement from the GHMC informed. 50% needs re-carpet A total of 709 km of major road length has been handed over to private agencies for maintenance for five years under the CRMP. As per the agreement norms, 50% of the road length needs to be re-carpeted during the first year. Some time lapsed in the agencies setting up BT production units, and GHMC Engineering wing has fixed the target of re-carpeting 331 km of road length by June this year. Of this, almost 208 kilometre of roads have been re-carpeted in all the six zones put together, the statement informed. By May-end, 280 to 300 km may be completed, GHMC chief engineer (maintenance) Mohd. Ziauddin informed through the statement. The agencies are also accountable for sanitation, sewerage maintenance and stormwater drains on these stretches, the GHMC statement said. Besides, they will have to do the regular road maintenance works such as filling potholes, and patchwork where the road is damaged, lane marking, footpaths, central medians, and other such works.
08 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||No distancing, no markets: MAUD||Municipal Administration Principal Secretary Arvind Kumar has directed GHMC officials to continue with the spraying of disinfectants in areas where COVID-19 positive cases were traced, and the surrounding areas too, even after they are freed from the containment zone restrictions. During a review meeting on Thursday about the steps to be taken for containment of the spread of virus, Mr. Arvind Kumar said that the norms pertaining to physical distance would continue until further orders. He issued directions for closure of markets and Rythu Bazaars where physical distancing was not maintained, even while asking the officials to ensure supply of vegetables through the mobile Rythu Bazaars. GHMC commissioner D.S. Lokesh Kumar and Hyderabad District Collector Swetha Mohanty attended the meeting.
08 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Cash support may elude BPL families in May too||Uncertainty on whether a significant chunk of white ration cardholders, below poverty line families that did not receive Rs. 1,500 cash in their accounts as assured by the State government in April continues for the second month. The government has completed crediting cash to the tune of Rs. 1,100 crore into the accounts of 74 lakh families for May. Another 5.3 lakh families without bank accounts are being covered through post offices, but the process had been delayed because of some server side errors. Senior officials said the process would be completed within a day or two and cash would be given to these 5.3 lakh cardholders through post offices. In all, 87.53 lakh families out of the over 1.03 crore families in the State have white ration cards, given to the below poverty line families. Of these, around 80 lakh families received cash benefit of Rs. 1,500 announced by State government enabling them to buy other groceries like vegetables, pulses and oil in April. The government credited Rs. 1,112 crore into the accounts of 74 lakh families last month after obtaining their account details. Another five lakh families that did not have bank account were provided the benefit through post office incurring another around of Rs. 80 crore. The government which allotted Rs. 1,314 crore as cash component had released Rs. 1,114 crore so far this month. Senior officials said families drawing their ration from the fair price shops regularly were all covered and their accounts had been credited with the assured amount. There are, however, a section of cardholders who did not utilize their cards for more than three months and in several cases for more than a year.
08 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Reverse migration to hit industry||As many manufacturing units in Telangana resume operations, after remaining shut for weeks due to COVID-19- triggered restrictions, factory managements are discovering to their dismay that migrant workers may well hold the key to speedier return to normalcy. Indeed, the return of the migrant workers to home-towns, be they locations in Telangana or beyond the State boundaries, is going to impact industrial units that employed them. They difference could only be how soon the units started feeling the heat. It was definitely going to affect, FTCCI president Karunendra S Jasti said, pointing out that the impact of their move was yet to be felt as the industrial units were gradually reopening. The decision of the migrant workers, however, is not just one challenge as the units grapple with many others, including permission to resume with limited employees, only one shift operation, and making necessary arrangements for their transportation from and to the units. The units grapple with several other problems like non-availability of spare parts of machines, limited or no access to raw materials, and inter-State movement of goods remaining an issue despite Central government issuing guidelines to facilitate their smooth movement. In industrial units, migrant workers can be classified into tfull-time employees, who put in many years in the facilities and reside with their families in the neighbourhood, and the other category who are single, daily wagers and employed as helpers. Telangana Industrialists Federation president K.Sudhir Reddy said many of the migrant workers leaving Hyderabad for their native places were employed by the construction industry and in malls, shops, bars, hotels and hospitality sector. Their numbers in manufacturing sector may be relatively less, but enough to cause concern if they do not come back to the jobs after 3-4 months by when the units are also expected to scale up production. Some solace for the 990 units in Cherllapally, where his plastic manufacturing unit is also located, is a recent survey, he said. The units in the industrial estate there employed 7,000-8,000 migrant labourers and 60-70% of them said they were planning to stay back. Replacing them is not easy as youth from Telangana do not prefer blue-collared jobs, he said. Co-convenor of CII National Council for MSME Mahesh K. Desai said such migration was not uncommon as every year some of the workers in industrial units from other States such as Bihar, Jharkhand and Chhattisgarh go back to their native places with the onset of monsoon to work on farms. “We provide for such absenteeism,” he said, adding they were typically daily wage earners, temporary labourers and unskilled. They used to return after Dasara. But the number of workers desiring to return to hometown is unprecedented. The most affected will be micro and small scale units, he added. On Wednesday, Union Minister G. Kishan Reddy told a webinar organised by FTCCI that companies need to persuade migrant labourers to stay back.
08 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Curbs on maids to continue||The Municipal Administration department has advised owners and members of residential welfare associations to follow restrictions in allowing domestic helps, as the lockdown was still in force. “Resumption of services including maids and other categories at this juncture is not advisable till the lockdown is lifted or till such time areas in red zone are converted to orange or green zones,” MA&UD Principal Secretary Arvind Kumar said in an advisory. He also said that as these domestic workers travel on a daily basis, they are exposed to an increased risk of contracting the virus. This would expose the employer and those around like security guards too, he said. “There have been cases of people contracting the virus through such interactions,” he added. Elaborating on the permissible activities during lockdown, he said that the guidelines issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs after the extension needed to be adhered to strictly. These protocols include wearing masks, using sanitisers and maintaining physical distance, especially in red zones. Since Hyderabad and its neighbouring districts Rangareddy and Medchal-Malkajgiri continued to be in the red zone, the government has been enforcing curbs in movement of people and other measures. The MHA had prescribed strict protocols and circulated the do’s and don’ts in these areas and these need to be followed strictly. “Resumption of domestic help services at this juncture is not advisable until the lockdown is lifted or till such time red zones are converted into orange or green zones,” Mr. Kumar said.
08 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Five lakh tonnes of corn to be supplied to poultry sector||The State government has resolved to supply 5 lakh tonnes of corn, an essential ingredient in the poultry feed, to the sector in the coming days. The assured commodity would be supplied at the rate of Rs. 1,525 a quintal to the sector and the government had decided in principle to supply corn to the industry on a regular basis through Markfed. A decision to this effect was taken at a meeting of the Cabinet sub-committee comprising ministers T. Srinivas Yadav, S. Niranjan Reddy and V. Srinivas Goud held here on Thursday. Speaking after the meeting, Mr. Srinivas Yadav said the poultry sector was expected to suffer huge losses after the outbreak of the coronavirus (COVID-19). But the initiatives launched by the government at the instance of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao had helped in stabilising the sector. In the process, the government had constituted a Cabinet sub-committee to study different aspects relating to the industry and suggest remedial measures. Comprehensive policy The Cabinet sub-committee had examined the issues facing the sector in detail and had decided to prepare an action plan to ensure that the sector did not suffer. It was accordingly decided to evolve a comprehensive policy to ensure sustainable growth of the sector in the coming days and submit it to the Chief Minister for his consent. As part of the efforts, a team of senior officials and Ministers would tour different States to study the situation and the practices followed in these States once the lockdown was lifted. This would be followed by drafting of the comprehensive policy. The Ministers said that the overall cropping area in the State presently at 1.22 crore acres was set to cross 1.35 crore acres after the completion of the Kaleshwaram project and plans would accordingly be prepared to fulfil the aspirations of the farmers. Efforts would be made in advance to ensure that the entire produce was marketed so that farmers benefited from it.
08 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Inter second year results by mid June||Results of Intermediate second year examinations will be declared in the second week of June and the first year results in the third week, Education Minister P. Sabitha Indra Reddy said. At a review meeting with officials of the Education Department over the results and conduct of SSC exams, she said the coding for Intermediate answer scripts has begun and valuation of scripts would start from May12, and will be completed by May 30 so that results could be declared in second week of next month. About 600 evaluators in each camp will valuate the papers. To expedite the process, spot valuation camps would be increased to 33 from 12 and teachers will be provided transportation, medical facilities and food. Accommodation of teachers coming from outside for evaluation will be taken care of, the Minister said. Exam on May 18 Though all the major papers of Intermediate were conducted the second year Geography and modern launguage papers were postponed due to the pandemic and now they will be held on May 18. Only 861 students are registered for these papers. Asking the SSC students to be ready for the exams this month, she said an affidavit will be filed before the High Court for permission explaining the safety measures to be taken while conducting the exams in view of the Covid 19. After conducting three papers — first language paper-I and II, and second language paper-I — the exam process was stopped on the directions of the High Court. The Minister said SSC exam centres will be increased from the existing 2,530 to ensure physical distancing and government will arrange sanitisers, masks and screening for students and invigilators at all the centres. Only one student per bench will be allowed to sit in the exam.
08 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||CM urged to rollback fee hike||AICC secretary and former MLA Challa Vamshichand Reddy has urged the government to withdraw the fee hike of PG medical and dental courses that have been increased by 100% in Telangana in April this year. Mr. Vamshichand, who was a medical student, said he knows the pain of middle class families who can’t afford to pay such huge amounts and are forced to leave the course. “I am writing this letter with no political intention but as a son of a middle-class government employee who struggled to pay for my medical course. I strongly condemn the immoral decision of the government to hike the fees of the PG Medical and Dental students by 100%” he said in a letter to Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao. Demanding the immediate roll back of the enhanced fee, he said it is very difficult for a poor and middle class student to pay an amount of Rs. 14 lakh for the PG course. This would not only be a unbearable direct burden on the student but also indirectly on the patients who come for treatment to these doctors. Moreover, hiking the fees of the doctors, who have been the frontline warriors in this corona pandemic crisis since day one, is very unfair and insensitive. He said it was unfortuante that the GO was issued on April 14 when the country was in lockdown and expected the government to stand by the students during the tough economic situations that the country was facing today. “Let us not over burden our medical graduates with such unfair decisions,” he said.
08 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Seven more trains carry migrants||South Central Railway braced itself up to run five or more migrant special trains past midnight of Thursday or early Friday morning, having run seven more trains — four from Telangana and three from Andhra Pradesh — in the intervening night of Wednesday and Thursday towards Bihar and Jharkhand carrying more than 7,000 passengers overall. All the travellers were registered by the TS and AP governments and thermally screened before being brought to the railway stations in buses amid tight security. Top railway officials, who have been refusing to come on record ever since the operations had begun, informed on Thursday that the special ‘Shramik’ specials of 24 non-AC sleeper class coaches were run with each carrying about 1,200 passengers each. Two trains started their journey from Ghatkesar towards Chapra in Bihar and Katia in Uttarakhand; two more trains began their journey from Lingampalli towards Bhagalpur in Bihar and Dhanbhad in Jharkhand — both stations are located in the eastern and western suburbs of the twin cities. From the AP side, the trains were run from Chittoor towards Saharsa, from Nellore towards Bharauni and from Nidadavolu towards Dharabanga, all in Bihar. All these migrant special trains will be running non-stop and could take up to 24 hours and more to reach their respective destinations. Senior railway officials stated that the passengers were provided with food and drinking water by the States before start of the journey while the railways will take care of their needs during the trip. Halts for these trains will be only when crossing divisions or zones when the running railway staff including loco-pilots, travelling ticket examiners, sanitation personnel and security persons will be replaced. Both State governments have paid up for the cost of travel, they added. It is also learnt that in the reverse direction, a train from Maharastra had arrived in Anantapur bringing labour from there, but this was arranged by the Western Railway. Otherwise, for now the SCR trains are returning empty in the return journey from States up North.
08 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||CM urged to address issues flagged by Opposition parties, not abuse them||AICC secretary and former MLA S.A. Sampath Kumar has appealed to Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao to focus on addressing the issues raised by the Opposition parties rather than resorting to abuse. At a press conference here, he said the Chief Minister’s press conferences were more to deceive people with false figures and false claims. They have lost seriousness and have become platforms of self-aggrandisement and abusing the Opposition parties that question his failures and inefficiencies. It is unbecoming of the Chief Minister to use foul language against the Opposition leaders and he seems to enjoy abusing others sitting on the chair, he added. Congress leaders too can use similar language, but they are remaining quiet to maintain decency in politics, he said and warned that the party will have to react strongly if the abuse continues. Mr. Sampath also took objection to IT Minister K.T. Rama Rao’s reported statement that would the State get some prize for doing more COVID-19 tests and said it reflected the irresponsible attitude of the Minister. He claimed that Ministers Harish Rao and Eatala Rajender were both annoyed but remained silent when the Chief Minister speaks lies about their subjects.
08 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Drunk driving claims 2 lives||Two persons, including a techie, were killed and four of their friends injured when a car driven by an allegedly drunk youth lost control and veered off into an agriculture field at Shankarpally village in Rangareddy district on Wednesday evening. Police said the accident took place around 5 p.m. between Shankarpally and Pashamylaram. While death was instant for G Niranjan (32), a techie, and K Kiran (32) succumbed to injuries while he was being shifted to the hospital. T Satish Reddy, who was behind wheels, and three others, B Rajashekar, Sharat Chandra and C Srikanth, escaped with minor injuries. Shankarpally inspector Gopinath Gopu said the victims, all friends, bought liquor from a wine shop at Fathenagar near Shankarpally and consumed it. While three of them started journey from Sangareddy, they picked up three others from Singapur village. According to police, the accident took place when Reddy, who was driving the car at a high speed, failed to negotiate a curve and veered into a roadside agriculture field. Woman ends life A newly married woman was found dead outside her apartment building in Raghavendra Nagar Colony in Kondapur here on Wednesday. The victim, Sesha Santosha Kumari (25), committed suicide by jumping from the terrace of her five-storey apartment building around 6 p.m. due to alleged harassment from her husband and in-laws, Gachibowli police said. “Her parents alleged that Kumari resorted to the extreme step as she was unable to bear harassment from her husband and his parents and could not go to their place due to lockdown,” police said.  (Roshni, suicide prevention helpline: +914066202000)
08 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Money released for crop loan waiver scheme||In the present phase of despair caused by coronavirus pandemic with its adverse impact on every sphere of life including agriculture sector, the State government has rejuvenated hopes among the farming community ahead of the next agricultural season by releasing funds both for waiver of crop loans up to Rs. 25,000 and investment support (Rythu Bandhu) for the Vaanakalam season. The release of funds for the loan waiver and Rythu Bandhu schemes were announced by ministers T. Harish Rao (Finance) and S. Niranjan Reddy (Agriculture) at a joint meeting of the Finance and Agriculture Department officials held here on Thursday. Mr. Harish Rao stated that the Finance Department had released Rs. 1,200 crore, following the directions of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao, for writing off outstanding crop loans of farmers, taken from banks and cooperative societies, up to Rs. 25,000 each. Mr. Harish Rao instructed the officials of Agriculture Department to oversee the crediting of the amount in the bank accounts of 6.10 lakh farmers whose outstanding debt is up to Rs. 25,000. He stated that the outstanding debt of farmers beyond Rs. 25,000 and up to Rs. 1,00,000 would paid to banks concerned through the farmers accounts in four instalments. On the release of Rs. 7,000 crore for Rythu Bandhu scheme for vaanakalam season, Mr. Harish Rao said arrangements were being made to credit the assistance to about 51 lakh eligible farmers before the agriculture season begins.
08 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Seedsmen donates Rs. 3 cr. to CMRF||State Seedsmen Association has donated Rs. 1.16 crore to the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund (CMRF) for taking up COVID-19 relief measures in Telangana. President of the association Venkateshwarlu, functionaries A.S.N. Reddy, Praveen Kumar and Jagadishwar Reddy, handed over the cheque for the amount to Minister for Agriculture S. Niranjan Reddy here on Thursday. The Minister stated that the association had earlier handed over another cheque for Rs. 1.7 crore to Minister for Industries K.T. Rama Rao. The association functionaries said they would donate another Rs. 14 lakh soon as their support to the government’s COVID relief measures.
08 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Flight with Kenyans leaves RGI Airport||On Thursday, Hyderabad International Airport handled one more special passenger relief flight, this time to repatriate citizens of Kenya from the city. The Indigo Airlines flight to repatriate those who arrived from Chennai via Bangalore landed at the airport at 9.20 a.m., and departed to Mumbai at 11.02 a.m. with 83 Kenyans, out of which, 32 boarded from Hyderabad and 51 transit passengers had joined from Chennai and Bangalore. As per the flight itinerary, the passengers were to be further airlifted by Kenyan Airways from Mumbai to their home land. All the passengers passed through a fully-sanitised domestic terminal, which has been kept ready for evacuation operations. In coordination with the Kenyan consulate, Hyderabad and the Telangana government, Kenyan citizens started to arrive at the airport from 6 a.m. to 8 a.m. Special screening and safety measures were in place during the flight’s handling as part of COVID precautionary steps that included thermal screening and special queuing at all passenger processing points. The RGI Airport had handled 12 evacuation flights serving over 900 foreign nationals.
08 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Judicial work suspension extended||Regular judicial and administrative work in Telangana High Court continues to be under suspension till May 29, following extension of lockdown by the State government. The HC suspended regular judicial and administrative work first from March 27 due to lockdown imposed by the Centre. It was being extended from time to time. The HC, however, would continue to take up final hearing, pending admission and other matters as decided by respective judges as per the roster, a statement from the Registrar General said. Advocates, Government Pleaders and Standing Counsel, who do not have video conferencing facilities in their offices, can take part in the proceedings from the Control Rooms established in the State Judicial Academy in Secunderabad. Other assistance can be had through digital helpline no. 14637. The HC said subordinate courts, tribunals working under HC, Telangana Legal Services Authority, Mediation and Arbitration Centre, HC Legal Services Committee and Telangana Judicial Academy would remain closed till May 29. Cases listed up to May 29 are automatically adjourned to a working day after one month. Details would be uploaded on District Court website. All judicial officers were instructed to take up hearing of cases reaching disposal stage along with urgent civil and criminal matters through video-conferencing.
08 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Migrants ‘asked’ for builder’s letter||Around 30 migrants from Chhattisgarh working at a construction site and desiring to return to their homes were in for a shock for allegedly being instructed to bring a letter from the builder as a proof of their residing there. The incident took place in the Ameenpur police station Limits. It came to the attention of activist Anand Chandolu who resides close to the construction site. As it turned out, the issue pertained to registering for a ‘movement pass’ at the relevant police station in whose limits they reside. “The migrants told me that they went to the Ameenpur police station in the wee hours to get registered. However, they were turned away after being told to get a letter from the builder. But the builder says there is no need for such a letter,” said Mr Chandolu as he sought to know under which law the letter from the builder was sought. Later, one of the migrant workers accompanied by Mr Chandolu went to the Ameenpur police station around noon on Thursday, where they were asked for the same thing. Meera Sanghamitra of the National Alliance for People’s Movements too raised the issue. “I have been seeing that a lot of workers are confused. They don’t know what to do,” she said. As was reported in these columns, a similar incident was seen, albeit in Jubilee Hills, at the Jubilee Hills Metro station, where a group of migrant workers were asked to report to the Banjara Hills police station as they were domiciled in an area within its limits. When contacted, Ameenpur inspector S Prabhakar said, “There are some people who have been coming here from other police station limits. We are doing whatever we can to help them. But we need to know in which police station limits they are living. Whatever be the case, if there are any such cases of confusion, we are willing to help.”
08 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||GO on lockdown 3.0 issued||The ongoing lockdown in the State has been extended till May 29 in line with Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao’s resolve to completely eliminate COVID-19 pandemic in the State. The decision comes after the announcement made by the Chief Minister on Tuesday and the extension indicates that the State will continue to be under restrictions for two weeks more than the May 17 deadline fixed by the Centre. Announcing the first phase of the lockdown in the last week of March, the State has been extending the restrictions subsequently and the latest extension follows KCR’s to extend the lockdown till May 29. The lockdown 3.0 however has some relaxations incorporated with it. The supply of essentials would continue as it is and works related to MGNREGS as well as those connected with agriculture would continue. The ban on domestic/international travel by air would continue while the movement of trains carrying stranded workers would be allowed. Inter and intra-State operation of buses as well as running of metro services would be stopped while the restrictions on movement of people in and out of the State would be applicable between 7 p.m. and 7 a.m.
08 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||UoH faculty, staff contribute one-day’s pay||Faculty and staff members of the University of Hyderabad (UoH) have contributed their one day’s salary of Rs. 30.74 lakh, while 204 pensioners of the university contributed an additional Rs. 3.59 lakh to the PM CARES Fund. Around 1,050 persons together contributed their one day’s salary while some faculty and staff have contributed more than one day’s salary. Meanwhile, assistant professor of School of Management Studies P. Murugan conducted an online workshop. The total fee of Rs. 50,500 was donated to PM CARES Fund.
08 May 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||CPI(M) urges Centre to release Rs. 35,000 crore||CPI (M) State secretary Tammineni Veerabhadram on Thursday demanded that the Central government immediately release Rs. 35,000 crore under financial package to Telangana State to ensure implementation of concrete relief measures for helping those hit hard by the coronavirus-triggered lockdown. “It is high time the BJP dispensation at the Centre stopped empty rhetoric and extended financial assistance to the State to effectively deal with COVID-19 and its far reaching implications besides mitigating the woes of farmers, daily wagers, migrant workers and others worst affected by the lockdown,” he said. He was speaking at Sundaraiah Bhavan here on Thursday after inaugurating a day-long ‘Deeksha’(protest fast) organised by the party district committee against the alleged indifference of the State and Central governments towards those worst hit by the lockdown. Mr Veerabhadram alleged that Mr Modi has so far confined himself to rhetoric exhorting people to fulfil their responsibilities.
08 May 2020||May 08 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||No trains for these migrants||As word about absence of trains spread, many continued to walk towards their home. Some assembled near the lay-by beyond ORR and began haggling with truck drivers for ride. “They are asking for Rs. 1,500 till Nagpur. We can spare only Rs. 300,” said Farooq Khan, who completed 500 km of his 2,000-km journey towards Ramala in UP from Nandyal in AP. “We are asking for money because we will have to pay people on the way. We know the situation is bad,” said a truck driver who covered the rear part of the vehicle with a tarpaulin to hide people. Farooq, who works in a footwear shop, and his friends struck a deal for Rs. 800 per person to Nagpur.
08 May 2020||New Delhi,||‘Give COVID-19 results in 48 hrs or face action’||The Delhi government has warned action against all COVlD-19 testing labs if they do not give results of samples collected within a maximum of 48 hours. The warning came on a day when the city reported one death and 448 new COVID-19 cases. This is the highest single-day jump so far, said government officials. The total number of deaths stands at 66 while cases at 5,980. Of the total cases, 1,931 people have recovered and there are 3,983 active cases. The order read: “From May 7, 2020, reports of all samples collected must be given within 24 hours and not later than 48 hours, in any case… Non-compliance of the orders will be viewed seriously and action will be taken immediately as per the provisions of the Delhi Epidemic Diseases, COVID-19, regulations, 2020 and other Rules and regulation in this regard.” On Wednesday, Health Minister Satyendar Jain had said “thousands of pending results are coming now”. Mr. Jain on Thursday said they were in talks with other States to send back people, who were connected to a religious gathering in Nizamuddin here in March. He added that these people, who had tested negative for COVID-19, after they completed the quarantine period, were not sent back to their States because of the lockdown till May 3. “Under the current lockdown, stranded people can be shifted. So we are shifting them. We have sent lists of people to other States,” Mr. Jain said, adding: “COVID-19 is going to be here for a long time; it is not going to end in one or two months. We have to learn to live with it.” New containment zones In a related development, four more areas in the city were delisted as “containment zone” by the Delhi government on Thursday.
08 May 2020||New Delhi,||e-token system launched to buy liquor||In a bid to ensure social distancing and to stop overcrowding at liquor shops, the Delhi government on Thursday launched e-token system to buy liquor. People can apply for an e-token through the link https://www.qtoken.in/. A person will have to enter his name and phone number and an e-coupon will be sent to her or his registered mobile number. The person can then go to the nearby shop, show the e-token and buy liquor. The government said that this will help reduce overcrowding and ensure social distancing at liquor shops. “Following the guidelines of the Central government, the Delhi government has given permission to open about 200 shops across the national capital from Monday. However, due to overcrowding and long queues in some areas, only 50 shops could be kept open. In order to curb violations of social distancing norms, crowding and law and order issues during the sale of liquor in the city, the Delhi government has decided to introduce the e-token system,” an official statement said. The link was not working on Thursday evening and the government said that it was due to “heavy rush”. The link will start working soon. the government said.  In order to curb violations of social distancing norms, crowding and law and order issues during the sale of liquor, the Delhi government has decided to introduce the e-token system Government statement
08 May 2020||New Delhi,||Only paid quarantine for IGIA passengers||The Delhi government on Thursday issued a “revised order” on guidelines for handling of passengers arriving at the Delhi airport from abroad. The earlier order issued on Wednesday had given an option of home quarantine or government quarantine facility, which is free, as an option for passengers to undergo the mandatory 14-day quarantine. The revised order only mentions “paid institutional quarantine centres” as an option for the passengers. “The passengers will be quarantined at a paid institutional quarantine cente. Also, as per the new order, passengers from other States will also be quarantined for 14 days by the Delhi government,” a Delhi government official told The Hindu . The earlier order had said that passengers who are not residents of Delhi can be looked after by the Resident Commissioners and nodal officers of their respective States, including “boarding and lodging in Delhi and transportation to their respective states”. Passengers deboarding a flight will be escorted by airline staff to health counters of the Airport Health Organisation (APHO) for initial thermal screening those with symptoms would be isolated and moved to designated hospitals. After screening, the remaining passengers will be allowed to move to the designated immigration counters with passports and a copy of the SRF (Self-Reporting Form). After clearance of immigration, passports of the passengers will be retained by the immigration officials and passengers in batches of 30, will be handed over to an escort team headed by a Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) officer. The passports would be handed over to the team head and not to the passengers. The passengers will then move to the luggage belts to collect the luggage and passengers will proceed further through the customs. The passengers will then move to the designated triage area manned by Delhi government officials. Here, the passports of the entire batch will be handed over to the medical officer-in-charge at the counter. Next, passports will be given to the escort team, who will take them to the designated quarantine centres.
08 May 2020||New Delhi,||Liquor delivery scam surfaces in Capital||The excise department has registered a complaint with the Delhi Police after cybercriminals were found siphoning off money from people after promising home delivery of liquor during lockdown, a senior police officer said on Thursday. A senior excise department officer said that flying squad, keeping a watch on bootlegging and other illegal sale of liquor, got several complaints about cybercriminals cheating people on the pretext of delivering 24X7 liquor at home. “There are fake sites running to fool the public. They approach gullible customers via social media. Online complaint has been submitted to Delhi Police Cyber Cell for necessary action,” said the officer. Decoy customer He added that a team of the excise department had approached one such mobile number as a decoy customer and placed an order but after they transferred the money, the seller neither received calls nor delivered the ordered liquor. The people behind this gang operate from States outside Delhi. They offer doorstep delivery to callers and demand digital payment. However, neither the orders are delivered nor further calls received. In some cases, they demand full or half payment, he said. Alok Kumar, Assistant Commissioner of Police, excise department, said that due to the ongoing lockdown, no sale and supply of liquor is permitted in the National Capital Territory of Delhi. The department has set up teams to check such fraud advertisements. Enquiry by excise department revealed that no liquor was being provided by these mischievous elements and that they are just using this modus operandi to cheat the customers.
08 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Speeding car kills three; police hunt for absconding accused||Three persons, including two 10-year-old boys, were killed when a speeding car ran them over in Outer Delhi’s Mundka area on Wednesday, the police said. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Outer) A. Koan said that one person identified as Udai Raj, a resident of Gitanjali Enclave who runs a factory in Narela, has been arrested and the offending car has been seized. A police officer privy to the probe said that a PCR call was received around 3.30 p.m. regarding the accident of two boys. “When the police reached the spot in Tikri Kalan, they found the two boys, later identified as Abhishek and Nasir, dead at the spot. They were taken to Sanjay Gandhi Hospital,” the officer said. The police were informed that the speeding car first hit the two boys, who were crossing the road, and then hit another 22-year-old man who was walking near the pavement. 2 managed to flee The car came to a halt after hitting the divider. Two occupants of the offending vehicle managed to flee while the third one was caught by the locals and thrashed before being handed over to the police. The man who was hit by the vehicle was taken to a private hospital where he was declared dead. He was identified as Abhishek, the the police said. A case has been registered on charges of rash driving and causing death by negligence and teams are looking for the absconding accused.
08 May 2020||New Delhi,||Provide protection kits to sanitation workers: plea||A petition moved before the Delhi High Court has sought directions to the municipal corporations and the city government to provide masks, protection kits and hazmat suits to its sanitation workers. The petition filed by a union of municipal corporation staff said, “More than 80% sanitation workers are working in Delhi without personal protective gear”. It also claimed that one worker employed with South Delhi Municipal Corporation (SDMC) died due to COVID-19 in April. The High Court is likely to hear the petition on Friday along with another similar petition which was filed previously on the issue. Tests for workers The earlier petition was filed by social activist Harnam Singh who has also sought testing of all sanitation workers and their immediate families for COVID-19. In the petition filed by the All Municipal Corporation Staff Union, it was contended that sanitation workers and ragpickers are at risk of COVID-19 infection from handling unmarked medical waste emerging from homes where infected patients are quarantined and therefore, they need to be provided proper protection gear. The plea said the workers be also instructed on disposal of their masks and gloves and that sanitisation cubicles be put up in each ward for the workers to sanitise themselves before going to their respective homes.
08 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Jaideep- brief||Delhi Congress on Thursday said it had written to the Chief Secretary and offered for rail tickets for all needy and migrant workers, wishing to travel to their hometowns from the city. Delhi Congress chief Ch. Anil Kumar, in his letter, asked the Chief Secretary for details of such migrant workers. “The Delhi Congress has promised to deposit the necessary amount with the government directly as it feels that it is the duty of every Indian to stand by workers and migrant labourers, who are nation-builders and the ambassadors of India’s growth,” it said.
08 May 2020||Noida,||2 hospital staffers molest COVID-19 patient in Gr Noida, arrested||A 20-year-old COVID-19 coronavirus patient was allegedly molested by two staffers at a private hospital in Greater Noida where she was undergoing treatment, with the police said on Thursday, adding that the accused have been arrested. A first information report has been registered at the Knowledge Park police station against the staffers — a sanitation worker and a store worker — on a complaint by the hospital authorities.
08 May 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Define way forward, Punjab CM asks Modi||Asking Prime Minister Narendra Modi to clearly define the way forward for the country’s economic revival and an exit strategy from Lockdown 3.0, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Thursday reiterated his demand for grants to the States for three months to meet the shortfall in revenue and the higher expenditure being incurred on relief and healthcare for COVID-19 containment and management. In a letter to the Prime Minister, the Chief Minister said: “The exit strategy may not only lay down the parameters to contain the COVID-19 within safe limits but should also define the path of economic revival. It should consider and focus on fiscal and economic empowerment of the States.” The Chief Minister also called for a directive from the Centre to the 15th Finance Commission to review its report for the current year, as the situation has completely changed due to COVID-19. He also said that the 15th Finance Commission should recommend devolution of funds for five years, beginning April 1, 2021, instead of 2020, after factoring in the impact of COVID-19. Captain Amarinder urged the Prime Minister to issue necessary directions to various ministries in this regard, in order to enable the States to formulate clear strategies and path, post-Lockdown 3.0 on May 17. The Chief Minister pointed out that this was necessary as COVID-19 and the subsequent lockdowns had led to unprecedented loss of jobs, businesses and economic opportunities, and its true impact was yet to be known. Pointing out that it was very well known that the economy had slowed down and the GDP will not rise, the Chief Minister said Punjab’s revenues had declined by 88% in April 2020.  ‘Poor worst affected’ “The poor have been the worst affected with damage to all aspects of their socio-economic living. The threat of poverty, hunger and health deprivation are far more imminent now. If socio-economic living of the common man is not restored immediately, there could be serious psychological dismemberment of our society,” he said.
08 May 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Former Punjab DGP Sumedh Saini booked||Punjab Police has booked former State Director General of Police Sumedh Singh Saini and six others in connection with a case related to disappearance of a man, following a terrorist attack in Chandigarh in the year 1991. The police said that the case against Mr. Saini, in the matter of disappearance of Balwant Singh Multani, was filed on the basis of a fresh application by the victim’s brother, Palwinder Singh Multani. Based on Palwinder Multani’s complaint, the case was registered under Sections 364 (kidnapping or abduction in order to murder), 201 (causing disappearance of evidence), 344 (wrongful confinement), 330 (voluntarily causing hurt to exhort confession) and 120 (B) (criminal conspiracy) in Mohali on Wednesday.
08 May 2020||GUWAHATI,||BSF clueless about infection source at its camp in Tripura||The source of infection has remained a mystery for the Border Security Force (BSF) after 54 of its personnel and eight members of their families tested COVID-19 positive in a Tripura camp. Tripura Chief Minister Biplab Kumar Deb had on May 2 declared the State as COVID-19-free. But two personnel posted at the BSF’s 138 Battalion in Ambassa tested positive later that day. Ambassa, 82 km north of State capital Agartala, is the headquarters of Dhalai district bordering the Chittagong Hill Tracts of Bangaldesh. “We have through Principal Secretary (Home) B.K. Sahu asked the Inspector-General of BSF Tripura Frontier, Solomon Y.K. Minzh to submit a report with details on the source of the infection,” Ratan Lal Nath, the State’s Education and Law Minister told newspersons. Mr Nath, also the Tripura government spokesperson, said 366 people comprising 80 doctors and health workers and 286 troopers of the paramilitary force have been identified for directly or indirectly coming in contact with the infected BSF men. “We have taken steps to prevent the infection from spreading besides trying to identify the primary and secondary sources of infection of our jawans,” a senior BSF official in Tripura said.
08 May 2020||kolkata,||7 die in Bengal||Seven more deaths were reported in West Bengal due to COVID-19 in the past 24 hours, taking the number of deaths of person infected by the contagious virus to 151.
08 May 2020||LUCKNOW,||U.P. clears ordinance exempting businesses from labour laws||The Uttar Pradesh government has cleared an ordinance exempting businesses and industries from labour laws, except for a handful, for the next three years as a measure to get the State's industrial activities back on track in wake of the COVID-19 crisis. The State Cabinet gave its nod to the ‘Uttar Pradesh Temporary Exemption from Certain Labour Laws Ordinance, 2020’. The provisions would apply to all existing and new businesses and factories, the government said. The extended lockdown against the COVID-19 crisis has “slowed down” industrial and economic activities in UP, bringing production by industrial establishments and factories to a halt, the government said. After giving its nod to the ordinance in a Cabinet meeting on Wednesday, the government said in a statement, “Opportunities for new industrial investments must be created to bring the industrial activities on track.” All factories and manufacturing establishments will be exempt from existing labour laws for three years under the new ordinance, the government said.  No change However, some labour laws would continue to operate, the government said. Labour laws provisions related to women and child will continue to exist. So will The Bonded Labour System (Abolition) Act, 1976, Building and Other Construction Workers Act 1996, Section 5 of Payment of Wages Act, 1936 and Workmen Compensation Act 1923.
08 May 2020||May 08 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Centre should allow States to devise their own economic strategies’||Former Union Finance Secretary Arvind Mayaram , who is now Economic Advisor to the Rajasthan Chief Minister, heads a task force for suggesting appropriate measures on restarting the economy in the State to mitigate the COVID-19 aftermath. In a written interview to The Hindu, Dr. Mayaram says the Centre should not issue detailed guidelines for the entire country. Edited excerpts:   How do you view the lockdown as a strategy to control the COVID-19 pandemic? Will it succeed in “flattening the curve”? Would you also correlate it with demonetisation of currency notes in 2016?  I do not believe there was any other option but to lock down to contain the contagion and flatten the curve. However, it could have been planned better and with better consultation between the Centre and the States. Lockdown with a four-hour notice heaped misery on the people, especially the poor. Lockdown has resulted in close to 65% of the economy grinding to a halt with manufacturing and the services sector severely hit. The economy would take a long while in recovering and in that sense the shock is even more severe than the one inflicted by demonetisation.   The task force headed by you has submitted its report with a comprehensive road map for restarting economic activities in Rajasthan. Has it dealt with the impact of unprecedented decline in the State ’ s revenue collection?   The task force had a limited remit to suggest the manner in which the State’s economy can be restarted. This would require massive efforts by both the Centre and the State and that would require huge resources. Unfortunately, with the economic activities down to zero, tax collections have plummeted. By closure of liquor shops alone, Rajasthan was losing Rs. 30 crore each day. Therefore, the report also recommends certain measures that the Central government should take to shore up State’s resources.  How will the most vulnerable sections of the society be able to get back their livelihood?  The first step has already been taken by the State government by ramping up the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme. Works have started all over the State and the number of persons reporting for work is touching 12 lakh per day. These are returning migrants, landless labourers, small and marginal farmers, artisans and even small shopkeepers. Rajasthan has been the perhaps the first State to ramp up MGNREGA works so quickly. Work at MGNREGA sites puts money in the hands of the poor and it is expected that the consumption cycle would slowly start from the bottom of the pyramid.  The division of districts in red, orange and green categories on the basis of spread of contagion, as recommended by you, has been accepted by the Centre as well. What should be an effective strategy to contain the virus within the hotspots without completely stopping the wheels of the economy?  The need is to intensify testing and isolate contagion in small but tight circles as it erupts. The norms for social distancing, wearing masks, use of sanitisers, etc., has to be strictly enforced. However, economic activities including retail must start, not just for sale of essential items but for things of general use. Supply chains should be aggressively restored, right down to the retail level. For quick start, it is very important to keep the instructions simple and easily understandable. The manner in which guidelines are issued with innumerable addendums and clarifications, even the most adroit administrator would find it difficult to follow. I have consistently said that the Central government should not issue detailed guidelines for the entire country but allow the State governments to devise and implement economic strategy which reflects the State’s reality. Within the State too, the local administration must have enough autonomy to act according to the ground realities within an overall framework. The country would pay a very heavy economic price if we continue to work without an overall comprehensive strategy for restarting the economy or continue with an over-centralised control system.
08 May 2020||Washington,||‘Virus attack worse than Pearl Harbor’||Donald Trump has said the COVID-19 pandemic is a worse “attack” on the U.S. than either Pearl Harbor or 9/11, taking aim once again at China, which he said should have stopped the disease in its tracks. The President has ramped up his rhetoric against Beijing in recent weeks, as the death toll in the U.S. has continued to climb, and as he agitates to re-open the shuttered — and stuttering — economy. While some European and Asian nations have started easing lockdowns, experts have warned that despite the economic pain, social distancing measures remain necessary until a vaccine is developed. Globally, the virus has infected 3.7 million people and killed more than 2,60,000 — a quarter of them in the U.S. “It should have never happened,” Mr. Trump said of the disease that emerged in the Chinese city of Wuhan last year. “Could have been stopped at the source. Could have been stopped in China.” “This is really the worst attack we've ever had,” Mr. Trump told reporters. “This is worse than Pearl Harbor. This is worse than the World Trade Center.” The Japanese assault on the Pearl Harbor naval base in Hawaii drew the United States into Second World War. The September 11, 2001 jihadist attacks on that killed about 3,000 people and triggered two decades of war. ‘Toll set to rise’ So far, more than 73,000 Americans have died of COVID-19, and Tom Frieden, former director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, predicted the U.S. toll could top 1,00,000 by the end of May. “Until we have an effective vaccine, unless something unexpected happens, our viral enemy will be with us for many months or years,” Mr. Frieden told a congressional hearing. The pandemic has hammered healthcare infrastructure in many parts of the United States, including New York City, and its impact has been particularly severe on the least privileged sections of American society, such as undocumented migrants. Many of them are afraid of deportation, as well as the risk of racking up unpayable medical bills and hurting their quest to obtain legal status. As a result, many have contracted and died of COVID-19. “He was very ill but did not want to go to the hospital,” Victoria, a Mexican nanny in New York City, said of her 69-year-old husband who had kidney problems and diabetes. “After two weeks, when he could no longer walk or breathe, my daughter took the risk, loaded him into the car and drove him there. He died three weeks later.” Staggering recession Across the Atlantic in Europe, the worst-hit continent, new coronavirus cases and fatalities have seen a levelling off recently, and many nations have started easing the lockdowns. Despite the good news on the medical front, the economic outlook remained grim as the European Union forecast a historic recession, with a staggering 7.7% contraction this year. Governments are attempting economic revival by slowly lifting restrictions but trying to avoid a devastating second wave of infections. Germany has unveiled plans for a return to near-normality, including sending students back to school this month and shops resuming business, but Spanish lawmakers extended a state of emergency keeping lockdown measures in place for at least two more weeks. In Britain, the nation with the second-highest number of deaths, Prime Minister Boris Johnson said some lockdown measures could be scaled back from next week, though he warned against moving too briskly. “It would be an economic disaster for this country if we were to pursue a relaxation of these measures now in such a way as to trigger a second spike,” said Mr. Johnson.
08 May 2020||Caracas,||Venezuela to try two Americans||Venezuela will try two Americans allegedly captured during a failed raid by mercenaries, President Nicolas Maduro said on Wednesday as the U.S. vowed to “use every tool available” to bring them home. Venezuela announced on Monday that it had arrested the pair on suspicion of trying to topple Mr. Maduro in an operation supported by the U.S.-backed opposition. “They are convicts, confessed, caught red-handed and are being judged by the republic's Attorney-General, by Venezuela's civil courts, and the process will be full of guarantees and fair,” said Mr. Maduro. The leader of the crisis-wracked South American country insisted the Americans, identified as Luke Denman and Airan Berry, were being “well treated, with respect”. Mr. Maduro showed the passports of Mr. Denman and Mr. Berry on state TV. The U.S. military has confirmed they were ex-members of the security forces. In Washington, U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said the government would “use every tool that we have available to try to get them back.” President Donald Trump had denied any involvement by his administration with the mission, and Washington accused Mr. Maduro of launching a “disinformation campaign”. Russia hit out at Mr. Trump and described his denials as “unconvincing.” Venezuela's Attorney-General Tarek William Saab said opposition leader Juan Guaido, who is backed by the U.S. had signed a $212 million contract with “hired mercenaries” using funds seized by the U.S. from the state oil company PDVSA.
08 May 2020||Washington,||Trump vetoes Iran resolution||U.S. President Donald Trump on Wednesday vetoed what he called a “very insulting” congressional resolution seeking to limit his war powers in Iran. In a statement, Mr. Trump said he had used his veto because the resolution — a rare bipartisan rebuke to the President approved in March — was based on “misunderstandings of facts and law.” The measure stemmed from fears among both Mr. Trump’s Republicans and Democrats that the White House was stumbling into war with the Islamic republic. In the statement, Mr. Trump said the Congress misinterpreted his constitutional authority as being limited to “defence of the U.S. and its forces against imminent attack.” “That is incorrect,” he said. “We live in a hostile world of evolving threats, and the Constitution recognises that the President must be able to anticipate our adversaries’ next moves and take swift and decisive action in response. That’s what I did!” The resolution said the U.S. President cannot commit his military to hostilities against Iran or any part of its government or military without explicit authorisation from the Congress. Supporters said they wanted to ensure that Congress had the unique power to declare war, as outlined in the U.S. Constitution. Mr. Trump has preached the need for a drawdown of American military entanglements abroad, but has ramped up a hostile relationship with Iran. Economic sanctions His administration has imposed crippling economic sanctions on Tehran. In January, Mr. Trump ordered a drone strike that killed Iran’s most powerful general, Qassem Soleimani, at the Baghdad airport. The assassination has inflamed tensions between the two countries. Soleimani was widely seen as the architect of destabilizing activities by Iran around the world, but Democrats and many experts condemned the decision to kill him as disproportionate and provocative. Tehran retaliated with a strike against bases used by the U.S. military in Iraq without causing any fatalities, easing fears of a dramatic escalation. The Trump administration claims it has put Iran back in its box. But a recent verbal escalation following an incident between US ships and Iranian speedboats in the Gulf showed that tensions remain high. Democratic Senator Tim Kaine hit out at Mr. Trump for blocking the resolution. “I urge my colleagues to join me in voting to override his veto — Congress must vote before sending our troops into harm’s way,” he tweeted.
08 May 2020||Jerusalem,||Netanyahu secures backing to form new Israeli government||Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu formally received the support of a majority of lawmakers to lead a new government on Thursday, paving the way for a controversial power-sharing deal with rival-turned-partner Benny Gantz. The Likud and Blue and White parties issued a statement saying they had given President Reuven Rivlin the signatures of 72 Parliament members recommending Mr. Netanyahu as Prime Minister. Once approved by the President, Mr. Netanyahu will have two weeks to form a government. Israel’s Parliament, the Knesset, had passed legislation earlier in the day approving a new coalition government framework for Mr. Netanyahu and Mr. Gantz to share the premiership and end a year-long political deadlock. The legislation, which passed easily in a 72-36 vote, comes a day after Israel’s Supreme Court ruled that it would not intervene in the new arrangement or prevent Mr. Netanyahu from leading the government despite a corruption indictment against him. The decision essentially ended the country’s prolonged political stalemate and prevented Israel from being plunged into a fourth consecutive election in just over a year. After battling to three inconclusive elections over the past year and with polls predicting a continued stalemate, Mr. Netanyahu and Mr. Gantz, a former military chief, announced last month they would be joining forces to steer the country through the coronavirus crisis. Critics had challenged the deal in the Supreme Court.
08 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Chinese envoy’s meet with NCP leaders a solidarity call: Gyawali||The recent meetings between the Chinese Ambassador to Nepal and leading political figures of the Nepal Communist Party (NCP) were part of China’s efforts to strengthen Kathmandu’s fight against COVID-19, Minister for Foreign Affairs Pradeep Kumar Gyawali said on Wednesday. Mr. Gyawali conveyed Nepal is in touch with both China and India for dealing with the crisis caused by the pandemic and acknowledged support from both countries to counter the emerging humanitarian challenge. “The meetings between the Chinese Ambassador and leaders of the NCP were part of their message of solidarity to Nepal’s fight against the COVID-19 pandemic. Nepal’s Foreign Ministry usually facilitates such meetings, and it is with the permission of the Foreign Ministry that diplomats of other countries are allowed to meet our leaders,” said Mr. Gyawali. ‘Protocols followed’ He maintained that the protocols were followed when Ambassador Hou Yanqi last week met leaders such as Pushpa Kamal Dahal “Prachanda”, Madhav Nepal and Prime Minister K.P. Sharma Oli. The meetings were interpreted as China’s attempts to repair the internal rifts in the NCP which could have toppled Mr. Oli’s government. The meetings, which also included one between the Chinese envoy and President Bidhya Devi Bhandari, materialised in the backdrop of growing challenge to Mr. Oli from Mr. Prachanda, who had asked him to resign. Unconfirmed reports suggest that following the meetings, Mr. Prachanda agreed not to challenge Mr. Oli. The interactions had drawn criticism as some viewed them to be an interference in the internal affairs of the country. Former Ambassador to India and Nepali Congress leader Deep Kumar Upadhyay said these meetings were beyond the realm of usual protocol . “Nepali people usually disapprove of such meetings as these are not actions covered by official protocol,” said Mr. Upadhyay.
08 May 2020||Beijing,||China slams U.S. for trying to shift the blame||China accused the United States on Thursday of trying to shift blame over the novel coronavirus, after President Donald Trump said the pandemic was a worse “attack” than Pearl Harbor or 9/11. Tension between the world’s two biggest economies has reached fever pitch in recent days as they have exchanged barbed comments on each other’s handling of the virus. “We urge the U.S. side to stop shifting the blame to China and turn to facts,” said Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Hua Chunying. On Wednesday, Mr. Trump drew analogies with the virus, which emerged in the Chinese city of Wuhan last year, and infamous military and terrorist attacks on the U.S. “This is really the worst attack we’ve ever had,” he said.
08 May 2020||ANKARA,||Turkish band member dies during protest||A second member of a left-wing popular folk music group that is banned in Turkey has died of a hunger strike in protest of the government’s crackdown on the band, the group said on Thursday on its Twitter account. Grup Yorum said bass guitarist Ibrahim Gokcek, 41, died in a hospital in Istanbul. He was placed in intensive care after he abandoned his hunger strike two days ago. He had been fasting for 323 days prior to that. The group’s singer, 28-year-old Helin Bolek, lost her life on April 3.
08 May 2020||Sao Paulo,||Bolsonaro’s aide tests positive||Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro’s spokesman has tested positive for the novel coronavirus, the government said on Wednesday, the latest case to hit close to the far-right leader, who rejects social distancing measures. Army General Otavio Rego Barros, 59, one of the administration’s top public figures, has been placed under home quarantine after his test result was confirmed on Tuesday.
08 May 2020||BAGHDAD,||Former Iraqi intelligence chief approved as new premier||Iraq’s former spy chief was sworn in as Prime Minister by lawmakers early on Thursday after weeks of tense political negotiations as the country faces a severe economic crisis spurred by plummeting oil prices and the COVID-19 pandemic. U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo welcomed Mr. al-Kadhimi’s new government.AP
08 May 2020||Washington,||Washington, May 7, 2020 (AFP) -||One hundred thirty-two civilians were killed last year in U.S. global military operations, the Army said on Wednesday, a number far lower than those published by NGOs. The Department of Defense “assesses that there were approximately 132 civilians killed and approximately 91 civilians injured during 2019,” the Pentagon said.
08 May 2020||May 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Conducting elections during a pandemic||As Maharashtra struggled to tackle the COVID-19 pandemic, its people were staring at a unique problem. The deadlock between the Governor of Maharashtra and Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray looked like it would continue for long and cost Mr. Thackeray the post of Chief Minister. But thanks to the intervention of the Prime Minister and the prompt action of the Election Commission of India (EC), the impending constitutional crisis has blown over in Maharashtra. Averting a political crisis Mr. Thackeray, who took oath as Chief Minister on November 28, 2019, has to become a member of the legislature within six months, which ends on May 27. This would not have been a problem for him had the elections, scheduled to be held on March 26, not been postponed indefinitely due to the pandemic, by the EC, which used its powers under Article 324 of the Constitution, along with Section 153 of the Representation of the People Act, 1951. A double application of Article 164 (4) to extend this period for another six months was out of the question as the Supreme Court, in S.R. Chaudhuri v. State of Punjab and Ors (August 17, 2001), had declared that it would be tantamount to a subversion of the principle of representative government. Consequently, the Chief Minister was left to take the nomination route. In pursuance of this, the Cabinet, headed by Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar, submitted a proposal to the Governor to nominate Mr. Thackeray to the Legislative Council. Article 171(3)(e) coupled with Article 171(5) empowers the Governor to nominate an individual with “special knowledge or practical experience”. The Governor, however, put the proposal in limbo for over a fortnight. Given this situation, political analysts speculated whether Mr. Thackeray would knock on the door of the Supreme Court or follow the route Lalu Prasad took in Bihar in 1997 after being forced to resign following conviction in a criminal case. Instead of seeing the end of his political career, he brought his wife Rabri Devi to replace him as Chief Minister. Analysts wondered if Mr. Thackeray would similarly hand over the reins of power to his son, an MLA. However, better sense prevailed and the political leadership managed to avert a major crisis. The Prime Minister’s intervention and the EC’s prompt action averted the political impasse — polls to nine legislative council seats in Maharashtra will now be held on May 21. By deciding to hold elections during a pandemic, the EC has taken up a big responsibility. Though only the 288 members of the Vidhan Sabha will be voting in this election, the EC will have to ensure strict implementation of the Health Ministry’s guidelines. Knowing the EC’s capabilities and years of experience, this will be a cakewalk. South Korea just conducted its national election with 44 million voters in the midst of the pandemic. It is a good source of inspiration for the EC. But a bigger cause for concern for the EC are the upcoming Assembly elections for Bihar (which must be concluded by November 29, 2020), West Bengal (May 30, 2021), Assam (May 31, 2021), Kerala (June 1, 2021), Tamil Nadu (May 24, 2021) and Puducherry (June 8, 2021). Unlike the Rajya Sabha/Legislative Council elections which can be postponed indefinitely, the EC can postpone elections to the Lok Sabha and State Legislative Assemblies for a period of only six months, the constitutionally defined limit between two sessions of the House/Assembly (Article 85(1) and Article 174(1) of the Constitution, respectively). For a further period of extension, the ball is in the executive’s court, which will be faced with two possibilities. The first is proviso to Article 172(1) whereby during a state of Emergency, an election can be postponed for one year in addition to a period of six months after Emergency is lifted. The rider, however, is that a state of Emergency can be declared only if there is a threat to the security and sovereignty of the nation, not if there is an epidemic or a pandemic. The second option is to declare President’s rule in the State, enabled by Article 356(1) of the Constitution. But its limits have been repeatedly defined by the Supreme Court. Lessons from South Korea Some experts say that the COVID-19 pandemic could last for two years. Deferring elections for such a long time would be against the spirit of democracy and federalism, which are the basic components of the Constitution. As a result, holding elections seems to be the only way out. It is noteworthy that India will not be the only country to hold elections during this pandemic. According to the International Institute for Democracy and Electoral Assistance, nine countries have already held national elections and referendums during this public health crisis. Among them is South Korea, which, under strict guidelines, managed to pull off a near-perfect national election recording the highest voter turnout of 66.2% in 28 years. The EC could take into account the measures that South Korea took to prepare a foolproof plan. South Korea disinfected polling centres, and mandated that voters practise physical distancing, wear gloves and masks and use hand sanitiser. Voters had their temperatures checked on arrival at the booths. Those who had a temperature above 99.5 degrees Fahrenheit were sent to booths in secluded areas. The interests of infected voters and the interests of those suspected of having the virus were not ignored: COVID-19-positive voters were allowed to mail their ballots, while self-quarantined voters were allowed to vote after 6 p.m. Unarguably, the population of States like Bihar (9.9 crore) is huge compared to South Korea’s population (5.16 crore). The EC could adopt targeted measures for older voters who are more vulnerable to COVID-19. Options like proxy voting under a well-established legal framework, postal voting, and mobile ballot boxes can be explored. The EC has a difficult task of sticking to its goal of ‘No Voter Left Behind’ while also ensuring that the elections do not turn into a public health nightmare. The COVID-19 pandemic is a big threat to the established world order. It is quickly transforming fragile and vulnerable democracies into autocracies in the name of public safety. How India, a large and well-established democracy, responds to this crisis is the biggest challenge before it. S.Y. Quraishi is former Chief Election Commissioner of India and the author of An Undocumented Wonder —The Making of the Great Indian Election
08 May 2020||May 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Should healthcare be a fundamental right?||India has never spent more than 2% of its GDP on healthcare. And healthcare facilities across the country straddle different levels of efficiency and sufficiency. The impact of COVID-19 has shaken even States like Kerala and Tamil Nadu that traditionally did well in the area of healthcare. In a discussion moderated by Ramya Kannan , public health experts Abhay Shukla and T. Sundararaman discuss whether healthcare for all can be a fundamental right. Edited excerpts:  The COVID-19 epidemic has been unprecedented in its impact on society. While we can argue that no country in the world can actually be fully prepared to handle an emergency, do you think the time is ripe to push the agenda of healthcare as a fundamental right for all citizens ? Abhay Shukla (AS):I would say that one of the most positive impacts of this otherwise very damaging epidemic has been that it has opened the eyes of people to the importance of universal and robust public health services and the need for everybody to be covered by quality healthcare, or for health services to be accessible to everyone. And this epidemic, because it has been concentrated in large cities and has also affected the middle class, has become a matter of high priority. So, this is a ripe time to actually take forward the agenda of right to healthcare and because the right to healthcare, if it is to be real, it always has to be universal. In that sense, right to healthcare is very much on the agenda and I think we all need to push for that. T. Sundararaman (TS):Yeah, so, in some sense, this notion of right as different from a commodity that can be purchased on the market must be made. In classical economic terms, this is a public good, it is a good with a very high degree of externality. So perhaps you can get away politically by not providing healthcare for a lot of our population. Or if you believe the theory that it is enough to provide them a minimalist healthcare, the rest is left to the markets. But here, you actually have paid a huge price for doing so. Everybody has, but the poor have paid the most. Because, at some point, there is a huge amount of the cost of this whole pandemic, total lack of preparedness for it and that it can strike everybody. And it doesn’t affect only health, but all sectors of the economy. The idea was that if we give immunisation and some antenatal care, that’s enough, but that’s not the case. We need very good disease surveillance, we need an integrated primary care system that can deliver in the field. We need tertiary care with the most sophisticated of ventilators. And we need surge capacity, meaning we need an excess redundant capacity that can take care of any health emergency that happens. During the pandemic, there has been a great deal of imagination in dispensing healthcare and stretching the limits to cover as many people as possible, more than before. Does this give you hope that India can deliver quality healthcare for all? And what range would be sufficient as a percentage of GDP? AS:So, if we see the situation today across the country, despite the fact that public health services [have been] historically understaffed, under-resourced, [and don’t have] sufficient number of doctors and other resources, they have really stretched themselves to meet the challenge of the COVID-19 epidemic. And I would say reasonably creditably. And in States such as Kerala of course, public health services have done a remarkable job of containing the spread of the epidemic, especially through their primary healthcare activities. So, what we are seeing is that until now in the public imagination, at least the middle-class imagination, the model of healthcare has been [of] large private hospitals. And generally, public health services, especially primary healthcare, have been kind of invisible and mostly neglected. But now, we are seeing with the COVID-19 epidemic a completely different kind of situation coming forth. And, the public imagination is also beginning to change. So, this is leading to, or it can lead to, a change in people’s perception and it can lead to a rejuvenation of public health services, because political will flows from the public. And, if the public takes a greater interest, then obviously, governments also have to respond. If this trend continues even after the epidemic has died down, then there’s no reason why we cannot achieve access to quality healthcare for everyone in the coming 5-10 years in most States across the country. And, as for a budget, around 3-4% of the GDP for public healthcare, and publicly organised healthcare, would be a good starting point for putting in place at least a basic kind of universal healthcare (UHC) system. TS:So, I think the pandemic is still, in India, in an early stage, and it will play out. I am concerned about the way our country handled the economic crisis. In the West, for example, lockdown means a huge burden on the state because you have complete social security commitments, unemployment benefits to give, but over here, there is a lot of relief being distributed, but it is just not the same. On the other hand, much of the burden is shifted to the poor. Similarly, in healthcare, there are States whose main approach has been to repurpose existing hospitals providing comprehensive, tertiary, secondary healthcare for COVID-19. And the patients that are therefore pushed out because of this, have to either seek care in the unaffordable private sector. And, I don’t think our democracy has yet reached that stage of maturity or robustness where we are able to say “Oh, you need to build new hospitals, you need to create extra beds,” like China, or Spain did. You just can’t use the public system as residual care. But in India, we need to be much more articulate about human rights and the fundamental issue, or else this burden will get unfairly pushed on to people. The Rs. 15,000 crore allotment for the health sector that was sanctioned, along with the first lockdown, is a welcome step. My only point is that much more was needed in the routine annual budget of this year, and over the past four years. And I am worried that, as July approaches, it might slowly spread into the hinterland. This is the way the Spanish Flu started in India. It started as an all-Bombay problem from the ships. It was in Bombay for a long time, then spread slowly through the country, and then you had all places affected. I hope that at some point the government does get into strengthening the public services because the private institutes are not even offering care, many of them are preferring to stay shut till the worst of the pandemic is over. Both of you seem to have experience with drafting universal healthcare policies. Professor Sundaram and Dr. Shukla, I believe you worked on the draft proposal of healthcare for all for the government. And Dr. Shukla, you’ve done some work on this in Maharashtra. Can you elaborate on what constitutes a universal healthcare policy?  TS:I think there are three big issues that in our last effort held us back. And I think we need to have a closure on all these three issues before we can actually go ahead. On the first, I think it is an easy one, that the right to health and the right to healthcare are different things. The right to healthcare is enforceable in a certain way, but in this context, the right to healthcare is something that should be done immediately. In doing so, there is one fundamental issue. Healthcare is a State subject. Should we make it a Central subject, because then the Central money will flow? But even the response to this pandemic shows that actually that doesn’t work. Well, for many of these decisions the States have to take, they need a high degree of cooperation. So, whereas the Centre and the States must have an agreement on the funding, a lot of it will need to remain a State subject. Definitely, one of the problems is inherently constitutional — but it should not lead to over-centralisation. And the third issue is of course, the most fundamental one. You have to put your money where your mouth is, you have to actually get the resources that are required for it and that requires a transfer of resources. Again, a transfer of resources without populist shaming or saying that you are giving subsidies. We have to recognise that if you want a metric of equal health quality, you need to invest more on the healthcare of the poor and the middle class, the upper class, the ruling privileged persons will have to pay a price. AS:About the issue of universal healthcare, we need a system for universal healthcare, which is a complement to the right to healthcare kind of scenario. A group of public health experts and health activists in Maharashtra has over the last three years, developed a framework that... could be achieved in the next five years, and in a very realistic kind of scenario. So, this is not a pipe dream, it is something which is possible provided that there is political will for it. But to develop this kind of a system, there are a few constraints which we need to overcome. Right now, we have a fragmented health system. We have one health system for the poor, another for the middle class and another for the rich and the super rich. What we need to do is to move from this fractured system towards a single healthcare system for everyone. So, even after the epidemic has receded, the idea that the government can regulate private hospitals, harness them in public interest will remain, and I think that opportunity, which is being opened up in the period of the COVID-19, should not be lost. It has to continue till we reach a system of universal healthcare, which involves regulated private providers. Prof. Sundararaman, can you weigh in on the private healthcare angle? Clearly, the private healthcare sector, which was all powerful, has sort of stepped back to play a supportive role in COVID-19. Does this mean the role of the private healthcare sector in India may actually change in future? TS:Even the Prime Minister’s health insurance scheme [allowing people to access insurance cover for treatment in private hospitals] has been such a failure today. It is only the high-charging patients without insurance cover that are using the private sector. Today, it is the public system, with all its problems, that has risen to the occasion. So, in this sense, even the ‘worst public health States’ have stood by the people. But it doesn’t mean that the private sector has no role. We need for the private sector, a much clearer regulatory regime and ways of contracting that are useful and it is most important that they supplement, not substitute, the strengths of the state.  In the public imagination, at least the middle-class imagination, the model of healthcare has been one of large private hospitals Abhay Shukla Public health expert
08 May 2020||May 08 2020 00:00 IST,||India needs to enact a COVID-19 law||The nationwide lockdown has been central to the government’s strategy to combat the COVID-19 pandemic. With businesses closed, supply chains disrupted, timelines extended and contracts terminated, this exercise has caused the organised sector unprecedented economic losses. In the unorganised sector, there has been a complete breakdown with little or no legal recourse for those who are affected. While the lockdown has helped contain community spread of the disease, a legal and legislative audit of this exercise has evaded scrutiny so far. As we are now in the seventh week of the lockdown, it is imperative and timely that we assess its underlying legislative soundness. Laws governing lockdown The lockdown has been carried out by State governments and district authorities on the directions of the Union Ministry of Home Affairs under the Disaster Management Act of 2005, which was intended “to provide for the effective management of disasters and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto”. Under the Act, the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) was set up under the leadership of the Prime Minister, and the National Executive Committee (NEC) was chaired by the Home Secretary. On March 24, 2020, the NDMA and NEC issued orders directing the Union Ministries, State governments and authorities to take effective measures to prevent the spread of COVID-19, and laid out guidelines illustrating which establishments would be closed and which services suspended during the lockdown period. Taking a cue from the guidelines, the State governments and authorities exercised powers under the Epidemic Diseases Act of 1897 to issue further directions. For instance, the Health and Family Welfare Department of Tamil Nadu issued a government order on March 23, 2020, to impose social distancing and isolation measures which directed “suspected cases and foreign returnees” to remain “under strict home quarantine” and people “to stay at home and come out only for accessing basic and essential services and strictly follow social distancing norms”. Subsequently, on March 25, the earlier order was extended for a period of 21 days, in accordance with the directions of the NEC. District authorities such as the Commissioner of Police, Greater Chennai, have consequently issued orders to impose Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code in public places. Cumulatively, these orders constitute the legislative umbrella governing the lockdown that has been in place since March 24. The invoking of the Disaster Management Act has allowed the Union government to communicate seamlessly with the States. However, serious questions remain whether the Act was originally intended to or is sufficiently capable of addressing the threat of a pandemic. Also, the use of the archaic Epidemic Diseases Act reveals the lack of requisite diligence and responsiveness of government authorities in providing novel and innovative policy solutions to address a 21st century problem. Another serious failing is that any violation of the orders passed would be prosecutable under Section 188 of Indian Penal Code, a very ineffective and broad provision dealing with disobedience of an order issued by a public servant. In contrast, the U.K. enacted the Coronavirus Act, 2020, which is a comprehensive legislation dealing with all issues connected with COVID-19 including emergency registration of healthcare professionals, temporary closure of educational institutions, audio-visual facilities for criminal proceedings, powers to restrict gatherings, and financial assistance to industry. Similarly, Singapore has passed the Infectious Diseases Regulations, 2020, which provides for issuance of stay orders which can send ‘at-risk individuals’ to a government-specified accommodation facility. Both the U.K.’s and Singapore’s laws set out unambiguous conditions and legally binding obligations. As such, under Singaporean law, the violators may be penalised up to $10,000 or face six months imprisonment or both. In contrast, Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code has a fine amount of Rs. 200 to Rs. 1,000 or imprisonment of one to six months. Even then, proceedings under Section 188 can only be initiated by private complaint and not through a First Information Report. As such, offences arising out of these guidelines and orders have a weak basis in terms of criminal jurisdiction thereby weakening the objectives of the lockdown. Union-State co-ordination In India, both Houses of Parliament functioned till March 23, 2020, when they were adjourned sine die . There were a number of interventions regarding COVID-19 by Opposition members through the session. However, the Union government showed no inclination towards drafting or enacting a COVID-19-specific legislation that could address all the issues pre-emptively. In fact, there has been little clarity on a road map to economic recovery after the announcement by the Union Finance Minister last month. Worryingly, a consolidated, pro-active policy approach is absent. In fact, there has been ad hoc and reactive rule-making, as seen in the way migrant workers have been treated. The flip-flop of orders regarding inter-State movement has left the fate of hundreds of thousands of migrant workers to be handled by district administrations with inadequate resources. This has also exposed the lack of co-ordination between the Union and State governments. In past instances, the Union government has not shied away from promulgating ordinances. These circumstances call out for legislative leadership, to assist and empower States to overcome COVID-19 and to revive their economic, education and public health sectors. Manuraj Shunmugasundaram is an Advocate at the Madras High Court, and Spokesperson, DMK
08 May 2020||May 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Water wisdom during a pandemic||World Water Day was observed more online than in-person this year on March 22, given the guidelines notified by the WHO in the light of the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, yet its broader aim remained constant: to raise awareness on the importance of freshwater and advocate for its sustainable management. More than any previous year, there was a recognition of the importance of water in handwashing and personal hygiene practices, an action that is as important as social distancing and nationwide lockdowns in breaking the circuit of coronavirus transmission. The choice of theme for the event this year, “Water and Climate Change” reflected the desire of policymakers to address the impact of climate change on the water sector. Water is the primary medium through which climate change impacts trickle down to the community and individual levels, primarily through reduced predictability of water availability. More broadly, climate change and water are inextricably linked. Growing populations and their demand for water increases the need for energy-intensive water pumping, transportation, and treatment. It contributes to the degradation of critical water-dependent carbon sinks such as peatlands. Due to climate change, water cycles experience significant change, which reflects in water availability and quality. A warmer climate causes more water to evaporate from both land and oceans; in turn, a warmer atmosphere can hold more water, roughly 4% more water for every 1ºF rise in temperature. Extreme weather events These changes are expected to lead to negative consequences in the water sector, with increased precipitation and run-off (flooding) in certain areas and less precipitation and longer and more severe scarcity of water (droughts) in other areas. Hence, wet areas are expected to become wetter and dry areas drier. This influences almost all aspects of the economy including drinking water, sanitation, health, food production, energy generation, industrial manufacturing, and environmental sustainability and ultimately the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). In coastal areas when more freshwater is removed from rivers and aquifers, saltwater will move farther upstream into the river mouth and the aquifer, which will put pressure on the limited freshwater available on the coast, forcing water managers to seek costly alternatives like desalination plants. Water is a common pool natural resource that sustains ecosystems, biodiversity, food security, economies, and society; hence, its judicious use with balancing multiple water needs is significant. In developing countries like India, a large population depends on climate-sensitive sectors like agriculture, fisheries and forestry for its livelihoods. We cannot afford to let climate change-induced hydrological challenges overtake us. Mitigation strategies India has come up with climate change adaptation and mitigation strategies and appropriate policy measures. The government is implementing the ‘National Action Plan on Climate Change’ through eight National Missions, including the Water Mission. However, effective policies need the support of the local governments, corporates and NGOs. Water resources planning must be given due consideration while dealing with climate impacts. As tanks and ponds can store and recharge the excess rainwater to the aquifer, their rejuvenation (desilting) facilitates flood and drought management. We need to revisit our rich tradition and culture of water wisdom in water resources management. More public awareness on the need for climate-resilient actions, including protecting carbon sinks like oceans, wetlands, peatlands, and mangroves, adopting climate-smart agricultural techniques, rainwater harvesting, waste-water reuse, and judicious use of water, should be generated and inculcated in each citizen.  Prakash Nelliyat is a Chennai-based researcher
08 May 2020||May 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Toxic disaster||The disastrous leak of a toxic chemical that has killed several people and left hundreds sick near Visakhapatnam in Andhra Pradesh comes as a shock to a nation struggling to cope with a prolonged lockdown. Residents of habitations around Gopalapatnam, close to the site where the LG Polymers plant is located, passed out as the hazardous styrene vapour swept through the area at night. Several deaths took place as people tried to flee, and the chemical rendered them unconscious. There are horrific stories of people falling from buildings, or into wells and ditches as they lost consciousness. They have become the first victims of the exit from the lockdown, when industrial units were allowed to resume their operations. Styrene, the chemical involved in the disaster-struck plant that produces polystyrene products, is included in the schedule of the Manufacture, Storage and Import of Hazardous Chemical Rules, 1989. The rules lay down strict norms on how it should be handled and stored. Although it will take an inquiry to establish what caused the incident, the company and the State government knew that the chemical was hazardous, characterised by poor stability under a variety of conditions that could even lead to explosive situations. It is also reasonable to assume that the safety mechanism built into the storage structures of something so hazardous was either faulty or allowed to be overridden. Was the reopening work at the factory left to unskilled people, as some city officials have said? These aspects must be probed in the inquiry to fix accountability. The Andhra Pradesh government must focus immediately on the medical needs of those who have been grievously affected by the gas leak, which has inevitably led to comparisons with the 1984 Bhopal gas disaster. As a harmful chemical, styrene could have chronic effects beyond the immediate symptoms. International safety literature cites it as a substance that may cause cancer; there is thus no safe limit for exposure to it. Solatium payments and compensation for the victims and families are important, but so is access to the highest quality of health care for the victims. What happened in Gopalapatnam is also a warning for industries across India. Although some may see the incident as a consequence of the lockdown, the States have the authority under the Central government’s orders to exempt process industries. It needs no special emphasis that safety of industrial chemicals requires continuous watch, with no scope for waivers. As India aims for a wider manufacturing base, it needs to strengthen its approach to public and occupational safety. Transparent oversight is not a hurdle to industrial growth. It advances sustainable development by eliminating terrible mistakes.
08 May 2020||May 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Slow, but steady||With 52,469 confirmed cases and 1,771 fatalities as on May 6, 2020, India entered the list of the top 15 countries with the highest number of people infected by the novel coronavirus. The infection count in India accounted for only 1.41% of the overall COVID-19 cases the world over, but this proportion has increased from 0.13% (536 cases) on March 24, the day when lockdown measures were announced, to 0.58% (11,487 cases) when the lockdown was extended to what it is currently. The number of infections continues to surge in the U.S., where as on May 6 there were more than 1.2 million cases, nearly a third (32.7%) of the world’s total. While severely affected countries such as Italy, Spain, the U.K., France, Germany, Turkey and Iran finally seem to be experiencing a relative slowdown in the growth of new cases, emerging economies such as Brazil and Russia have shown no flattening of the curve as cases continue to exponentially increase in these countries. This is indicated by the doubling time for cases in the last week: 11 and nine days, respectively, for these two countries. Brazil has also registered 7,921 deaths due to the virus, much higher than in India (1,771) and Russia (1,451). But worryingly for India, cases have continued to double every 10 days, and the surge experienced in the last week has put it in the same bracket as Brazil and Russia in terms of the upward trend in cases and fatalities. The fact that despite two extensions to one of the most stringent lockdowns in the world, India has not managed to flatten the curve suggests that the lockdown might have been necessary but it is not sufficient. The common theme among countries that have substantially arrested the spread of the virus has been early contact tracing and testing during the outbreak. Some countries such as South Korea have managed to flatten the curve simply by community testing and surveillance. It was always going to be difficult to test at such high rates in India, but even within the limited testing protocols, a closely monitored testing and surveillance strategy has paid dividends for States such as Kerala. Other States that have registered a sudden increase in COVID-19 cases, such as Tamil Nadu, Punjab and Haryana, must continue to ramp up testing and isolation of positive cases for the lockdown strategy to work. Fortunately, these States have had only a few fatalities unlike Maharashtra, Gujarat (which have tested more samples per day than the national average) and West Bengal and Madhya Pradesh (which continue to test at a rate lower than the national average). The country cannot afford to lock down its activities indefinitely. Ramping up testing and public health infrastructure, besides protecting the vulnerable, remains the best way for India.
08 May 2020||May 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Will this headline make you read the story?||In 2015, The Independent sported a front-page headline, “Somebody’s Child”, with a picture of a child washed onto a beach. The headline transcended details. It had nothing to indicate what the story was about, yet told a poignant story of young Aylan Kurdi, who had drowned when trying to reach Greece from Turkey. The corresponding headline on the paper’s website spelt it out: “If these extraordinarily powerful images of a dead Syrian child washed up on a beach don’t change Europe’s attitude to refugees, what will?” Why the stark difference in headline writing? For those of us who work in digital journalism, there are many aspects of print headline writing that we have had to forget. Our conversations in the digital newsroom everyday invariably revolve around the search engine optimisation (SEO) title and headline of a story. This means that we must (re) write headlines with words that people are likely to search for. In a print story we can get away with a headline like ‘The road less travelled’. However, in an online story, the only thing that a reader sees is the headline. Because the news is coming to you on your personal device, which is often the size of your palm, space constraints ensure that you see only the headline. Another way in which you find news is by going to a search engine and keying in a few words. If the article’s headline has been written well, you are bound to find it in the search results. There are of course other elements that ensure a good SEO: clear and concise introductory text, keywords at the beginning and throughout the story, and metadata such as keywords and tags that help categorise content, but the headline is key. It needs to be factual, informative and engaging, in order to draw the reader’s attention. At The Hindu , we started adapting the headlines of the stories published in the paper to deal with this issue. A recent editorial titled ‘Casting out stigma’ could, by itself, refer to any number of issues. Online it has been retitled ‘Casting out stigma: On appalling images at quarantine centre,’ which makes for better SEO value. Key questions to ask With the consumption of news becoming more personal and algorithm-led, our job as editors and writers is to get the news to where people are. While the story continues to be the focus, we present the news in different forms, such as videos and data stories, serving multiple audiences. Some questions we ask ourselves in the newsroom are: Does the headline make the reader curious to read more? Does it trigger emotion in the reader while stating facts? Is it factual without being sensational? Does it hold back just enough information to entice the reader to click and open the story? If some of these elements are included, I believe we have the best of both the print and digital worlds. Technology and the evolving nature of the medium too is on our side: we have display headlines for people visiting the site, while retaining the article headline for search engines. We often combine both print and digital headlines. Headline testing with active readers helps us decide how to rewrite headlines on the go. On social media sites, we rewrite the headlines and posts creatively to entice the reader, while ensuring the headline remains SEO-friendly.
08 May 2020||May 08 2020 00:00 IST,||A Press Meet without Questions||Intentionally or otherwise the Japanese press to-day [May 7] snubbed Foreign Trade Minister, Mr. B. R. Bhagat by asking him practically no questions at an hourlong press conference which had been arranged for him under the auspices of the National Press Club. Whatever the intentions, the attitude of the reporters reflects an utter lack of interest on the part of Japanese press in Mr. Bhagat’s current visit here [Tokyo]. The press conference was attended by over 20 reporters representing major Japanese newspapers and news agencies. After Mr. Bhagat had made his opening remarks, the floor was thrown open to questions, but for an embarrassingly long time no one came up with one. To save the situation the presiding officer, Mr. Susumu Ejiri, Secretary-General of Japan Newspapers Publishers and Editors Association, started the ball rolling with a question on India’s economic situation. But after Mr. Bhagat had answered it, the ball failed to keep rolling and there ensued another embarrassingly long silence. An Indian correspondent came to the rescue with a question. Then silence again, with the Minister’s party desperately looking in all directions to see if anybody would shoot a question. At last, the reporter for Japan Broadcasting Corporation came up with a question. However, till the end,the press conference dragged on in this fashion. In one hour, there were only five questions of which only two came from Japanese press.
08 May 2020||New Delhi,||Volatile markets hit equity MF inflows||Investors pumped in Rs. 81,600 crore in equity-oriented mutual fund (MF) schemes in 2019-20, registering a decline of 27% from Rs. 1.12 lakh crore inflow in the preceding fiscal. However, this was the sixth successive year of net inflows in equity mutual funds, according to data by the Association of Mutual Funds in India (AMFI). Break from investment The flows into equity funds in the last fiscal were lower than the flows in 2018-19 primarily due to the equity markets displaying volatility, which made some investors take a break from making fresh equity investments. According to the data, net inflows into equity funds, which also include equity-linked saving schemes (ELSS), were Rs. 81,600 crore in the last fiscal. as against Rs. 1,11,858 crore in 2018-19. Net inflows in these funds were Rs. 1,71,069 crore in 2017-18, Rs. 70,367 crore in 2016-17, Rs. 74,024 crore in 2015-16, and Rs. 71,029 crore in 2014-15. However, they had witnessed a net outflow of Rs. 9,269 crore in 2013-14. Of the total inflow in the latest fiscal, investors poured Rs. 11,485 crore in March, which was the highest level in the year. Also, they had invested Rs. 10,730 crore in February, the highest level in 11 months. This comes even as the broader market witnessed extreme volatility amid concerns over the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. Himanshu Srivastava, senior analyst-manager research at Morningstar India, said extreme volatility in the stock markets on the back of the pandemic did not deter investors from investing into equity funds in February and March. The assets under management (AUM) of equity MFs dropped to Rs. 6.03 lakh crore at the end of March 2020 as against Rs. 7.73 lakh crore in March 2019. However, SIP (systematic investment plan) contribution to the industry surged to over Rs. 1 lakh crore from Rs. 92,693 crore in 2018-19. The industry, on an average, added 9.95 lakh SIP accounts each month during the last financial year, with an average ticket size of Rs. 2,750. Mutual funds are investment vehicles made up of a pool of funds collected from a number of investors. The funds are invested in stocks, bonds and money market instruments, among others.  However, SIP contribution to MF industry surged to over Rs. 1 lakh cr. from Rs. 92,693 cr. in 2018-19
08 May 2020||Mumbai,||Yes Bank posts Rs. 2,629 crore Q4 profit on bond write down||Private sector lender Yes Bank reported a net profit of Rs. 2,629 crore for the quarter ended March 31,2020 compared with the Rs. 1,507-crore loss recorded in the year-earlier period. The profit came from an extraordinary gain of Rs. 6,297 crore (net of tax) following the write-down of additional tier-1 bonds of Rs. 8,415 crore. Excluding the extraordinary gain, the bank posted a loss of Rs. 3,668 crore loss for the quarter ended March 31. Provisions for the quarter stood at Rs. 4,872.34 crore compared with Rs. 3,661.70 crore. Provision for investments surged to Rs. 3,336 crore (Rs. 243 crore), including Rs. 1,228 crore provisioning towards exposure to a housing finance company, which is now 100% provided for, the bank said. Another Rs. 2,012 crore provision was towards exposure to various entities of a ‘diversified conglomerate.’ COVID-19-related standard asset provision was Rs. 238 crore. Gross non-performing assets as a percentage of total advances was 16.8% as on March 31 compared with the 3.22% a year ago. Net interest income fell 49% year-on-year to Rs. 1,274 crore.  The bank’s deposit base saw a sharp reduction from Rs. 2,09,497 crore as on September 30, 2019 to Rs. 1,02,717 crore as on May 2, 2020.  The capital adequacy ratio of the bank continued to fall below the minimum regulatory requirement though it improved on a sequential basis due to capital infusion by new shareholders.
08 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||HCL Tech Q4 profit up 24%, revenue 16%||HCL Technologies, which on Thursday posted an increase of 24% in net profit for the January-March quarter to Rs. 3,172 crore, said that challenges such as slower decision making and deferral of discretionary spends due to COVID-19 outbreak will impact the company in the short term. However, in the medium to long-term scenario, the future for technology companies looks “quite bright.” The IT firm reported a 16.2% growth in revenue from operations to Rs. 18,587 crore in the quarter under review. Similar to its counterparts Wipro and Infosys, the company did not give any revenue guidance for 2020-21. “...Because we identified the risk presented by COVID-19 much early... the impact due to the pandemic was relatively small in the last quarter. In Q4, we posted a strong constant currency growth of 0.8% sequentially, largely fuelled by our Mode-2 offerings, which is digital, cloud, cyber security and internet of things. Our Mode-2 services grew 7.1% quarter-on-quarter, which has been an amazing performance,” said C. Vijayakumar, president and CEO, HCL Technologies. Mr. Vijayakumar said that the company sees “some clear impact to our growth story” in the short term as it helps its clients deal with this downturn. However, the company, he said, was not in a position to quantify it at this time. “I do think the future looks quite bright, medium and long-term prospects of a technology business like us with a very balanced portfolio is going to help us grow and emerge stronger in the medium and long term,” he said. Cost control He added that there were many initiatives that the company was taking from a cost-control perspective, including reduction in travel, marketing and third party spend. “... So, while we are doing all this, we’re absolutely committed to keep our employee morale high. There will be no COVID-related redundancies,” he added. HCL Technologies’ headcount stood at 1,50,423 at the end of FY20. The company, however, has frozen hiring in general but will honour the offers rolled out to 15,000 freshers.
08 May 2020||MUMBAI,||High taxation makes petrol, diesel expensive||With the Centre increasing excise duty and road cess on petrol and diesel by Rs. 10 and Rs. 13 a litre respectively, and States also, in their turn, hiking sales tax to cover their dwindling coffers, retail prices of petrol and diesel are now three times their basic refining cost. A litre of petrol would have cost Rs. 21.84 and diesel Rs. 21.30, including freight cost and dealer commission but excluding excise duty and VAT due to falling prices of crude oil prices globally. A litre of petrol now has Rs. 32.98 of excise duty and Rs. 16.44 as VAT inbuilt in the retail prices. Similarly, a litre of diesel has Rs. 31.83 as excise duty and Rs. 16.26 as VAT inbuilt in the retail prices. Consumers will be denied the benefit of falling crude oil prices as the government has appropriated the same. Retail prices will remain the same and will not fall, as they would have, if the government had not increased duties. For the oil companies, it is a notional loss of margins as they have now been forced to completely pass on the benefit of lower prices to the government. “A higher marketing margins would have helped OMCs offset some of the losses due to lower fuel demand, weakness in refining margins and inventory loss,” Paras Bothra, president equities, Ashika Stock Broking told The Hindu.
08 May 2020||MUMBAI,||PFC has $6.8 bn NPAs in thermal loan book||Is India’s Power Finance Corporation (PFC) funding white elephants? Yes, if the Institute for Energy Economics and Financial Analysis (IEEFA) report is to be believed. The PFC had given Rs. 3,43,746 crore ($49billion), or 54% of the total loans, to the thermal power sector, accumulating non-performing assets (NPA) of almost Rs. 47,454 crore ($6.8 billion) as of December 2020. “PFC and Rural Electric Corporation Ltd. (REC), the big State-owned institutions charged with financing a large part of India’s growing need for electricity generation, may instead be funding a herd of white elephants — obsolete and economically unviable, coal-fired power plants that could soon become stranded assets,” said the report from the IEEFA. PFC’s total asset book was approaching $100bn as of last December. “IEEFA views the extent of the stranded asset risk significantly higher as India’s thermal power generation sector continues to trouble the country’s banks, accounting for $40-60 billion in stranded assets. And, with India’s thermal power generation sector under severe stress from carrying those $40-60 billion of NPAs, financing from private banking institutions to the sector has dried up,” said Kashish Shah, energy finance analyst at IEEFA. “Given the poor market share and the speed of the global energy transition, we recommend that PFC lend more to support renewable capacity growth,” he said.
08 May 2020||MUMBAI,||Aviation may face up to Rs. 25,000 cr. loss: CRISIL||The aviation industry will be one of the most adversely affected sectors of the economy this year, with a revenue loss of Rs. 24,000–25,000 crore this fiscal, CRISIL said. Even though the roads and highways sector would be impacted to a large extent, its rebound will be faster, the ratings agency said in a report. Jagannarayan Padmanabhan, Director and Practice Leader, Transport & Logistics, CRISIL Infrastructure Advisory, said the airlines would be the worst-affected, contributing more than 70% of the losses, or Rs. 17,000 crore, followed by airport operators with Rs. 5,000-5,500 crore, and airport retailers (including retail, food and beverages and duty-free) with Rs. 1,700-1,800 crore. “This would reverse the trend growth of 11% per annum the industry has logged over the past 10 years, making it one of the most adversely affected sectors of the economy,” he added. “We expect the aviation sector to take at least 6-8 quarters to reach pre-pandemic levels. These are preliminary estimates, and aggregate losses could increase if the lockdown is extended beyond the first quarter,” he added.
08 May 2020||Mumbai,||RBL Bank Q4 net plunges 54% on higher provisions||Private sector lender RBL Bank reported a 54% decline in net profit to Rs. 114 crore for the quarter ended March 31, due to higher provisions. The net interest income for the bank went up 38% year-on-year to Rs. 1,021 crore, while non-interest income grew 22% to Rs. 501 crore. Core fee income was up 21% to Rs. 470 crore. Net interest margin for Q4FY20 was 4.93% as compared to 4.6% in the previous quarter and 4.2% in the fourth quarter of FY19. The bank has made a provision of Rs. 614 crore during the quarter as compared to Rs. 198 crore during the same period of the previous year. “There was Rs. 115 crore additional provision with regard to COVID-19,” Vishwavir Ahuja, MD & CEO, RBL Bank, said. He said the bank had provided full 10% on the standstill accounts in the fourth quarter as against 5% each in two quarters which was allowed by the regulator. One third of the bank’s book was under the loan moratorium. Mr. Ahuja said the loan moratorium was extended to all the 3 million customers of the micro-banking segment, which is 13% of the bank’s total advances. In credit cards, which form 18% of the bank’s total advances, only 24% of the amount was under moratorium.
08 May 2020||May 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Daimler, BMW, others resume operations||Daimler India Commercial Vehicles (DICV), Tube Investments of India Ltd. (TIIL) and BMW were among the companies that resumed operations on Thursday. DICV was able to restart operations at Oragadam plant in less than 24 hours after receiving permission from the local authorities, the company said. TIIL said it resumed operations in a partial man ner in about two-thirds of the plant locations. Isuzu Motors India received approval from the authorities to recommence production at its Sri City plant. BMW also resumed operations at its Chennai plant on Thursday.
08 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Unable to pay April salaries, in full: CAIT||The Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) on Thursday wrote to Commerce and Industry Minister Piyush Goyal, expressing inability to pay full salaries for April to their employees amid pressure from trade unions. The letter, dated May 7, stated that “under the circumstances it is becoming more difficult...to pay full salary for April...since the traders are undergoing a tremendous financial crunch and full payment of salary for the April month is next to impossible.” Asking the minister to look into the “ground realities”, the CAIT sought government intervention in the issue.
08 May 2020||COIMBATORE,||‘Emerging stronger a priority’||The Badminton World Federation (BWF) faces its biggest test, as it deals with the consequences of COVID-19. However, it firmly believes it will survive this storm. BWF secretary general Thomas Lund spoke to The Hindu about it. Excerpts: It was the year of the Olympics – but not anymore. How challenging has it been? Our main priority has been to ensure the health, safety and wellbeing of all athletes. At the same time, we are deeply concerned about the cancellation of tournaments and the flow-on effect this has on elite players and coaches whereby they could now be in a position of temporary unemployment. It is our responsibility to ensure we are ready to present top-class badminton to fans — and thereby also support the livelihood of players in a situation where very few tournaments will happen before September 2020. Like many organisations, BWF has also not escaped the financial implications of COVID-19. However, we do not have any cash-flow issues now. Players and coaches wait for clear-cut decisions from the BWF every day... One extreme difficulty has been making sense of the fast-changing landscape, but we have worked in a structured, efficient and prioritised way to ensure that badminton comes out stronger on the other side. We have also been in close contact internally with all stakeholders, including the BWF Athletes’ Commission, and it is my impression that all are aware that it is presently difficult to predict the immediate future. Is it going to be a wait-and-watch approach? We are monitoring all updates closely but at this point it is difficult to predict when international movement and entry restrictions will be lifted by individual countries and territories. However, preparations are being made to be able to start tournaments and activities as soon as the situation allows us to do so. This includes formulating a revamped BWF tournament calendar for 2020. Some say the decision to hold the Worlds three months after the Olympics will dilute the event... The tournament schedule will now be packed with the HSBC World Tour Finals to follow shortly after the Worlds, but we are confident that the new dates for Huelva 2021 will allow players to have a clear focus for the year in which they will have dual objectives of both the Olympics and Worlds. The COVID-19 situation will have adverse effects on many activities. However, we are very satisfied with the scheduling solutions we have been able to establish for the World Championships in 2021.
08 May 2020||Chennai,||It’s mind over matter for Badrinath||The mind is often a turbulent sea. Control the raging waters, ride the waves and it can lift your performance. Otherwise, you can crumble under the weight of expectations. Channeling your mind, therefore, becomes crucial. When the mind is in harmony with a sportspersons’ physical and technical attributes, any opposition can be conquered. It is in this context that former India batsman S. Badrinath’s MFORE, a non- profit initiative that aims at building mental strength, assumes significance. “We plan to train the mind, make it adapt to different situations and conditions, with meditation and visualisation thrown in, to lend the cutting edge to sportspersons,” said Badrinath to The Hindu on Thursday. Right now, because of the restrictions owing to COVID-19, Badrinath only interacts with the athletes, cutting across sports, through his portal mfore.in. Those visiting the site can ask questions which will be answered by Badrinath and his team of experts. Once the lockdown is lifted and sports resumes, Badrinath plans to send travelling sports psychologists to different teams that need them. “The service will be free of cost but if the teams or the individual wants to give a donation, we will accept them.” Golf buddy Badrinath has developed this concept over eight months with his “golf buddy” Saravana Kumar. Among other factors, emphasis has been given to building mental confidence and overcoming the fear of failure. The erudite Badrinath admitted, “Had I known some of the stuff about the mind that I comprehend now during my playing days, I could have been a lot more successful.” Badrinath’s concept of mind blending with fitness and skill has received support from giants M.S. Dhoni and Virat Kohli. And every Sunday, Star Sports Tamil will telecast a programme Mind Master, presented by Badrinath and featuring sportspersons from diverse fields at 7 p.m. Ask Badrinath about a tentative date for resumption of cricket and he responds, “a domestic tournament featuring international stars in September at just one or two safe centres.” Meanwhile, Badrinath continues to peel off layers of the mind to unravel its secrets.
08 May 2020||Ahmedabad,||From Moldova with love in time of the pandemic||Moldovan tennis player Dmitrii Baskov has been hailed as an “Indian hero” after joining a campaign to feed Ahmedabad’s poor during the lockdown. Baskov, a two-time Davis Cup player, arrived in India in January to visit a tennis academy before the advancing pandemic prevented him from returning home. The 25-year-old, once a hitting partner for Wimbledon champion Simona Halep, has since been helping out by packaging food for the needy here in Ahmedabad. He is among a team packing bread, rice and other dishes at the Ace Tennis Academy, destined for the city’s slums and containment zones. “My friend Pramesh Modi mentioned this (idea of feeding the poor) and I said yes, sounds great and the next day we did it and it continued day after day,” said Baskov. “One hundred, 200, 300 packets and then we realised we are doing some great stuff. It is not a daily desire or action, it is now a natural act of helping. I am a sportsman and nothing more than that but the desire to help is always with me.” “He (Baskov) wraps the rotis (bread) in the silver foil with absolute precision,” said Pramesh’s wife Ami Modi .“He is passionate and particular with what he is doing. Since the time he got to know of this act, he has joined us and is a hero.” A volunteer at the tennis academy says Baskov serves as a “lesson in humanity”. “He is an Indian hero and could be a role model for a number of Indians who have not come out of their houses to even help out in one way or the other,” said Mitul Parikh, who packs food alongside Baskov.
08 May 2020||HYDERABAD,||PETs can make India a sporting super power: Gopi Chand||India’s chief national badminton coach P. Gopi Chand says that it is time to focus on physical education and, in the process, make everyone realise sports is a priority. Speaking during an online interaction organised by ELMS Sports and the Reliance Foundation on Thursday with renowned physical literacy expert Margaret Whitehead, Head of WHO Collaborating Centre for Policy Research on Social Determinants of Health since 2005, Gopi stressed the significant role Physical Education Teachers play in this regard. Integral part “Any support system cannot just think of pushing PETs out of the picture. They are an integral part of any long-terms plan to make India a sporting super power as it is they who, at school-level, will be the first ones to spot the spark in the kids,” Gopi said. “There is a strong need to detach the kids from electronic gadgets. No doubt, this is a worldwide problem now but here the parents should play a bigger role by having at least some sort of restrictions like limiting the usage on a daily basis,” Gopi said. “There is no substitute for physical activity for any age-group. It was disappointing that a research in the US found that only 5% of those aged above 26 indulge in any physical activity,” he said. However, Gopi avoided a reply to a participant on what kind of challenges an Indian athlete will face once he or she resumes training after the COVID-19 crisis. Margaret, 70, also felt that PETs must be respected to take physical literacy forward with different teaching strategies, innovative interactions. “There are many inspirational PETs who need to be given complete support,” she said. An appeal “Unfortunately, across the world and UK in particular, life is deemed important but not the body,” she concluded appealing for support from the community and the Governments to make any physical literacy programme successful.  There is a strong need to detach the kids from electronic gadgets. No doubt, this is a worldwide problem now but here the parents should play a bigger role
08 May 2020||Chennai,||‘Train girls to play aggressively’||At a time when Indian table tennis is witnessing a ‘golden era’, Olympian Neha Aggarwal urged coaches at the grassroots level to teach young girls the same way as they would tutor the boys, in a webinar organised by the SAI and TTFI. Neha showed a graphic to illustrate the growth of the sport in the last 10 years. There are now two women in the top 100 and five more in the top 200 as compared to 2010 when the highest-ranked Indian was Mouma Das at 202. “When we started, our goals were not very high with the targets being medals at the National championships. We did not have an inspiring figure to look up to, like in the men’s side which had players like Chetan Baboor and Sharath Kamal. But, now you have Manika Batra who has inspired many girls.” The 30-year-old, currently the head of partnerships and communication for Olympic Gold Quest, pointed out that girls are taught to adopt a defensive style — push and block — and not much is done on aspects such as top-spin and attack from backhand. “The present generation of girls are not going to settle only for National titles. They want to do well at the international level and we need to teach them the right things from an early age. We need to teach them on how to play aggressively, short games (short serve, receive, short push) and adapting to current trends like the banana flick.” Neha also stressed on the importance of better fitness knowledge. “We need power and endurance if we have to take on the Chinese, Japanese or the Europeans.”
08 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Competing more important than winning’||Six-time Grand Slam champion Sania Mirza revealed the mantras of her brilliant career when she addressed hundreds of tennis coaches across the country in the webinar hosted by the AITA in collaboration with SAI. Sania said that she was supported by her sports-minded parents who worked for her development rather than short-term success. “If I can compete against Serena, I can compete against anyone,” Sania said about her Australian Open third round in 2005, two years after she had won the Wimbledon junior doubles title. “I got into the WTA event in Hyderabad on a wild card. I felt that I belonged there. You have to believe that you belong. If you don’t believe, it will be difficult to compete against them,” said Sania. More than belief and faith, the 33-year-old Sania said that it was important to “enjoy the competition.” She said, “Winning was important. But competing was more important, and to give 100% on court. When I get on to the court, I forget everything. I only see the tennis ball, net, opponent. I see nothing else. Losing hurt, but... Sania revealed losing did hurt, but not to the point of making her cry, as she did not take it to heart. Getting the right advice from Bob Brett in San Remo, Italy, was the key to her technical refinement, she added. Sania said that she gained the trait of being a “go-getter” from her mother Nasima who handled the early stage of her career, before her dad Imran took over as the coach, travelling with her. “It actually helped our relationship as father and daughter. He knows what to tell me and when to step back,” Sania said.
08 May 2020||Coimbatore,||‘India ready to achieve great results at Olympics’||India’s stars are a threat to some of the best in the badminton world. And ever since P.V. Sindhu struck silver at the 2016 Rio Olympics, others believe they can emulate her. Badminton World Federation (BWF) secretary general Thomas Lund has seen them all at close quarters. “India has always had great players and their development systems continue to be efficient in producing high-quality talent,” he said. “I’m sure that when we get to the Olympics in 2021, their team will be ready to achieve great results.” Global popularity The BWF, in a bid to further boost badminton, has partnered with leading digital and social consultancy agency Seven League to deliver its ‘Star Creation Programme’, designed to increase the global popularity of both the players and the sport. Five leading athletes, including India’s Ashwini Ponnappa, graduated from phase one of the pilot programme. “The team helped me understand the importance of social media and interacting with fans,” said Ashwini. “I loved the creative ideas that were shared and I have definitely enjoyed posting and being more open about sharing things.” The second batch, which includes Chirag Shetty and Sikki Reddy, has begun its weekly sessions.
08 May 2020||Melbourne,||CA looks to start pre-season by May-end||Cricket Australia is set to begin the team’s pre-season later this month under a set of new training protocols devised for the safety of players amid the COVID-19 pandemic. According to a report in The Sydney Morning Herald , CA is churning out strategies for resumption of training under the eyes of its chief medical officer Dr. John Orchard and head of sports science and sports medicine Alex Kountouris.
08 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||India loses to Europe, China||Vidit Gujrathi’s poor form proved decisive as India lost to China and Europe 2.5-1.5 on the second day of the FIDE Chess.com Online Nations Cup chess tournament on Wednesday. These results pushed India, with just one match point, to the bottom of the six-team table. India has now suffered three straight losses. On Wednesday, Viswanathan Anand, P. Harikrishna and K. Humpy drew their games to remain unbeaten, but, in four rounds, three defeats for Vidit and one for his replacement, B. Adhiban, has hurt India. After Levon Aronian punished Vidit for two successive erroneous decisions, Wang Hao cruised to a 29-move victory.  The results (fourth round): China bt India 2.5-1.5 (Ding Liren drew with Viswanathan Anand; Wang Hao bt Vidit Gujrathi; Yu Yangyi drew with P. Harikrishna; Hou Yifan drew with K. Humpy).   Europe bt USA 3-1; Russia bt Rest of the World 3-1.   Third round: Europe bt India (Maxime Vachier-Lagrave drew with Viswanathan Anand; Levon Aronian bt Vidit Gujrathi; Jan-Krzysztof Duda drew with P. Harikrishna; Anna Muzychuk drew with K. Humpy).   China drew with Russia 2-2; USA bt RoW 2.5-1.5.   Standings: 1. China (7 match points); 2-3. USA, Europe (5); 4. Russia (4); 5. RoW (2); 6. India (1) .
08 May 2020||Berlin,||Bundesliga moves restart by a day||The German league announced on Thursday it has pushed back the planned restart of the Bundesliga from Friday, May 15, until the following day. Christian Seifert, CEO of the German Football League (DFL), confirmed on Thursday that matches will resume on Saturday, May 16. Second-placed Borussia Dortmund hosts archrival Schalke in the Ruhr derby in the pick of the matches on the first day back.
08 May 2020||KOLKATA,||Key is keeping a positive mind: Bengal women’s coach||In the first online interaction conducted for the Bengal women’s cricket team players, the stress was on maintaining a positive mindset. Coach Shib Shankar Paul said staying motivated was the key during lockdown. “The mantra is hard work and keeping a positive mind. We are involving experienced players to motivate them as stalwarts motivated us in the past,” said Paul. Former India wicketkeeper-batsman Deep Dasgupta, who also guided the players during the opening session, agreed. “The most important thing is that everyone is in positive mood. In these difficult times, the mindset is more important. How they can use these days to become better and how they can do something constructive everyday were the topics covered in the session,” said Dasgupta. Cricket Association of Bengal (CAB) president Avishek Dalmiya said, “The women's team has been performing consistently over the last two seasons, and it is our responsibility to give them the best facilities. The online class with Deep is part of the initiative where the girls can share their doubts and get suggestions from him.” Batting coach Charanjit Singh also participated in the session.
08 May 2020||Bengaluru,||CheckmateCovid raises Rs. 15 lakh||The CheckmateCovid chess tournament, conducted by the Government of Karnataka, United Karnataka Chess Association and Mobile Premier League (MPL), raised Rs. 15 lakh in proceeds that was donated to the Karnataka Chief Ministers’s Covid Relief Fund. A total of 19,245 players registered for the tournament and GM Ankit Rajpara emerged champion.
08 May 2020||CHENNAI,||JSK coach offers online drills||The lockdown has come at a wrong time for students, coinciding with their summer vacation. A time usually spent honing sports skills at summer camps. And, as with everything else, sports coaching has not wasted any time in embracing the online method. In keeping with this trend, Junior Super Kings (CSK’s junior team) coach Louis Mariano is offering free tutorials and drills for aspiring cricketers on Youtube channel SportsRuler along with sports journalist S. Bagawati Prasad. Mariano suggests drills that can be done indoors and kids may record their progress, share their videos and get his feedback.
08 May 2020||Kolkata,||Tiger population in Sunderbans rises to 96||The latest estimation of tiger numbers in the Indian Sunderbans indicate an increase in the population of big cats. According to the West Bengal Forest Department, the tiger count for the year 2019-20 rose to 96, from 88 in 2018-19. The Sunderbans delta, spread over India and Bangladesh, is the only mangrove forest in the world inhabited by tigers. Giving details of the tiger estimation exercise, West Bengal Forest Minister Rajib Banerjee said that the increase in the number by eight was significant as it was the biggest annual jump reported from the Sunderbans. Previously, the highest yearly increase of tigers in the Sunderbans had been seven, he added. “Considering the images of tigers, which we received during the estimation exercise, we can say that the habitat can sustain more number of tigers in future,” Mr. Banerjee said. The estimation revealed that of the 96 tigers, 23 were identified as male and 43 as female, while the sex of 30 big cats could not be determined. The survey also revealed the presence of 11 tiger cubs. The estimation exercise was carried out in two phases: the first period commencing on December 16 and ending on January 13, and the second phase starting on January 22 and ending on February 19. “For the first period, a total of 1,156 Cuddeback camera traps (578 pairs) were installed in the Sunderban Tiger Reserve and during the second period, 272 camera traps (136 pairs) were installed in the 24 Parganas (South) Division,” the State Forest Department said. The Sunderban mangrove forest is spread over 2,585 sq. km and includes the Sundarban Tiger Reserve and the 24 Parganas (South) Division. While 23 tigers were found in 24 Parganas (South) Division, 73 big cats tigers were recorded inside the four divisions of the Sunderban Tiger Reserve. Estimation of the number of tigers in the Sunderbans, a world heritage as well as a Ramsar site, has always been a challenge because of the difficult terrain that comprises dense mangrove forests, with creeks and rivulets, and floods twice a day during the high tides.
08 May 2020||Chennai,||Band-like clouds seen over Sun’s neighbour||A group of international astrophysicists have identified cloud bands on the surface of Luhman 16A, one of a pair of binary brown dwarfs in the Vela constellation. They have used an idea put forth nearly two decades ago by Indian astrophysicist Sujan Sengupta, who is at the Indian Institute of Astrophysics, Bengaluru, that the light emitted by a cloudy brown dwarf, or reflected off an extrasolar planet, will be polarised. He suggested that a polarimetric technique could serve as a potential tool to probe the environment of these objects. Subsequently, many astronomers detected polarisation of brown dwarfs. But what is special in the newest study of Luhman 16 is that the researchers have found the actual structure of the clouds — that they form bands over one of the pair (Luhman 16A) of brown dwarfs. Understanding the cloud system over a brown dwarf can shed light on the pressure, temperature and climate on the surface of the celestial body. Luhman 16 is a binary star system, the third closest system to the Sun after Alpha Centauri and Barnard’s star. At a distance of about 6.5 light years from the Sun, this pair of brown dwarfs referred to as Luhman 16A and Luhman 16B orbit each other, casting a dim light. Brown dwarfs are also called failed stars, because their masses are intermediate to the largest planets and the smallest main sequence stars. Their masses being too small, they are unable to sustain fusion of their hydrogen to produce energy. It is believed that some of the more massive brown dwarfs fuse deuterium or lithium and glow faintly.  The faintness of the glow proved to be providential in finding the cloud bands. Unlike a star whose brightness would be too high, or an extrasolar planet orbiting a star, where the extra light from its star would have to be cut off to make the measurement, the light of the brown dwarfs was just right. The group, by using the Very Large Telescope at European Southern Observatory, Chile, found that Luhman 16A had band-like clouds in its atmosphere, whereas the same was not true of Luhman 16B. “While, the polarisation of Luhman 16B can be interpreted to have its origin in the asymmetry caused by rotation-induced oblateness of the object, the polarisation of Luhman 16A needs inhomogeneous band-like cloud distribution,” said Professor Sengupta. The work has been published in The Astrophysical Journal .
08 May 2020||May 08 2020 00:00 IST,||She made Him popular!||Lord Narayana is known for His patience. And this is seen in the story of Brghu’s visit to His abode. Brghu had had a lukewarm welcome from Brahma and Siva. So, Brghu was in a rage when he arrived to meet Lord Narayana. Finding the Lord relaxing on His snake bed, and apparently unaware of the sage’s arrival, Brghu kicked the Lord on His chest. But the Lord did not punish the sage. Instead, He nursed Brghu’s foot, wondering if it had been hurt by the kick. The Lord’s action angered Goddess Mahalakshmi, for the Lord’s chest was where She resided. So, She left the Lord, leaving Him looking for Her. But the Lord knows everything. So, His search for Her was just playacting, and Her disappearance was also a deliberate drama, said V.S. Karunakarachariar in a discourse. The Lord goes in search of Her to patala loka, and then finding She has left, He comes to Earth. It is believed that He emerged from the netherworld in Kumbakonam, which is why there is a Patala Srinivasa shrine in the Sarangapani temple there. He then does tapas for Her! But why the anger, disappearance and tapas? Uthamur Swami had an explanation. One of Lakshmi’s names is Bhargavi, because in one avatara, She was Brghu’s daughter. She must have felt that her father was giving Her a message through his kick. And what was that message? Despite the Lord being so merciful, there were people who did not seek Him. Was it not Lakshmi’s duty to ensure Her Consort’s popularity? Hence the voluntary separation from Him, and His penance, and subsequent marriage to Her in Tirumala. Had He not come to Tirumala as Srinivasa, would we have such crowds thronging the hill? It was Lakshmi’s separation that brought Him there, and so Lakshmi’s action of leaving Him, had the good result of drawing many people to Him!
08 May 2020||May 08 2020 07:20 IST,||Sudoku - May 8, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
08 May 2020||May 08 2020 00:00 IST,||She put Kathak on the South India map||Maya Rao was 16 when she danced to raise funds for the Bengal Famine. From the very beginning of her long creative journey, she viewed her art through the prism of reality, which made emotion or bhaav the defining aspect of her distinct Kathak repertoire. The second edition of the Dr. Maya Rao Kathak and Choreography conference, held on the digital platform amidst the COVID-19 lockdown, was a great way to remember this legendary dancer-choreographer. The event, which marked her birth anniversary on May 2, also raised funds for folk and ritualistic performers of Karnataka. “Her perspective and values are integral to this conference, conceived two years ago. Her strong connect to the surroundings and her inclusive approach were the core of her artistic vision. She would insist that even festivals featuring eminent classical musicians should open with a folk performance,” says daughter, disciple and dancer, Madhu Nataraj, who is the founder of STEM Dance Kampni and director, Natya Institute of Kathak and Choreography. As part of several government institutions, especially as the chairperson of the Karnataka Sangeetha Nrutya Academy, Maya Rao initiated festivals at heritage sites such as Somanathapura, Pattadakkal and Halebid. “She was as progressive as traditionalist, who believed that folk forms have to thrive for the sake of the community they represent to save the fabric of our culture. As a young girl, when travelling to remote areas of Karnataka for a theatre crafts project, I once saw my mother’s photograph hanging outside a small house. Surprised, I stopped by to ask the woman in the house about the photo. She replied, it is of the guardian angel who helps marginalised artistes. Thrilled, I booked a trunk call and told my mother. In her nonchalant manner she said, ‘Oh, they may just be overwhelmed by the support’. As an art activist, she strongly felt about many issues but was never aggressive. I always observed people being charmed by her gentle and dignified demeanour. From her I learnt that you need not shout from the rooftop to get things done.” Uncomfortable with the idea that the classical arts are aspirational to many, Maya Rao came up with an accessible teaching methodology and a dynamic performance style. “She trained almost 4,000 students, who saw her both as a dance teacher and life coach. During my travels across the globe, I often meet her students who tell me how Ma impacted their lives. She encouraged them to interact, ideate and instrospect. She believed in an individualistic and open-minded approach to art, which motivated me to create a contemporary Indian dance vocabulary through my STEM (Space, Time, Energy, Motion) Dance Kampni.” Maya Rao’s works drew from her life experiences. She went to the USSR on a Government of India scholarship to study choreography and became the talk of the Russian ballet world when she was invited by the Riga Theatre to choreograph Kalidasa’s ‘Shakuntala.’ Back in India, she set up the Natya Institute for Kathak and Choreography in 1964, in Delhi, with the help of Kamaladevi Chattopadhyay. And for the next two decades, she came up with some finely choreographed productions. She had eminent musicians such as Pt. Ravi Shankar and music director Anil Biswas for advisors. Her productions were not only about exquisite movements and expressions, they also had great music, sets, costume and lighting. Maya Rao moved the institute to Bangalore at the behest of the late Chief Minister Ramakrishna Hegde. Seen as an artiste who bridged the North-South divide, she perceived Kathak beyond the gharana labels. Training under stalwarts Her dream to learn dancing was born after she watched Uday Shankar’s performance in Bangalore. After much pleading, her architect-father Sanjeev Rao allowed her to train under Kathak master Sohanlal, who was in Bangalore and associated with the celebrated Ram Gopal. She also learnt Hindustani music. But her father categorically ruled out stage performances. When Maya was 16, he passed away. Along with her elder brother, she shouldered the family responsibility. Her training in dance stood her in good stead and she created productions with eminent artistes of Bangalore. After graduating in English literature, she moved to Jaipur to train further in Kathak even while teaching at the Maharani Gayatri Devi College. When her brother told her to join him in Ceylon, she began training under the well-known Chitrasena. After a few years, Maya was in Delhi on a scholarship and became the disciple of one of most revered gurus, Pt. Shambhu Maharaj. "This was definitely the most creatively satisfying phases of her journey. She owed it to Pt. Shambhu Maharaj for helping her find herself in her art and refining her aesthetic sensibilities. When I talk about Ma, I am always thinking which aspect should I focus on. It’s difficult to box her as an artiste or a person. She had multiple interests, and till the end, pursued them passionately. When walking into the hospital the night before she passed away (September 1, 2014), Ma asked me who was taking the class the next morning. When she died, it was like losing three valuable persons in my life — a guru, friend and mother,” says Madhu.
08 May 2020||May 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Sound was music to his ears||Son-in-law and COO of Assurant India Srikanth Srinivasan was by the bed-side of the 86-year old legendary audio recordist ‘AVM’ K. Sampath during his last days. While the death saddened him, Srikanth found some consolation in the fact that Sampath passed away on May Day. “He was closely associated with CAASI (Cine Audiographers Association of South India) and always had the welfare of his colleagues on his mind. Hence, May Day was his favourite day of the year. He had completed his 86th birthday on April 29, a day on which he went into coma. He considered May 1 as a very special day of the year even more than his birthday,” says Srikanth. Just a week earlier, he sensed his end was near and called his daughter, Meera, by his side and told her, “Take care of your amma. I have lived a very happy life.” It was not without reason that Sampath had AVM as his suffix. A workaholic all his life, the second Sunday of every month was the only day he abstained from work. “I would eagerly wait for the second Sunday and spend the entire day chatting with him. He would share songs with me and ask for my feedback,” recalls Meera. Only once in her entire school life did he visit the campus. But then Sampath had been watching over his daughter, a fact she had not realised until she was 16. Says Meera: “I did not like sad scenes in movies and would start crying. His assistant would take me away from the movie hall to the snacks zone during those scenes and bring me back after it was all over. This was the routine for several years, although I was blissfully unaware of the background. When I was in class XI, I complained that we never got to see a film with him. To this he replied, ‘but I do not allow you to watch any sad scene.’ Sampath’s priority was work and this applied to all. Playback singer Mano was to perform at Meera’s wedding reception. But Mano landed an opportunity to perform in the UAE. Sampath insisted that Mano go to Dubai, where the programme was happening, although his name had been printed on the invitation cards. “I was disappointed but couldn’t help admiring my father for his attitude,” says Meera. “In fact he came just a few minutes before the reception started. He was busy with the recording work for director Bhagyaraj (one of Sampath’s favourites). He flew back to Chennai the next morning,” adds Srikanth. Care for colleagues Throughout his life, Sampath was clear that his colleagues and workers had to be taken care of well. Meera points out that when AVM offered him land, he declined so that it could be given to a colleague, who did not own a house. Again, when FEFSI offered a piece of land to him, he sought her ‘permission’ before saying ‘no’ for the same reason. “Our family was proud of his decision,” says Meera. The family came to know about his generous aid to 315 co-workers during the lockdown, only when the beneficiaries brought it to their notice. “Their welfare was on his mind till his last breath,” says Meera. In the last few years, memory loss had set in but his family doctor asked them not to disturb him from his routine as his life revolved around the workers even after he touched 80. Just before losing consciousness, Sampath muttered this: “There is a call-sheet for Sp. Muthuraman. Even though I feel feverish, I should go and finish the recording for him.” Says Meera: “It was probably a recollection of some recording from the decades gone by. Till his last breath, that was his mantra.” That summed up his commitment to work and to the film industry. That sincere efforts never fail was his motto. Sampath’s only nephew Ravi Ramaswamy says that Sampath uncle was the ‘Sound Pillar’ of AVM. Even though he was not trained in music, he showed extraordinary passion and commitment. “It was amazing, the way he transitioned smoothly from the old world to the digital era,” says Ramaswamy. Such was the trust reposed on him by the AVM family that they rarely interfered in his work and gave him complete freedom. In recognition of his work, the family handed over the AVM RR theatre to him (and JJ Manickam) on a revenue sharing basis for him to run it independently. Ravi considers Sampath completing voice-mixing of three films — Avatharam , Magalir Mattum and Paattu Paadava — in a single call sheet with playback singer Janaki as a significant achievement. “The man who created the ‘Sound of Music’ had to be given a quiet farewell,” says Ravi referring to the restrictions imposed by the pandemic. Irony indeed!  Some career highlights Over 50-year association with the AVM studio  Recorded more than 5,000 songs for AVM  Recipient of one National and three State awards  Featured in Server Sundaram — the only time he was seen in a movie
08 May 2020||May 08 2020 00:00 IST,||The Woman came to the fore||Continuing its marathon series, Aalaap (@aalaap_concepts on Instagram) brought to the fore an evening of Bharatanatyam dancers and their artistic interpretation of female-centric pieces. A case study in perspective and approach, this line up presented tales from puranas, reinterpretations of stories and novel pieces from their repertoire. Manu Smriti goes like this: “Yattra naryastu poojyante, ramanthe tattra devathaha; Yatraitaastu na poojyante, sarvaastattraha appalaha kriyaha” (Where women are worshipped, god roam amongst that realm/abode; Where women are not worshipped, every activity becomes fruitless). Drawing from this dictum, which is made to a proud gypsy woman singing the praise and greatness of her land, Manasvini Ramachandran presented an interesting narrative. She also portrayed women as a manifestation of Adi Sakthi in ‘Prahabrahma sahacharini Adishakthi swaroopini’ and the Ganges as the sustainer, protector and bestower of salvation with tunes in Hindi and Tamil.  Anjana Anand performed the famous padam ‘Theruvil Varano’ in Khamas — to express time standing still as she waits for her beloved and none to play messenger. Ending with ‘Pari Paahi,’ a Kathakali padam adapted to Bharatanatyam, this piece explores the relationship between Krishna and Draupadi. Dismayed and angered by Krishna’s efforts to make peace with the Kauravas, she says, “What about the humiliation inflicted upon me in the Sabha?” Both the compositions are from the dance theatre productions of JustUs Repertory. Clad in black and gold, Dakshina Vaidyanathan demonstrated an excerpt from her production, Shoorpanakha, which shows the more familiar demoness as ameenakshi, the beautiful sister of Ravana. Her happy marriage is shattered when Ravana gets her husband killed. Full of revenge, she waits for an opportunity. Ravana loses the contest at Sita’s swayamvara. Now Surpanaka strikes. Landing at Rama’s hermitage, she tries to lure him to set up a war between Ravana and Ayodhya’s prince. A meticulous plot and a perfect recipe for chaos — Dakshina gave an insight into Surpanakha’s act, why she did what she did. A precursor to this incident, Divya Shiva Sundar adapted the ekaahaarya lasya of playing multiple characters — highlighting a cunning Manthara and the queen Kaikeyi. An excerpt from Ramanatakam by Arunachala Kavirayar, it depicted the episode of Manthara turning Kaikeyi’s mind towards putting her son first before Rama. A jump cut further within the story showed Meenakshi Srinivasan’s moving portrayal of ‘Agni Pravesam.’ Three diverse depictions of women within the Ramayana alone. “Sita to me is not this ideal goddess we feel distant from. She expressed herself strongly, and effectively and conducted herself abiding by ideals and values that she stood for,” Meenakshi elucidated on her choice of presentation. Another interesting aspect about these three storylines was the colours of aharya — black and gold for Surpanakha, a quaint combination of orange, red and green for Kaikeyi and Manthara and finally, yellow with a bold red for Sita — aharya certainly had a bearing on abhinaya here. A lighter and joyful piece from Srinivasan was Annamacharya’s ‘Alarulu Kuriyaga’ in Sankarabharanam. Dedicated to Goddess Alamelumanga, she watches flowers showering from trees and unable to control her urge, she begins to dance. Another Annamacharya piece, presented by Aishwarya Balasubramanian was the popular sringara sankeerthanam, ‘Emuko chiguruta daramuna.’ Her interpretation required her to don the roles of a lover, wife and a mother in her pieces. Preceded by ‘Etai Kandu Nee’ from the Ninda Stuti (Kalyani, Rupaka talam) and concluding with a Thalattu penned by Periyazhwar (Ragamalika, Tisra adi), Aishwarya chose to explore how great male poets believed that one of the true ways of connecting with their Lord was to embody the role of a woman through their work — “where the Bhakta becomes the Bhaktini.” Three enigmatic female characters, one her poetic namesake, Meera Sreenarayanan narrated the stories of Kannagi, Meera and a modern day woman. Draped in a pink sari, she unleashed a range of emotive pieces, she revisited the transformation these women experienced — a fragile flower to thundering rage, a treasured pearl to a heart filled with devotion, and one who chose herself when her man chose otherwise. Also clad in pink and bringing to life two Sangam poems — Kuruntokai in Sahana and Natrinai in Mand and Vasanta — Karuna Sagari chose to depict everyday women and their toils. “Real, strong and beautiful, yet flawed because they are human. Sangam has portraits of real women like that,” she explained. New angle A touch of the modern world in “Ulla kumuralgal ulagirkku puriyavillai” as the protagonist swings around shuffling her music playlist, to the swirl of mixed feelings, devastated and angered in “Thalai Aattum Bommai Neeya?,” Kavya Muralidharan brought forth a new angle, both pieces composed and choreographed by Madurai R. Muralidharan. The sakhi asks in the latter upon seeing her friend silently nodding and tending to the work her in-laws set out for her, “What happened to your dreams? Don’t be the puppet that’s controlled by everyone. You are no lesser than anybody else.” Turning the page over to a beloved character, Parvathy Menon dwelt on two shades of Radha, the peg being the poetry of Gita Govindam and a Surdas Bhajan. She incorporated the idea of a lotus that blooms as the sun rises and withering away in its absence, followed by a Mangalam. Another character portrayed vividly was that of Yasoda, by Rukmini Vijayakumar . Krishna’s mother comes to know that he is not her son. With abundant love and restrained sadness, she gets prepared to send him away. “Gadhiyaay chendradhu kaalam, nee yennai pirindidum neram - vidhiyai ariven naanum. Indroru naal illayo annai yennaku,” she sighs to herself. The attention to detail interspersed with quick movements — Yasoda fixing Krishna’s attire before she sends him away. She makes him promise to be good even as she hides her tears and manages an encouraging smile.  Aharya came across as an apt foil for abhinaya, the colours conveying the moods
08 May 2020||May 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Where ballad scores over history||Terani Singh, ruler of Gingee, is imprisoned by the Mughal Emperor for failing to tame a ahorse. At the time, Terani Singh’s wife is pregnant with his son Desingu. When Desingu is eight years old, he goes to Delhi, tames the horse and receives it as a gift from the Emperor, who sets Terani Singh free. The precocious Desingu becomes the ruler of Gingee, when his father dies. The Nawab of Arcot — Sadatullah Khan — sends a letter asking Desingu to pay the money his father owed the Crown. Desingu treats the missive with contempt. War is declared. The Nawab marches with 80,000 horsemen and 10,000 sepoys against Desingu who has only 350 horsemen and 500 troopers. Desingu asks his friend Mahabat Khan for help. Mahabat cancels his wedding and rushes to help Desingu. Desingu has never seen his young wife, because of some astrological reasons, and speaks to her from behind a curtain. She begs him not to go out to fight, for the omens are bad. Desingu seeks permission for the battle from Lord Ranganatha of Singavaram. The deity turns his head away, to show his disapproval. And yet Desingu rides towards what is certain death. Mahabat is killed in battle. Desingu’s horse’s forelegs are cut off, and Desingu fights on foot. Finally, he flings his sword in the air and impales himself on it. His young wife commits Sati. This is the story of Desingu Raja of Gingee in the well-known ballad about him and this is probably the story most people will tell you about Gingee. But the ballad differs from historical accounts. Desingu’s father was Sarup Singh, not Terani Singh. Desingu was born in Bundelkhand, and came to Gingee in January 1714, after his father’s death. Desingu was killed in October 1714. Desingu’s father was never imprisoned in Delhi. He was a mansabdar — an official whose rank was determined by the Mughal Emperor. And it was not a hereditary post, which meant Desingu could not automatically succeed to the position. In fact, the historical account says that Desingu was warned by his officers to get permission from the Arcot Nawab to continue as mansabdar. The Nawab did not have 80,000 horsemen as the ballad says, but only 10,000. Finally, Desingu did not kill himself. The Nawab’s order was that he should be captured alive. He was shot dead, upon the orders of Bangaru Yachamanayaka, when Desingu killed the soldier who tried to capture him. So why is it that the ballad version has overwhelmed historical accounts? Therein lies the appeal of folk songs. Songsters knew how to use simple words to versify events and give them a dramatic twist. Desingu’s story had all the elements needed for an appealing story — adventure, valour, a young tragic hero and heroine. Dr. Aru Ramanathan, folklore scholar who researched folk songs about Desingu, says that the earliest record about Desingu is perhaps the Desingu kummi , a palm leaf manuscript which he found in the Oriental Manuscripts library, Madras. “The kummi just talks about the battle of 1714, and was probably written soon after. Chronologically next is ‘Desingu Rasa Paattu.’ Saraswathi Mahal library has a manuscript of Desingu Raja candai, which must be later than the other two. The ballad, ‘Desingu Rasa Kathai,’ which is the most popular version came afterwards. While the early published editions of the ballad do not mention the name of the author, later editions mention Pugazhendi Pulavar. There is also a later Telugu ballad,” he says. For a long time, Narayana Pillai’s ‘Carnataca rasakkalin savistara charitram’ was the only historical account about Desingu. Narayana Pillai claimed to be a descendant of Ananda Kon, who first built a small fort in Gingee in 1190 C.E. The Kon dynasty ruled Gingee till 1330. However, historian C.S. Srinivasachari, observed that Pillai’s work had many chronological and sequential inconsistencies. In the Desingu Kummi , Mahabat is not mentioned. In Narayana Pillai’s account and in Desingu Raja candai, Mahabat is mentioned as fighting alongside Desingu, but there is no mention of a dramatic departure from his impending wedding. Jesuit letter In 1659, Gingee fell to the forces of the Bijapur Sultan. The Sultan’s men looted Gingee and took away its wealth of 20 crores in cash and jewels. A Jesuit letter of 1666, from Andrew Friere to Paul Oliva, says, that nothing could equal the cruelties of the new rulers. Andrew Friere writes: “Expression fails me to recount the atrocities, which I have seen with my own eyes.” The kummi was written hardly 60 years after these events, and the people might not have forgotten the cruel treatment meted out to them by the conquerors, or their iconoclasm. Ramanathan theorises that this is perhaps why the kummi does not mention Mahabat Khan. The earliest published version of the ballad, which Ramanathan found, was dated 1862, and assuming that it was written around this time, we get to a time after the Indian Sepoy Mutiny, when it might have been thought that Hindu-Muslim unity was necessary to take on the British. Hence the exaggerated account of Mahabat giving up his marriage for the sake of his friendship, according to Ramanathan. The kummi mentions that Desingu’s wife committed Sati , but in the Candai and ballad, she gets permission from the Nawab to commit Sati . At this point in the conversation, Ramanathan throws a question at this writer: “What do you think could be the reason, for this change in version?” This writer recalls reading a collection of East India Company papers, which had a whole section dedicated to Hindu widows. The correspondence was about abolishing Sati, with Lushington, the magistrate of Kumbakonam, recording that 100 instances of Sati took place in 1813, despite the Raja of Tanjore opposing the practice. Lushington writes that the Company should ban the practice. Sati was commonplace when the kummi was written around 1714. But in the early 1800s, the East India Company was already trying to dissuade women from sati. And by the time the ballad appeared, Sati had already been abolished. Could disapproval by British authorities be a reason for later versions of the Desingu story saying that his wife sought permission to become a Sati ? Ramanathan concurs that this was the reason. Desingu is spelt Tej Singh in Sewell’s List of Antiquities. The name is spelt Jeyasingh in the Mac Kenzie manuscript collection, and Taygy Singh in the Company’s despatches to England. But no matter what the historical accounts say, it is the folk ballad which has succeeded in capturing popular imagination. (The MGR film Raja Desingu was also mostly based on the ballad, with a few changes). Folk songs record the angst of those who would have otherwise remained voiceless. In the 1940s, the Japanese army brought in many Tamils from Malaysia, to work on the Siam-Burma railway. This project earned the name death railway, because of the thousands of people who died due to the harsh conditions under which the Japanese made them work. The unlettered Tamil labourers composed folk songs capturing their miserable condition. These songs were collected in the 1980s by Ra. Baladandayudam, and published posthumously in 1998. Prisoners of war belonging to the Allied forces, were also made to work on the railway. While the ordeals of the prisoners of war have been well-documented, the only records of the suffering of the Tamils, who worked on the death railway, are their folk songs, says Ramanathan.  Folk songs record the angst of those who would have otherwise remained voiceless. The unlettered Tamil labourers composed folk songs capturing their miserable condition while working on Death Railway
08 May 2020||May 08 2020 00:00 IST,||One man, one theatre||M. Saravanan (AVM)  It is a norm in the film industry for aspirants to work under an ace technician, learn the ropes and then start work on their own. Sampath was well-qualified and had worked with stalwarts such as Misra, Mukul Bose and our own J.J. Manickam before settling down with AVM. Humble and soft-spoken, Sampath spent most of the day in the studio, 6 a.m.-10 p.m. After Manickam retired, Sampath succeeded him and became synonymous with our RR Theatre. Artistes preferred to record only at RR, both because of the excellent equipment and Sampath’s skill. At one point, he was recording in multiple languages. Song or re-recording, the destination for everyone was AVM RR and under Sampath’s supervision. From Yesudas and SPB to Susheela, Janaki and Easwari, the singer’s choice was Sampath. Composers would wait to get a date with RR Theatre and Sampath. Such was his reputation.  Music Director Deva  I wanted to a record my first song for my first movie, Manasukketha Maharasa with Ramarajan as the hero, in 1989 and my choice was AVM RR Theatre. For a music director, the sound recordist is no less than a God. I was bowled over by Sampath’s humility and soft approach. During recording, he could spot the mistake accurately. In those days, the orchestra was huge with different categories of instruments. If something was off-key, he knew which instrument and also the player, who would be politely asked to check the sruti. The way he handled the mikes conveyed his dedication and respect for his profession. He would handle one mike at a time and fix it for the instrument. He was soft-spoken but a stickler for discipline. Nobody could talk inside the recording room. However great the person could be his words would be, “Please go out and talk.” He never started work without placing flowers on the mixer machine and offering prayers. And nobody could lean on the machine leave alone sit on it. He had met me just a couple of times after that recording when one fine morning the legendary Telugu director Dasari Narayana Rao came with an advance amount to book me for his new film. He told me that he had met Sampath the past week and he recommended my name. “He spoke highly of you. ‘A new boy with good knowledge in music came and recorded a song. Perhaps, you can try him,’ were his exact words. I was overwhelmed and thanked Sampath immediately. My son Srikanth Deva wanted to record a song for his 100th film, Piriyamudan Priya in our studio. I suggested that he should request the legend Sampath to do it. He had then retired from AVM. Much to our joy, Sampath came to our studio and recorded the song. This happened a few months before his demise.
08 May 2020||May 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Digital fillip to tradition||Dr. Rama Kausalya discovered the abundant scope of social media recently. “I’m not on Facebook or any such platform. Frankly, I steer clear of them. Having seen young people spending time on these sites, I didn’t feel inclined to get hooked, “ says the former Principal of the Tiruvaiyaru Music College and founder, Marabu Foundation. The pandemic and the extended lockdown opened her eyes to the positive side of Facebook, through which she hosted two homage concerts — to Syama Sastry and Tyagarajaswamy. It is not surprising that Kausalya, a descendant of the Thillaisthanam lineage, weaves music into her projects, making them catchy and melodious. Celebration of landmark occasions are prominent on the calendar of Marabu Foundation, which is doing phenomenal work at Thillaisthanam, engaging the village children. Location on the banks of the Cauvery lends her initiatives a rustic charm. Through classes and field trips, the young inhabitants learn all about the priceless heritage of this country, customs and habits, which make the land of Tamils so unique. . With the said homage concerts falling in the same week — April 25 (Syama Sastri) and April 30 — (Tyagarajaswamy) Kausalya was challenged by the extraordinary situation. “Tyagaraja’s ghana raga Pancharatna kritis are well-known but his bouquet of five songs each on the deities of some kshetras are not so famous. The plan was to render those songs — Lalgudi, Kovur, Srirangam and Tiruvotriyur — in front of the Sitarama Vigraha, which Tyagaraja worshipped and are still there in Varagappaiyar Lane, Thanjavur. But the Lockdown changed everything and I was disappointed. A casual query about accessing YouTube triggered intense research among the young students, who chose Facebook. Living in different places, they said they could join at a given time and render the songs. They organised everything,” reveals Kausalya. Then it occurred to the group to do something similar for Syama Sastri. Every year, on Sastri's jayanti Marabu Foundation arranges a concert of his compositions at his ancestral house. This time, technological intervention came to their rescue. “Having put everything in place for Tyagaraja, we decided to do it for Syama Sastri also. Sangeethanjali took place on April 25. Students trained in the Foundation’s workshops rendered some of his compositions. The hiccups we faced on that day were ironed out on April 30, the Pancharatnam rendition – a nearly three-hour programme – went off like clockwork, thanks to the resourceful young team. Lalgudi Pancharatnam, not easy to negotiate, was sung very well by Madhuvanti,” says Kausalya. Keeping date The link was circulated and many were online to enjoy the musical offering. “We had encouraging feedback,” informs Rama Kausalya. Personally I’m happy and proud that based in this Thanjavur village of Tillaisthanam, Marabu Foundation was able to keep its date with both divine composers,” she says. A point acknowledged by Kunchitapadam, Mudhradikari of Bangaru Kamakshi temple, at whose altar Syama Sastri poured out all those soulful lyrics, addressing the Goddess, like a child would its Mother. “This year, I thought we had to be satisfied with a floral offering to the goddess but Ambal designed it in such a way that the homage not only happened but merged with the Universe to spread positive vibrations.” An enthusiastic Rama Kausalya is now busy putting together online classes to teach Thevaram, one a day, and music, one raga a day. More is on the anvil. “Good thoughts and deeds will take themselves forward. Soon humanity will be out of this crisis. Until then we’ll stay connected through waves of musical sounds,” says this rural warrior of Marabu Foundation, which is also reaching out to the underprivileged society during these stressful times.
08 May 2020||May 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Outstanding model of Acharya bhakti||This happened about two hundred years before the arrival of Sri Ramanuja. Sri Ranganatha Muni was well-versed in yoga sastra. He was worshipping Sri Kattumannar at Veeranarayanapuram. Some Vaishnavites from Melkote came in and started reciting “Aaravamude adiyen udalam nin paal anbaaye.” This was a famous poem of Nammazhwar about Thirukkudanthai. Nadamunigal was astounded at the beauty of the psalm. It ends with the refrain “Kurugur Sadagopan kuzhalin maliya sonna ore aayirathul ippathum.” Nammazhwar himself describes the song as sweeter than the melody of the flute. Nadamunigal enquires about the author who had declared himself to be a native of Thirukkurugur. That was a time when the 4,000 pasurams of Azhwars had all disappeared leaving only “Aaravamudhe” in vogue. At Thirukkurungudi, Nadamunigal enquires about the thousand pasurams. After all, Nammazhwar had declared “ore aayirathul ippathum” meaning this ten out of thousand. Nobody knew the rest. Then came Parankusa Dasa of Thirukkurugur. He tells Nadhamunigal that he belonged to the sect of Madurakavi Azhwar. He knew Madurakavi’s composition ‘Kanninun siru thaambu’ and suggested that if these 11 pasurams of Madurakavi were chanted before the sacred Thiruppuli in Thirukkurugur, Nammazhwar will appear. Instantly Nadamunigal memorises the 11 pasurams, sits before the tamarind tree and starts chanting “Kanninun Siruthambinaal” with single minded devotion ( ekagraha chitta ). As he completes 12,000 times, Nammazhwar appears before him. Nadamunigal prays for the 1,000 pasurams. Mightily pleased, Nammazhar graces him not merely with the 1,000 pasurams of Thiruvaimozhi but the entire Naalayira Divyaprabandham — Naadhanukku naalayiram uraithan vaazhiyae . The Azhwars were immersed in divine mysticism. They sang the praise of the Lord. But Madurakavi Azhwar, hailing from Thirukkolur near Thirukkurungudi, found solace in Nammazhwar alone. The eleven songs that he composed in praise of Sri Sadagopa are held in extreme reverence. At the beginning and at the end of the chanting of Nammazhwar Thiruvaimozhi, Madurakavi’s ‘Kanninun siruthambinaal’ is chanted. The invocation goes like this :  “verondrum naanariyen   vedam tamizh seidha maaran Sadagopan   van kurugur yeru engal vazhvaam endru ethum,   Madurakaviyaar emmai alwar avare aran.”  (I know nothing else but the Prince of beautiful Kurugur — Maaran who rendered the Vedas into Tamil. He alone is my life and breath, ruler and refuge.) Kamban was inspired by Madurakavi when he composed Sadagopar Andhadhi. It was Nadhamuni who compiled the sacred 4,000 verses and included the 11 verses of Madurakavi even though they spoke of Nammazhwar and justified Bhagavatha Seshatva. The central term in Thirumantiram is Namaha . Madurakavi’s pasurams are central to the entire 4,000. Nammazhwar was immersed in Krishna Consciousness. For him, Krishna represented Unnum sorum, parugum neer and Thinnum Vetrilai — “My food, water and the betel I chew are all my Krishna.” He is lost at the thought that the Lord, was caught and bound to the mortar pleading for stealing butter from the milkmaid’s churning pail (Ethiram uralinodu inaindhu irundhu yengiya yelive). The wonder of His birth and His childhood exploits in the war haunted Nammazhwar (Pirandha varum, valarndha varum periya bharatham kai seidhu). Krishna shrunk himself to accommodate the rope to oblige Yasodha.  Incidental reference  Madurakavi does Bhagavath Vishayam and chooses Nammazhwar as his Acharya. The reference to Krishna in the first verse is incidental. Krishna is great and Sri Sadagopa’s Thiruvaimozhi reveals the secret message of the Vedas. Sadagopa is greater. The Acharya will be happy if the disciple worships the Lord, who will be happy if we serve fellow men. Acharyas are of two kinds — the first is anuvriddhi prasannacharya, where the disciple has to wait for a long time to obtain the Acharya’s grace and the second is Kripa Matra Prasannacharya, where the acharya showers his grace voluntarily out of love. The first is exemplified by Thirukoshtiyur Nambi. How many times Ramanuja had to go to Tirukoshtiyur! The second is represented by the likes of Emberumanar, Bhattar and Nampillai. Madurakavi found fulfilment by worshipping Nammazhwar. “annaiyai, athanai ennai aandidum thanmaiyan sadagopan en nambiyae” Sadagopan (Nammazhwar) is my mother, father and master and is therefore my refuge, he declares. Such was Madhurakavi’s acharya bhakti.  Ananthalwan was also steeped in acharya bhakti. For him, Ramanuja’s word was the command. Even today, the descendants and disciples of Ananthalwan introduce themselves as adiyen Madurakavi dasan .  Bakthiyodu padinondrum paadinaan vazhiyae   parankusane paran endru potrinaan vazhiyae   madhyamam pada porulai vazha vaithaan vaazhiyae   madura kavi thiruvadikal vazhi vazhi vazhiyae  Both Ananthalwan and Madurakavi Azhwar were born on Chitirai-yil Chitirai naal, which fell on May 6 this time.  Yentha Ethirasar Inai Adiyon Vazhiyae.
08 May 2020||May 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Mosaics of beauty||In Gaziantep city of Turkey, the gypsy girl seemed to be everywhere. As a symbol of the Gaziantep city, on the brochures of the Zeugma Mosaic Museum and its tickets, in pictorial illustrations of art history of the region, on picture postcards and tourism souvenirs, the museum website, and right beside the doorway leading into the massive museum building itself. If only she could know how she had been immortalised...! Considered one of the world's biggest and most important institutions of its kind, Zeugma Mosaic Museum is spread over a massive 20,000 square metres. And it houses many superb exhibits but the Gypsy Girl with her magnificently arresting eyes, dishevelled hair and poignant expression is the most famous one. She is sometimes referred to as the Mona Lisa of Turkey or Zeugma. This work is also known as the Mosaic o f Maenad. The Zeugma Mosaic Museum is located in Gaziantep city in the eponymous province which is in south-east Turkey. The museum's displays cover and ancient era — pre-Hellenistic cultures and the Greek and Roman empires. A modern museum with spacious and impeccable interiors, it has a well-maintained exterior area and state-of-the-art technology. It showcases mosaics which are around 2,000 years old. The mosaics are displayed over an area of around 2,5000 square metres. Repositories of art Interestingly, another museum in Turkey called Hatay Archaelogy Museum also houses superb mosaics. Located in Antakya city, Hatay, it is spread over 32,000 square metres and hence bigger in size, explained our guide Shehzat as he led us into the Zeugma Mosaic Museum. Together, both institutions are precious repositories of great art and must-go destinations for art-historians, archaeloogists and art-lovers interested in the region's cultural history. The ancient city of Zeugma was founded by Seleukos Nikator, a general of Alexander the Great in 3rd century BC.  Located on the Euphrates river, it flourished under Greek and then Roman rule before it was destroyed in the 3rd century AD during an invasion. These mosaics became buried under the rubble and water. However, they have retained their splendour. The walk through the museum was a fascinating experience. On display were magnificent mosaics unearthed at the Roman site of Belkıs-Zeugma before the construction of the Birecik Dam resulted in a permanent flooding of most of this archaelogical site. These Roman-era artworks would have once beautified the interiors of Zeugma's many grand Roman villas and palaces, we were told by our guide Shehzat. Historians hold that the mosaics were commissioned according to the individual tastes of the wealthy home-owners and nobles/politicians, hence the variety in the subjects of the mosaics. Experts deem that some of the displays at this museum can be counted among the finest specimens of Roman mosaic work in the world. They are now on view for the whole world thanks to extensive work by archaeologists and restoration experts under the supervision of the Turkish Government. There were mosaics both on the wall and the floor. The museum had other elements too. The Roman fountains, several columns, limestone sculptures, sarcophagi, grave steles, and a relatively small but exquisite bronze statues of Mars on a centrally located pedestal, all held us in thrall as we walked around taking a journey back in time. These ancient treasures are stunningly lifelike. The colour schemes also are imaginative. The other well-known pieces besides the Gypsy Girl and Mars statue here are of Fertility Goddess Demeter, Dionysus, Akratos, Okeanos, Euphrates, Eros, Tethys, Perseus-Andromeda, Herakles, Helios, Telete, Skyrtos, Ariadne, Psyche, Metiochus and Parthenope. Smuggled out Each mosaic has a fascinating story. For example, archaeologists discovered fragments of the Gypsy Girl mosaic decades ago while excavating the remains of the Zeugma city. Sadly, however, several pieces had already been looted by thieves and smuggled out of Turkey. They found their way to the U.S. and were bought by Bowling Green State University in Ohio, U.SA. Turkey asked for their return in 2012, and after five years of talks, the university returned them as a goodwill gesture thus giving the story a happy ending. Historians say that Zeugma's ancient art has been scattered around the world. The official archaeological excavations at the site began around the late 1980s where Roman mosaics and inscriptions had been found. However, by then, illegal excavations, looting and smuggling out of many pieces had already happened. This not only resulted in loss of precious treasures but also damaged the remaining mosaics. The museum complex consists of three units. The main building exhibits the mosaics that have been found at the ancient city of Zeugma. In the second building we find a display of a unique collection of Late Antiquity church mosaics originating from the vicinity of Gaziantep. The third building houses the executive offices and conference rooms. The museum is open now for online viewing as part of the initiative by Turkey and countries around the world to open their museums for free online viewing.
08 May 2020||May 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Music caught up with her||Bhargavi Venkatram never thought she would sing Carnatic music one day. Especially professionally. Sure, she was surrounded by it, with father and renowned violinist H.K. Venkatram and mother and aunt, Triveni and Kavitha (known as the Saralaya Sisters) exposing her to it constantly, an action that she said provided her “no respite” from what she now calls her full-time, passion-filled profession. “If anything, I loved Bharatanatyam! I would attend concerts as a virtue of my musical lineage and hum songs and ragams, but I never took it seriously,” she admits. Of the concerts she attended, vidwan and guru T.M. Krishna’s voice was “undoubtedly her favourite,” turning her, for the first time, towards Carnatic vocal music as late as the ninth standard. Music and academics “I balanced music with my studies through college and somewhere in the process of learning, I fell in love with it. By the time I finished my degree, I was sure this is what I wanted to do,” she shares. Living in Bangalore, of course, did not make things easy, with Bhargavi juxtaposing engineering exams with blink-and-miss trips to and from Chennai during the Margazhi Season, eager to soak up whatever during the month-long period. It was here that a musical home played a big role. With basics instilled at an early age by her mother and aunt and nuances honed by her father, she was able to blossom under the guidance of Krishna. It has been a decade under his tutelage and over the years, she has come to know him as a guru and a guide. Social awareness was a common attribute between Krishna and Bhargavi’s family, which runs the Prathyarpana Foundation, through which they want to give back with what they know best — the performing arts. Proceeds go to orphanages, cancer hospitals and the education of underprivileged girl children. Bhargavi calls it the most gratifying part of her artistic journey. “Art is what keeps the Earth alive, so if every artiste contributes in their own way, the world could become a much better place,” she says. “The performing arts have given us so much. If we can simply introduce that in schools across the country as part of the curriculum, it’ll give children clarity, piece of mind, and the potential to mature and face any challenge. As an artiste, we have no greater ability than to share what we know while continuing to grow and learn,” she smiles simply.
08 May 2020||May 08 2020 00:00 IST,||A special incarnation||Sending a strong message of positive spirit in connection with Narasimha Jayanti on May 6, Sri Sankara Vijayendra Saraswati, 70th pontiff of Sri Kamakoti Pitam, described the potency of Sri Lakshmi Nrisimha mantra in overcoming hurdles and trials. A special incarnation of Narayana, which was neither human nor animal, the form was in total compliance with the boon Hiranyakasipu had obtained from Brahma to thwart defeat and death. In order to prove child devotee Prahlada's words, He appeared without delay in that unique form, which caused mortal fear in the hearts of those on the wrong side and gave courage and confidence to those on the right path. Quoting from ‘Sri Lakhminrisimha Karunarasa Sthotram (Karavalambam)’ and ‘Sri Lakhminrisimha Pancharatnam’ — both composed by Adi Sankara — the Acharya exhorted people to meditate on the Nara-Simha form to lead the world out of the Pandemic situation. Also these hymns serve as ideal tools to cross the ocean of mortal life and turn the distracted human mind towards the lotus feet of Narasimha. Through prayers, the grace of the deity, worshipped and eulogised by sages, including Prahlada, Parasara, Ambareesha, Pundarika, Vyasa and so on can be obtained to overcome fear and anxiety, said the Acharya. Just as the Kalpavriksham, which is known to grant any wish, prayers to Narasimha will yield benefits. In conclusion, the Acharya said that the understanding among people, palpable during this challenging period, should blossom into a stronger link, which unites them in leading a life of Dharmic principles. Financial aid With the blessings of the Acharya, Sri Jagadguru Veda Parayana Trust has extended financial help amounting to Rs. 23 lakhs to Vedic scholars, temple priests and purohitas, Vedic volunteers and grama pujaris — 388 in all. While conducting the annual Sankara Jayanti festival in association with Veda Dharma Sastra Paripalana Sabha, the Trust contributed to traditional Maths in South India. The Trust is supported by sethubandhanam.com in this mission. Sri Kanchi Kamakoti Swamimalai Veda Parayanam Trust, a wing of Sri Kanchi Math, extended financial aid to 62 Veda Vidwans, belonging to the Thanjavur region, aged between 60 and 109 years. “Living in remote villages and small towns, these vidwans have dedicated their entire life to the service of the Vedas and have to be protected,”expressed the Managing Trustee.
08 May 2020||May 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Favourite disciple||Sound Engineer K. Balasundar (Raja to those in the film industry) who had been under the tutelage of AVM Sampath for two decades now runs his own recording studio and has been associated with about 50 films in the last two years. He says that his guru always stood by the righteous, practised truth and worked tirelessly. “I’m happy that I could serve him till the end of his life. I will always endeavour to follow the dharmic path that he showed all of us,” says Raja. “He told me recently: ‘I may not live to see that event but you will receive the National award one day.’ I’ll strive for it and his blessings will make it come true,” he adds.
08 May 2020||May 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Beat the heat with fantasy flicks||Spending the vacation with families and playing with friends were usual earlier. The sweltering heat wouldn’t dampen the spirit. But in the current situation, staying indoors and playing games on consoles or ipads have become the new normal. But @PriveHD and @flix are all set to fight the ennui by airing a series of films and animated comedies as part of ‘Summer Time Flix’ and bringing tales of incredible escapades with ‘Journeys Beyond.’ The line-up has been on air from May 1, weeknights at 9 p.m. Watch ‘Monsters University’, ‘Hotel Transylvania’, ‘Beauty and The Beast’, ‘The Emoji Movie’, ‘The Angry Birds 2’ and ‘Ratatouille’ on @flix.   Also get ready to embark on an exciting expedition and witness world’s unseen places with ‘Journeys Beyond’ on @PrivéHD.
08 May 2020||May 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Finance workshop||An online workshop on long-term financial planning for artistes will be conducted on May 9, 10-11.30 a.m. Lavanya Mohan will anchor the session, titled ‘For the Future,’ organised by Shreya Nagarajan Singh of Arts Development Consultancy. For registrations:www.shreyanagarajansingh.com. For more information: consultancy@shreyanagarajansingh.com
08 May 2020||May 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Studio in his name||The AVM family, which runs the Avichi College of Science and Arts has decided to name the new recording studio that is coming up inside the campus as ‘Sampath Studio’ in recognition of his contribution. Just before the lockdown, Sampath lent his technical brilliance and assistance to design, construct and commission a modern recording theatre for the students of the college. Work was progressing at a brisk pace when the lockdown intervened.
08 May 2020||May 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Honour for Covid crusaders||To celebrate the heroes who are helping to keep people safe in these difficult times, Radio Channel 93.5 RED FM & Music Plus have launched the ‘Rise India Awards’ series, to be aired till May 29, Fridays, 7 p.m. In the first episode, to go on air today, five COVID crusaders from different walks of life will be felicitated. The virtual award show will feature well-known Indian musicians and composers who will interact with these heroes while performing from their homes. These are incredible stories about some wonderful things that people are doing despite all odds. While some are risking their lives to save people despite not being in the frontline roles, there are others who are helping during this crisis by opening their doors for all healthcare workers. Artistes to be featured in the first episode are Amit Trivedi, Shankar Mahadevan, Siddharth Mahadevan, Shivam Mahadevan, Rekha Bhardwaj, Asees Kaur and Neeti Mohan. RED FM & Music Plus is encouraging people to nominate their COVID-19 crusaders by logging on to the RED FM India app. First of the four events, will be streamed on RED FM’s Facebook and YouTube handles today, 7 p.m.
08 May 2020||May 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Pattimanram on theatre||After uploading short skits, the Tamil theatre community has ventured into the debate area. With veteran Kathadi Ramamurthi as the moderator, a Pattimanram is happening on Facebook. The topic is about the state of Tamil theatre today. Four speakers on either side will argue for and against. The speakers giving the thumbs up are Bombay Chanakya, Srinivasan, Augusto and Lakshmi. On the other side are T.V. Radhakrishnan, Poovaimani, Gopalakrishnan and Jayasri Pritham. On May 9 and 10, 9 p.m. onwards.
08 May 2020||May 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Online manodharma contest||For the 612th jayanthi of composer Annamacharya, a two-day manodharma competition, based on Annamayya’s compositions, will be held online on May 16 and 17. Contestants can register at annamayya.siliconandhra.org or sampada.siliconandhra.org. Last date is May 10. SiliconAndhra, a cultural organisation based in the Silicon Valley (Bay Area), California, in association with SAMPADA, SiliconAndhra Music, Performing Arts and Dance Academy, is conducting the contest.
08 May 2020||May 08 2020 00:00 IST,||A peek into her life||Looking back, Madhu feels good about the long conversations she used to have with her mother. “Despite our busy schedules, we would take time out for each other. She would often talk about Pt. Shambhu Maharaj, the artistic milieu of the time, nuances of choreography, her interactions with well-known personalities and her travails and triumphs. I realised her memories and journey need to be documented. It led to the launch of her autobiography, Maya Rao: A Lifetime in Choreography. Its pages hold a fascinating dance story,” says Madhu Nataraj.
08 May 2020||May 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Ramayana revisited||Dangal TVhas relaunched ‘Ramayana.’ With Gurmeet Choudhary as Rama and Debina Bonnerjee as Sita, the serial is being telecast since April 26. Spread over 300 episodes, it can be viewed on the channel at 7.30 p.m. with a re-run at 9.30 a.m. the next day.
08 May 2020||May 08 2020 00:00 IST,||08fr_tubewatch||Vendhar Holly vs. Kolly Get to know everything about the making of films, both Tamil and English, in this new show. Saturday and Sunday, 5 p.m.
08 May 2020||New Delhi,||‘Nation not prepared for communal disharmony during COVID-19 crisis’||A Delhi court has directed registration of FIR against two women for allegedly passing communal remarks against Muslims living in Lal Kuan here while also violating lockdown norms by roaming on the roads without any permit. Duty Magistrate Rishabh Kapoor, at the Tis Hazari Courts, remarked that “the area of occurrence is a sensitive area which has already witnessed a communal tension on previous occasion...” “If the incident like the one in question are not taken to law, it will lead to communal disharmony and disturbance in public peace and tranquillity, for which the nation is not prepared in the present time of the ongoing COVID-19 crisis,” the judge said. Advocate Shadman Ahmed Siddiqui, who represented the complainant — a resident of the locality — stated that on April 16 at about 11.30 p.m. at Rodgram, Lal Kuan, two unknown women carrying rods came roaming in the streets and passed communal remarks. The complainant also alleged the two women smashed the doors of the residences and shops in the vicinity. The incident was captured and video recorded. Advocate Siddiqui argued that the incident was reported to the Police Station Hauz Qazi, but no FIR has since been registered. In the Action Taken Report (ATR), Delhi Police stated that the women involved were identified as one Mamta and one Suraiya, who were feeding the stray dogs on the streets. It stated that Mamta was carrying a stick in the hand and people of Rodgram had a heated exchange of words with both the women. The ATR also stated that no religious comments were passed by the women, who were working with NGO Mahila Samiti. The court, however, noted that the nature of remarks passed by the women have been specifically narrated by the complainant and that the incident had occurred on April 16 during the nationwide lockdown. “Therefore, it emerges that they have prima facie acted in contravention of section 188 IPC, which is a cognisable offence,” the court said. The court, additionally, remarked that, “the vicinity of occurrence has already witnessed a communal tension on a previous incident owing to a parking dispute, and the video recording of the present incident also stands uploaded on YouTube, which may lead to escalation of communal disharmony in the vicinity”. The court ordered the Police Station Hauz Qazi to register an FIR for offences under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant), 153A (promoting enmity on ground of religion), and 295A (deliberate acts intended to outrage religious feelings).
08 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Constable’s last rites performed in presence of medical team||The last rites of Delhi Police constable Amit Kumar, who died of COVID-19 two days ago, were performed on Thursday in the presence of his family members and senior police officers. According to guidelines, in case of a COVID-19 death, a post-mortem is not conducted and therefore, the constable’s mortal remains were taken straight from Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital to Punjabi Bagh cremation ground in the afternoon. Outside the cremation ground Joint Commissioner of Police (Northern Range) Manish Agrawal, Deputy Commissioner of Police (North West) Vijayanta Arya, Station House Officers of different police stations of the district and a few other officials were present. Kumar’s brother, father, brother-in-law, father-in-law and a few others from his village were also present. As the ambulance carrying the constable’s body entered the crematorium, flowers were showered on the vehicle to bid him a final goodbye. An officer present at the site said that according to the protocol, the body was taken inside the cremation ground by the medical team while everyone else waited outside. Ms. Arya said that she had spoken to Kumar’s family on Tuesday and again on Wednesday and expressed her condolences. Commissioner of Police, S.N. Shrivastava, in a tweet, said that he had spoken to the family on Tuesday and assured that Delhi Police will provide all help. In a parallel development, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, condoling the Constable’s death, announced on Twitter that the Delhi government will provide his family with an ex-gratia of Rs. 1 crore.
08 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Jamia Millia announces reworked schedules for academic session||Jamia Millia Islamia on Thursday announced that the Academic Council of the university has reworked the schedules for admissions for the session 2020-21. The last date for submission of online application forms for the session 2020-21 has been extended to May 31 and the entrance tests will start from August 1. The new academic session, it said, will begin from September 1. The decision was taken in an online meeting of the council. The university said that the online classes will be held till May 30 and students will have to submit all assignments by June 5. “Examination for only final semester/year students will be held offline between July 1 and July 31 at the the university. Summer vacations, the university said, have been scheduled between June 15 and June 30. The university will reopen and classes for regular students will start from August 1.
08 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Youngsters roped in to help needy fill online forms for govt. schemes||In outer-north Delhi’s Narela, five youngsters have been roped in to help technologically challenged and needy people with online application for services provided by the Delhi government . Deputy Commissioner of Police (Outer North) Gaurav Sharma said that in order to overcome the issues faced by people who are not educated or are not technologically sound to be able to fill up online applications for free ration and other services, the five tech-savvy youngsters have been hired for filling these forms free of cost. Implementation plans “People have to pay Rs. 50 to Rs. 300 to get it done otherwise,” Mr. Sharma said, adding that the initiative has begun only in a few areas and will be implemented across Narela in phases.  Mr. Sharma said that the initiative has led to filling up forms for 7,300 families, that is 29,236 members, on these websites and “this drive will be continued till each and every poor and needy person gets the benefit of these government schemes”.
08 May 2020||GURUGRAM,||Haryana may unveil Land on Lease Policy||With a view to address the issue of swelling land cost for industry, Haryana may soon come up with Land on Lease Policy. It would enable investors to operate on land taken on lease and at a later point in time convert it to a freehold asset, subject to certain terms and conditions. Rajesh Khullar, Principal Secretary to Chief Minister and Chairman, Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation (HSIIDC) informed this at the State’s first webinar held in Chandigarh on Wednesday. This initiative to cut down the cost of doing business in Haryana received overwhelming response from the investors. The webinars are aimed at facilitating shifting of manufacturing from China to Haryana. During the webinar, a detailed discussion was held on the special policies of the government that would make Haryana a viable destination for immediate shifting of manufacturing units from China. It also elicited suggestions for promoting business resilience of many sectors whose supply chains have been disrupted by the Corona pandemic. Suggestions galore The inclusion of Information Technology electronic products in the list of essential items and promoting a truckers park in the State were some of the suggestions at the first of a series of webinars with multiple investors. Prominent Multinational companies like Dell, Yazaki India, Danisco India Pvt. Ltd., Johnson Matthey India, Jyoti Apparels, Hind Terminals UAE, Ascendas First Space, Reliance and Coca-Cola India participated in the event.
08 May 2020||New Delhi,||Students express solidarity with Safoora||Women students on Thursday expressed solidarity with jailed Jamia Millia Islamia student Safoora Zargar, who is three-month pregnant and is being trolled online over the identity of her unborn child’s father. The students used #WithSafooraAgainstSlander on social media, demanding that the online “slandering” against her must stop. Some students even posted their pictures carrying placards with slogans like ‘Free Safoora’ and ‘Drop charges against her’ and sought a legal action against those maligning her online. Jawaharlal Nehru University Students’ Union president Aishe Ghosh tweeted a picture of Ms. Zargar and wrote, “A pregnant woman, been put behind the bars and the s*** shamming she is facing. Is this what makes our country great ? Arrest #KapilMishra #WithSafooraAgainstSlander.” On Wednesday, the Delhi Commission For Women had issued a notice to the police over trolls “slandering” Ms. Zargar on the social media. Ms. Zargar, the media coordinator of the Jamia Coordination Committee, was arrested in April in connection with anti-CAA protests in north-east Delhi’s Jaffrabad in February. Later, she was booked under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act in a case related to the communal violence over the Citizenship (Amendment) Act in north-east district and sent to Tihar jail.
08 May 2020||New Delhi,||Over one-third of cases in city recorded from May 1 to May 6||Of the total 5,532 COVID-19 cases reported in Delhi till Wednesday, more than one-third were recorded from May 1 to May 6. On Wednesday 428 fresh cases were reported in the Capital, the largest number in a single day. The previous largest spike in a day was 427 on May 3. From May 1-6, 2,017 cases were recorded. Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain said on Wednesday that cases in Delhi were now doubling in 11 days, which was 13 days earlier. “It is so because a lot of reports were pending whose results are now coming out,” the Minister said.
08 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Forum calls for rethink on online teaching||The Joint Forum for Movement on Education (JFME) has written to Human Resource Development Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal, asking him to rethink the government’s decision to promote online teaching, assessment and examinations as a systemic alternative to formal education. “While academic engagement through e-resources during the period of lockdown is unexceptionable, any attempt to formalise it as online teaching/examination through specific modes is unreasonable and unacceptable,” the forum said. It also said that in India, there was lack of institutional support with uneven internet access and non-uniform and non-conducive domestic environment for learning. ‘Revise circulars’ “Education is about continuous human interaction and critical engagement through dialogue and questioning for which a formal classroom space is essential,” the forum said, urging the Minister to revise circulars and policies in this regard. The JFME is an umbrella organisation representing associations of university and college teachers, schoolteachers, non-teaching university staff, students, parents and other organisations working for scientific and democratic education.
08 May 2020||GURUGRAM,||Ashok- hospital brief||A three-day-old child, born with ‘Hpoplastic Left Heart Syndrome’, a complex heart condition, was transported 320 km in an ambulance from Himachal Pradesh to Artemis Hospital in Sector 50 here within three hours, amid lockdown. The operation went successful and the baby is recovering in the ICU. Dr. Aseem Ranjan Shrivastava, Head, Paediatric Cardiac Surgery, Artemis Hospital said, “When we received the baby, he was struggling to survive.”
