08 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Govt. intervention in education policy should be minimal: PM||The government’s intervention in the education policy should be “minimal”, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Monday, emphasising that the policy belonged to the whole country, rather than to any particular government in power. Mr. Modi was addressing the inaugural session of the Governors’ conference on the National Education Policy (NEP), which is being attended by State Education Ministers and Vice-Chancellors. The focus of the conference is on the implementation of NEP. “The education policy and the education system are important means of fulfilling the aspirations of the country. The Central and the State governments, as well as local bodies, all have responsibility for the education system. But it is also true that the government’s interference or intervention in education policy should be minimal,” he said. “Just as the foreign policy or defence policy are the policies of the country, not of the government, so is the education policy. It belongs to the whole country,” he noted, urging a “collective responsibility” in implementing the policy. The Prime Minister urged the States to hold consultations with stakeholders on the implementation of the policy by September 25. “When we move towards change, it’s natural for doubts and questions to arise in people’s minds,” he said. ‘Hold discussions’ Parents may have questions about subject stream flexibility, teachers may want to know about the curriculum design and other stakeholders may have doubts about the availability of resources needed to implement the NEP. “It’s important to discuss all the provisions and the nitty-gritty of this document. It can only be implemented once all the doubts and questions in people’s minds are addressed,” Mr. Modi said. With Governors being the Chancellors of the 400-plus universities — which have more than 40,000 affiliated colleges — they have a crucial role to play in the implementation of the NEP. Further consultations would be held with the central universities on September 19. Mr. Modi said the NEP 2020 provided a vision for a new India of the 21st century, in line with its aspirations to be a self-reliant power. The Prime Minister felt it would help transform the country into a “knowledge economy” and tackle brain drain by paving the way to open local campuses of global educational institutions. The policy would also prepare the country’s youth for the jobs of the future, in a world where the nature of work was undergoing change. The focus on critical thinking, instead of mere curricular studying, as well as the emphasis on vocational education, would equip Indian students with the skills needed for the global workforce, he pointed out.  President’s call Addressing the conference, President Ram Nath Kovind urged the Central and State governments to increase their percentage of investment in research and innovation. Mr. Kovind noted that such investment was only 0.7% of the GDP in India, in comparison to 2.8% in the U.S., 4.2% in South Korea and 4.3% in Israel. “Education is the most effective means of social justice and personal advancement. There is no better investment than that in education to improve the future of society,” he said. The goal of investing 6% of the GDP in public education had remained unreachable since it was originally made in the 1968 Education Policy, the President added.
08 September 2020||HUBBALLI,||Long-pending Belagavi-Dharwad railway line via Kittur sanctioned||The long-pending demand for a new railway line between Belagavi and Dharwad via Kittur has been sanctioned by the Railway Board. Addressing presspersons in Belagavi on Monday, Minister of State for Railways Suresh Angadi said that the new 73-km railway project between Belagavi and Dharwad via Kittur would be taken up at total cost of Rs. 927.40 crore. At present, although there is rail connectivity, it is a circuitous route taking almost three hours and people of the region had been demanding a shorter route. Mr. Angadi said that with the new line, the distance between the three important cities Hubballi, Dharwad and Belagavi would be reduced significantly and consequently, the running time would also be reduced. The new line would also improve connectivity to places along the Pune-Bengaluru National Highway, he said. This new line would connect important places such as Kittur, MK Hubballi and Bagewadi and the distance between Belagavi and Dharwad would be reduced by 31 km. There will be 11 railway railway stations along the new line, including the four stations already in existence, namely Dharwad, Kyarakoppa, Desur and Belagavi. The new stations are Mummigatti, Teguru, Kittur, Hulikatti, MK Hubballi, Bagewadi and Kanvikarvinkoppa. Mr. Angadi said that the State government had already agreed to provide free land and also share the construction cost. Meanwhile, South Western Railway General Manager Ajay Kumar Singh has said that the State government and the Railways were working in co-ordination for easy connectivity and the proposed new line would be a significant milestone in the State in rail connectivity. As per the authorities, under the project, Rs. 755.69 crore is being spent for civil engineering works, Rs. 25.93 crore for electrical works, Rs. 67.79 crore for electrification and Rs. 77.99 crore for signal and telecommunication.
08 September 2020||HUBBALLI,||10 arrested in three cases, 4.5 kg ganja seized in Hubballi-Dharwad||Based on information, the Hubballi-Dharwad Police have arrested 10 persons, including a student, in three different cases of drug peddling and have recovered 4.536 kilograms of ganja from the accused. In Dharwad, the Town Police on Monday arrested six persons and recovered 3.1 kilogram of ganja worth Rs. 62,000 from them. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order) Krishnakant gave the names of arrested as Pruthvi Kondepalli from Jai Bheem Nagar, Sarkar Madalagi from Soudagar Chawl, Javed Badami from Rasoolpur Oni, Mehboob Pathan from Nizamuddin Colony, Mohammad Sadiq Khatib from Masalgar Oni and Abdul Khadersab Davangere from Attikolla in Dharwad. Another accused identified as Rajesab Hanchinal from Navalur is absconding. He told presspersons that the accused were using a car to deliver the consignment to customers and were arrested while they were waiting for customers near Nucchambli Bhavi. The arrested have been remanded in judicial custody. A special team headed by Assistant Commissioner of Police G. Anusha has been constituted to trace the supply chain. In Hubballi, the staff of Keshwapur Police Station arrested three persons and recovered 600 grams of ganja from them. The names of the accused have been given as Yashwanth Muniget (22), Nelson Yohan Myla (24) and an ITI student Prashanth Bappore (20), all residents of Hubballi. In another case in Hubballi, the Gokul Road Police have arrested Imamsab Bijapur (55) and recovered 836 grams of ganja from him. Another accused Maruti Haranshikari is absconding, the police said.
08 September 2020||Bengaluru,||Drug menace: City police conduct a series of raids, arrest 31 people||The Bengaluru police, who are conducting a special special drive against the sale and use of drugs, recovered at least Rs. 2 crore worth of illegal substances, including marijuana and ecstasy, and arrested 31 people in a series of raids on Monday. The East division police alone registered as many as 294 cases, arrested 19 people and booked a total of 320 persons, S. Murugan, Additional Commissioner of Police (East) said. The South East division police, as part of the drive, arrested 10 persons including four students. “Some of the dealers we have arrested may have links with those accused in the case that the Central Crime Branch is probing, which is linked to the Kannada film industry,” said another senior police official. Darknet gang busted One of the bigger drug bust involved the arrest of 11 people who are allegedly part of a ring that imported party drugs like ecstasy and LSD from aboard. They sourced the drugs on the darknet, paid for them with cryptocurrency like Bitcoin, and then used app-based delivery services to courier the shipped consignments to their clients in Bengaluru. “They sold the drugs using Dunzo and Rapido Bike delivery personnel,” said the police in a press release. Two men who work with these platforms have been arrested. The police seized Rs. 90 lakh worth 1,100 LSD strips, 980 MDMA or ecstasy tablets, 450 grams of MDMA crystal better known by its street name ‘meow meow’, 25 grams of brown sugar, 500 ml marijuana oil, and 48 kg of ganja from the gang. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa said there was no question of the government protecting anyone. “The investigation will continue. The objective is to protect our youth from falling prey to drug menace,” he said.
08 September 2020||GUNTUR,||Jagan tears into critics on English medium||Hitting out at those opposing the introduction of English medium in government schools, Chief Minister Y.S Jagan Mohan Reddy has remarked that he could sense it as a ‘masked untouchability’. “We are hearing a lot of strident voices against introduction of English as a medium of instruction in government schools. Some of them are even opposing the introduction of pre-primary education. I pray God that there would be a change in their mindset,” Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said while launching the twin nutrition schemes for pregnant women, lactating mothers and children -- ‘YSR Sampoorna Poshana’, and ‘YSR Sampoorna Poshana Plus’ at the CM’s camp office in Tadepalli on Monday. The twin nutritious and well-being schemes would cover 30.16 mothers and their children in 55,607 anganwadi centres, said Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy. “A healthy body leads to a healthy mind. I am aware that a lot of children are suffering due to malnutrition. Lactating mothers also need nutritional support. We are including all the nutrition supplements in the nutrition kits and we are spending Rs. 1,863.11 crore on the two schemes. While the YSR Sampoorna Poshana is intended for plain areas, the YSR Sampoorna Poshana Plus is designed for tribals. We are also launching an app providing a pocket book on health and an SOP booklet. I am surprised that no one had ever given a thought to this aspect, whether our children are healthy or not? Are they being given nutritional support? As we believe that children would shape the world, we have decided to implement the schemes which cover children from the age of six months to six years,” said the Chief Minister. Malnutrition Stating that economic and social backwardness in families reflects on the growth of children, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said that children could suffer from malnutrition, stunted growth and a decreased capacity to learn. “A study showed that 53% of women in the State suffer from anaemia, 31.9% of infants are born with less weight and 17.2% of children suffer stunted growth and this reflects the sorry state of affairs over the years.” Further, as many as 55,607 anganwadi centres would get a complete facelift under the `Nadu-Nedu’ scheme, Mr. Jagan said. Minister for Women and Child Welfare T. Vanitha, Minister for Municipal Administration and Urban Development Botcha Satyanarayana, Minister for BC Welfare M. Sankara Narayana and others were present.
08 September 2020||New Delhi,||Hypersonic cruise vehicle test puts India in elite club||The hypersonic air-breathing scramjet technology was successfully demonstrated by the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO) on Monday with a flight test of the hypersonic technology demonstrator vehicle (HSTDV), which will lead to the development of hypersonic cruise missiles and vehicles in future. “It’s a major technological breakthrough in the country. This testing paves the way for development of more critical technologies, materials and hypersonic vehicles. This puts India in a select club of nations that have demonstrated this technology,” DRDO chairman G. Satheesh Reddy said. A test of the technology demonstrator was conducted in June 2019. “With this success, all critical technologies are now established to progress to the next phase,” Defence Minister Rajnath Singh tweeted. The HSTDV took off at 11.03 a.m. from the Dr. APJ Abdul Kalam launch complex on Wheeler Island off the Odisha coast. “The hypersonic cruise vehicle was launched using a proven solid rocket motor, which took it to an altitude of 30 km, where the aerodynamic heat shields were separated at hypersonic speed,” the DRDO said in a statement. The cruise vehicle separated from the launch vehicle and the air intake opened as planned. “The hypersonic combustion sustained and the cruise vehicle continued on its desired flight path at a velocity of six times the speed of sound, which is nearly 2 km/s, for more than 20s,” it added. ‘Major breakthrough’ With this technology, cruise missiles could now travel at hypersonic speeds, a defence source said. “Scramjet engine is a major breakthrough. Air goes inside the engine at supersonic speed and comes out at hypersonic speeds,” the source noted. The vehicle reaches a certain altitude, then cruises and also reaches very high temperatures, up to 1,000°-2,000° Celsius, during re-entry. “After the Anti-Satellite Test, this is the biggest achievement recently,” the source pointed out. Critical events such as fuel injection and auto ignition of the scramjet demonstrated technological maturity, the DRDO said. “The scramjet engine performed in a textbook manner. It worked at high dynamic pressure and at very high temperature.” Prime Minister Narendra Modi congratulated the DRDO on Twitter. “The scramjet engine developed by our scientists helped the flight achieve a speed six times the speed of sound! Very few countries have such capability today.”
08 September 2020||KOCHI,||Kakkanad metro extension may get nod||Kochi metro trains began commercial operations from the Pettah station at 2 p.m. on Monday, an hour after Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and Union Minister for Housing and Urban Affairs, Hardip Singh Puri, flagged off the 1.3 km-long Thykoodam-Pettah extension, through videoconferencing from Thiruvananthapuram and New Delhi respectively. The commissioning of the extension signals the end of the Rs. 6,218-crore first phase of the Kochi Metro Rail project. Earlier in the day, metro trains resumed service in the Aluva-Thykoodam corridor after a break of over five months following COVID-19 precautions. Mr. Puri expressed the hope that the extension would increase the daily ridership from 65,000 (during pre-COVID days) to over 1 lakh. “The 11-km-long Kakkanad metro extension up to Infopark that KMRL has proposed, is under the Centre’s active consideration and will hopefully be accorded approval soon. Home to a population of over 20 lakh, Kochi is one of the fastest-growing urban agglomerations in India. The upcoming Water Metro project (in the Greater Kochi area) will be commissioned in early 2021. This will further enhance Kochi’s position on the global tourism map,” he said. Bicycles, e-autos The number of e-autos in Kochi would shortly increase from 15 to 200. This was in addition to 5,000 bicycles that would be introduced in Kochi as part of the Smart Cities Mission project, he said. The Chief Minister said that the Centre’s nod for the Kakkanad extension was keenly awaited. The State government had given its approval for the project and also earmarked funds for preparatory works such as road widening, he said. The function also saw Mr. Vijayan unveiling a plaque, announcing the formal commencement of work on the metro viaduct from SN Junction to Thripunithura. The 3-km Pettah-Thripunithura stretch is expected to cost Rs. 1,066 crore. DMRC’s role KMRL Managing Director Alkesh Kumar Sarma thanked DMRC (the project’s implementing agency), especially Metroman E. Sreedharan, and the workforce which comprised mostly workers from other States, for completing the 25.2 km-long first phase of the metro.
08 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Unlock 4.0: State issues guidelines||The State government on Monday issued Unlock 4.0 guidelines for phased reopening of the State outside containment zones subject to adherence to certain standard operating procedures (SOP), and extension of the lockdown in such areas till September 30. According to G.O. RT No. 390 issued by Chief Secretary Nilam Sawhney, all activities will be permitted outside the containment zones except schools, colleges and educational and coaching institutions. They will remain closed for students and regular class activity up to September 30. However, the following will be permitted: online/distance learning, calling up to 50% of teaching and non-teaching staff to schools for online teaching / tele-counselling and related work (in areas outside the containment zones only) and students of classes 9 to 12 visiting their schools voluntarily for taking guidance from their teachers subject to written consent of parents/guardians from September 21. Skill / entrepreneurship training in certain institutes will be permitted from September 21. Higher educational institutions only for research scholars (Ph.D.) and post-graduate students of technical and professional programmes requiring laboratory/ experimental work will be permitted by the Department of Higher Education in consultation with Minister of Home Affairs based on the assessment of the prevalence of COVID-19. Social, academic, sports, entertainment, cultural, religious, political functions and other congregations of up to 100 persons will be permitted from September 21 with mandatory wearing of face masks, social distancing, provision for thermal scanning and hand wash or sanitiser. Gatherings Marriage-related gatherings with number of guests not exceeding 50 and funeral / last rites with the number of persons not more than 20 will be allowed up to September 20 after which a ceiling of 100 persons will be made applicable. Cinema halls, swimming pools, entertainment parks and theatres will remain closed. Open air theatres will be allowed to open from September 21.
08 September 2020||New Delhi/ Mumbai,||Kangana gets Y plus CRPF cover||The Union Home Ministry on Monday accorded central security cover to actor Kangana Ranaut, a senior Ministry official said. The decision to accord Y plus security to the actor was taken after assessment by intelligence agencies, another official added. The Bollywood actor has been engaged in a Twitter spat with the Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress government in Maharashtra after the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput. She has been living at her family home in Himachal Pradesh’s Manali for the past few months but plans to return to Mumbai later this week. The Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), deployed in internal security duties, will provide cover for Ms. Ranaut across the country, said the official. Y plus category entails that the individual will be protected by 11-12 personnel round the clock. The CRPF currently provides security to about 60 dignitaries and high-profile persons, including Union Home Minister Amit Shah and Chief Justice of India S.A. Bobde. It was not clear if the actor will pay for the security cover. Industrialist Mukesh Ambani, who also has CRPF cover, pays a fee to the government for using the services. The second official said, “The security cover to the actor has been granted on the basis of an assessment done by the intelligence agencies. In such cases the government doesn’t seek charges from the personality.” Responding to the development, Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh said it is “surprising and sad” that the actor had been provided central security. Later in the afternoon, the actor tweeted that the Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) officials had come to her office and threatened to demolish the property on Tuesday. Ms. Ranaut said: “  I am informed tomorrow they are demolishing my property.” Speaking in the Assembly on Monday, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray said “some people don’t have gratitude for the city where they earn their livelihood”.
08 September 2020||Pune,||Maharashtra adds 16,500 new COVID-19 cases||Maharashtra reported 16,429 COVID-19 cases on Monday to take its total case tally to 9,23,641. A high fatality surge of 423 deaths pushed the death toll to 27,027. The number of active cases stands at 2,36,934. As many as 14,922 patients were discharged on Monday to take the total recoveries till date to 6,59,322. Of the 423 deaths, 217 fatalities are from the last 48 hours while 96 deaths have occurred last week. The remaining 110 deaths have occurred in the period prior to last week, said State Health Department authorities. “Of a total 47,05,932 laboratory samples tested thus far, 9,23,641 (19.63%) have returned positive with nearly 58,000 samples across the State being tested in the last 24 hours. The State’s recovery rate stood at 71.38%,” said State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate, adding that the case fatality rate had now marginally reduced to 2.93%. Mumbai reported 1,788 cases to take its total case tally to 1,57,410 of whom 24,150 are active cases. With 31 deaths the city’s toll now stands at 7,900. Pune reported more than 3,500 cases to take its total case tally to 2,03,468. The district reported 41 deaths to take its total death toll to 4,470. As per the Pune district administration, the number of active cases in the district stood just below 35,000 with the district’s recovery rate above 80%. However, Nagpur district in Vidarbha reported a record-high surge of 152 deaths. At least 79 of these occurred in the last few months and had only just been added to the tally, according to the authorities. The district’s total death toll has now shot to 1,052. The district also reported another spike of 1,383 new cases taking the district’s total case tally to 39,471, of whom 17,088 are active. In western Maharashtra, Kolhapur reported 1,260 new cases, taking its total tally to 28,218 of whom 9,272 are active while 18 new deaths saw the district’s death toll rise to 796. Neighbouring Sangli reported 632 cases, which the district’s total case tally rose to 19,233 of whom 8,146 are active. Seven deaths took the district’s death toll to 568. Satara district reported 410 cases to take its total case tally to 19,022 of whom 7,559 are active. Seven new deaths took its cumulative death toll to 432. In the Mumbai Metropolitan Region (MMR), Thane reported 651 new cases, taking its total case tally above 50,500, while six deaths saw the count rise to 1,550. The Panvel civic body on the other hand, reported a sharp rise of 30 deaths and 259 cases to take its total death toll to 333 and its total case tally to 14,817. Dr. Awate informed that currently, a total 15,17,066 persons across the State were in home quarantine and 38,349 were in institutional quarantine facilities.
08 September 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha villagers set to join mobile highway||Thousands of villagers in Odisha’s Malkangiri district are set to enjoy uninterrupted cellular service for the first time in their lives. Due to threats from left wing extremists, mobile towers could not be installed until now in Swabhiman Anchal (formerly known as Cut-off area). Located along the Odisha-Andhra Pradesh border, Swabhiman Anchal comprises 151 villages. The area, surrounded by water on three sides and by inhospitable terrain on another, became less remote after the construction of Gurupriya Bridge, which connected the zone with the rest of the State in 2018. “It is a landmark day as mobile network connectivity is being started in Swabhiman Area at the villages of Pipalapadar, Hantalguda, and Jantapal, which did not have mobile connectivity earlier,” Malkangiri District Collector Manish Agarwal said on Monday. Voice and 4G data Seven towers at Pipalapadar, Hantalguda, Jantapai, Tunnel Camp, Dyke-III, Darlabeda and Chitrakonda were planned by Bharti Infratel Limited. Trial runs for four mobile towers were successful. “Now people of these villages will get voice connectivity and 4G data network which will enable them to get connected with the rest of the world,” Mr. Agarwal said, adding that it will help bring about development in Swabhiman Anchal. Odisha accounts for the highest number of villages that do not have mobile phone service in India. Over the recent years, since the deployment of the Border Security Force in 2010, the region has been witnessing a turnaround with intensified counter- Maoist operations by BSF and State Police. Malkangiri has been one of the most violence-hit districts in the country with as many as 332 Maoist incidents recorded in 12 years between 2008 and 2020.
08 September 2020||HYDERABAD,||Cabinet nod for several bills, ordinances||The Council of Ministers chaired by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has approved several bills and ordinances planned to be introduced in the ongoing monsoon session of Telangana Legislature, including a couple of bills on revenue – for the abolition of the posts of village revenue officers and rights in land and pattadar passbooks. According to the Chief Minister’s office, the meeting discussed all the bills and ordinances to be introduced and the issues to be taken up for discussion from the government side during the session. The bills approved by the State Cabinet include The Telangana Abolition of the Posts of Village Revenue Officers Bill, 2020 and The Telangana Rights in Land and Pattadar Passbooks Bill, 2020. The Cabinet is said to have approved the administrative sanction for the expenditure for the demolition of old Secretariat buildings and construction of the new Secretariat complex. Further, the Council of Ministers has given the nod for amendments to the Telangana Municipality Act, 2019, Panchayat Raj & Rural Development – Gram Panchayats – Transfer of Non-Agricultural Property Act, 2018 and Telangana GST Act, 2017. Further, Telangana State Private Universities Act Amendment Ordinance, 2020 and The Telangana Disaster and Public Health Emergency Ordinance, 2020. Other bills approved by the Cabinet include The Telangana Fiscal Responsibility and Budget Management Bill, 2020, ordinance on increasing the retirement age limit of teachers in Ayush Medical Colleges, Telangana State B-Pass Bill, amendments in the Telangana Court Fee and Suits Valuation Act, 1956 and The Telangana Civil Courts Act, 1972. Earlier in the day, at the TRS Legislature Party meeting held at the party headquarters, Telangana Bhavan, the Chief Minister is said to have stated that there were no plans for launching a national party as of now and he would discuss it with party leaders whenever the time was ripe. However, it is not known as to why Mr. Rao had commented on the issue of the national party. Party sources said KCR had given the direction to party MLAs and MLCs on the strategy to be adopted during the monsoon session. He told the party Chief Whip and Whips to guide the members as per the LP decision to speak on various issues allotted to them by doing proper homework on the subject and sticking to the time allotted to them on the floor of the House. Members of Parliament from the party also attended the Legislature Party meeting as special invitees and they too were given directions on the party’s strategy in both houses of Parliament. Before the commencement of the meeting, KCR and other leaders of the party paid floral tributes to late Ramalinga Reddy by garlanding his portrait.
08 September 2020||Kolkata,||COVID-19 cases in West Bengal rise to 1.83 lakh||West Bengal on Monday recorded 3,077 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total number of cases to 1,83,865. The State also recorded 58 deaths in the past 24 hours, taking the total death toll to 3,620. Of the 58 deaths, 16 were reported in Kolkata, 13 in North 24 Parganas, eight in Howrah and six in Hooghly. This takes the death toll due to COVID-19 in the three districts to 1,392, 820 and 420 respectively. These three districts account for about 70% of the mortalities. In terms of daily case rise, North 24 Parganas topped the chart with 576 fresh COVID-19 cases in the past 24 hours, taking total case tally to 38,287. Meanwhile, Kolkata recorded 458 cases, taking total cases to 43,542. The recovery rate stands at 85.4% with 42,216 samples being tested in 24 hours. The total samples tested have crossed 22 lakh. First lockdown in Sept. Meanwhile, the State observed its first total lockdown in September on Monday. It was largely successful with fewer people and vehicles on the road. The Kolkata Police prosecuted 622 people for violating safety restrictions and 422 for not wearing masks, as of 6 p.m. The State will observe a complete lockdown on September 11 and 12.
08 September 2020||Kolkata,||21 boys trafficked from Bihar rescued in Kolkata||The Kolkata police on Monday rescued 21 minor boys who were allegedly trafficked to the city from Samastipur in Bihar, most likely to be engaged as child labourers. The children were intercepted at the Babughat bus stand early on Monday morning. “It was found that 21 minor boys were being trafficked from Samastipur in the bus by Md. Ayshan (22), Md. Afjal (28), Md. Chand (23) and others… After investigation, the three accused in the FIR have been arrested,” the police said. A case has been registered under Section 370 of Indian Penal Code. The rescued children were taken to a child care institution in Kolkata and are likely to return to their homes after necessary legal formalities. The police worked on a tip-off by the Bachapan Bachao Andolan (BBA), an organisation working for child rights. Deep Banerjee and Swagata Sen, two representatives of the BBA, waited with the police through the night for the vehicle. The children were likely to be engaged in a bangle manufacturing unit in Howrah. There are several reports of how the lockdown has impacted children and made them more vulnerable to trafficking. In certain districts where the impact of cyclone Amphan has been severe, there have been reports of an increase in child marriages along with trafficking.
08 September 2020||CHENNAI,||T.N. aims for $100 bn. electronics output||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Monday released the Tamil Nadu Electronics Hardware Manufacturing Policy, 2020, aimed at increasing the electronics industry output to $100 billion by 2025. The policy categorises the districts into three groups to administer the State-level incentives. “We intend to promote districts that are industrially backward. The electronics manufacturing sector is predominantly clustered in Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur districts,” an official said. The policy also elaborates on the financial incentives for large and mega categories of investors, besides financial incentives for micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs). The incentives include capital subsidy, subsidy on land lease cost, stamp duty exception, training subsidy, interest subsidy, exemption of electricity tax, environment protection infrastructure and subsidy for intellectual capital and enhanced quality certification. Though the Tamil Nadu industrial policy gives a broad outline of the State’s policies for investment, the government has been releasing sector-specific policies to promote certain sectors. It has already released policies for the defence and aero sectors and e-vehicles, the official said. “The government of Tamil Nadu shall strive to promote an eco-park for processing e-waste in an environmentally friendly manner in PPP mode to integrate formal and informal operators,” the policy said. The State government, through ELCOT, would also establish a state-of-the-art electronics testing facility. The policy also specified that certain categories of companies would be exempted from some Acts and self-certifications. Read the policy document on The Hindu   portal at: https://www.thehindu.com/news/resources/tamil-nadu-electronics-hardware-manufacturing-policy-2020/article32540114.ece
08 September 2020||COIMBATORE,||Four killed as building collapses in Coimbatore||Four persons were killed and five injured when a 40-year-old building collapsed on Chetty Street in Coimbatore on Sunday night. According to preliminary investigation, the building developed cracks a week ago following which a tenant’s family had vacated it. One more tenant was about to vacate on Monday. The names of the dead were given as Gopalswami, 72, his wife Kasturiammal, 65, their son Manikandan, 42, and Swetha, 25. Four members of the family which owns the building and a tenant were rescued from the debris. Gopalswami and family lived in an adjacent house on which portions of the building fell. Swetha was daughter-in-law of building owner Vanaja. Neighbours rescued four persons before the Fire and Rescue Services personnel reached the spot. The police said the building on the congested Chetty Street collapsed around 9 p.m. Sunday. Residents said that people were staying on the ground floor and the first floor of the building. Sarojini, her husband Babu and son Prabhu lived on the ground floor of the building. They had planned to vacate the building on Monday. While Babu and Prabhu managed to come out as the building collapsed, Sarojini was rescued by neighbours. Neighbours rescued at least four people before the Fire and Rescue Services personnel reached the spot. Kasturiammal’s body was taken out from the debris around 5 p.m. Monday. One of her legs had been severed. Manikandan, who was admitted to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH), died on Monday evening. The debris of the fallen building also caused damage to two other buildings on both sides. Coimbatore District Collector K. Rajamani said rain was not the reason behind the collapse of the building. “Instructions have been given to local bodies to inspect old buildings in the city and check their stability,” he said. Sources in the district administration said directions were already in place for local bodies to check stability of old buildings every year. The five persons who were rescued from the building were under observation at CMCH. The house falls within a containment zone, the officials said. Solatium announced Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Monday condoled the death of four persons in the building collapse and announced a solatium of Rs. 1 lakh to families of each of the victims from the Chief Minister's Public Relief Fund. In a statement, Mr. Palaniswami wished a speedy recovery to the injured persons. He asked Coimbatore Collector to ensure swift relief and rescue operations at the site.
08 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||August rain second highest in a century||August rainfall this year has been the highest since 1926 with 32.7 cm — or about 27% more than what is normal for the month — according to data from the India Meteorological Department (IMD). In August 1926, the rainfall recorded was 34.8 cm. IMD officials said the rain for the monsoon season as a whole was likely to be within the department’s June forecast of a normal (96 to 104% of the long period average) rainfall. “There has been a decrease in rainfall across India since the beginning of September. However we expect a revival around September 17,” said Mrutunjay Mahapatra, Director General, IMD.
08 September 2020||September 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Rhea quizzed for 8 hours||The Narcotics Control Bureau questioned actor Rhea Chakraborty for the second consecutive day on Monday in connection with the death of Sushant Singh Rajput. She was quizzed for eight hours. On Sunday, it recorded her statement for six hours. She has been asked to join the probe again on Tuesday. Meanwhile, Ms. Chakraborty has filed a complaint against Sushant’s sister Priyanka Singh and a doctor at Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital in Delhi, alleging forgery and other violations under the NDPS Act and the Tele Medicine Practice Guidelines.page 11
08 September 2020||September 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Metro resumes||
08 September 2020||September 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Standing guard||
08 September 2020||September 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Back on track||
08 September 2020||BENGALURU,||Ragini’s police custody extended||Actor Ragini Dwivedi will remain in police custody for another five days. While her family alleged that she is being falsely implicated, senior Crime Branch Officials said they have retrieved messages to drug dealers from her phone.Full report on page 2
08 September 2020||Bengaluru,||Govt. doctors threaten to go on strike over pay||Demanding parity of pay with their counterparts in the Medical Education Department or a revision of pay as per the Central Government Health Scheme scale, 4,968 government doctors have threatened to go on strike from September 15.
08 September 2020||Bengaluru,||Candidates criticise NLAT for being ‘exclusionary’||After National Law School of India University announced the technical specifications for the online home-based National Law Aptitude Test (NLAT), candidates said that the test is ‘extremely exclusionary’ as they need access to laptops, webcams and reliable Internet connectivity.
08 September 2020||NEW DELHI/Gurugram,||Delhi metro chugs off to cautious start||Amid strict enforcement of social distancing norms, sanitisation and thermal scanning of commuters, the Delhi Metro resumed its operations on Monday after a hiatus of over five months. The metro opened to a lukewarm response from commuters, with metro staff and mediapersons outnumbering them at a few stations. Delhi Metro officials said around 15,500 passengers took the metro in its eight hours of operation on the Yellow Line and Rapid Metro Gurugram. The 12-km-long Rapid Metro network, mostly catering to Cyber City and Golf Course Road in Gurugram, witnessed almost nil ridership. A total of 1,115 smart cards were sold on the first day of operations, said the officials. Under the first stage of graded resumption of services, metro trains are available from 7 a.m. to 11 a.m. and from 4 p.m. to 8 p.m. The timings will increase to 12 hours per day — six hours in the morning, six in the evening — from September 11. On its first day of resumption since March 22, when services were suspended following the ‘Janata Curfew’ and lockdown owing to the COVID-19 outbreak, several commuters availed the rapid transit system while citing the need to “return to normalcy”. Back to office Mary Benny, a private sector employee travelling from Burari to Green Park, said, “We got orders from office to report to work as the metro was running again. Currently, it’s empty so there are not as many apprehensions but we will have to see what happens once the stations start getting crowded.” “How long can we stay at home? The virus is not going anywhere. So we have to live with it,” said Ms. Benny. While metro staff and volunteers deployed by the authorities were seen on platforms guiding the commuters, several passengers were not aware of the restricted entry and exits to the stations. The Delhi Metro network, which spans over 389 kilometres with 285 stations, is likely to become fully operational by September 12 when services will be available throughout the day. For the first two days, the frequency of trains will vary between 2.44 minutes and 5.28 minutes, officials said.  (With inputs from Ashok Kumar)
08 September 2020||Bengaluru,||Karnataka estimates flood loss at Rs. 8,071 cr.||The State government has told the Central team that the estimated loss owing to recent floods in different districts would be Rs. 8,071 crore. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa informed the team about the various losses that the State has suffered.
08 September 2020||JAIPUR,||Panchayat elections in Rajasthan from Sept. 28||The Rajasthan State Election Commission on Monday announced elections to 3,848 village panchayats in four phases beginning September 28. A separate announcement will be made later for election of zila parishad and panchayat samiti members.
08 September 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi reports 2,077 cases as testing dips by 38%||With the number of tests falling by 38%, the national capital recorded 2,077 fresh COVID-19 cases in the past 24 hours, said a government health bulletin. The total cases now stand at 1,93,526. As many as 36,046 tests were conducted on Sunday, which fell to 22,954 on Monday.
08 September 2020||New Delhi,||DERC reduces fixed rates for non-domestic users||In a relief to non-domestic consumers, the Delhi Electri-city Regulatory Commission has dropped the fixed charges for unutilised capacity by 50% for April and May, the government said on Monday. The charges have been reduced from Rs. 250/ kVA/month to Rs. 125/kVA/month.
08 September 2020||Kolkata,||BJP leader shot at, party blames TMC||A leader of the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) women’s wing was shot at in West Bengal’s South 24 Parganas district on Monday. Radharani Naskar, vice-president, Bharatiya Janata Mahila Morcha, Bishnupur, has been admitted to the SSKM Hospital with bullet injuries to her head. She was shot by unidentified people near her residence at Raghudebpur village in Bishnupur. The State BJP leadership, including president Dilip Ghosh, described the incident as political violence and blamed the Trinamool Congress (TMC). There has been no arrest in the case and TMC has denied any involvement in the crime.
08 September 2020||Kolkata,||NEP dilutes federal structure, says Bengal Education Minister||The West Bengal government on Monday expressed its reservations against the National Education Policy (NEP). Education Minister Partha Chatterjee told the national conference on NEP, chaired by President Ram Nath Kovind and Prime Minister Narendra Modi, that the policy tries to dilute the federal structure by trying to prescribe almost everything centrally. “Such centralised policy in a vast and diversified country like ours, if implemented without flexibility with the State governments, may be regressive,” he said. He also touched upon the issue of the Centre not mentioning whether 6% of the GDP will be adequate to meet the goals.
08 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||ED arrests Chanda Kochhar’s husband||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Monday arrested Deepak Kochhar, the husband of former ICICI Bank CEO and MD Chanda Kochhar, in a money laundering case. The case pertains to alleged credit facilities extended to the Videocon Group of companies. “The accused has been arrested under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act. He will be produced in court on Tuesday,” said an ED official.
08 September 2020||Mumbai,||Farm loan waiver tops supplementary demand||Supplementary demands to the tune of Rs. 29,084 crore for the fiscal 2020-21 were tabled in the Maharashtra Assembly by Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar on Monday. The two-day monsoon session began in the backdrop of spiralling COVID-19 cases in the State. A major chunk of the demands, Rs. 10,500 crore, was allocated to farmer loan waiver, while Rs. 2,100 crore was earmarked for health and medical education. A sum of Rs. 50 crore was proposed for purchase of ambulances for rural and urban areas.A sum Rs. 69 crore was proposed for nutrition in rural hospitals.
08 September 2020||CHENNAI,||Intra-State bus, train services resume||After a gap of more than five months, the main transport hubs of Chennai — Dr. MGR Bus Terminus, Dr. MGR Chennai Central Station and Egmore Railway Station — sprang back to life with intra-State bus and train services resuming on Monday. Passengers were once more queueing up and the usual announcements about trains started blaring at railway stations.
08 September 2020||CHENNAI,||T.N. reports 5,776 new cases, 89 deaths||Tamil Nadu on Monday reported 5,776 COVID-19 cases, taking the tally to 4,69,256, while the death toll mounted to 7,925 with 89 more fatalities. Chennai recorded 949 fresh cases, followed by Coimbatore (524), Cuddalore(398) and Chengalpattu (330).
08 September 2020||CHENNAI,||Court extends deadline for school fee payment||The Madras High Court on Monday extended the deadline for payment of the first instalment of 40% of school fees for the current academic year from August 31 to September 30. The court warned schools of contempt of court proceedings if they were found to have collected more than 40% of the fees, fixed by the court on July 17.
08 September 2020||Guntur,||7brief2||The High Court has stayed the investigation of the alleged destruction of evidence of State Election Commissioner (SEC) N. Ramesh Kumar’s letter to Union Ministry of Home Affairs (about the threat to his life) by the commission’s assistant secretary K. Samba Murthy, till the government files a counter-affidavit.
08 September 2020||Eluru,||7brief3||The police arrested Murali Krishna Super Speciality Hospital MD Murali Krishna for allegedly running COVID centre without permission.
08 September 2020||Guntur,||7brief1||Minister for Irrigation Anil Kumar Yadav said here on Monday that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had announced Rs. 972 crore for the Gandikota project R&R package and released Rs. 676 crore within 15 months of coming into power. He refuted allegations of Leader of Opposition Chandrababu Naidu on the package.
08 September 2020||HYDERABAD,||Testing level, fresh cases dip in Telangana, Kerala||Andhra Pradesh’s COVID-19 case tally stood at 5,06,493 on Monday with 8,368 new infections. For the first time after 12 days, the day’s cases were below 10,000. It became the second State after Maharashtra to witness five lakh cases, and took just 10 days to see 1,02,877 new infections. The State claims a higher testing ratio and lower death rate than Maharashtra. AP topped in the number of confirmed cases per million at 9,485 while Maharashtra had 7,264 and Tamil Nadu 6,019. Seventy deaths were reported over the past day and the toll rose to 4,417. So far, 41,66,077 samples were tested and the positivity rate was 12.16%. East Godavari reported the highest number of new infections while Prakasam reported the highest number of deaths. New cases and deaths were as follows: East Godavari (1,312 and 3), West Godavari (950 and 7), Nellore (949 and 5), Chittoor (875 and 8), Guntur (765 and 9), Vizianagaram (594 and 0), Anantapur (584 and 4), Srikakulam (559 and 4), Kadapa (447 and 7), Prakasam (419 and 10), Visakhapatnam (405 and 4), Kurnool (316 and 4) and Krishna (193 and 5). Nearly six months after its first COVID-19 case, Karnataka breached the four lakh mark to touch 4,04,324, as 5,773 persons tested positive on Monday. Over 53% of this case load was reported in August. With 97,001 active cases, Karnataka was in third position among States. Fuelled by a spike in cases in Bengaluru, the situation took a turn for the worse in July breaching the 2,000 mark per day initially and jumping to over 5,000 per day and later over 9,000 cases a day. With 141 new deaths, the toll touched 6,534 on Monday. From September 1 till date, the State added 61,901 cases. On August 31, while the total number of cases stood at 3,42,423, Bengaluru Urban recorded 1,29,125 cases. Apart from Bengaluru Urban that recorded 2,942 cases on Monday, Ballari and Mysuru saw 266 and 221 cases respectively. On Monday, when COVID-19 testing seemed to have dipped in Kerala with just 20,215 samples, fresh cases reported too went down to 1,648. The cumulative case burden of the State now stood at 89,489, with 22,066 patients currently being treated in various hospitals. The COVID-19 toll in the State rose to 359 on Monday with the addition of 12 more deaths in the provisional list of the Health Department. Seven deaths were in Thiruvananthapuram, three in Kozhikode and one each in Thrissur and Ernakulam. Even with lower case numbers, 94% – or 1,556 out of 1,648 new cases – were locally acquired infections. Kannur reported the maximum number of new cases among districts on Monday with 260 cases, followed closely by Thiruvananthapuram with 253. Malappuram had 187 cases, Kottayam 154, Kasaragod 134, Ernakulam 130, Thrissur 128, Palakkad 118, Kozhikode 103, Alapuzha 78, Kollam 71, Pathanamthitta 24 and Idukki and Wayanad recorded four cases each. Another 5,776 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu on Monday, taking the overall tally to 4,69,256. As many as 5,930 persons were discharged after treatment, while 89 more persons, including two teenagers, succumbed to the infection in the State. A total of 51,215 persons are presently under treatment for COVID-19 in the State, while a total of 4,10,116 persons were discharged after treatment. The State’s toll climbed to 7,925. One of the teenagers, a 15-year-old girl from Madurai, who had tuberculosis, cystic fibrosis and chronic liver disease, was admitted to a private hospital with complaints of difficulty in breathing on August 26. She died on September 7 due to acute respiratory distress syndrome and COVID-19 pneumonia.  (With inputs from Bengaluru, Thiruvananthapuram and Chennai)
08 September 2020||New Delhi,||LJP keeps options open on Bihar poll||Continuing its tough stance against Janata Dal(U) president and Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar, the Lok Janshakti Party after a crucial meeting of its Bihar State parliamentary board, has decided to shortlist 143 candidates for the upcoming Assembly election. The NDA ally could field candidates against the JD(U). However, for now, no concrete decision has been taken to walk out of the alliance in Bihar. As per the official statement, issued by the party, the State unit has left it to party president Chirag Paswan to take that call. A resolution to this effect was passed at the meeting. Walking out of the NDA in Bihar would also mean that Mr. Paswan’s father and party patriarch Ram Vilas Paswan would have to give up his post as Union Minister for Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution. The NDA in Bihar consists of the JD(U), BJP, LJP and the Hindustan Awam Morcha (HAM), led by former Chief Minister Jitan Ram Manjhi. All the constituents of the alliance have maintained that so far no talks on seat sharing have taken place. The Bihar Assembly has 243 seats. Sources said that at Monday’s meeting, the members of the parliamentary board quoted public statements made by JD(U) leaders that the party was in an alliance with the BJP and not the LJP. “Now if the JD(U) themselves claim that we are not their partners then we should not shy away from fielding candidates against them in the upcoming election,” one of the members said. The parliamentary board members also asserted that the LJP does not want to fight the Assembly election under the leadership of the JD(U), sources said. During the meeting, the members also flagged the growing anti-incumbency against Mr. Kumar, who has been Chief Minister now for 15 years, having completed his third term. While taking a belligerent position against Mr. Kumar, sources said Mr. Paswan warned party cadres to refrain from making personal attacks on HAM president Manjhi. The party had timed the meeting of the parliamentary board to coincide with Mr. Kumar’s first virtual rally. Incidentally, in his speech of over an hour, the Bihar CM did not directly or indirectly refer to the LJP, blunting the party’s efforts to make the polls a direct battle between Mr. Paswan and Mr. Kumar. In 2015, the LJP contested 42 seats; however, that seat share is expected to be reduced since the JD(U) was not a member of the NDA then. JD(U) leaders meanwhile believe that Mr. Paswan has been flexing his muscles at the behest of the BJP to lower the JD(U)’s claim for seats.
08 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||August rainfall highest since 1926: IMD||August rainfall this year has been the highest since 1926 with 32.7 cm — or about 27% more than what is normal for the month, according to data from the India Meteorological Department (IMD) on Monday. In August 1926, the rainfall recorded was 34.8 cm, exceeding the normal by 33%. IMD officials said that though August rainfall was in excess, the figure for this year’s monsoon as a whole were likely to be within the department’s June forecast of a normal (96 to 104% of the long period average) rainfall. “There has been a decrease in rainfall across India since the beginning of September. However we expect a revival again around September 17,” Mrutunjay Mahapatra, Director-General, IMD, said at a press conference on Monday. From June to September 6, India had registered 7% more rainfall than what is normal for this period. In the normal course, the monsoon begins its retreat from September 15 and this can go on for nearly a month. Low-pressure systems The heavy rain in August was due to several long-lasting low-pressure systems, or rain-bearing winds, that formed in the Bay of Bengal and were vigorous enough to travel all the way from the south-eastern coast up to north-west India. “In a typical monsoon season, there are 12-13 LPA. There were fewer this year, however, there were six of them in August and they lasted for several days. Together that led to several rainy days in August,” he said. The surplus rain was primarily in Rajasthan, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Kerala, Telangana, Chhattisgarh and Odisha. Climate change Long periods of heavy rain followed by extended dry periods are a feature of climate change and is part of a general change in monsoon patterns over India, the IMD had previously stated. In response to a question from The Hindu , Mr. Mahapatra admitted that the agency’s monthly forecasts for July and August were widely off the mark, but said this was due to “intra-seasonal” variations and the IMD’s shorter-term forecast models had anticipated spells of heavy rain and adequately warned authorities. This year the IMD launched urban flood forecasting services for Mumbai and Chennai and it would extend it to Bengaluru and Kolkata. “We can provide these forecasts for other cities too but require detailed maps of the cities. The [four cities] that we provided services were extremely cooperative and forthcoming with such data,” said Madhavan Rajeevan, Secretary, Earth Sciences Ministry. North-West India has seen 10% less rainfall than what is normal; Central India has seen a 17% surplus; South India a 20% surplus and Northeast India received exactly what it normally gets. Cooler than normal conditions in the equatorial Central Pacific contributed to the increased rainfall.
08 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Five States record 57% of recoveries||In 24 hours, Andhra Pradesh recorded the highest COVID-19 recoveries with 11,915 recovered cases. Karnataka and Maharashtra followed with 9,575 and 7,826 recoveries, respectively, while Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh registered 5,820 and 4,779 recoveries, a press release from the Union Health Ministry said here on Monday. These five States together contributed 57% of the recoveries in 24 hours. 69,564 discharged “India’s total recovered cases have crossed 32.5 lakh on Monday, with 69,564 patients being discharged in the last 24 hours,” the Ministry said. The release added that the Central government’s coordination with local governments to ensure better ambulance services and seamless point-to-point management of patients has led to a high number of COVID-19 patients recovering and being discharged from hospitals. “Supervised isolation in homes and facility settings, following effective Standard of Care protocol, has hugely aided recovery of mild and moderate cases,” the Union Health Ministry said. The same five States are also contributing 60% of the total cases — Maharashtra at the top with 21.6%, followed by Andhra Pradesh (11.8%), Tamil Nadu (11%), Karnataka (9.5%) and Uttar Pradesh at 6.3% — according to data from the Ministry. Active cases Maharashtra also contributed 26.76% of the active cases, followed by Andhra Pradesh (11.30%), Karnataka (11.25%), Uttar Pradesh (6.98%) and Tamil Nadu (5.83%). These five States presently contribute 62% of total active cases. India’s current daily testing capacity has now crossed 11.7 lakh, according to the Ministry. It added that the cumulative number of tests is edging towards five crore (4,95,51,507). As many as 7,20,362 tests were conducted in 24 hours. “As a result of the ramped-up testing countrywide, 1,33,33,904 tests were conducted in the last two weeks alone,” said the Union Ministry.
08 September 2020||MYSURU,||Who will lead the ‘Jamboo Savari’ this time?||Will Abhimanyu, the 55-year-old tusker, get the nod for carrying the 750-kg golden howdah in this year’s ‘Jamboo Savari’ of Mysuru Dasara as a ‘successor’ to the incumbent lead elephant Arjuna? This question has surfaced ahead of the crucial Dasara High Power Committee meeting which is scheduled in Bengaluru for Tuesday to decide on the nature of the annual festivities in October although the government had already announced that the celebrations would be a low-key affair in view of the pandemic. The meeting is also expected to take a call on whether to keep the ‘Jamboo Savari’ within the palace premises over curbs on public gatherings and the number of elephants in this year’s Dasara squad. The tall tusker Arjuna took over the mantle from Balarama, a veteran, and carried the howdah with great precision since 2012, winning the hearts of many. Ahead of the festivities amidst the pandemic, the authorities had been compelled to look for a successor to the lead elephant since Arjuna turned 60 and ageing jumbos are not used for any stressful work in view of guidelines. Prior to ‘Jamboo Savari’, the lead elephant undergoes weight carrying training with sand bags and a wooden replica of the howdah having the same mass as ‘Ambari’ on its back as a part of rehearsal for the big day. No final decision has been taken on whether the stately jumbo, which has been a star attraction at the finale since the last eight years, would be retired from performing the big task over age factor. Balarama had carried the howdah for 13 years in a row before attaining superannuation from the role of lead elephant. It is still part of the Dasara squad as an accompanying jumbo because of its commendable service. The next jumbo in the elite list which has all the merits and is considered on par with Arjuna is Abhimanyu, best known for its astuteness in the operations for capturing errant elephants and aged and injured wild tigers straying out of forests. The strong point on why Abhimanyu might get a call would be its experience as a Dasara jumbo for nearly two decades and the weight carrying training it too undergoes along with Arjuna as a stand-by for ‘Jamboo Savari’.
08 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Detail steps for care of the elderly’||The Supreme Court on Monday asked the States to provide a more detailed version of the measures in place to provide care, support and priority medical treatment to senior citizens, especially those who live alone, during the COVID-19 pandemic. A Bench led by Justice Ashok Bhushan gave the States four weeks to file comprehensive affidavits. The order was in response to a submission made by senior advocate Ashwani Kumar that the States have merely paid lip service to the court order of August 4 by filing reports. Mr. Kumar, a former Union Law Minister and petitioner-in-person in the case, referred to media reports showing continued instances of neglect shown to elderly people. Justice Bhushan, however, said the court cannot be expected to look into every individual case. “It is a big country,” he remarked. The Bench said the States should deal with the local problems in their respective jurisdictions. On August 4, the court ordered the States to respond promptly to the needs of senior citizens and ensure they do not suffer financially during COVID-19. It also directed that the elderly should get their pension on time. “All old age people who are eligible for pension should be regularly paid pension and those identified older people should be provided necessary medicines, masks, sanitisers and other essential goods by the respective States. Further, as and when any individual request is made, the same shall be attended to by the administration with all promptness,” the court had ordered. It had directed that senior citizens, who were generally vulnerable to the virus, ought to be given priority in government hospital admissions. Government hospitals should take care to promptly remedy any grievances voiced by senior citizens during this health crisis. The Bench had directed that caregivers in old age homes should wear personal protection equipment (PPE) and follow proper sanitation procedures. In his petition, Mr. Kumar said many elderly persons were battling loneliness and depression. The lockdown of the past months and the social isolation imposed were telling on senior citizens, leaving many of them in the grip of anxiety.
08 September 2020||Patna,||At virtual rally, Nitish sets the election campaign rolling||Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar on Monday listed his government’s achievements of the past 15 years and compared them with those of the 15-year regime of the previous “ pati-patni ” (Rashtriya Janata Dal chief Lalu Prasad and his wife, Rabri Devi) government. In turn, RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav later challenged Mr. Kumar for a “logical debate any time, anywhere on facts and figures”, and termed the virtual rally a “super-duper flop”. Mr. Kumar was addressing the JD(U)’s first mega digital virtual rally through its newly launched jdulive.com and other media platforms ahead of the Assembly election, from the party headquarters in Patna. Party sources told The Hindu that over 30 lakh people were connected with the live-streaming of Mr. Kumar’s address. In JD(U) offices in Patna and other districts of the State, leaders and party workers were glued to TV sets to hear their leader who formally sounded the poll bugle with the virtual rally. Mr. Kumar started his nearly three-hour address with the steps taken by the State government during the COVID-19 pandemic. “Today, the recovery rate in the State is 88.24%,” he noted. “Even now, we should be more vigilant and careful against the pandemic. Today, on an average ,1.5 lakh tests are being done in the State with 11,350 RT-PCR tests every day, which is going to be raised to 20,000 daily soon,” he said. Helping migrants He listed the steps taken for the migrant workers who returned to the State due to the lockdown and spoke on the facilities provided to them during the 14-day quarantine period here. “The government spent Rs. 5,300 on each person quarantined,” he said. Mr. Kumar recounted the welfare measures offered by his government on employment generation, for flood victims, education, health, law and order, roads, agriculture, saat nischay (seven resolve) programme and the social sector, giving figures, data and dates. He kept appealing to people to “not to forget all this”. “People must remember what had happened earlier [during the 15-year RJD regime] and in the past 15 years [of the NDA rule led by him],” he said. “But some people keep on criticising us because they are ignorant,” he said. Mr. Tejashwi said, “You cannot escape from the actual situation in the guise of your virtual rally… I challenge you for a logical debate with facts and figures anywhere, anytime on what you said in your virtual rally. Give us a list of only 100 people who have got Rs. 5,000 during their quarantine period… and let us know who were the 10 lakh people getting jobs every day.”
08 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||PM must answer for failing to provide ‘leadership’: Cong.||Prime Minister Narendra Modi must answer how his government planned to control the “alarming” rise in COVID-19 cases and deaths, and restore the “sinking economy”, the Congress said on Monday after India surpassed Brazil in terms of the total number of infections. The party called India the “corona capital”, noting that the nation was now number one in terms of daily infections (90,802 cases), daily deaths (1,016 deaths) and doubling of cases (20 lakh case to 40 lakh cases in 29 days). Though the country was witnessing a second wave of infection and the virus was spreading to smaller towns and villages, “the BJP government has disowned the people and left them to fend for themselves,” it alleged. Addressing a virtual press conference, Congress communications chief Randeep Surjewala said Mr. Modi must answer for “failing to provide leadership in such a crucial time”. The Congress chief spokesperson claimed that experts had predicted 1.4 crore cases by December-end and as many as 1,75,000 deaths. “On March 24, Modi ji said the battle of Mahabharata lasted for 18 days and the battle against COVID-19 shall be won in 21 days. And 166 days later, the whole country is fighting an epic battle of Mahabharata against the pandemic. People are dying of the disease but Modi ji is busy with photo shoots and feeding peacocks. The battle against the pandemic rages, but the general is missing,” Mr. Surjewala said. “The Modi government is mocking people who are suffering from economic distress, closure of businesses, incapacity to pay EMIs and losing jobs and livelihoods by blaming God for their misery. Will Modi ji answer for his failed leadership?” he asked. When former Congress president Rahul Gandhi had warned the government as early as February, it not only ridiculed him and ignored his warnings but also organised the ‘Namaste Trump’ event in Ahmedabad for visiting U.S. President Donald Trump, he added.
08 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Rafale induction ceremony at Ambala on Thursday||The formal induction ceremony of the Rafale fighter jets will be held at the Ambala Air Force station on September 10, the Indian Air Force (IAF) said here on Monday. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and French Defence Minister Florence Parly will be present for the induction ceremony, an official source said. The second batch of four Rafale jets are likely to arrive in October, another source said. On July 29, five Rafale jets, three single-seat and two twin-seater trainers, landed at the Ambala air base, the home base of the No. 17 Golden Arrows squadron. These are part of the €7.87-billion Inter-Governmental Agreement with France for 36 jets in fly-away condition signed in September 2016.
08 September 2020||New Delhi,||Change our ways swiftly and globally: David Attenborough||Former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh said on Monday that the UPA government was criticised as being “too restrictive” on giving environmental clearances, but it knew how to strike a balance between protecting the environment and meeting development needs. It doesn’t take an epidemic to tell us “we are not in good shape,” Dr. Singh said. He made these remarks at a virtual ceremony where he conferred the Indira Gandhi Peace Prize for 2019 on British broadcaster Sir David Attenborough, whom he described as the “human voice of nature”. ‘Living legend’ “Climate change, the assault on the oceans, the pollution of the atmosphere, the junk floating about in space, the reduction of forest cover, the extinction of life in rivers, the reduction of natural habitat for any life other than humans – all this is evident to anyone who has eyes to see,” Dr. Singh said while praising Sir David as a living legend. “Indeed, we were criticised by industrialists and those who thought we were being too restrictive. But I believe that if a proper balance is not firmly held, the results are deleterious and self-defeating,” said Dr. Singh. The pandemic was a way of nature telling humans to be less exploitative. In his acceptance speech, Sir David, 94, who is well known for his series The Living Planet , said the world was heading towards a crisis unlike any other in human history as “humans have overrun the planet.” “We must change our ways, and we must do so swiftly and globally. But success will only come if the nations of the world agree to act to together and help one another. This will not be easy. We have to change from being nationalists and become internationalists,” he said. In her opening remarks, Congress president Sonia Gandhi recalled the contribution of former Prime Minister Indira Gandhi and described her as “an unwavering champion of environment protection laws.”
08 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Rhea files plea against Sushant’s sister||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) questioned actor Rhea Chakraborty for the second consecutive day on Monday in connection with the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput. She was quizzed for about eight hours. On Sunday, it recorded her statement for close to six hours. She has been asked to join the investigation again on Tuesday. Meanwhile, Ms. Chakraborty has filed a complaint with the Mumbai police against Sushant’s sister Priyanka Singh and a doctor at the Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital in Delhi among others, alleging forgery and other violations under the NDPS (Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances) Act and Tele Medicine Practice Guidelines, 2020. Her brother, Showik, was arrested last week along with Sushant’s housekeeping manager, Samuel Miranda, for allegedly procuring drugs. They are currently in NCB custody. It is alleged that a bogus medical prescription showing Sushant as an outpatient was obtained when he was in Mumbai on June 8. It purportedly prescribed prohibited drugs listed in the schedule of the NDPS Act as psychotropic substances. Ms. Chakraborty’s father, Indrajit Chakraborty, earlier issued a statement protesting the arrest of his son. “Congratulations India, you have arrested my son, I’m sure next on the line is my daughter and I don't know who is next thereafter. You have effectively demolished a middle-class family. But of course, for the sake of justice everything is justified. Jai hind,” he said. Mr. Chakraborty, a retired Lieutenant Colonel, is an accused in the case being probed by the CBI for abetment to suicide, criminal conspiracy, cheating, breach of trust, theft, wrongful restraint and confinement. Ms. Chakraborty has been provided security by the Mumbai Police.
08 September 2020||New Delhi,||Tibetan soldier’s funeral seen as Delhi’s signal to Beijing||In a sharp signal of a shift in the Government of India’s policy on publicly acknowledging the 58-year-old “Special Frontier Force” (SFF), BJP general secretary Ram Madhav and BJP MP from Ladakh Jamgyal Tsering Namgyal attended the funeral of Company Leader Nyima Tenzin who, military sources said, was killed in an accidental mine blast during patrolling in Ladakh last week. The funeral of Tenzin, who belongs to the Choglamsar Tibetan refugee settlement outside Leh, was held on Monday. Soldiers wearing the SFF uniform gave the last salute, and Mr. Madhav laid a wreath. Chants of “Bharat Mata ki Jai” (Long live India) and “Tibet desh ki Jai” (Long live the Tibet nation), along with slogans of the “Vikas Regiment” (as the SFF’s seven battalions or “Establishment 2-2” are known), were raised after the bugle was played at the funeral.  Tweet and delete “Attended the funeral of SFF Company Leader Nyima Tenzin, a Tibetan who laid down his life protecting our borders in Ladakh,” wrote Mr. Madhav in a tweet on Monday, adding, “Let the sacrifices of such valiant soldiers bring peace along the Indo-Tibetan border. That will be the real tribute to all martyrs.” The tweet was later deleted. The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) and the Ministry of Defence declined to comment on the funeral. A senior MEA official told The Hindu that Mr. Madhav “does not represent the government,” adding that as there had been “no official communication, only media reports” of the funeral, it did not signify a change in the government’s position. The presence of Mr. Madhav, a senior leader of the ruling party, at the funeral and the public acknowledgement of the SFF’s role in operations along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) was seen by many commentators as a strong message by New Delhi to Beijing at a time the Indian and Chinese forces are engaged in a four-month stand-off along the LAC in Ladakh, and three days before External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar is due to meet his Chinese counterpart, Wang Yi, in Moscow. “This is part of larger signalling to China — tentative steps to convey we won’t be overly concerned about their sensitivities if they continue to ignore ours”, said Ashok Kantha, Director of the Institute of Chinese Studies and former Ambassador to China. ‘Charged atmosphere’ Former Foreign Secretary Nirupama Rao said, “While mourning the unfortunate death of the brave Company Leader Nyima Tenzin, it would have been wise to avoid unnecessary publicity about the SFF and their ostensible Tibet ‘connection’ in an atmosphere already charged along the LAC.” This probably was the reason for the tweet being deleted later, she added. Other officials said the government policy should not be changed frequently as this sent conflicting signals internationally as well as to the Tibetan community in India. “This can be quite meaningless and even misleading if not backed by a firm commitment to a practical, robust and coordinated policy,” said Amitabh Mathur, former adviser to the government on Tibetan affairs.
08 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||LAC situation ‘very serious’: Jaishankar||External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar on Monday said the situation at eastern Ladakh, where Indian and Chinese troops have been in an eyeball-to-eyeball confrontation since April, was “very serious” and called for “deep conversations between the two sides at the political level”. He was addressing the Express E-Adda event of Indian Express on Monday evening “If you look at the 30 years, because it was peace and tranquillity at the border, it allowed relation to progress,” said Mr Jaishankar when asked what he would tell the Chinese Foreign Minister if he met him on the sidelines of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation’s Foreign Minister-level meeting in Moscow on September 10. India and China need to find an “accommodation”, he said. Mr. Jaishankar praised the government’s approach to the neighbourhood and highlighted the special relationship with Bangladesh in the east. India and Bangladesh will hold the Joint Consultative Commission’s meeting very soon, he said. “Warm conversation with Foreign Minister Dr A. K. Abdul Momen of Bangladesh. Agreed to hold our Joint Consultative Commission very soon. Will continue to work closely to reach the ambitious goals set by our leaders,” he said in a social media post. A fortnight ago, Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla met Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina in Dhaka.
08 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Shylaja flayed for endorsing homoeo drug||The scientific community in the State and the Indian Medical Association have slammed the Health Minister for endorsing the efficacy claims of a homoeopathy drug, Arsenicum album 30c, against COVID-19, which have never been scientifically validated. The drug, promoted by the Ministry of Ayush as an “immunity booster”, is being distributed across the State for free by the Homoeopathy Department. However, what has irked doctors and public health experts is a video circulated on social media, wherein Health Minister K.K. Shylaja endorses the drug’s efficacy against COVID-19. Ms. Shylaja says in the video that even amongst those testing positive for SARS-CoV-2, those who had consumed the drug had tested negative within 3 or 4 days. She says that the drug’s efficacy is proven through a study done in Pathanamthitta. “The Minister is contradicting the the Health Department’s COVID-19 treatment protocols. In Kerala, a COVID-19 patient is re-tested only on the 10th day because the infective period is 8-10 days. Even if a patient tests negative on third or fourth day, we do not consider it a true negative,” a public health expert says. “The problem in promoting drug efficacy claims which are not scientifically validated is that it lulls people into a false sense of security. People will go lax on precautions like wearing masks and physical distancing,” says U. Nandakumar, who heads the Campaign Against Pseudo Science Using Law and Ethics (CAPSULE). “Homoeopaths say that in Pathanamthitta, this drug was widely distributed. However, Pathanamthitta has a disease transmission rate (as on Aug 31) higher than that of the entire State,” he says. “The study’s efficacy claim of the drug is on the basis of the blood lymphocyte count done before and after administering the drug in just 16 persons. Apart from the fact that the sample size is insignificant, even the “boost” in lymphocyte count is not a test of efficacy because lymphocyte counts fluctuates by 10-20% throughout the day,” says Dr. Nandakumar. Public health experts V. Ramankutty and K.P. Aravindan say efficacy could be assessed only if there is a case and control group (two comparable groups of persons wherein one group has consumed the drug and the other have not). Biggest folly “The data generated from this “study,” which does not adhere to even the basic principles of research methodology, are beyond belief. But its biggest folly is the premise that an increase in lymphocyte and CD4, CD8, CD3 cell count is indicative of a boost in immunity, for which there is no scientific basis,” they say. Homoeopaths say modern medicine’s platform cannot be used to assess homoeopathy. But even when every branch of alternative medicine can develop its own research methodology for validating claims, it should be able to stand scientific scrutiny, it is pointed out.
08 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Junior health inspector held on rape charge in Kerala||The Pangode police on Monday arrested a junior health inspector for allegedly raping a woman who visited his house to collect a COVID-19 negative certificate after completion of her mandated quarantine period. Pradeep Kumar, who hails from Bharathannoor near Pangode, was arrested on a complaint by the victim with the Vellarada police. The victim, who had undergone quarantine in a relative’s house in Kulathupuzha, used to be monitored by health workers attached to the government-run hospital. On completion of the quarantine period, the accused allegedly insisted that she collect the COVID negative certificate from his house. According to the police, he illegally confined the victim as soon as she reached his house on September 3, gagged her and tied her to his bed before repeatedly raping her. He also allegedly threatened her that he would recommend police action against her on the false charge of violating quarantine. She was purportedly confined until the next day. The accused was taken to his house by the police to collect evidence.
08 September 2020||Bengaluru,||‘Starting as consumer, BCA graduate turned drug dealer’||Many of the accused arrested on Wednesday in a special drive against the drug menace were young college graduates or working professionals. The brain behind one of the bigger networks, where a gang of 11 allegedly sourced drugs from suppliers on the darknet, did his bachelors in computer application from a reputed college in the city. “The accused, Keval M. Lohith, moved from being a consumer to a drug dealer after attending a few rave parties in Goa and Bengaluru. He initially purchased synthetic drugs from his contacts, primarily dealers from Nigeria. He allegedly expanded and started getting supply from dealers operating on the darknet. As his consumer base began to expand, Keval hired a few of his friends and also delivery partners offering Rs. 500 per delivery to clients,” said Deputy Commissioner of Police (East) S.D. Sharanappa. Another key accused, Mohamed Hafizulla, is a BCom dropout who was formerly employed in a product promotion company owned by Vaibhav Jain, one of the accused in the high-profile drug case with links to the Kannada film industry that the Central Crime Branch (CCB) is investigating, said a senior police official. Hafizulla started his own event organising firm named Fusion Entertainment Company. He started organising parties and supplying drugs to guests. Clients included students of schools and colleges, Mr. Sharanappa said. Meanwhile, the South East division police, as part of the drive, arrested 10 persons, including four students and the son of a KSRP head constable, for allegedly peddling drugs. Delivery partners Both Lohith and Hafizulla used delivery partners working for app-based services like Dunzo and bike taxi aggregator Rapido to ferry consignments to their clients, said the police, who have arrested Aziz Niyaz, a Rapido bike taxi driver, and Guru Prasad, a Dunzo delivery partner. “On the app, they would get about Rs. 40 per delivery. But Hafizulla and Lothih would pay them Rs. 500 per delivery of drugs,” said the police. Four students arrested Meanwhile, the Deputy Commissioner of Police, South East, Joshi Srinath Mahadev said that 10 cases under NDPS Act were registered during a special drive, and contraband worth Rs. 1.2 crore has been seized. The Tilak Nagar police arrested Athitya Vora, 23, Prashanth S., 21, Punith Kothari, 22, and Nachiketh, 19, and recovered marijuana, hydro ganja, MDMA tablets and LSD slips worth Rs. 4 lakh. The accused were pursuing BE, BCom, MBA and BCA courses in reputed colleges. They sourced drugs from their contacts to sell to students in colleges across the city . The police are ascertaining the source of the drugs. The accused claimed to spend the earnings on a lavish lifestyle.
08 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Stop privatisation to save govt. jobs, says Rahul||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Monday asked the Narendra Modi government to stop privatisation of public sector undertakings (PSUs) and save government jobs. “Today, the country is facing many Modi government manufactured disasters, one of which is unnecessary privatisation. Youth want jobs but by privatising PSUs, the Modi government is destroying jobs and saved up capital. Who benefits? A ‘few friends’ gain who are special to Modi ji. Stop Privatisation, Save Government Jobs,” tweeted Mr. Gandhi. Separately, reacting to news reports of the SBI going for a VRS scheme in the middle of a pandemic, Mr. Chidambaram on Monday said it was “cruel” proposal. “News reports say that SBI plans to implement a VRS scheme as an ‘economy measure’. In normal times the plan would be debatable. In these abnormal times, when the economy has collapsed and jobs are scarce, it is cruel,” Mr. Chidambaram said on Twitter. “If India’s biggest lender has to shed jobs, imagine what other big employers and MSMEs are doing. The plan is ostensibly voluntary but we know that subtle pressure will be brought on the employees that the Bank wants to get rid of. If the current rules provide for genuine voluntary retirement, why announce a new plan and give out an exact number like 30,190?” he asked. Congress leader in the Lok Sabha Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury also took a dig at the Centre on the economic situation. “While China is registering growth of 3.8 per cent of their economy, India’s has contracted by 23.9 per cent. Modinomics has fallen flat. For the survival of economics Jingoism can not be a remedy,” he tweeted.
08 September 2020||LUCKNOW,||Man who shot dead teacher lynched by mob in U.P.||A man accused of shooting dead a schoolteacher was lynched by a mob in the presence of police personnel in a village in Kushinagar district on Monday, the police said. Visuals from the spot in the Taryasujam area showed a large mob assaulting the accused while a handful of police personnel were trying to control the situation. The villagers, armed with bricks and lathis, were seen preventing the police from taking away the accused who lay motionless in a bloodied state. The unidentified accused had driven to the house of Sudhir Singh early on Monday on a scooter. He was asked to sit and served tea by the family, while Sudhir Singh was in the bathroom, the police said. The moment Mr. Sudhir Singh stepped out, the accused pulled out a pistol and fired at him, said Superintendent of Police Vinod Kumar Mishra. The family raised an alarm and before the accused could escape people from the neighbourhood gathered and surrounded him, he said. Meanwhile, the Station House Officer of Tarhasujan was suspended after a fresh video emerged showing that the accused was lynched by the mob despite being already in the custody of police.
08 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Kangana acting on PM’s agenda: Cong.||Describing it as a “new low” in politics, the Congress on Monday accused the BJP of politicising the death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput to deflect attention from the problems faced by the people in Bihar. At a virtual press conference, Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala alleged that actor Kangana Ranaut was “carrying on BJP and Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s agenda of defaming the Shiv Sena-NCP-Congress alliance government in Maharashtra by referring to Mumbai as Pakistan Occupied Kashmir”. Right to dissent He, however, defended Ms. Ranaut’s right to dissent, and said the State government would provide her protection. On reports that the BJP in Bihar had come up with posters with the late actor’s photo, Mr. Surjewala said, “This is a new low in the new India of BJP and Prime Minister Narendra Modi.” He alleged that Bihar has been ravaged by floods and is reeling under acute misery as the Nitish Kumar government had “abdicated its responsibility”, unemployment is high with over 4,00,000 unfilled posts, no opportunities for the youth and the people of the State don’t even have enough rations. “The entire government machinery lies decimated in Bihar under the BJP and Nitish Babu’s rule. Consequently, they are attempting to divert attention and politicise the death of a film star,” he said. He pointed out that the debates on the electronic media are now focussed on Sushant Singh Rajput and Rhea Chakraborty instead of issues of important issues like the novel coronavirus, unemployment and the economy.
08 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||HC’s acquittal in Udumalpet case needs serious consideration: SC||The Supreme Court on Monday said the Madras High Court’s decision to acquit a man sentenced to death for the daylight murder of his daughter’s Dalit husband in the sensational Udumalpet honour killing case in Tamil Nadu was a “matter requiring serious consideration”. A Bench led by Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul admitted a criminal appeal filed by the State government immediately. The High Court acquitted B. Chinnasamy on June 22. The trial court had awarded him the death penalty. The High Court also modified the death penalty of the hit men Chinnasamy had hired to life sentence. The verdict sent shock waves across the State. The crime dates back to March 2016. The hirelings waylaid the couple near a bus-stand and hacked them with sharp weapons. Kausalya, Chinnasamy’s daughter, survived. But V. Shankar, her husband of only a few months, died. She became the prime prosecution witness against her family in the case. The State government, represented by Additional Advocate General Balaji Srinivasan and State counsel M. Yogesh Kanna, said the case came under the “rarest of rare category” and deserved the death penalty. “It is time to stamp out these barbaric feudal acts which are a slur on the nation”, it submitted in the court. Mr. Srinivasan and Mr. Kanna urged the court to decide the case expeditiously. In its appeal, the State objected to the conclusion of the High Court that there was no evidence of a conspiracy for murder. “The case involves honour killing by the parents of the girl who loved and married Shankar, who belongs to a Scheduled Caste community by hatching a conspiracy and engaging hirelings to commit the gruesome murder”, it said. Kausalya herself had complained about her parents threatening the couple saying “she cannot live with a person belonging to lower caste”, the State said.
08 September 2020||HYDERABAD,||TS steps up efforts to introduce new Revenue Act||The State government has stepped up its efforts to bring in the new Revenue Act envisaged as comprehensive one-stop solution for efficient and transparent revenue administration in the State. The government has declared holidays to all Registration and Sub-Registrar offices in respect of all registration services under the Registration Act, 1908 from Tuesday. The holidays to property registration services are expected to continue till further orders. The order issued by the government said there is a need for bringing in processes and technical applications related to registration of property documents to provide quality services to the people. In view of this, there is a need for stopping registrations in the Registration and Stamps Department. Accordingly, it has been decided to declare holidays for all the offices in respect of registration services till further orders. Registration of will deeds, administration of marriages and franking services would continue as usual. At the same time, the government has decided to take over all revenue records from the village revenue officers and maintain them at the mandal-level under the custody of tahsildars. The development, according to sources, forms part of the exercise to ensure quicker disposal of the pending land disputes and the government is seriously considering setting up district-level Revenue Tribunals headed by retired judges to dispose the cases. “Any and every record with the VROs like pahanies, undistributed pattadar passbooks, tippons, village maps should be handed over to the tahsildars immediately,” the CCLA order said. A handing over report should be obtained by the tahsildars from the VROs after taking over all the records (including original, printed, handwritten, online record copies and others). Any deviation/negligence in handing over/taking over of the revenue records by the VROs/tahsildars would be viewed seriously. If there is more than one village under the VRO, separate format should be obtained from the official concerned for each village. The CCLA’s office has accordingly circulated the format in which the records should be taken over asking them to treat it as “top priority”. The development, senior officials perceive, is a step in the direction of scrapping of the VRO/VRA system in the State. District Collectors are directed to ensure strict compliance of the directions and the exercise should be completed on Monday itself with a compliance report to be sent to the Chief Commissioner of Land Administration by this evening.
08 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Looking forward to the vaccine: SII CEO||Adar Poonawalla, chief executive officer, Serum Institute of India (SII), whose company is to manufacture the COVID-19 vaccine developed by Oxford University’s Jenner Institute and AstraZeneca in India, is now at the university. “Proud and excited for the next few months and looking forward to the vaccine,” he tweeted on Monday. The Pune-based SII is to produce one billion doses of the vaccine. The vaccine candidate, which is among the front-runners in the fight against COVID-19, is now undergoing Phase 3 clinical trials in Britain, Brazil, South Africa and India. ‘Trials on at 17 sites’ “In India, trials are on at 17 sites with 1,600 participants and the safety and efficacy of the vaccine is being looked into. Called ‘Covishield’ in India, it [the Oxford-Astrazeneca produced vaccine candidate] is one of the three vaccine candidates undergoing trials in the country, apart from Bharat Biotech’s ‘Covaxin’, and Zydus Cadila’s ‘ZCOV-D’,” said a senior Health Ministry official. Meanwhile, other leading vaccine candidates by Pfizer and Moderna are also said to be in late-stage trials. According to the World Health Organization (WHO), nearly 175 vaccine candidates are in pre-clinical or clinical trials at present, eight of them in final stage Phase 3 of human trials. Mr. Poonawalla previously tweeted a clarification on reports about commercialising the vaccine in 73 days. “SII would like to clarify that the current claims surrounding COVISHIELD’s availability in the media are completely false and conjectural. Presently, the government has granted us permission to only manufacture the vaccine and stockpile it for future use. COVISHIELD will be commercialised once the trials are proven successful and all the requisite regulatory approvals are in place. The phase-3 trials for the Oxford-AstraZeneca vaccine are still under way. And only once the vaccine is proven immunogenic and efficacious, SII will confirm its availability, officially,” he tweeted.
08 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Kerala CM rallies MPs against leasing of Thiruvananthapuram airport||A meeting of MPs chaired by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Monday decided to put pressure on the Centre to prevent the move to hand over the operations of the Thiruvananthapuram International Airport to the Adani Group. Mr. Vijayan said the State government would not cooperate with the development of the airport if the Centre pushed ahead with the move to lease it to the private entity. He also told the MPs to ask the Centre to hand over the management, development and operations of the airport to an entity in which the State government had a controlling stake. Mr. Vijayan pointed out the Kannur and Kochi airports as examples. The government had successfully operated the airports under a public-private partnership. BPCL issue The MPs also agreed to oppose the move to privatise BPCL, the country largest petroleum company, in the Parliament. Kerala had invested heavily in the Kochi refinery and has now extended it a loan of Rs. 1,500 crore. It was essential to retain the BPCL refinery in Kochi in the public sector. The government had planned a petrochemical park there at a cost of Rs. 25,000 crore, he said. Mr. Vijayan said the MPs should press for a law to make the Centre constitutionally obliged to reimburse the GST compensation dues it owed the State entirely. The law should also make the payment of the loss of tax revenue incurred by States when the country shifted to the GST regime in 2016. Moratorium on loans The conference demanded that the RBI extend its moratorium on the recovery of bank loans till December 31. Kerala required a special grant to tide over the economic crisis precipitated by the COVID-19 pandemic. The MPs should include the demand as a subject of consideration by the 15th Finance Commission. Mr. Vijayan also reportedly drew the attention of the MPs to the economic distress in the fishing sector. The fisher population of coastal States had borne the brunt of the COVID-19 outbreak. Many coastal localities had to abandon fishing operations due to the development of large community clusters. Turbulent seas and stormy weather had brought marine fishing to a halt. Kerala wanted a special financial assistance package for coastal States to revive the fisheries sector, Mr. Vijayan said. The MPs also urged the Centre to roll back the decision to withdraw the publication of Dictionary of Martyrs: India’s Freedom Struggle 1857-1947 , which covered the names of Malabar Rebellion leaders Variyamkunnath Kunhahamed Haji, Ali Musaliyar and others, who fought the British.
08 September 2020||Srinagar,||Security operation under way in Budgam||Security forces started an operation against militants in the Kawoosa area of Budgam in central Kashmir on Monday evening. The police and security forces are on the job,” said a police spokesman. After the initial contact was made around 4.30 p.m., lights were installed in the area “as no firing was observed from the hiding militants”. “A search is on,” the police said, adding that it was a joint operation of the police, the Army and the CRPF. “The operation was launched after a specific input about the presence of militants in the village.”
08 September 2020||CHANDIGARH,||FIR against Punjab MLA for video on pandemic||The Punjab police on Monday registered an FIR against Lok Insaaf Party (LIP) legislator Simarjit Singh Bains for allegedly spreading false propaganda to mislead the people on the COVID-19 pandemic. The FIR has been registered on the basis of a complaint by Civil Surgeon, Ludhiana, according to a police spokesperson. In his complaint, the Civil Surgeon had sought legal action against the MLA from the Atam Nagar constituency in Ludhiana, for misguiding people through a video clip. He alleged that the video clip is being played on various social media platforms, thus leading to an atmosphere of confusion among the public. Mr. Bains was also inciting people not to wear masks, said the complaint.
08 September 2020||Agartala,||Tripura MLA issues ultimatum on ‘lapses’||Dissident BJP MLA and former Tripura Health Minister Sudip Roy Barman continued his tirade against alleged treatment lapses and lack of life-saving equipment in the GBP Hospital here, which is a dedicated COVID care hospital. He, along with first time MLA Sushanta Choudhury, on Monday visited the hospital and gave an ultimatum to resolve “lacunae”. Five-time MLA Sudip Roy Barman, who switched over from the Congress, highlighted the COVID-19 situation at a press conference here on Friday. He spoke of alleged mismanagement in the health facilities and the absence of senior doctors at the COVID-19 wards of the GBP Hospital. They gave a three-day ultimatum to the official to improve the situation. Mr. Barman, however, did not say what their action would be after the lapse of the deadline.
08 September 2020||September 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Blessings in life||Even when we are blessed in many ways in life, we do not count our blessings. Nor do we have our priorities right. We think some things are very important, but they are not as significant as we think they are. So what are to be counted as blessings in life? Tamil literature talks about these, said Malayaman in a discourse. Thiruvalluvar says that there is no blessing to equal that of having progeny. The Jain work Naladiyar also echoes this idea. Abhidana Chintamani also has interesting observations about blessings. Abhidana Chinatamani is an encyclopedia of Tamil literature, which was put together by Singaravelu Mudaliar, and published in the early 20th century. This encyclopedia lists 16 blessings or boons that are worth desiring. This list includes fame, education, courage, good health and good children. Abirami Bhattar considered education to be the most desirable of all things. He spoke of ‘kalaiyaada kalvi,” that is education which stays with one till the end of one’s life. He also counted longevity as a boon. Good friends are hard to come by. Some are with us when we prosper but desert us when our fortunes are down. Abirami Bhattar talks of friendship untainted by cunning and hypocrisy, and says that to have sincere friends is a great boon. Bhattar prays for a healthy body and a mind that never tires. A wife whose affection never wanes is also considered a blessing by Bhattar. A poet called Pisirandaiyar had not lost his youthful looks and there was not a single grey hair on his head. He explained that this was because he had an understanding wife, and children whose ideals matched his. Bhattar talks of konaada kol, which means a life lived ethically. Attachment to God’s feet and association with His devotees are also described by Bhattar as boons.
08 September 2020||September 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Inaugural ride||
08 September 2020||HYDERABAD,||TS-Agros launches organic fertilizer||Telangana State Agro Industries Development Corporation (TS-Agros) has launched “Telangana Siri” city compost – organic fertilizer as part of the State Government efforts to encourage the use of organic manure and discourage the increasing use of chemical fertilizer. The Telangana Siri brand of organic fertilizer was released by Minister for Agriculture S. Niranjan Reddy. Speaking after the launch of the compost fertilizer, the Minister said they would be available in all the 600 TS-Agros sales counters across the State, and asked the agriculture and horticulture departments to educate the farming community on the use of compost as part of reducing the use of chemical fertilizer. He said that farmers were made to use chemical fertilizer by neglecting organic fertilizer in the name of getting higher yields and production. Farmers in the State had used 8.5 lakh tonnes of urea during the last Vanakalam crop season but this year even 10.5 lakh tonnes allotments appear to be insufficient, the Minister said adding that the government is focusing on creating awareness against use of chemical fertilizer explaining how they would impact soil quality as also the quality of the produce. The agricultural produce using chemical fertilizer had no export value since many countries had banned imports of agricultural and horticultural produce with chemical residue. As the first step towards encouraging farmers to use organic manure, the government helped farmers cultivate green manure crops in about 12 lakh acres this season. The government is also planning to get the soil tests done twice every year and also issue soil health cards to all farmers.  Secretary (Agriculture) B. Janardhan Reddy and Managing Director of TS-Agros K. Ramulu participated in the event.
08 September 2020||KOCHI,||NIA: accused erased data from consoles||The two accused in the case of computer parts theft from the Indigenous Aircraft Carrier (IAC) being built in the Cochin Shipyard had accessed and erased the sensitive data in one of the four Multi Function Consoles, according to the National Investigation Agency (NIA). The agency dropped the charges of waging war against the nation and collecting arms with the intention of waging war against the nation against the accused while retaining the cyber terrorism charges. Opposing the bail plea of the accused, the NIA contended that the accused had the knowledge and intention to illegally access the system. Sumit Kumar Singh of Bihar and Daya Ram of Rajasthan are the accused in the case. The console had the information related to the architectural aspects of the vessel. The accused were never assigned to go to the areas in the vessel where the consoles were fixed, argued the agency. At the same time, the lawyer engaged by the District Legal Services Authority (DLSA) for the accused contended that the accused were starving following non-payment of wages. The accused stole the spare parts for selling it for money, she contended. The DLSA had to engage a lawyer for the accused as they could not afford one. However, the NIA submitted that the contractor had credited the salaries of the accused in their account.  The court posted the case for Friday.
08 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Chanda Kochhar’s husband held||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Monday arrested Deepak Kochhar, the husband of former ICICI Bank CEO and MD Chanda Kochhar, in a money laundering case. The case pertains to alleged credit facilities extended to the Videocon Group of companies. “The accused has been arrested under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act. He will be produced in court on Tuesday,” said a senior ED official. The ED is conducting the probe based on an FIR registered by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in January 2019, alleging quid pro quo in sanctioning loans to the tune of Rs. 1,875 crore to the companies of Videocon Group head Venugopal Dhoot. In January this year, the agency had attached properties worth Rs. 78.15 crore of Ms. Kochhar, and those of her husband’s companies. These include a flat in Mumbai and some other assets held in the name of Mr. Kochhar’s firm Nupower Renewables Private Ltd., earlier known as NuPower Renewables Ltd. (NRL), and its subsidiaries. The agencies alleged that during Ms. Kochhar's tenure, between June 2009 and October 2011, ICICI Bank had sanctioned six high-value loans to various Videocon Group firms.
08 September 2020||September 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Tenzin was on duty along LAC last month||Special Frontier Force (SFF) soldier Nyima Tenzin, killed in a 1962-vintage landmine blast at Chushul in Eastern Ladakh, had been patrolling the areas along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) for the past one month, one of the members of the Tibetan community said. Tenzin (58), who is survived by his wife and three children, was born in India. The family lives at a Tibetan settlement camp in Sonamling, one of the largest camps in Ladakh. After the Dalai Lama’s flight to India from Tibet in 1959, India gave assistance to Tibetans for a temporary settlement. The Company Leader was killed in the intervening night of August 29-30 when he accidentally stepped on a 1962 war landmine. He had completed 30 years in service. Tseten Wangchuk, chief representative officer, Sonamling Tibetan Settlement, Leh said Tenzin’s funeral was held on Monday, six days after the death, as per the community’s tradition. “The body was kept at his house for the past few days and the funeral was organised as per his horoscope on Monday. He was determined to defend the territory,” Mr. Wangchuk said. “The Chinese are causing tensions at the border day by day. The Communist Party of China loves weapons but Tibetans are peace-loving people,” Mr. Wangchuk said.
08 September 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||11.98 lakh students join Govt. & aided schools in Tamil Nadu||Government and aided schools across Tamil Nadu have admitted 11.98 lakh students since August 17. Of them, 8.70 lakh have been admitted to government schools and 3.28 lakh to aided schools for elementary and secondary education. The admission process began later than usual this year. While schools continue to remain shut, the School Education Department allowed the admission process with adherence to safety norms. “Despite the restrictions in place, school heads and teachers have managed to canvass among parents in nearby localities. Around 2.04 lakh students have joined Class 1 in government schools so far and we expect the numbers to go up to 4 lakh students by the end of September,” said S. Kannappan, school education director. Shyam Sundar, director, Solar Trust which is a part of the Forum for Child Friendly Schools, said that they had seen an increase in students from private schools switching to aided schools in particular. “We have also appealed to schools to not stress on the need for all documents including Transfer Certificates for admission and make the process simpler for parents,” he said. P.K. Ilamaran, president, Tamil Nadu Teachers’ Association, said that many parents and students were aware of the 7.5% quota envisaged for MBBS seats from students of government higher secondary schools that had made them seek out these schools this year too. Under the Right to Education Act, applications were accepted from August 27. So far, 41,800 applications have been submitted for entry level classes in private matriculation schools, said officials.
08 September 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||T.N. to continue two-language policy, says Education Minister||The State government will continue the two-language policy as it has been found to be successful, Higher Education Minister K.P. Anbalagan has written to the Union Education Minister, Ramesh Pokhriyal ‘Nishank’. The letter, written to convey the State’s views on the National Education Policy 2020, stated that a seven-member committee, including him, had analysed the policy document and had arrived at a consensus that the two-language policy would be pursued by the State in the future too. Mr. Anbalagan said while the NEP had envisaged 50% gross enrolment ratio by 2035 for the country, the State expected to achieve it in the 2019-20 academic year and had set an ambitious target of 65% by 2035, he said. Moreover, the teacher-student ratio in the State was 1:17 while the all India ratio stood at 1:26, he pointed out. The State was not in favour of a National Testing Agency as it would discourage rural students. Besides it would be an added burden on the students, the Minister said. The State is in favour of continuing the present model for higher educational institutions. The strategy of categorising colleges as autonomous or constituent colleges would deprive the affiliated colleges the capability of becoming autonomous, degree-awarding institutions as they would lack suitable guidance from the affiliating university, Mr. Anbalagan said. Of the 587 colleges in the State only 52 were autonomous and the others needed nurturing by the affiliating universities, he said. However, the Minister said the State welcomed the decision of 4-year integrated B.Ed degree courses with two major subjects. Mr. Anbalagan said it would help more students to take up the course and complete the degree and enter the teaching profession quickly.
08 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||5,776 persons test positive for COVID-19||As many as 5,776 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu on Monday, taking the State’s tally to 4,69,256. As many as 5,930 persons were discharged after treatment, while 89 more persons, including two teenagers, succumbed to the infection. A total of 51,215 persons are under treatment, while a total of 4,10,116 persons have been discharged after treatment. The State’s toll climbed to 7,925. One of the teenagers, a 15-year-old girl from Madurai, who had tuberculosis, cystic fibrosis and chronic liver disease, was admitted to a private hospital with complaints of difficulty in breathing on August 26. She died on Monday owing to acute respiratory distress syndrome and COVID-19 pneumonia. A 17-year-old boy from Tenkasi had Type 1 diabetes and was admitted to the Government Headquarters Hospital, Tenkasi, with complaints of difficulty in breathing for a day on September 5. He died the next day owing to COVID-19 pneumonia. Two persons aged in their 20s and six persons aged in their 30s, including two persons with no co-morbidities, died in the State. Of the 89 fatalities (53 at government hospitals and 36 at private hospitals), 16 persons died in Chennai. There were six deaths each in Salem and Tiruvallur and five each in Cuddalore and Pudukottai. Chennai recorded 949 fresh cases, followed by Coimbatore with 524 cases. Cuddalore and Chengalpattu had 398 and 330 cases respectively. A total of 262 persons tested positive in Tiruvannamalai and 248 in Tiruvallur district. Thirteen districts had 100-plus cases. Tiruppur continued to record a surge, with 194 persons testing positive. Kancheepuram had 190 cases, while Kallakurichi and Salem recorded 189 and 185 cases respectively. A total of 80,503 samples were tested in the last 24 hours. So far, 53,79,011 samples have been tested in the State. 90-year-old discharged A 90-year-old man, who tested positive for COVID-19 and had co-morbidities, was discharged from the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH) on Monday after 34 days of treatment. E. Theranirajan, dean of RGGGH, said the nonagenarian was admitted to the hospital on August 3. The patient had diabetes, hypertension and dyslipidemia. His CT scan showed Grade 3 lung involvement. He was on oxygen support, and his condition improved gradually.  Thirteen districts had 100-plus cases. Tiruppur continued to record a surge in infections
08 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Metro evokes poor response on day one||Many people heading to work along Anna Salai and Parrys Corner from the southern suburbs on Monday took Metro train in the Washermenpet-Chennai Airport stretch after six months. The first train along this stretch departed from Chennai airport at 7 a.m. On September 9, Chennai Central-St. Thomas Mount will be functional. From handling over a lakh of passengers before COVID-19, the stations and trains had poor patronage on Monday. Passengers impressed H.N.S. Patel walked down to the station around 7.30 a.m. to head to his office in Parrys. “All these months, I had an office cab picking me up and dropping me. But now that the Metro has begun, I’m going to start using it as it is convenient and safe to travel. I will get off at Madras High Court station and take an auto to my workplace,” he said. Godwin J., 30, who lives in Tambaram, too travelled to Parrys Corner. “Earlier, I was taking the suburban train but now that it is not available I decided to use the Chennai Metro now. The stations are clean and well-maintained and I would love to use them regularly to travel to office; but I wish they cut down the fares,” he said. Another passenger Srivathsan Sridharan, on Twitter, said, “proper social distancing arrangements in Chennai Metro. Hope people follow the same. Due to COVID-19, Chennai Metro Rail Ltd. had taken a host of steps for improving the safety of passengers such as QR code tickets and increasing dwell time of trains in each station (the time a train halts in a station). There are travel card readers installed at stations for commuters to check the details of their smart cards and extend the validity. Officials optimistic Officials of the CMRL said the patronage for the services was likely to improve significantly n the coming weeks gradually. “Commuters will start using it as usual when they know it is safe and comfortable. We are placing additional staff too to make sure there was physical distancing in the trains and stations,” an official said.  Commuters will start using it as usual when they know it is safe and comfortable CMRL official
08 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Bus and train services resume between districts||After a gap of over five months, the main transport hubs of Chennai — Dr. MGR Bus Terminus, Dr. MGR Chennai Central Station and Egmore Railway Station — sprang back to life with intra-State bus and train services resuming on Monday. Bus and train services stood cancelled with the lockdown in March, and the usually bustling transport hubs had fallen silent. However, on Monday morning, passengers were once more queueing up, and the usual announcements about trains started blaring at railway stations. A total of 11 trains will be operated from the two stations. The first train from Dr. MGR Chennai Central left for Coimbatore at 6.10 a.m. and a train left Egmore for Tiruchi at 8 a.m. Elaborate safety arrangements were made at the stations. “We installed thermal scanner cameras and passengers were screened before being allowed to enter the stations. Only those with masks were allowed to board the trains and they had to walk to their respective compartments in a line maintaining physical distancing,” said a Railway Protection Force officer. Inside, passengers wore masks, and were maintaining physical distancing. Some brought their own sanitisers and disinfected the seats before occupying them. “Our main concern is about the toilets. They should be disinfected after every use. But it feels good to travel in a train. Last month, I spent a hefty amount to go to Tiurchi in a car,” said S. Gnanmuthu, who was on a train to Tiruchi from Egmore. Only 24 passengers Inter-district bus services resumed at 6 a.m. Close to 30 buses were operated to different districts, including Madurai, Cuddalore and Salem, until early afternoon. “My temperature reading was taken at the entrance and once before boarding the bus,” said M. Vijay, a passenger. Only 24 passengers were allowed to board a bus. “All the seats were numbered and the conductor gave sanitisers to the commuters once they got in the vehicle. One disappointment was the lack of shops on the premises. Even the Aavin milk counter was closed,” said M. Bhagyalakshmi, another passenger who was at the Chennai Mofussil Bus Terminus (CMBT). Senior officials of the State Express Transport Corporation said they were initially operating 524 buses out of the fleet of 1,082. “ We will increase the number of services once passenger traffic increases,” said an official. The Villupuram Division of the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC), comprising 10 districts including Villupuram, Cuddalore and Kallakurichi, operated around 1,400 buses. Of these, 271 were operated from Villupuram and Kallakurichi districts and 183 from Cuddalore. The services resumed at 5.30 a.m. from 13 depots. 50% of fleet A TNSTC official said the buses constituted only 50% of the fleet in the districts. The patronage was normal on the first day and the number of buses would be gradually increased in the coming days. With inter-State bus services continuing to remain suspended, passengers had to get down at the inter-State border at Gorimedu in Puducherry and board town buses operated in Puducherry to reach their destinations. An official said the TNSTC had written to the Puducherry government seeking permission to operate point-to-point buses through the Union Territory without stoppage. The TNSTC has sought permission to ply 50 buses from Chennai to Cuddalore and Chidambaram on the East Coast Road through Puducherry. Private buses off the road Private buses remained off the roads. The Federation of Bus Operators Associations of Tamil Nadu had earlier said the operators would not be able to resume services until buses were allowed to operate to their full capacity. Operating with 60% occupancy would not be economically feasible, they said. Confirming that private buses had not resumed operations, D.R. Dharmaraj, secretary of the Federation, hoped the government would soon take a decision on the request to operate to full capacity. About 4,500 private buses, all stage carriers, have permits to operate on mofussil and city routes across the State, except in a few districts such as Chennai, Kancheepuram and Tiruvallur.  We will increase the number of bus services once passenger traffic increasesSETC official
08 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Easing of curbs doesn’t mean pandemic is over: police officer||Additional Commissioner of Police (Traffic) M. Kannan on Monday said that although lockdown restrictions have been eased by the State government, the public should not assume that the COVID-19 pandemic is over. Mr. Kannan tested positive for COVID-19 two weeks ago. He was the seventh IPS officer to test positive for the virus in the city. Along with Mr. Kannan, 19 others who recovered from COVID-19, rejoined duty on Monday. Commissioner of Police Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal welcomed them at the Commissioner’s office. In Chennai, police personnel perform duties including containment area management, quarantine management, contact tracing, enforcement of physical and social distancing norms and regulation at marketplaces. All these duties involve contact with a large number of people. In spite of precautions being taken, 2,250 police personnel have contracted COVID-19. As many as 1,800 personnel have recovered and rejoined duty so far. “Support from the organisation and friends and family helped me recover from the infection quite fast. To handle the disease, one needs strong will power and should not have fear. Fear is the first enemy here. If you fear COVID-19, whatever medicine you consume will not be effective. You need not worry if you face it with strong will power. You can recover from it,” Mr. Kannan said. Regarding lockdown relaxations, Mr. Kannan said, “Now, several curbs have been removed. This does not mean the COVID-19 pandemic is over. The infection level continues to be the same. The public should not venture out of their homes without valid reason. They should not be careless regarding physical distancing norms.”
08 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Passengers face a few glitches||For the first time, Chennai Metro Rail Ltd. introduced QR code tickets on Monday giving contactless ticket option to the passengers. Using the CMRL app, a passenger a commuter can get the code with flexibility to reschedule or cancel their trip. On Monday, only a limited number of commuters made use of this option and a few encountered problems. Sources said this problem occurred in a few stations and some had issues getting the one-time password and generating the code too. A passenger Feroz Khaleel tweeted: “@cmrlofficial QR scanner is a complete flop it seems, none of your readers reads QR code, and I wasted about 30 minutes checking your reader. Please ensure and test the system before taking it to the masses.. Anyhow it’s a good one, but unfortunately it is not properly working.” Another passenger, Gopal S. said he too faced an issue where the gates were not accepting the code and he had to wait for a while. “I was quite excited that QR code was generated easily but then since the gate was refusing to let me in, it put me off. I hope these are initial glitches and are fixed soon,” he added. CMRL officials technical issues would be ironed out within this week. “Whatever issues we get, we try to solve them immediately,” an official said. Sources said staff need to get familiar with the system to help commuters.
08 September 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Dr. Radhakrishnan award presented||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Monday handed over the Dr. Radhakrishnan Award to 15 best teachers selected from Chennai district as part of the National Teachers’ Day celebrations organised by the School Education Department. The award carries a medal and a cash prize of Rs. 10,000. A total of 375 teachers have been selected for the award from across Tamil Nadu this year. Teachers selected from other districts too, would be honoured on the same day, an official release stated. Recipients of the National Teachers’ Awards from Tamil Nadu this year — R.C. Saraswathi, headmistress of Government Girls Higher Secondary School, Ashok Nagar in Chennai and S. Dhilip, an English teacher at the Government Higher Secondary School at Sathyamangalam in Villupuram district — met the Chief Minister. New buildings unveiled The Chief Minister unveiled new buildings constructed at a cost of Rs. 6.20 crore in Theni and two bridges constructed at a total cost of Rs. 1.34 crore in Perambalur district by the Rural Development Department. Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam and Municipal Administration Minister S.P. Velumani were present.
08 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Fruit merchants seek nod to reopen stalls||The fruits section must be opened along with the wholesale vegetable section that is set to be opened on September 28 at Koyambedu. This was one of the demands put forth by representatives from traders’ organisations to Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami during a meeting in the city on Monday. Members of Tamil Nadu Vanigar Sangankalin Peramaippu and Federation of All Traders’ Associations of Koyambedu Wholesale Market Complex met the Chief Minister and requested him to reopen vegetable markets across the city. The State government had announced reopening of wholesale food grains and vegetables sections in Koyambedu on September 18 and September 28 respectively. The government had announced that other markets would be opened in a phased manner. ‘Provide relief’ The State government must provide Rs. 10 lakh as compensation to families of traders who died of COVID-19. It must allow commercial establishments, particularly eateries, to function till 10 p.m., said traders leader A.M. Vikramaraja The other demands include waiver of property tax of establishments in the hospitality sector till March 2021 and opening of weekly markets and fish and meat markets across the State, said the press release.
08 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC extends deadline for payment of school fee||The Madras High Court on Monday extended the deadline for payment of the first instalment of 40% of school fees for the current academic year from August 31 to September 30 considering the difficulties faced by parents due to COVID-19. Justice N. Anand Venkatesh also warned schools of facing contempt of court proceedings if they were found to have collected more than 40% of tuition fees, fixed by the court on July 17, in the inquiry to be conducted by the School Education Department. The judge directed the department to complete the inquiry within two weeks and file a report by September 23. The direction was issued after hearing School Education Secretary Dheeraj Kumar through video call on the action taken so far. He told the court that the Director of School Education had issued a circular to all 37 Chief Educational Officers in the State on July 31 to inquire into complaints regarding violation of court order on collection of tuition fees. Thereafter, about 34 complaints were received and show cause notices were issued to 29 schools since there was prima facie material against them. Some of those complaints had been forwarded by the Regional Director of Central Board of Secondary Education. In order to streamline the receipt of complaints, exclusive e-mail IDs were created for each of the 37 educational districts last week. After that, as many as 74 complaints were received on Friday and Saturday, Mr. Kumar told the court. It was while passing common orders on a batch of cases filed by associations of many private schools and colleges against a Government Order restraining them from collecting fees that the judge had on July 17 directed them to collect the fees in instalments. He ordered that 40% of tuition fees could be collected as first instalment and the rest after the educational institutions were allowed to be reopened by the State government.  The School Education Department was directed to complete the inquiry within 2 weeks
08 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||IIT-Madras internship drive goes online||The internship drive of the Indian Institute of Technology-Madras has gone online with 152 offers received on the first day on Monday. The internships for the summer of 2021 saw international profiles from the U.S.-based Rubrik’s Software Development and Jane Street’s Quantitative Researcher, Hong Kong, which provided highest compensation. On the first day, 20 companies participated and offered internships to undergraduate students. Last year, 147 offers were made on the first day and 554 offers were made in all. The institute’s advisor for internship N.V. Ravi Kumar said the internship office conducted three student surveys and two surveys with companies who frequently recruit students for internship and placements. The internship drive began on August 30. The institute had requested the companies to be flexible considering that several students were in far-flung locations. Microsoft India has made 21 offers. Google has participated in the drive.
08 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||GST official alleges Hindi imposition||B. Balamurugan, Assistant Commissioner, Hindi Cell, GST Chennai Outer Commissionerate, has written to Chairman, Central Board of Indirect Taxes and Customs (CBIC), alleging imposition of Hindi on Tamil officials. Of the four officials in the Hindi cell, Mr. Balamurugan said, he and the superintendent do not know Hindi. “It is my humble opinion that the officer posted in the cell should know Hindi,” Mr. Balamurugan pointed out in his letter. He further said he was not interested in working in the Hindi cell and alleged that his posting amounts to imposition of Hindi. Mr. Balamurgan requested the Chairman to instruct all the heads in the CBIC to post only those who have knowledge of Hindi in the department.
08 September 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Abolish communal quota at least by 2050, says HC||The State government should think of abolishing communal reservations in education and public employment at least by the year 2050 so that people of the State could unite under one roof and become a model State for the whole country, the Madras High Court has said. Justice S. Vaidyanathan made the observation while disposing of a writ petition pending in the High Court since 2010 with respect to the reluctance of the Tamil Nadu Public Service Commission to provide information related to communal break-up of candidates selected for public employment. TNPSC had filed the petition challenging an order passed by Tamil Nadu Information Commission in 2009. It claimed that providing information, under the Right to Information (RTI) Act of 2005, with respect to sub-castes of selected candidates would lead to communal discontent and strife. Disagreeing with such a stand taken by the writ petitioner and upholding the Information Commission’s order to provide the information, the judge said: “The apprehension of TNPSC, that in-depth description of castes will create communal unrest, is only an illusion and imaginary. “If it is the real concern of the TNPSC and the government, they should think of abolishing the quota system as well as removal of column regarding caste particulars in school certificates so that people of Tamil Nadu could stand united under one roof irrespective of caste, creed and religion.”
08 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Barrage to come up across the Cauvery in Karur||A barrage, estimated at a cost of Rs. 406.5 crore, is to come up across the Cauvery in Karur district. Issuing an order last month in this regard, the Public Works Department allowed the State Water Resources Conservation and Rivers Restoration Corporation to seek funds under the infrastructure development assistance programme of the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development. To be located in Pugalur taluk (earlier known as Manmangalam taluk), the proposed barrage, the left bank of which would fall in the Paramathi Velur constituency of Namakkal district, would span over a length of 1.05 km with 73 shutters. It can store 750 to 800 million cubic feet (mcft) of water, benefitting 3,801.63 acres of land. Besides meeting the requirements of farmers for irrigation, the facility will enable improvement of the water sources in the area and the groundwater table. The government has permitted the Corporation to get the barrage project implemented as a deposit work through the Tiruchi region of the Water Resources Department in the PWD.
08 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Conservancy staff protest against privatisation||Conservancy operations were disrupted in some parts of the city on Monday after the Greater Chennai Corporation workers staged a protest against the delay in implementing the government order pertaining to wages. The workers demanded that the Corporation shelve the project for private conservancy operations. The civic body had planned to start private conservancy operations in a few weeks. “According to the government order, a conservancy worker should get a minimum wage of Rs. 16,725 every month. But the government order has not been implemented by the Corporation,” said an employee. At least 3,000 employees were detained by the police and taken to Kannappar Thidal and a marriage hall in Egmore on Poonamallee High Road. Conservancy operations were hit in areas such as Ambattur and parts of Teynampet, Kodambakkam and Adyar owing to the protest near Ripon Buildings. Police prevented protesting employees and residents from entering Ripon Buildings. Many residents who visited the civic body’s headquarters were stopped at the gate. Many residents who requested permission for visiting e-seva centre in Ripon Buildings were also not allowed by the police. Residents said they were not allowed to visit the e-seva centre even after they requested the officials, explaining the importance of the work. Many residents have started visiting Ripon Buildings after the relaxation of the lockdown to get their work done.
08 September 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||DMK demands withdrawal of BJP leader’s nomination to BU Syndicate||Former Higher Education Minister and DMK MLA K. Ponmudi on Monday demanded the withdrawal of the nomination of BJP state vice-president B. Kanagasabapathi as the Syndicate member of the Bharathiar University in Coimbatore. Prof. Kanagasabapathi was nominated to the Syndicate recently by Governor-Chancellor Banwarilal Purohit. In a statement in Chennai, Mr. Ponmudi charged that his nomination was an attempt to destroy and saffronise higher education in the State. This was highly condemnable. Mr Ponmudi urged the Governor to cancel the nomination. “Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami and Higher Education Minister K.P. Anbazhagan should bring pressure on the Governor to cancel Mr. Kanagasabapathi’s nomination,” he said. Pointing out that Mr. Kanagasabapathi was first nominated as a Syndicate member three years ago when he was part of the intellectual wing of the BJP, the DMK leader pointed out that he has been renominated now even though he was made the vice-president of the State BJP recently. “Though the Governor, as the Chancellor of the University could nominate three members to the Syndicate, he should only nominate educationists and not BJP leaders.  Wrong precdent By appointing a BJP leader, the Governor has set a wrong precedent,” Mr Ponmudi said.
08 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Former VC files PIL against cancellation of arrear exams||Professor E. Balagurusamy, 75, former vice-chancellor of Anna University, has filed a PIL petition in the Madras High Court to declare as illegal and arbitrary a Government Order issued on August 26 cancelling the arrear examinations for arts, science, engineering and Master of Computer Application students but for those pursuing final year. “The G.O. will definitely lower the education standard of the students and the universities… Several students approached me and expressed their apprehensions about future prospects and further informed that most have more than 25 arrear papers and have less than 25% marks in most subjects,” he stated in his affidavit.
08 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||B.E. graduate among seven arrested for peddling ganja||The police on Monday arrested seven persons, including an engineering graduate and a food delivery executive, for procuring ganja from Andhra Pradesh and selling it to customers on Rajiv Gandhi Salai. As part of a crackdown, Semmancheri police mounted surveillance on the movement of suspicious persons and rounded up four persons who were selling the contraband near a school on Monday. The police seized 10.5 kg ganja and 150 ml hashish oil from them. The names of the arrested were given as K. Pugazh Germonone, 26, V. Arun, 29, of TNHB Colony, Sholinganallur, S. Navodit, 23, of Anna Nagar and Laxmanan alias Vijay, 27, of Thoraipakkam. Meanwhile, Chitlapakkam police on Monday arrested three persons and recovered 3 kg of ganja.
08 September 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||CM pledges to donate eyes||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami has pledged to donate his eyes as part of the National Eye Donation Fortnight. A certificate issued by S.V. Chandrakumar, State programme officer, Tamil Nadu State Blindness Control Society (TNSBCS), Department of Health and Family Welfare, Government of Tamil Nadu, said Mr. Palaniswami was a “proud eye donor and has solemnly pledged to make his country blindness free by gifting his vision.” As part of the fortnight, the CM launched an online portal created by the TNSBCS to enable persons who wish to pledge to donate their eyes — www.hmis.tn.gov.in/eye-donor — on Monday, according to a press release.  In India, nearly 68 lakh persons suffer from corneal blindness. The majority of them are children and young persons. Eye donation makes it possible to give vision to persons through corneal transplantation.
08 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Observe safety protocols in mosques’||To prevent the spread of COVID-19, Prince of Arcot Nawab Mohammed Abdul Ali has appealed to Muslims to observe safety protocols while going for prayers in mosques. He said protocols should be observed in mosques during the daily five-time and Friday congregational prayers. He added that if strict discipline and personal hygiene are not followed, a spike in cases was likely in October. “The situation is alarming and people think that government restrictions are over and they are free to mix in crowded places, but they do not realise that the pandemic is not over yet,” he said. The Prince cautioned people not be complacent. He said the next few months were critical due to the unavailability of a vaccine. “It is our prime duty to protect ourselves and fellow beings from the spread of the virus,” he added.
08 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Panel to file report on pandemic||A committee, headed by former Governor of the Reserve Bank of India C. Rangarajan to go into the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on various sectors of the State’s economy, has finalised its findings and recommendations. In a few days, the panel is expected to submit its report formally to Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami. Apart from studying the immediate and medium-term impacts, the panel was given the task of suggesting measures to improve the tax-GSDP (Gross State Domestic Product) ratio. Constituted in May, the committee includes 24 members drawn from various fields of activity such as academia, industry, development finance and banking, in addition to officials of the State government. Nearly a dozen sub-committees were formed with each dealing with assigned subjects.
08 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Troubleshooting centre launched for Korean firms||The Consulate General of the Republic of Korea in Chennai has launched a ‘Troubleshooting Centre for Korean Companies’ to advocate Korean investments in South India and solve legal issues facing Korean businesses. The initiative extends for a duration of 4 months from September 14, 2020 on a trial basis. The centre can be contacted atchennai@mofa.go.krand 044-4061-5500.
08 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Patna boy wins ‘For Your Eyes Only’ quiz||Do you know about leeches were being used to treat glaucoma patients and that sharks have eyes very similar to those of humans and their eyes have been used for corneal transplants? Some schoolchildren, who took part in the two day online quiz titled “For your eyes only”, jointly conducted by the Rotary Rajan Eye Bank and Rajan Eye Care Hospital on Sunday, knew all of this. The quiz was for schoolchildren from classes 6 to 12. The event saw over 1,000 registrations from all across India. The preliminary round was held on Saturday and the finals on Sunday. Prateek from Army Public School at Danapur in Patna, was the winner of the quiz. Gurukesav from Ology Tech School, Chennai, was the runner-up and Sabarish S. from Pushpalata Vidya Mandir, Tirunelveli, was the second runner up. Top 11 qualifiers will get gift vouchers worth Rs. 10,000 and e-certificates. Mohan Rajan, Chairman, Rajan Eye Care Hospital, congratulated the participants for their enthusiasm. Sujatha Mohan, Executive Medical Director of the hospital, was present. X Quiz was the knowledge partner.
08 September 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||TNPCB recommends closure of 183 brick kilns in Thadagam valley||A four-member committee constituted by the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB) recommended closure of all the 183 brick kilns operating in the ecologically important Thadagam valley in Coimbatore district early this year. The committee’s report, a copy of which was accessed through the Right to Information Act by activist S. Ganesh of Thadagam, said that the brick kilns were operating without the consent of the TNPCB. Also, permission was not obtained for the operations in places coming under Hill Area Conservation Authority (HACA) and directions of the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) were not complied, the report stated. The 99-page report submitted by the committee which had TNPCB officials from Madurai, Hosur, Nagapattinam and Ramanathapuram as members also revealed that brick kilns had not obtained environmental clearance for mining. The ambient air quality survey revealed that PM10 in the air was above the standards in brick kiln operating areas. The committee’s report gains significance and reiterates the environmental impact in Thadagam valley as two cases against the illegal operations of brick kilns are under the consideration of the Madras High Court – one filed by S. Muralidharan praying identification and protection of an elephant corridor and another one filed by farmer-turned activist T.M.S. Rajendran of Thadagam praying for closure of brick kilns and formation of a committee to assess the ecological damage. “The report says that the Department of Geology and Mining has not issued no mining leases / licenses after 2012. Local Planning Authority says in the report that it did not receive applications from the brick kiln operators for building plan approval. HACA approval was also not given. Similarly, block development officer of Periyanaickenpalayam too had not issued plan approvals,” said Mr. Ganesh. Of the five village panchayats where the brick kilns are located, four namely Chinna Thadagam, 24 Veerapandi, Nanjundapuram and Somaiyampalayam are covered under HACA. Pannimadai is the fifth village. Though environmental clearance was made mandatory for minor minerals even for mining areas less than five hectares after 2012, none of the brick kilns obtained environmental clearance, said the report. “Though the joint director of Mines in Coimbatore is quoted in the report saying that mining of red earth was allowed for a depth of 1 to 2 metre, given that the land can be used for cultivation later, mining was done in varying depths of 15 to 20 metres. Air pollution and mining has destroyed the landscape of the valley which in the past was blessed with conditions suited for agriculture,” said Mr. Rajendran. The report said that the District Environmental Impact Assessment Authority became defunct and it did not have scientific and expert committee members as present in the State Environmental Impact Assessment Authority. “An order of the Madras High Court in 2009 which says that brick kilns should be established at least two km away from residential areas. It says that the distance between two brick kilns should be one km. But these directions are not followed and brick kilns operate in close vicinity of houses, schools and hospitals in Thadagam valley,” added Mr. Ganesh. As per the report, Union Minister for Environment, Forests and Climate Change Prakash Javadekar noticed emissions from brick kilns in a visit to Coimbatore in August 2019 and CPCB’s regional directorate (South) in Bengaluru appointed an official Rajkumar R. for a status report based on his direction. “Mr. Rajkumar observed that the mining was not carried out as per EIA notification dated June 24, 2013. He also observed that elephant movement is disturbed due to mining. We hope that the government will take appropriate action based on the TNPCB report,” said V. Velunaicker, State secretary of Tamilaga Vivasayigal Sangam.  The report says that the Department of Geology and Mining has not issued no mining leases / licenses after 2012  S. GaneshActivists
08 September 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||BJP members booked for staging demonstration||The Madukkarai police registered a case against the BJP members who participated in a demonstration against a private cement factory in Madukkarai, near here, on Sunday. Nearly 250 members led by the party’s Coimbatore South District president K. Vasanth Rajan participated in the agitation, the police said. A release from the BJP said the demonstration condemned the alleged air pollution caused by the factory and its effects on the health of the Madukkarai residents. It also demanded the withdrawal of ‘false cases’ registered against the residents, who have protested against the factory. The BJP members, including Mr. Rajan, were booked under Sections 269 (Negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 270 (Malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code and provisions of the Epidemic Diseases Act. No arrests were made as of Monday, according to the police.
08 September 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Resident who displayed banner outside house booked||Coimbatore Corporation on Monday lodged a complaint against Hope College Junction resident Ilavarasan, who had displayed a banner outside his quarantined house taunting the civic body.  Sources in the corporation said the sanitary supervisor of the area concerned lodged the complaint with the Singanallur Police, who have registered a case under Sections 269 and 270 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and Section 4(i) of The Tamil Nadu Open Places (Prevention of Disfigurement) Act. The sources said the two IPC sections were for violating the quarantine by opening the barricades, venturing out of his house and travelling as far as Rameswaram and the third section was for displaying the banner outside his house, taunting the civic body. They said that after Ilavarasan’s wife had contracted COVID-19 sometime in the second week of August and his father Ganesan died of COVID-19 at the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital in the third week of August, his family had refused to cooperate with the corporation staff to even give swab samples. He had also fought with the area officials for quarantining his house. He had then violated the quarantine and travelled to Rameswaram to complete the last rites for his father, the officials said and added that his repeated violations had forced the corporation to lodge a complaint with the police. Health Wing officials in the civic body dismissed his COVID-19 negative report saying it remained to be seen when he had given his swab samples and how he did so when he was quarantined.
08 September 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Special trains from Coimbatore see low occupancy on Day 1||The special trains operated from Coimbatore Junction by the Southern Railway, after a gap of over five months due to COVID-19 lockdown, saw low occupancy. Officials from the Salem Division of Southern Railway said that Train No. 02679/02680 Intercity Superfast Special train to Chennai departed with 339 passengers from Coimbatore Junction at 6.15 a.m. Similarly, about 382 passengers boarded Train No. 02084/02083 Janshatabdi Special train to Mayiladuthurai at the Coimbatore Junction. The special trains have a total seating capacity for 1,600 passengers. Meanwhile, only 100 passengers alighted from Train No. 02675/02676 Superfast Intercity Special between Chennai and Coimbatore and around 100 passengers boarded the train from Coimbatore Junction at 3.15 p.m. The occupancy is expected increase in the coming days, the officials said. About 30 personnel comprising the medical and ticketing staff members, along with personnel from Railway Protection Force Government Railway Police, were involved in monitoring the passengers at Coimbatore Railway Station on Monday. Passengers who arrived 90 minutes before the departure time were screened for temperature using the automated thermal scanner at the entrance.
08 September 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Commissioner tells officials to check for unsafe buildings||Corporation Commissioner P. Kumaravel Pandian has instructed officials in the Town Planning section to check for unsafe buildings. His instructions comes after a building in K.C. Thottam on Chetty Street collapsed on Sunday night, killing three persons and his visit to the accident site on Monday. Sources in the Corporation said it was a 40-year-old two-storey building with a temporary structure on the terrace. The sources said the Commissioner had instructed the Town Planning wing officials to inspect unsafe buildings and also unauthorised construction in and around the accident spot and across the 100 wards. De-occupation notice “As on Monday afternoon, I had issued verbal instruction. By evening, I will be issuing written orders to the officials in the wing to check all buildings,” Mr. Pandian told The Hindu . If during the inspection, the officials came across unsafe buildings or unauthorised construction, they would issue ‘de-occupation’ notice to the occupants so that they vacated the building. But this was too little and late, said S. Kanagasundaram, a licensed building surveyor. The Corporation appeared to wake up only after a tragedy, just as it had happened in the instant case. Earthquake resistance The Tamil Nadu Combined Development and Building Rules, 2019 had mandated the Corporation to check old buildings for earthquake resistance. The Corporation was supposed to have completed the task by this February, but it had not. And, for earthquake unsafe buildings, it should either recommend remedial measures or demolition. Remedial measures It had not happened because to certify the remedial measures they were not registered engineers, again a delay on the civic body’s part, he pointed out. Meanwhile, sources in the Town Planning wing said they would start checking for unsafe buildings in the next couple days.
08 September 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Three get jail term in emu scam||A special court in Coimbatore on Monday sentenced three directors of a firm to undergo 10 years of simple imprisonment in an emu scam involving cheating of 75 investors of about Rs. 1.67 crore. A.S. Ravi, judge of the Special Court for Tamil Nadu Protection of Interests of Depositors Act cases, awarded the punishment to J. Padmanabhan, S. Jeyakumar, and D. Rajasekaran, directors of J.P.R. Emu Agri Farms India Pvt. Ltd., which had its farm at Kinathukadavu in Coimbatore. The court also imposed a fine of Rs. 15 lakh each. The fine of Rs. 11.25 lakh imposed on the firm, named as first accused in the case, was to be paid by the three directors and Rs. 50 lakh of the total fine of Rs. 56.25 lakh was to be paid towards the compensation for the 75 investors of the firm, the court ordered. The court acquitted a fourth person A. Aravind in the case registered and investigated by the Economic Offenses Wing (EOW) of the police, Coimbatore, in 2013. The firm had received payments from investors by promising to offer various schemes for emu farming. Special public prosecutor S. Manickaraj appeared for the victims during the trial.
08 September 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Two booked for illegal occupation of land||The Madukkarai police have registered a case against a man and his son on various charges, including alleged illegal occupation of a property belonging to an elderly woman. The police said that Arumugam and his son from Girishkesan, residents of Muslim Colony near Madukkarai, were booked based on a complaint filed by their neighbour C. Kannammal (75). Houses damaged The woman had complained to the Superintendent of Police, Coimbatore District (Rural) Police, that the accused had occupied her one cent land and made damages to her houses. The accused were booked on Sunday under various Sections of the Tamil Nadu Property (Prevention of Damage and Loss) Act, the SC/ST (Prevention of Atrocities) Act and the IPC. As per the First Information Report in the case, Arumugam is a local functionary of the BJP.
08 September 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Case registered against three||Coimbatore District (Rural) Police have registered cases against three persons from whose houses country-made explosive, air rifle and raw materials were seized in a joint inspection conducted by the Forest Department and the police on Saturday. The Perur police booked R. Rangan of Karadimadai on charges of possessing a country-made bomb used for hunting. The Thondamuthur police booked Chinnasamy and Duraisamy of Vellarukkampalayam. Chinnasamy was arrested and Duraisamy was at large.
08 September 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Webinar||TiE Coimbatore in collaboration with Kotak Wealth Management will organise a webinar on the topics ‘Role of Succession Planning’ and ‘Impact of COVID-19 on Business’ on Wednesday. The hour-long event will begin at 5 p.m, a release said. Those interested shall register using the link https://kotak.zoom.us/webinar/register/ WN_F5TxrQKoTFKE7mj4 _wv_ww.
08 September 2020||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||TNSTC buses start operating in ghat sections||Following the State government's decision to permit buses to ply within districts, a total of 408 buses were operated on the first day on Monday, said Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) General Manager N Ganesan. In both Dindigul and Theni regions, 408 buses were operated from morning through 15 bus depots, according to the official, As per the guidelines to be followed in view of the covid-19, the bus crew had been provided with the dos and dont’s. Prior to departure from the depots, the vehicles were disinfected by a team under the supervision of the depot managers. The commuters were repeatedly told to wear masks and maintain physical distancing. Crowding was largely avoided at buses keeping in mind the public safety, officials said. Apart from town and mofusil routes, buses plied on the ghat sections in Dindigul and Theni districts. There were 81 buses in Dindigul town, 110 mofussil and 25 ghat sections operated on the first day. Similarly, in the neighbouring Theni, 45 town buses, 144 mofusil and three ghat section routes were operated. As and when the requirement was more, the fleet strength would be increased, officials said and added that depending on the cooperation from the commuters, the number of frequencies would be increased. The private and omni buses continued to stay off the road as they insisted on getting the government's nod for operating in full capacity. A bus operator, who plied between Dindigul and Theni, said that already they were reeling under severe loss without operation due to the continued lock down. Only when the buses functioned to its full capacity, there would be a little extent of reaching break-even on the costs, he explained and said that instead of operating at less than 50% capacity, they would remain off the road as at least they might not increase the loss. A transport department official said that they had difficulty in handling commuters in bus stands, where physical distancing went for a toss.
08 September 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Woman trampled to death by wild elephant||A 50-year-old woman was trampled to death by a wild elephant at her farm land at Attapadi in Hasanur police station limits on Sunday. The police said S. Mahalingam of Attapadi along with his mother Alambal was guarding their beans crop when they heard the fence being damaged by a wild elephant at 11.30 p.m. Both left the field and were moving towards their house nearby with the help of torchlight. But, an elephant attacked his mother and Mahalingam ran into the house and alerted neighbours. When villagers returned, they found the body of Alambal. On Monday, he lodged a complaint with the police, who retrieved the body and sent it to the Government Hospital at Sathyamangalam, for postmortem. A case under Section 174 CrPC (elephant stamping) was registered.
08 September 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||power shutdown||Due to maintenance works, power supply will be disrupted from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. in the following areas on September 9.  Kodumudi sub-station: Kodumudi, Salai Pudur, Kuppampalayam, Rasampalayam, Othakadai, Unjalur, Pilikalpalayam, Thamaraipalayam, Thaluvampalayam, North Moorthipalayam, Arasampalayam, North Pudupalayam, Solakalipalayam and Nagamanaickenpalayam.  Perundurai Sipcot III sub-station: Kottaimedu, Karungkattur, Kalliyampudur, Thudupathi, Chinna Vettuvapalayam, Pallakattur, T.K. Pudur, Slater Nagar, Sullipalayam Pirivu, Ayyappa Nagar, Anna Nagar and Sipcot Special Economic Zone premises.  Town electric line: Power House Road, S.K.C. Road, Muthuvelappan Street, Meenatchi Sundaranar Road, Panneerselvam Park, Manikoondu Road, Cutchery Street, Pon Street, Muthurangan Street, R.C. Church Road, Nethaji Road, Kamaraj Street, N.M.S. Compound, Eswaran Kovil Street, Ramasamy Street, Venkatachalam Street and T.V.S. Street.
08 September 2020||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Panchayat chief alleges discrimination||President of Anjur Village Panchayat petitioned District Collector here on Monday alleging discrimination by a Panchayat secretary. In her petition, Panchayat president Suguna said that though it has been eight months since she took charge as the president, the secretary is taking decisions individually and she is not informed about official communications. Ms. Suguna alleged that the secretary was discriminating her due to her caste.
08 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Hundreds of street vendors throng Corporation office to apply for loan||A large number of people thronged the Anna Maligai premises of Madurai Corporation on Monday to apply for Rs. 10,000 loan offered to street vendors, flouting personal distancing norms. A loan of Rs. 10,000 is offered to registered street vendors under PM-SVANidhi scheme. The Corporation is the authoritative body to register street vendors for the loan. Apart from Anna Maligai, the regisration for loan also takes place at Corporation zonal offices. G. Mohan, who is an elected member of the Street Vending Committee, said there were around 5,600 registered streets vendors with identity cards in Madurai. Around 3,000 street vendors, who were registered in 2016, were yet to receive their identity cards. “Apart from them, there are around 2,800 street vendors who got themselves registered this February. They received the identity cards last month,” Mr. Mohan added. Assistant City Health Officer (ACHO) S. Vinodh Raja said that in the initial phase, 6,000 street vendors coul avail loan under the PM SVANidhi scheme. “Till date, loan applications for around 3,500 street vendors have been filed,” he said. At present, the civic body also undertook registration of new street vendors. “The new street vendors are also eligible to apply for the loan,” he said. But the process created chaos and led to crowding in front of registration counters, said N. Selvam, another elected member of the vending committee. “Many people, who are not street vendors, also throng the Corporation offices to register for loans under the PM SVANidhi scheme, “ Mr. Vinodh Raja added. Mr. Mohan said that it was mandatory to undertake ground inspection before registering a new street vendor. “Only a few loan applications can be filed each day. Hence, the Corporation must ensure that they allow limited number of applicants each day to avoid crowding,” he added. Mr. Vinodh Raja said work was underway to erect barricades in front of the registration counter at Anna Maligai as a measure to ensure adequate distancing between the applicants.
08 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Special train services resume in Madurai division||Special train services connecting Madurai with Chennai, Tiruchi with Nagercoil and Karaikudi with Chennai began in Madurai railway division on Monday. The first train, Madurai-Chennai Egmore Intercity Superfast Express, left with only around one-third of passengers in the morning. However, railway sources said the overnight Madurai-Chennai superfast special was filled to capacity. A railway official said passengers with confirmed seats/berths were allowed into the railway platform. Only one entrance was kept open for them. Although passengers were asked to report at least 90 minutes before the departure of the train to ensure thermal screening and ticket checking on the platform, most of them showed up only 30 minutes before departure. “With long queue of passengers taking time for screening, the train’s departure was delayed by five minutes,” the source added. Also, Madurai Railway Division had installed thermal camera to screen body temperature of passengers. “Railway employees would not have to use hand-held thermal scanners now. The thermal camera would alert them if any passenger had temperature more than 38 degree Celsius,” the official said. Besides, contactless ticket checking system had also be introduced. “Passengers need to show their tickets to a camera and the ticket checking staff can see it on a monitor kept at a safe distance,” the official added. Since ticket checking was done at the platform and travelling ticket examiners were guiding passengers into their coach, only three TTEs were travelling in the train. They were provided with face masks, face shields, gloves and sanitiser bottles.  A thermal camera will alert staff if any passenger has body temperature more than 38 degree Celsius official Madurai Railway Division
08 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Scrap illogical procedure adopted by home loan institutions: MP||Madurai MP Su. Venkatesan has drawn the attention of Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman to the “illogical procedure” being adopted by housing loan institutions in revision of interest rates for loans taken, following the Reserve Bank of India directives. “This procedure has led to customers of housing loan institutions incurring huge losses,” he said in a memorandum to her. The financial institutions would automatically increase the rate of interest for all existing customers whenever RBI comes up with an upward revision of interest rates. “However, when the RBI reduces the home loan interest, the financial institutions adopt a different procedure and make the customers submit a form seeking to convert their loans to the lower rate of interest,” he said. Whenever the customers fail to submit the application, they incur loss. “The losses being suffered by the customers are in unimaginable proportions. In a country where consumer awareness is very low, this practice is tantamount to loot of money from ordinary people by big companies,” Mr. Venkatesan said. Besides, the financial institutions are charging huge amount as service charges plus GST of 18% for exercising the option for reduced rate. This is nothing but penalising customers for exercising option consciously to avail themselves of the benefit. It is against natural justice to adopt two different approaches for rate changes detrimental to the customers when they had already exercised option originally for the regime of flexible interest. The MP sought the Union Finance Minister’s intervention to safeguard the interests of the customers and issue suitable instructions to restrain all housing loan companies from continuing this illogical procedure and also to refund the interest collected in excess with retrospective effect.
08 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC: Return Class X, Class XII certificates||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Monday partly allowed the petition filed by the first student accused in the NEET impersonation case who sought the return of his educational certificates so that he can pursue his studies. Granting the relief for the return of Class X and Class XII certificates alone, Justice R. Pongiappan directed the petitioner to give an undertaking to the Theni Judicial Magistrate that he would hand over the certificates whenever needed in connection with the case. The petitioner had sought a direction to the CB-CID officials probing the NEET impersonation case to return his educational certificates so that he could pursue his studies. Admission He said that he had approached a few colleges in Chennai seeking admission to arts and science courses. The college authorities had asked him to produce his original certificates, he said. If his certificates were not returned his future would be in jeopardy and he would have to face hardship, he said. Earlier, the High Court had granted him bail in the NEET impersonation case.
08 September 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Doctors caution against needless travel by public transport||With inter-district public and private bus and passenger train services beginning on Monday, doctors have suggested precautionary measures to ensure safety from contracting COVID-19. President of Indian Medical Association (IMA), Madurai branch, V. N. Alagavenkatesan says people must travel only if it is absolutely essential. Travelling puts one at risk of extreme exposure. It places everyone in a crowded place in a single location for a long while, allowing infection to spread easily. R. Prabhakaran, senior doctor at Government Rajaji Hospital and in-charge of COVID-19 treatment, says until a vaccine is found, people must ensure that they are careful about maintaining personal distance, wearing masks and washing hands. “Travel can cause one to touch handles or seats for support. People travelling must ensure that they keep their hands to themselves and not bring it close to their mouth or nose,” he adds. Wearing masks, particularly those made out of thin cotton fabric or stretchable material, may not necessarily prevent the public from contracting infection but will certainly reduce the spread from those who are potential carriers of COVID-19, Dr. Prabhakaranpoints out. S. Vijay Anand, head, Velammal Hospital, Critical Care Unit, says although physical distancing may be tough, it must be followed.
08 September 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||CBI, CB-CID submit status reports to HC||The CBI and the CB-CID on Monday submitted status reports before the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court in the cases pertaining to Sattankulam custodial deaths of trader P. Jayaraj and his son J. Benicks and the custodial torture of Raja Singh. Both the cases involved the same accused policemen. While the CBI submitted an additional status report in the case of custodial deaths of Jayaraj and Benicks, the CB-CID probing the custodial torture case of Raja Singh submitted that so far 28 witnesses were examined and 12 documents have been collected. It was submitted that the investigation was progressing. A Division Bench of Justices M. Sathyanarayanan and P. Rajamanickam was informed that the experts from the Central Forensic Science Laboratory (CFSL) were unable to visit the site due to the COVID-19 situation and their engagement in actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death case, it was submitted. The case was adjourned till September 22. During the course of the hearing, the State submitted that a Standard Operating Procedure was issued for the policemen to follow with regard to enforcing lockdown and other measures. Counter affidavits were also filed by the three policemen involved against whom contempt proceedings were initiated for not cooperating with the judicial inquiry.
08 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Madurai SSI dies after testing positive||A Special Sub Inspector of Police, P. Malarsami, 56, attached to Special Intelligence Cell of Madurai City Police, who had tested positive for COVID-19, died in the early hours of Monday. According to the police, the Special Sub Inspector was on medical leave since August 15. Mr. Malarsami tested positive on August 25. He was admitted to the COVID-19 ward at the Government Rajaji Hospital where he succumbed at around 3:45 a.m. on Monday. He is the second police personnel in Madurai City to have lost life after contracting COVID-19.
08 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC notice on plea by cab drivers, owners for relief||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Monday ordered notice to the Centre and the State in a PIL petition that sought a direction to them to grant relief to cab drivers/owners with regard to tax and insurance payments. A Division Bench of Justices M. Sathyanarayanan and P. Rajamanickam ordered notices in the PIL petition filed by P. Gopalakrishnan, the Kanniyakumari Coordinator of the Democratic Corruption Liberation Front. The case was adjourned to September 23 for further hearing.
08 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Probe sought into jackal’s death||An environmental enthusiast has approached the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Monday seeking a Wildlife Crime Control Bureau probe into the death of a jackal in Tiruchi district. It was said that a country bomb was wrapped in meat and kept as bait. The jackal died after the bomb exploded in its mouth. At least 12 persons were arrested. The petitioner, N. Abdul Rahman Jalal also sought a ban on manufacture and sale of explosives used as bait to kill wild animals. A Division Bench of Justices M. Sathyanarayanan and P. Rajamanickam ordered notice to the Centre and the State and sought a response. The case was adjourned for further hearing to October 7.
08 September 2020||MADURAI/RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Madurai reports 106 fresh cases||A total of 106 people tested positive for COVID-19 in Madurai, taking its tally to 14,881 on Monday. As many as 105 of the fresh cases were indigenous. Forty-five people were discharged from various COVID-19 treatment facilities. One person succumbed to the virus, taking the death toll to 367. The district has 1,046 active cases. Kanniyakumari reported 96 fresh COVID-19 cases, which took the tally to 10,313, and 156 discharges. The district, which witnessed two fatalities to have an overall toll of 197, has 856 active cases. Thoothukudi recorded 91 new cases, which pushed the tally to 11,829 and the number of active cases to 714. A total of 39 patients were discharged from hospitals. The district’s death toll stands at 115. In Tirunelveli, the tally stands at 10,396, with the addition of 81 new cases. A total of 126 people were discharged, and the number of active cases is 1,126. Tenkasi added 65 cases to its tally, which rose to 5,877, even as 122 patients were discharged from hospitals. The district lost one more patient to COVID-19 that took the number of deaths to 109. Virudhunagar registered 97 new cases, which pushed the case count to 13,348, with 429 active cases. A total of 137 people were discharged on Monday. The number of fatalities in the district increased to 198 with the death of a 80-year-old man at a private hospital in Madurai on Saturday. Theni recorded 88 fresh cases, with which its tally moved up to 13,246. The number of people discharged from hospitals was 77. Dindigul registered 136 fresh cases, which took its total case count to 7,414. Hospitals in the district registered 98 discharges. Ramanathapuram district had 23 fresh cases to mark a tally of 5,007. There were 30 discharges from hospitals . Sivaganga reported 41 new cases, which pushed up its tally to 4,297. Twenty-four people were discharged from hospitals in the district.
08 September 2020||MADURAI/TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Inter-district buses attract decent crowds||After a gap of five months, bus services from Madurai to other districts resumed on Monday. A senior official of the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (Madurai division) said 1,184 buses were operated in the division on the first day. Madurai division covers Theni, Dindigul, Virudhunagar and Madurai districts. “Patronage was good for buses that were bound for Tiruchi, Coimbatore, Tirunelveli and Salem districts. While the patronage was good in the morning, it dipped from afternoon,” said another official. The official said passengers and bus crew were instructed to wear face masks. They had to undergo thermal screening before boarding the buses. Only up to 60% of the seats were filled in order to ensure adequate space between passengers. The buses were disinfected after each trip. An official of the State Express Transport Corporation (SETC) said 23 ultra-deluxe non-air-conditioned buses were operated from Madurai to Chennai on Monday. Each bus carried a maximum of 25 passengers, said the official. Bus services attracted huge crowds in Tirunelveli. When buses started leaving for Thoothukudi, Nagercoil, Tenkasi, Kovilpatti, Sankarankovil, Rajapalayam and Madurai from Tirunelveli in the morning, the limited number of services could not match the demand. Though passengers were seen wearing masks and cleaning their hands with sanitizer before boarding the buses, many of them did not bother about social distancing. All the buses leaving Tirunelveli carried a huge crowd and the crew were seen appealing to them to follow government-stipulated norms. The crowds that disappeared after 10 a.m. thronged the buses again after 4.30 p.m. TNSTC operated 540 buses, including 301 buses that hit the road recently after relaxation in lockdown norms. Private bus owners refrained from operating their vehicles, citing the restriction stipulated by the government on the maximum number of passengers at 23 as reason. They said it would seriously affect them. SETC operated 14 ultra-deluxe buses to various destinations with 24 passengers each. In Virudhunagar district, around 120 mufossil buses started plying to different districts. These inter-district buses that were temporarily operated within Madurai zone had to be withdrawn in the last week of June after a spike in COVID-19 cases across the State. 135 in Virudhunagar Meanwhile, the number of town buses that were operated within various towns and within the district also rose to around 135. Sources said operation of inter-district buses led to increased patronage to buses. Meanwhile, Virudhunagar Collector, R. Kannan, noticed that many of the passengers who travelled in various buses were not using facemasks. Mr. Kannan has issued an instruction to the TNSTC officials to ensure that only those passengers who come with facemasks are allowed to board the buses. “I have asked the TNSTC officials to paste instructions about denial of entry into buses without masks on the buses,” he said. The Collector has also instructed local bodies to impose fines on those who do not follow the facemask rule and social distancing norms in public places. “We need to takes these measures to keep the COVID-19 under check,” he added.
08 September 2020||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Two sentenced to life for murder||The Namakkal Mahila Court on Monday sentenced two persons to life imprisonment for the murder of a 42-year-old woman in 2012. The police said Madhialagan and Ashokan from Gundurnadu in Kolli Hills murdered Rajamani who was living separately from her family. An affair between the accused and deceased and the quarrel following it led to the murder. Hearing the case on Monday, the Mahila Court sentenced the accused to life imprisonment and imposed a fine of Rs. 1,000. They were taken to Coimbatore Central Prison.
08 September 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Toll in Puducherry rises to 325||The COVID-19 toll in the Union Territory went up to 325 with 11 deaths reported on Monday while new cases fell to 292 against 503 patients discharged in the last 24 hours. All the deaths occurred in Puducherry. The patients, including three women, were in the 40-87 age range. The case fatality rate stood at 1.88% while recovery rate improved to 70.88%. Puducherry accounted for 263 new cases, Karaikal 17, Yanam three and Mahe nine. The overall tally in the U.T. aggregated to 17,316 (after transfer of eight cases to Tamil Nadu). Active cases stood at 4,856 and patients discharged at 12,135. Health Minister Malladi Krishna Rao said recruitment on contract basis of doctors, staff nurses and ANMs had been expedited to strengthen manpower in hospitals. Meanwhile, the Central Bank of India’s branch on Law de Lauriston Street was shut down after two staff tested positive.
08 September 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||L-G giving false info: CM||Responding to Lieutenant Governor Kiran Bedi’s open letter, Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy on Tuesday said it was she who was giving false information to the public and the Centre on disbursement of salary to government-aided private school teachers and welfare assistance to fishermen. “You have returned the files and in the letter you claim that the files pertaining to disbursement of salary to teachers and welfare assistance to fishermen are not in Raj Nivas. The government has taken decisions based on the needs of the public and when submitted for approval you have returned it. How could the files be with you when you have returned it. People are aware of the facts,” the CM said in a virtual press conference.
08 September 2020||Pudukottai,TAMIL NADU||Woman jumps from second floor of hospital||A woman who was said to be mentally ill created a flutter by jumping from the second floor of a private hospital here on Monday. The woman was brought for treatment at the hospital by her relatives when the incident occurred in the evening. Police sources said the woman under the pretext of going to the bathroom allegedly jumped out from the second floor. She was later taken for treatment to Madurai. No case has been registered in this regard yet, said the sources.  Girl ends life A 19-year-old girl allegedly ended her life at her house in Palakkarai here on Sunday. Police said the girl who had joined B.A. English Literature in a private college in Tiruchi recently is said to have found it difficult to cope with classes that were being taken online. The girl had studied Tamil medium and was unable to cope with the classes. The Palakarai police have registered a case. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.
08 September 2020||Pudukottai,TAMIL NADU||Order for free house site patta given||District Collector P. Uma Maheswari on Monday handed over an order for allotment of a free house site patta to a poverty-stricken girl Sathya of Boram village in Pudukottai taluk who has been taking care of her mentally ill mother in a small tenement. The action from the district administration came following reports in the media. An official press release said based on the reports highlighting the plight of the girl, the district administration asked the revenue officials to identify a site near her house for issuing free house site patta. Accordingly, Collector Uma Maheswari handed over the order granting free house site patta to Sathya at the Collectorate. The release further said steps have been taken to construct a greenhouse under the Rural Development Development. Steps have also been taken to provide necessary treatment for the girl's mother through the District Mental Health Officer and for the higher education of Sathya.
08 September 2020||Pudukottai,TAMIL NADU||Boy killed by mother||A 38-year-old woman allegedly murdered her 11-year-old son by administering him poisonous substance on Sunday and consumed the same following a domestic quarrel with her husband. The incident occurred at Kaladipatti village in Annavasal police station limits in the district. While the boy died, his mother was undergoing treatment at the Pudukottai Medical College Hospital. Police sources said the woman’s husband was a drunkard leading to frequent quarrels between the couple. The Annavasal police are investigating. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.
08 September 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||PM-Kisan scheme fraud: two held in Salem||The Crime-Branch CID police on Sunday arrested two persons in connection with the PM-Kisan Nidhi scheme scam here. The district administration and agricultural officials have initiated recovery process from bogus accounts. Collector S.A. Raman said over 10,700 bogus accounts had been identified and the recovery process was under way. Till last week, Rs. 1.20 crore had been recovered and the process was continuing. According to officials, most of the bogus beneficiaries were included in the list after April this year. Issues in the PM-Kisan registration portal itself could have given way to this scam. Representatives of Bharatiya Janata Party petitioned the Collector on Monday and requested authorities to conduct an inquiry into the scam and take action against the officials involved.
08 September 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||No water supply today||Water supply would be disrupted on September 8 in Salem Corporation limits due to maintenance works at Thotilpatti, Mettur by TNEB, a release said.
08 September 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Man found dead in pit||An elderly man was found dead in a pit dug for laying underground drainage pipelines at Shevapet. According to police, the deceased was identified as Dhanashekaran from Kandhasamy Pillai Street. Police said that the man could have slipped into the pit dug for UGD works while walking back to his house. Construction workers found the body while draining the rainwater from the pit on Monday. Shevapet police have registered a case.
08 September 2020||TENKASI,TAMIL NADU||Jewels cash stolen from woman||Unidentified persons robbed Vijayalakshmi, 58, of Rs. 32 lakh-worth gold ornaments and Rs. 50,000 at knifepoint here on Monday. Police said the robbers entered the house of Jayapaul, 63, a saw mill owner, on Tirunelveli-Tenkasi Main Road, tied the hands of his wife Vijayalakshmi, 58, and gagged her when other family members were out. After threatening her at knifepoint, the robbers took gold ornaments weighing 100 sovereigns and the cash kept in the house.
08 September 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Lay pipes via unused lands away from hamlets to carry natural gas: Naam Thamilar Katchi||The Naam Thamilar Katchi has appealed to Collector Sandeep Nanduri to direct Indian Oil Corporation Limited to lay pipes for carrying natural gas to its fertilizer manufacturing unit in the district via unused lands away from a few villages instead of laying it via cultivable lands and the hamlets. In a petition submitted on Monday, NTK secretary of Ottapidaaram constituency, Muthukrishnan said Indian Oil Corporation was laying pipes via cultivable lands and also via Kulaiyankarisal and Pottalkaadu villages. While agriculturists would lose their livelihood as the pipes were being laid via farms, the villagers were facing serious threat from the natural gas as trenches had been dug via these two villages to lay the pipes. Since the hamlets would be wiped out in no time in case of any mishap, the Collector should instruct Indian Oil Corporation to lay the pipes via unused lands away from the village and also cultivable lands, Mr. Muthukrishnan said.  SHG women allege threat A group of self-help group women from Shanmugasigamani Nagar near Pandavarmangalam in Kovilpatti submitted a petition accusing the private finance firms of threatening them to repay the loans they had availed with the interest even as they had lost their livelihood in the wake of COVID-19-induced lockdown. Hence, the Collector should instruct the finance companies not to harass the SHG members, they said.  ‘Repair streetlights’ Members of Thamizhaga Vaazhvurimai Katchi submitted a petition seeking repairing of streetlights along Tiruchendur Highway and urging the Collector to cancel the collection of toll being collected along all 4-lane highways without maintaining the roads.  Road roko When a group of people, led by Esakki Raja of Pasumpon Muthuramalinga Thevar Makkal Paathukaappu Iyakkam staged road roko on the busy Thoothukudi–Palayamkottai four-lane highway in front of the Collectorate for a while to highlight their demand, the public suffered a lot for a while. They alleged the police, particularly policemen attached to Sattankulam, Nazareth and Seythunganallur police stations, of harassing the members of their caste and blocked the road. They also accused the police of foisting fake cases against them. Even as the police, who had to take swift action to restore vehicular traffic on the road, were holding talks with the protestors in a bid to pacify them, the agitation continued much to the agony of the public. The agitation came to an end only after the protestors voluntarily gave up the protest and went to the Collectorate to submit the petition.
08 September 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||UG final semester exams at short notice unsettle students||Students admitted into post graduate programmes, even before conduct of the final year UG exams based on their performances till the fifth semester, have their fingers crossed after the Supreme Court endorsing University Grants Commission's stand that candidates cannot be promoted without conducting the final year exams. State universities in Tamil Nadu have already instructed affiliated colleges to get ready for conducting the final semester exam between September 15 and 30. Apart from the question of personal safety at the time of the pandemic, students say the gap of just a few days is simply not enough to sit for the final semester examinations. Also, neither the colleges nor the universities are able to decide on the methodology of conducting the examination. Safety is bound to take a backseat if the colleges are compelled to conduct exams at college premises, college heads admit. Colleges are also not yet inclined to open the hostels, they add. If the examination is planned to be conducted online, even teachers are not in a state of readiness to prepare the question papers in the MCQ (Multiple Choice Question) mode, a senior professor of Bharathidasan University observed. Teachers and the college administrations have not been on the same page on the issue of PG admissions. The college managements, without any official sanction from either the UGC or the State government, went ahead with carrying out PG admissions, and, not to be left behind, even the university departments followed suit, the teachers say. “Who gave the colleges the approval to conduct the PG admissions? There are instances of very many bright students being left out of the PG admissions because of the hush-hush conduct of the process. What the colleges have done is totally unfair for this section of students," a teacher of a leading arts and science college in the city said. According to college principals, the conduct of PG admissions was well-intended. "The idea was to ensure that the first-semester for the PG students is not completed in a rough-shod manner in the event of an indefinite delay in the start of the admission process. However, there was still scope for UG students who had been left out of the process to fare well in the final semester and apply subsequently for PG admissions," a principal said.
08 September 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Commuters relieved as inter-district bus services resume||Inter-district bus services resumed in central region on Monday morning following the easing of lockdown restrictions. The resumption of inter-district services came as a relief for persons commuting between major towns in the region for business and work. Those in labour intensive industry, such as the construction sector, were also relieved over the resumption of the services. The Central Bus Stand in Tiruchi saw passengers, especially those who travel to work including private and government officials board and alight from buses as the service resumed as part of the COVID-19 lockdown relaxations announced by the Chief Minister. While the bus services had resumed for a brief period in June, it was soon stopped to avoid the transmission of the viral infection. “This time around, we do not think services will be suspended again. We all need to get back to work and earn a living,” a bus conductor said. On the first day, the crowd was thin except on few routes. But officials expect the patronage to pick up in the coming days. The Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation, Kumbakonam, said 2,167 buses accounting for 60% of its 3335-strong fleet were operated from various depots of Kumbakonam, Nagapattinam, Tiruchi, Karur, Karaikudi and Pudukottai regions on Monday. The buses were operated to various destinations including Chennai, Vellore, Salem, Tiruppur, Coimbatore and Madurai from towns and cities such as Kumbakonam, Thanjavur, Nagapattinam, Mayiladuthurai, Tiruchi, Pudukottai and others in central region. Night services on the long distance routes were also being operated, sources in the corporation said. In Karur, Transport Minister M. R. Vijayabhaskar, after inspecting the operation of services from the bus stand in the town, said the number of services would be increased depending on the demand. He also disclosed that face masks were being given at a nominal rate of Rs. 5 each to passengers, who had turned up without them, through conductors. According to the Deputy Manager of the Tamil Nadu State Road Transport Corporation (TNSTC) in Tiruchi, the crew have been instructed to follow all the norms according to the Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) issued by the government. According to the SOP, only 60% of the seats must be occupied, passengers must enter through the back door and alight through the front door, and hand sanitisers must be made available for the passengers. The conductors must ensure that all passengers wear face masks for the entire duration of the journey. Wash basins have been installed at bus stands with a soap dispenser and liquid soap for use of bus drivers and conductors. Drivers are also required to ensure that bus is disinfected at the end of each trip. “The State government did not give us instructions on the number of buses permitted to ply as it will vary according to the size of the districts. From the Tiruchi Central Bus Stand 70% of the buses were deployed on Monday. Depending upon the need, we will increase it,” the deputy manager said. Large number of passengers were delighted to take the public transport. S. Manohar, who was travelling to Perambalur said that he had been depending upon his scooter for months. “Although riding two-wheeler might help in maintaining personal distance, it is heavy on the pocket. I spent about Rs. 150 - 200 each day. With the bus service resuming, I can travel within Rs. 50,” he said.” Riding a two-wheeler after a long day at work was exhausting too, he added. Meanwhile, P. Muthu was waiting to visit his aged mother who lives in Karur, for months. “I cannot afford to hail a car but have been looking forward to meeting my mother. She lives alone in our ancestral home and I can finally visit her now,” he said.
08 September 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Best teacher awardees felicitated||School teachers who were selected for the Dr. Radhakrishnan Best Teacher Awards were presented with the same in the respective districts in the central region on Monday. The awardees were finalised on the basis of several parameters that include enforcement of discipline, creating self-confidence, providing encouragement, and helping tendency that would transform students into fine human beings, according to Education department officials. Recipients of the award consisting of Rs. 10,000 cash component and a silver medal were felicitated for their social concern and selfless service for the progress of future generation. They were recognised for their vibrancy in student enrolment, creating environmental awareness and adopting innovative teaching methods. In Tiruchi, Vellamandi N. Natarajan, Tourism Minister, and S.Valarmathi, Minister for Backward Classes Welfare, along with Collector S. Sivarasu, presented the awards to 14 teachers. The awardees were: Lecturer of DIET, Kumulur, M. Anbuselvan; Physical Director of Govt. Adi Dravida Welfare HSS at Thulayanatham in Musiri block M.M.K. Harihara Ramachandran; Post Graduate Assistant in Tamil, Sevasangam Girls HSS, E. Sugirthabai; Headmaster of Arasangudi Boys HSS A. Mohammed Farooq; Headmistress of Savithri Vidyasala Hindu Girls HSS S. Usha; Headmaster of The Boys Higher Secondary School, Srirangam, K. Venkatesh; Post Graduate Assistant in E.R. HSS V. Ramakrishnan; Headmistress of TELC Primary School T. Suganthi Daisy Rani; Dharanallur; Headmistress of Alangavilas Singarapillai Memorial Middle School K.P. Udhayarani; Headmistress of P.S.E.L Tamil Medium Middle School HM V. Tamilselvi; Secondary level teacher of St. Cecilia Primary School Secondary, Mugavanur, J. Imelda Rani; Headmistress of Uppiliapuram Primary School R. Maheshwari; Headmistress of Jeyankondan Primary School P. Tamilselvi; and teacher of Adams Matric HSS Arifa Abdullah. Ariyalur AIADMK Chief Whip S. Rajendran honoured 11 awardees in the presence of Collector T. Rathna and senior officials of Education department. The 11 awardees constituted Headmaster of Melanikuzhi Govt. HSS K. Kodiyarasu; Headmistress of Ariyalur Government Girls' HSS S. Uma; Headmaster of Solankudikadu Govt. HSS A. Veeramani; Headmaster of Idayakurichi Govt. HSS C. Velvoli; Headmistress of Nirmala Girls' HSS C. Rose Poulin; S. Malathi of R.C. St. Teresa Elementary School; Secondary teacher of R.C. Aided Elementary School, Jayankondam A. Revathi; Headmistress of R.C. Nirmala Gandhi Middle School, Ariyalur, P. Nambikkai Mary; Headmistress of Kulamanickam St. Innasiriyar Elementary School P. Parnathmary; Headmistress of Vizhappallam St. Sebasthiyar Middle School P. Susai Mary; and Principal of Senthurai St. Teresa Matric HSS Christina. Pudukottai In Pudukottai district, 12 teachers were honoured by Collector P. Uma Maheshwari. The Collector lauded the role played by teachers at times of emergencies. Nagapattinam In Nagapattinam district, 10 recipients of the Dr. Radhakrishnan Best Teacher Award were honoured by Textiles Minister O.S. Manian in the presence of Collector Pradeep P. Nair.The Minister said the teachers were instrumental in scaling up enrolment of students at different levels. Karur Transport Minister M. R. Vijayabhaskar and District Collector T. Anbazhagan feted the teachers for enhancing enrolment of students in government schools and colleges. They felicitated nine awardees: Headmaster of Easanatham Govt HSS P. Maruthaiveeran; Headmistress of Karur Govt. Girls HSS R. Vijayarani; Headmistress of Pavithram Govt High School R. Tamilselvi; teacher of Jegathapi Govt. Model HSS P. Kamatchi; Secondary teacher of Gandhigram Colony PU Primary school S. Thilagavathi; Headmaster of Thottiyapatti PU Elementary School K. Moorthy; Headmistress of Adhinatham PU Middle School M. Geetha; Headmistress of Pappayampatti PU Middle School M. Vimala; and Principal of Puliyur Chettinadu Rani Meyyammai Matric School R. Gowri.  Thanjavur Citation, silver medal and cash award of Rs. 10,000 were presented to 19 school teachers in Thanjavur and Tiruvarur district at the Collectorates on Monday. While Food Minister R. Kamaraj presented the award to eight teachers at the District Collectorate, Tiruvarur, Agriculture Minister R. Doraikkannu honoured 11 teachers at the Thanjavur Collectorate. Felicitating the awardees, the Food Minister hailed the contributions of teachers in building a strong and vibrant society by inculcating good habits among schoolchildren while the Agriculture Minister lauded the dedicated and concerted efforts put in by teachers in moulding the life of students. Rajya Sabha MP, R.Vaithilingam and Collector M. Govinda Rao participated in the function at Thanjavur. Tiruvarur Collector T. Anand and senior officials felicitated the teachers at Tiruvarur.
08 September 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Central region sees a slight drop in new cases||The central region on Monday recorded 625 new cases of COVID-19, a drop over Sunday’s tally of 717. However, there has been a sharp increase in deaths with 18 people succumbing to the viral infection. Among the dead, five were from Pudukottai, four from Tiruvarur, three from Ariyalur, two each from Nagapattinam and Thanjavur and one each from Perambalur and Tiruchi. In Pudukottai, men aged 55, 58, 71 and women aged 45 and 61 succumbed to the infection. All five had co-morbidities including acute respiratory failure, diabetes and hypertension. In Tiruvarur, men aged 68, 60, 51 and a woman aged 62 died of the infection while in Ariyalur a woman aged 65, a man aged 68 and 72 died of respiratory failure caused by the infection. A 44-year-old man and a 64-year-old man from Nagapattinam and a 28-year-old man suffering from acute pancreatitis and a 56-year-old man suffering from dyslipidemia in Thanjavur died of the infection. An 80-year-old man from Perambalur and a 65-year-old man suffering from chronic kidney disease in Tiruchi died of COVID-19. Among the central districts, Tiruvarur recorded the highest number of fresh cases with 142 patients testing positive for the viral infection. In Thanjavur, 122 patients tested positive for the viral infection. Among them were an employee of a private eye hospital, two doctors and a staff nurse of the Thanjavur Medical College Hospital, an armed reserve policeman, two employees of a private bank, three staff members of a private hospital and several primary contacts. In Tiruchi, 112 patients, including primary contacts and patients with Influenza-Like Illnesses, tested positive for the infection. In Pudukottai, 89 patients tested positive for the novel coronavirus among which were local index cases with no history of travel or contacts, primary contacts, antenatal mothers and patients with a history of respiratory illnesses. In Nagapattinam, 64 fresh cases were recorded while in Karur 54 patients tested positive. Inter-district travellers from Tiruchi, residents of Thottiyam, Manmagalam, Vengamedu and Pallapatti were among those who tested positive in Karur. Of the 29 who tested positive in Ariyalur district, 10 were from Ariyalur block, seven from Thirumanur, eight from Sendhurai, one from T. Palur and three from Jayankondam. Meanwhile, in Perambalur, 13 patients tested positive for the infection. Of them, five hailed from Perambalur, one from Veppanthattai, six from Veppur and one from Alathur. Meanwhile, 348 throat swabs were lifted from people with contact history, residents from containment areas and from patients showing symptoms of COVID-19 and sent for tests.
08 September 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Srirangam Government Hospital gets national quality assurance certificate||The Srirangam Government Hospital has received national quality assurance certificate from the National Health Mission. The certification will help mobilise funds for the improvement of the hospital, senior officials said. A special team representing the National Health Mission inspected the hospital in November 2019 and awarded it a score of 93.6% score, S. Lakshmi, Joint Director Health Services, Srirangam, said. The National Quality Assurance Standards are broadly classified under eight areas – service provision, patient rights, inputs, support services, clinical care, infection control, quality management and outcome. The team inspected each department, evaluated the functioning of all equipment and interviewed staff members including conservancy workers and doctors. “The maintenance of the hospital, management of biowaste, drainage system, satisfaction of patients were among the many questions they asked,” Dr. Lakshmi said. Following the certification, the hospital will receive up to Rs. 20 lakh in funds to maintain and upgrade the quality of the hospital. Chief Medical Officer G. Gopinath received the certification from Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palanisamy on August 31. Collector S. Sivarasu on Monday felicitated the medical team of the hospital and the district for obtaining the certification.
08 September 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Train services back on track||Special train services within the State resumed on Monday with turnout of passengers being “moderate” on the first day. Passengers who reached Tiruchi Junction to board different special trains announced by the Southern Railway were subjected to thermal screening at the station entrance prior to being allowed inside. Barricades were put up at the main entrance leading to platform 1 to regulate movement of passengers proceeding from here and those alighting here. Railway officials said only reserved passengers were allowed to enter the station where Railway Protection Force and Government Railway Police personnel were deployed. A senior railway official said face shields and masks were provided to the Travelling Ticket Examiners deployed on board the special trains. The official said a little over 200 reserved passengers alone boarded from Tiruchi on the Chennai-bound superfast special train from Karaikudi in the morning. About 180 passengers had boarded the Tiruchi - Nagercoil Intercity Express special, while the number of those who alighted at Tiruchi from the Coimbatore - Mayiladuthurai Jan Shatabdhi Express Special was around 250. Only 36 passengers boarded the train from here to Mayiladuthurai, said the official. A woman passenger, Vanjikodi, who arrived here by the Coimbatore - Mayiladuthurai Jan Shatabdhi express from Coimbatore said there was not much crowd on the first day of resumption of train service. Railway Protection Force sources said escort teams comprising two constables each were deployed on board the Karaikudi - Chennai, Madurai - Chennai superfast specials and the Coimbatore - Mayiladuthurai - Coimbatore Jan Shatabdhi specials. The escort teams were provided with masks, gloves and hand sanitisers.
08 September 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Post Office Passport Seva Kendras to reopen tomorrow||Post Office Passport Seva Kendras (POPSKs) in Tiruchi region will resume operations on September 9, consequent to easing of lockdown restrictions and resumption of public transport. The services of POPSKs were temporarily suspended due to lockdown. The region has five POPSKs at Karur, Perambalur, Thiruthuraipoondi, Sirkazhi and Karaikal. The reopening of the POPSKs will avert the need for applicants to visit the Passport Seva Kendras at Tiruchi or Thanjavur. “Applicants can book their appointments online and visit the POPSKs concerned along with the requisite documents for processing. Applicants will be required to strictly follow the standard operating procedure -- wear face masks, go through thermal scanning and maintain physical distance,” R. Anand, Passport Officer, Tiruchi, said. A facility to redress grievance through video calls over WhatsApp will also be introduced from September 9 for the benefit of applicants whose cases are pending for issue of passport due to various reasons. A similar facility was already introduced over Skype. Using the facility, applicants can get their grievances redressed from the convenience of their homes, without having to visit the Passport Office. To avail the service, applicants have to give a 'missed voice call' over WhatsApp to 7598507203. The grievance officer will reply to the call either by voice or video call to attend to the grievance of the applicant between 9.30 a.m.and 1 p.m. The applicant may then send the additional requisite documents as advised by the Grievance Officer either by email or by post, on receipt of which the application will be processed further. General enquiries will not be entertained through this facility. Such queries can be raised over telephone on the toll-free number 1800-258-1800 or 0431-2707203/2707404, Whatsapp No.7598507203 or by e-mail to rpo.trichy@mea.gov.in on all working days, Mr. Anand said.
08 September 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||It’s a silent feast at Velankanni||Hotels, lodges and restaurants in Velankanni, which do roaring business during the annual feast of the Shrine Basilica of Our Lady of Health, have been hit hard as the festival is being held largely without devotees due to the pandemic this year. Thousands of devotees, from across the country and abroad, usually throng the town during the feast every year. But this year only locals have been allowed to take part in the festival, that too with restrictions. Even locals were not allowed to attend the car procession on Monday and the lowering of flag on the final day of the festival on Tuesday. While large hotels with over 150 employees have fired several workers and are unable to maintain their appliances including power generators and air-conditioners, small hotels are not even able to afford rent and salaries for employees, said Juliet Arpudharaj, president, Velankanni Lodge Owners Association. Peak season for businesses in Velankanni is in the months of April – May- around Good Friday and Easter, September- during the annual feast of the Basilica of Our Lady of Good Health, and Christmas. “With the lockdown stretching from March to September, over two seasons worth of business has been lost”, Ms. Arpudharaj said. “Around this time last year, shop owners did not have time to eat or sleep and were tending to customers round the clock,” she said. Beach-side shacks selling snacks, rosaries and keepsakes from the church have all been locked for the 166th day, said A. David, a hotel owner. “There has been zero business in a two-kilometre radius around the church. Only three medical shops are open while the streets wear a deserted look,” he added. When the lockdown was announced on March 26, Christians were halfway through the season of Lent, leading to Easter. “Puffed rice, peanuts and fried peanuts are purchased by devotees during that time. When the lockdown was announced, lakhs worth of the fried food went waste,” Ms. Arpudharaj said. Office-bearers of the Velankanni Lodge Owners Association claim that they wrote to the District Collector, Chief Minister and even to the Union Ministry seeking help. “We asked for relief funds or even exemption from paying rent till business resumes but we are yet to receive any response,” she said.
08 September 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Gandhi Market labourers stage demonstration||Labourers at Gandhi Market, owing allegiance to the Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) and Labour Liberation Front, staged a demonstration in front of the Collector’s Office in the city on Monday demanding steps to reopen the Gandhi Market. The agitators demanded steps to vacate the interim injunction against opening the Gandhi Market granted by the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court. The CITU and the LLF had announced a ‘waiting agitation’ in front of the Collector’s Office to press for the demand. However, following talks with district officials they withdrew the agitation.
08 September 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Residents can convey grievances to Collector over video call||Authorities in some of the districts in the central region are trying out various options in an attempt to prevent overcrowding of petitioners during the weekly public grievances meetings held in the District Collector’s offices every Monday. In Ariyalur, Collector D. Rathna launched an online system of grievance redressal wherein petitioners can interact with her over video conference. Petitioners have to access the district website,https://ariyalur.nic.in/and clink on the link provided in the website to reach the Collector. Those without access to internet can submit their petitions online at the e-service centres functioning in the primary agricultural cooperative societies, a release said. According to a communication issued later in the day, 17 persons had communicated grievances directly to the Collector using the facility and another 41 petitions were filed online. Meanwhile in Pudukottai, Collector P. Uma Maheswari had announced that the public can convey their grievances over the telephone between 10 a.m. and 1 p.m. on Mondays. The grievances can be conveyed over phone by dialling 04322-221663 (Collector) or 04322-220946 (District Revenue Officer) or 04322-221624 (PA General to Collector). In Karur, Collector T. Anbalagan sought to decentralise the conduct of the grievances meetings by deciding to hold them at the respective taluk offices. Grievances meetings were held at all the taluk offices in the district including Karur, Aravakurichi, Manmangalam, Pugalur, Kulithalai, Krishnarayapuram and Kadavur. Officers in the rank of deputy collectors were deputed to conduct the grievances meeting at the respective taluk offices.
08 September 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Man arrested for rape||The Lalgudi All Women Police has arrested a 23-year-old man on the charge of sexually assaulting a minor girl near Samayapuram a few months ago. The police are on the look out for two more accused in connection with the offence. Police said the girl who was a class X student had become pregnant after being raped and the matter was reported to the police thereafter. The victim is said to have known one of the accused. Based on a complaint by the victim last month, the Lalgudi All Women Police booked a case against the three accused under the POCSO Act and launched a probe. The police arrested T. Marudhupandi on Monday on the charge of committing the offence.
08 September 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Aged woman murdered||A 75-year-old woman was murdered in front of the Mariamman Temple at Kovandakurichi village in the district in the early hours on Monday. Kallakudi Police have arrested P. Anthonysamy (57) of Kovandakurichi on the charge of killing K. Palaniammal. The woman, a widow, had been staying alone at the temple after getting her daughter married. Police said the woman was lying in front of the temple when Anthonysamy in an inebriated condition picked up a quarrel with her. He then allegedly assaulted the woman and hit her with a wooden log killing her on the spot. On receipt of information, police personnel arrived at the spot and conducted inquiries. Anthonysamy was later arrested in connection with the murder. The Kallakudi police are investigating.
08 September 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||No water supply||Drinking water supply will remain suspended in the following areas of the city on Tuesday due to a power shutdown announced by Tangedco at Kambarasampettai Sub-station for maintenance works: Marakkadai, Viragupettai, Rockfort, Chinthamani, Thillai Nagar, Anna Nagar, Puthur, Khajapettai, Cantonment, Junction, Uyyakondan Thirumalai, South Ramalinga Nagar, Alpha Naga, Fathima Nagar, Karumandapam and Khajamalai Colony. Regular supply would be restored on Wednesday, a Corporation press release said.
08 September 2020||TIRUENLVELI,TAMIL NADU||Entrepreneurial training programme for narikoravas, transgender||To rehabilitate the nomadic people fromnarikoravacommunity and transgenders who could be seen begging during the lockdown, Tirunelveli Collector Shilpa Prabhakar Satish has designed and started separate programmes to train them in making a range of products including readymade garments. Addressing thenarikoravasfrom Pettai in Tirunelveli on Monday, while launching the training programme, Ms. Shilpa, appealed to them not to seek alms and urged them to become entrepreneurs by actively participating in the training programme. They would be trained in making products such as sanitisers, soap solution, soaps, phenyl, floor cleaner, detergent powder, vessel cleaning powder, liquid blue, candle and papad. “You should strive hard to make quality products so that you will enjoy excellent reception for your products among the public. Instead of seeking alms, you should sell your products in a brand created by you. Your children, after completing their education in the school or college, will also get motivated to become entrepreneurs,” Ms. Shilpa said. The Collector has also made arrangements for procuring the products from thenarikoravasto be sold along with the products of women self-help groups in the centralised ‘Pon Bharani Bazaar’ near Tirunelveli new bus-stand. For the transgender, Ms. Shilpa has designed a month-long training programme with incentive on tailoring and for making readymade garments. The Collector inaugurated the training in the community hall near the transgender colony in Narasinganallur near here on Monday. When the transgender complained to Ms. Shilpa that they faced threats from anti-socials, particularly after the dusk, the Collector assured them that the police patrol would be in their area round-the-clock. ‘Mahalir Thittam’ and SCAD Educational Trust are jointly organising the training programme for the narikoravas and the transgender. Project Director, Mahalir Thittam Michael Fernando was present.
08 September 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||T-shirts not enough to develop Tamil, says Vanathi Srinivasan||Wearing t-shirts against the alleged Hindi imposition is not enough to develop the Tamil language, asserted BJP State vice-president Vanathi Srinivasan here on Monday. In response to a question on t-shirts worn by Tamil cinema celebrities with slogans opposing the alleged Hindi imposition, she said the Opposition parties must “do something constructive” for the benefit of the Tamil language. Claiming that the National Education Policy (NEP 2020) will provide an opportunity for students in government schools to learn an additional language, Ms. Srinivasan accused the Opposition parties of “instigating language politics” ahead of the 2021 Assembly elections. “The BJP also admits that imposing any language is wrong,” she said. Ms. Srinivasan petitioned Tiruppur Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan on Monday to investigate the irregularities in the implementation of the Pradhan Mantri-Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM-KISAN) scheme. Noting that thousands of ineligible beneficiaries have received Rs. 2,000 under this scheme in Cuddalore and Villupuram districts, she said that Mr. Vijayakarthikeyan has assured her that the verification process was started 10 days ago for Tiruppur district. “Even if Rs. 1 goes to an ineligible beneficiary, the State government must consider that as an irregularity,” Ms. Srinivasan said. Petition to Collector As part of the BJP’s State-wide initiative of petitioning District Collectors regarding the PM-KISAN scheme, BJP State President of the Agricultural Wing, G.K. Nagaraj, petitioned Coimbatore District Collector K. Rajamani on Monday. “We have asked the Collector to maintain a vigil on all the e-seva centres,” he told The Hindu . Noting that the Central government allocated nearly Rs. 4,000 crore for 45 lakh farmers in Tamil Nadu to benefit under the PM-KISAN scheme, he said that severe action must be initiated against the officials involved in this scam in any district. Mr. Nagaraj claimed that complaints of irregularities in this scheme have surfaced in Coimbatore district and that the BJP Agricultural Wing will further investigate these complaints. The Tamil Nadu BJP will organise State-wide agitations if no action is taken in this regard, Mr. Nagaraj said.
08 September 2020||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||PM-KISAN scheme malpractices being probed: Minister||A probe is under way into the alleged malpractices in the implementation of PM-KISAN scheme (in some districts in the state), according to Food Minister, R. Kamaraj. Disclosing this to reporters here on Monday, Mr. Kamaraj said that some persons seemed to have clandestinely registered their names in the scheme since the beneficiaries could themselves register their names by presenting the necessary details through the scheme website. Now, the Central government had forwarded the list to the State government to ascertain ineligible beneficiaries and the process has commenced, Mr. Kamaraj added. Meanwhile, Tiruvarur Collector, T. Anand has said that around 1,600 bank accounts linked with the PM-KISAN scheme in the district had been blocked. It was ascertained that these accounts belonged to the persons who were residing outside Tiruvarur district.  Dhinakaran shocked Expressing shock over the alleged irregularities, the Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK) general secretary T.T.V. Dhinakaran on Monday called upon the State government to make public the district-wise beneficiaries of the scheme. In a series of tweets, Mr. Dhinakaran called for strong action against those responsible for the wrongdoing and a probe to be monitored directly by the Madras High Court.
08 September 2020||Tiruvarur,TAMIL NADU||Palmyra seeds to be planted along rural roads||Planting of palmyra seeds on a large scale along a 30-kilometer stretch of rural roads in Tiruvarur district has been planned by the Green Needa Environment Club, Needamangalam. The Club, which has succeeded in establishing the base to revive green cover along the 12-km stretch on the Needamangalam-Mannargudi Road by planting three-year-old `bonthus’ (rooted tree branches) of various tree species during the North East monsoon last year, has conceived the idea of planting palmyra seeds on the rural roads during the forthcoming monsoon this year. The Club has embarked on a mission to collect plamyra seeds from the public and environment activists in and around Needamangalam and other villages in the district a few months ago. Much to the surprise of the club members, the number of palm seeds collected for the massive seed plantation programme has exceeded the targeted 10,000 seeds. The seeds are to be planted on both sides of the road starting from Needamangalam to Vazhacheri via. Kothamangalam, Mullaivasal, Perambur, Kattaiyadi, Nanmangalam Road, Rishiyur and Pachaikulam, said Green Needa coordinator M. Rajavelu. Stating that college students, volunteers from non-governmental organisations and MNREGS workers would be involved in this massive exercise which is to commence on September 22, Mr. Rajavelu said the seeds would be planted at a gap of 4 feet. Pointing out that the entire exercise of planting 25,000 palmyra seeds along the 30-kilometer stretch of rural roads was expected to be completed within a week, he said arrangements have been made to water the seeds regularly or as and when required till the onset of North East monsoon. He thanked the district administration for extending support to the endeavour.
08 September 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||The Nilgiris to allow limited tourists into the district||The Nilgiris has been opened up for tourism, with the District Collector announcing that limited number of tourists will be allowed to enter the district from Wednesday. “Tourists can apply for e-passes,” said Collector J.Innocent Divya at a press conference on Monday. She said that only a fixed number of tourist passes will be issued each day taking into account various factors that would ensure both the safety of tourists as well as local residents, and to prevent overcrowding of the towns in the district. The Government Botanical Garden, Rose Garden, Sims Park and Kattery Park in Coonoor will be opened from Wednesday, with standard operating procedures (SOPs) in place to limit the number of people inside the park at any given time and ensure personal distancing. However, other tourist spots such as the Boat House would remain closed. The Nilgiris was closed to tourists for almost five months, with the closure of tourist spots, parks, hotels and restaurants being announced on March 17 due to the COVID-19 outbreak. After the hotels were reopened from September 1, only travellers for business purposes and essential work with valid e-passes were allowed entry. Many hotels had since closed due to very low bookings and had wanted the district to be opened to tourists once again. N. Chandrashekar, honorary secretary of the Nilgiris Hotels and Restaurants Association (NHRA), welcomed the announcement. “It is a welcome move as the tourism and hospitality sector has been hit extremely hard by the pandemic and subsequent closure of the district to tourists,” said Mr. Chandrashekar. “The hotel and restaurant owners will ensure that all SOPs are implemented and the safety of all tourists and residents is given importance,” he added.
08 September 2020||September 08 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore district records 524 cases and four deaths||Coimbatore district recorded four deaths and 524 new COVID-19 cases on Monday, taking the total number of positive cases reported so far to 19,479. Four persons aged 50, 58, 60 and 67 died in Coimbatore, three persons aged 50, 75, 38 died in Salem, two persons aged 52 and 37 died in Tiruppur, two persons aged 65 and 70 died in Namakkal and one person aged 52 died in Krishnagiri.  Active cases The media bulletin issued by the Health Department said that 666 persons were discharged from various treatment facilities in Coimbatore district on Monday. The number of active cases stood at 4,650. Of the 185 new cases reported in Salem, 180 cases were indigenous. Five patients had returned from Tiruppur, Namakkal, Nagapattinam and Kalakuruchi. The Namakkal district reported 99 new cases. According to health officials, 20 persons had returned from Salem, Erode, Tiruchi, Coimbatore, Thanjavur and Erode and two from Karnataka.   Krishnagiri reported 71 new cases and all were indigenous. Dharmapuri reported 56 fresh cases. Tiruppur district reported 194 new cases. Of the total 3,653 cases, 2,348 have recovered and 1,223 were active cases. Forty-eight patients were discharged on Monday. Thirty-six persons tested positive in the Nilgiris. With the latest infections, the total number of COVID-19 cases reported so far in the district stood at 1,933. As many as 1,538 people have recovered so far. Erode district reported 117 new cases, taking the districts’ tally to 3,959. While 86 persons were discharged on Monday, 1,178 persons continue to be under treatment.
08 September 2020||September 08 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Inter-district bus services resume||The Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation’s (TNSTC) Coimbatore Division operated 504 inter-district mofussil buses from four districts on Monday. A total of 154 buses were operated from Coimbatore district, 60 buses from the Nilgiris district, 160 buses from Erode district and 130 buses from Tiruppur district. These buses will cover Coimbatore, Tiruppur, Erode, Salem, the Nilgiris, Madurai, Tiruchi and Theni, according to TNSTC officials. While inter-district bus services were briefly resumed in June, it was restricted within eight zones divided by the State government for transport services. Hence, the inter-district mofussil buses resumed services in full-fledged manner on Monday after March, the officials noted. The State Express Transport Corporation (SETC) operated seven buses to Chennai and one bus to Villupuram from Coimbatore on Monday. Officials said the SETC operated only non-AC Ultra Deluxe buses. Out of the 43 seats, passengers were allowed to occupy only 25 seats to maintain personal distancing norms. Depending on online bookings, more buses would be operated from Coimbatore, officials said. Erode While TNSTC, Erode Region, operated 150 mofussil buses, private bus operators kept off the roads. There are around 800 buses in 11 depots in the region and 150 buses were operated on Monday, apart from 120 town buses. Buses to Coimbatore, Tiruppur and Salem had over 60% occupancy. TNSTC officials said that buses were not operated to Karnataka and a decision on operating more buses would be taken after considering the patronage in the coming days. Private bus operators said they would resume services only if they were allowed to operate to full seating capacity and demanded road tax waiver. Salem The TNSTC operated over 700 inter-district buses in Salem on Monday, following all COVID-19 safety measures. Officials said that buses were operated in various route depending on passenger demand. Close to 780 buses were operated from Salem and there was significant demand for buses to Erode, Dharmapuri and Coimbatore. Buses were are also operated to Chennai. Close to 900 buses would be operated from Tuesday.
08 September 2020||September 08 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Land retrieval: Collector assures action on petition submitted by nonagenarian||District Collector K. Rajamani on Monday assured action on a petition submitted by a nonagenarian woman from Annur who demanded retrieval of her land. P. Murugammal (96) in her petition alleged that her son fraudulently transferred her 12.94 acres of land to his name. As he died earlier this year on March 6, Ms. Murugammal asked the district administration to retrieve the land or permit the ‘mercy killing’ of herself and her three daughters. When contacted, Mr. Rajamani said that he received her petition and offered Rs. 100 to her after hearing about her financial condition. “Action will be taken to ensure that she will be taken care by her children,” he said, adding that an investigation will be launched regarding the land retrieval. COVID-19 assistance Members of Coimbatore Market and Street Vendors Welfare Association on Monday petitioned Mr. Rajamani to provide cash assistance for the street vendors in the district whose livelihoods were affected due to the COVID-19 lockdown. They demanded cash assistance of Rs. 1,000 and bank loan of Rs. 10,000. Tiruppur Tiruppur District Collectorate organised its fifth telephonic grievance redress meeting on Monday. District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan and District Revenue Officer G. Saravanamurthy participated in the meeting where 118 calls were received from across the district, a release said. Those residing in Tiruppur may contact 0421–2969999 or 97000 41114 on Mondays to communicate their grievances.
08 September 2020||September 08 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Sanitary workers seek monthly incentive of Rs. 20,000||Sanitary workers, whose anti-COVID-19 operations were recently lauded by the Madras High Court, have urged the State government to give monthly incentive of Rs. 20,000 for 10 months between March and December. In a petition submitted on Monday, they said over 1.20 lakh sanitary workers were doing laudable job during the pandemic in 12,524 village panchayats, 561 town panchayats, 148 municipalities and 15 Corporations while risking their and their families’ lives. Since they were drawing a monthly salary between Rs. 2,600 and Rs. 6,000, they should be given a monthly incentive of Rs. 20,000 from March to December in recognition of their anti-COVID-19 work. The State government should fix the minimum monthly salary of Rs. 25,000 for sanitary workers. Besides activating the sanitary workers’ welfare board, all welfare schemes being executed by the State and the Central governments should be extended to them also. Those who were getting consolidated pay should be given the timescale and those who had put in three years of service special timescale. Sanitary workers involved in anti-COVID-19 operations and their family members should be given free health screening in medical college hospitals and a month’s leave with salary. They should be given free personal protection equipment such as mask, gloves, boot, soap, sanitiser and coverall everyday. The State government should give ex-gratia of Rs. 2.50 lakh to the family of sanitary workers who died of COVID-19 and an assistance of Rs. 2 lakh to those underwent treatment for the viral infection, the petitioners said.
08 September 2020||September 08 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Virudhunagar gets two more ambulances||Virudhunagar district has got two new ambulances including an advance life support vehicle. Minister for Dairy Development K.T. Rajenthra Bhalaji flagged off the vehicles to be operated by GVK Emergency Management and Research Institute under ‘108’ free ambulance services. The Minister said the ambulances would help in rushing patients in need of emergency medical attention to hospital on time and also to drop them back at their homes after treatment. One of the ambulances was an advance life support vehicle, which had a ventilator, defibrillator, syringe infusion pump and volumetric infusion pump. “With these advanced medical equipment, it is a mobile intensive care unit that can cater to patients who require additional medical care,” said manager of 108 ambulance service. Virudhunagar Collector R. Kannan, Sub-Collector (Sivakasi) C. Dinesh Kumar, Joint Director (Medical Services) R. Manoharan, Tahsildar (Sivakasi) Venkatesh and 108 Coordinator Senthil were present.
08 September 2020||September 08 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Parking facility near Meenakshi temple to be ready by October||The construction of a multi-level car parking facility on North Aavani Moola Street near Meenakshi Sundareswarar Temple under the Central government’s Smart Cities Mission is due to be completed by October, said Cooperation Minister Sellur K. Raju on Monday. The Minister, along with Corporation Commissioner S. Visakan, inspected the progress of the Rs. 40-crore project. The facility would have two levels of underground parking with a capacity to accommodate 110 four-wheelers and 1,401 two-wheelers. A senior Corporation official said the ground and first floors would be tourist plazas housing shops selling items that showcased the heritage of the city. The smart fruit market at Mattuthavani had been completed under the Smart Cities Mission at a cost of Rs. 12 crore. Other smart city projects, including reconstruction of Periyar bus stand at a cost of Rs. 162 crore, rejuvenation of the Vaigai at a cost of Rs. 81 crore, construction of smart roads on four Masi Streets at a cost of Rs. 53 crore and construction of a convention centre at Tamukkam grounds at a cost of Rs. 46 crore, had been planned for completion by March 2021. The heritage makeover of important monuments around Meenakshi Temple at a cost of Rs. 38 crore had been planned for completion by December. The laying of underground drainage facilities for newly added wards in the northern part of the city, which was being carried out at a cost of Rs. 291 crore, would be completed by May 2022. Mr. Raju said the Mullaperiyar drinking water project implemented at a cost of Rs. 1,020 crore would help ensure that there was no drinking water shortage in the city.
08 September 2020||September 08 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||BJP demands probe into Kisan scheme fraud||The farmers’ wing of BJP on Monday sought an investigation by the district administration into alleged fraud under the Prime Minister Kisan Scheme across the State. District president K. Srinivasan said reports of State-wide misuse of funds under the scheme had been notified to party members. “Farmers who are to rightfully receive Rs. 2,000 in three terms through a year have not been the beneficiaries. Instead, anti-social elements who regularly engage in activities of corruption have been minting money. Since we are aware of mismanagement of funds in Cuddalore district, we are seeking the help of the Collector to look into whether there has been any misuse in Madurai district too.” Farmers’ wing head S. Selvaraj and other functionaries of the BJP submitted a petition to the district administration on Monday, asking for an investigation. BJP cadre submitted petitions in Tirunelveli and Tenkasi demanding a probe.
08 September 2020||September 08 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Four die as building collapses in Coimbatore||Vanaja, 65, her daughter Kavitha, 46, Swetha’s son Thanvir, 5, Vanaja’s son-in-law Manoj Kumar, 47, and tenant Sarojini, 70, were rescued from the debris. The police said the building on the congested Chetty Street collapsed around 9 p.m. Sunday. Residents said that people were staying on the ground floor and the first floor of the building. Sarojini, her husband Babu and son Prabhu lived on the ground floor of the building. They had planned to vacate the building on Monday. While Babu and Prabhu managed to come out as the building collapsed, Sarojini was rescued by neighbours. Kasturiammal’s body was taken out from the debris around 5 p.m. Monday. One of her legs had been severed. Manikandan, who was admitted to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH), died on Monday evening. The debris of the fallen building also caused damage to two other buildings on both sides. Collector K. Rajamani said rain was not the reason behind the building collapse. “Instructions have been given to local bodies to inspect old buildings and check their stability,” he said. Sources in the district administration said directions were already in place for local bodies to check stability of old buildings every year. The five persons rescued were under observation at CMCH. The house falls within a containment zone, the officials said. Solatium announced Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Monday condoled the death of four persons in the building collapse and announced a solatium of Rs. 1 lakh to families of each of the victims from the Chief Minister's Public Relief Fund. In a statement, Mr. Palaniswami wished a speedy recovery to the injured persons. He asked Coimbatore Collector to ensure swift relief and rescue operations at the site.
08 September 2020||September 08 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||T.N. aims for $100 bn. electronics output||It has already released policies for the defence and aero sectors and e-vehicles, the official said. “The government of Tamil Nadu shall strive to promote an eco-park for processing e-waste in an environmentally friendly manner in PPP mode to integrate formal and informal operators,” the policy said. The State government, through ELCOT, would also establish a state-of-the-art electronics testing facility. The policy also specified that certain categories of companies would be exempted from some Acts and self-certifications. Read the policy document on The Hindu   portal at: https://www.thehindu. com/ news/resources/tamil-nadu- electronics-hardware-manu facturing- policy - 2020/ article 32540114.ece
08 September 2020||September 08 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Intensify containment measures: MDMK||The Coimbatore urban unit of the Marumalarchi Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam has urged the district administration and the Coimbatore Corporation to intensify COVID-19 containment measures. Resolution In a resolution passed at the unit office-bearers meeting on Monday, the party said people in rural areas and city were apprehensive if the administration and civic body had let down their guard in the fight to contain COVID-19, for the number of cases was on the rise. For the past few days, the number of positive cases had crossed 550 a day. In March, April and May the administration and the corporation had done well to contain the COVID-19 spread. Now, it was time that the administration and civic body continued the good work, the unit led by secretary R.R. Mohankumar said.
08 September 2020||September 08 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Speedy screening||
08 September 2020||September 08 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Till September 7||Cases on Monday: 524 Persons tested +ve so far: 19,479 Active cases: 4,650 Persons recovered: 14,497 Deaths: 332    Cases on Monday: 194 Persons tested +ve so far: 3,653 Persons recovered: 2,348 Active cases: 1,223 Deaths: 82
08 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Metro sees just 3,770 riders on day 1||For the first time in over five months, passengers were seen at stations on the Purple Line (from Baiyappanahalli to Mysuru Road) boarding trains as Namma Metro services resumed. Though BMRCL operated trains in two shifts – from 8 a.m. to 11 a.m. and from 4.30 p.m. to 7.30 p.m. – keeping in mind peak commuting hours, ridership remained low. With most people working from home, the normally packed trains were nearly empty. The BMRCL operated 91 round trips in two shifts, and 3,770 passengers travelled; on an average 41 people per train. Around Rs. 1.25 lakh was generated by way of fare box revenue. “As it was the first day, the number may be less. In the coming days, it is likely to improve,” said Chief PRO of BMRCL Mr. B.L. Yeshwanth Chavan. Prior to the lockdown, on an average, 4 lakh people used to travel in Namma Metro and Rs. 1 crore revenue was generated daily. On Monday, Health and Family Welfare Minister B Sriramulu travelled in the train to check the safety measures. Nandini R., a commuter, said, “I left home 15 minutes early to ensure that I do not have to wait for a long time in queues. However, there was no rush in the morning. It was a seamless journey.” At every station, metro staff wearing face shields, masks and gloves were screening passengers. Apart from thermal screening, touch-less body temperature readers have been installed at all stations. Posters have been put at stations to raise awareness. Regular announcements on safety norms were being done inside trains and on the platforms as well. People were allowed entry only after using hand sanitisers. While commuters are happy that the Namma Metro is finally back on track, many said that it would take them a few days to get comfortable with the new procedures and precautions. “We are so used to rushing into the station and running towards the platform by swiping our cards. But now it is touchless swipe and even recharge is done online. There are markings within the train where one should stand and sit. Getting all that into mind will take some time,” said Pradeep M., a commuter. Commuters have to put their luggage and belongings, including phones, wallets, and earphones, in a tray for baggage scanning. BMRCL has asked commuters not to carry any metallic object, and carry only one bag. Some of the passengers are happy with the safety arrangements. Anusha T. said, “I was a regular traveller from Indiranagar to Rajajinagar. As it was the first day, only a few passengers were travelling in the metro, but the number will increase in the coming days.” Travel time As BMRCL has taken elaborate safety measures at stations and inside trains, the total travel time will increase by a few minutes. At each station, boarding and de-boarding time has increased to 60-75 seconds. “Earlier, I could get into the station quickly. However, now that will not be the case. Baggage checking takes time. I will have to leave early and wait for more time at the station. Since they are being done for the safety of the public, it is our duty and responsibility to plan accordingly and adhere to safety norms,” said Nanda Kishore, a bank employee and a regular commuter.
08 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State estimates flood loss at Rs. 8,071 cr.||The State government has told the Central team that the estimated loss owing to recent floods in different districts would be Rs. 8,071 crore. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, who met the Central team headed by K.V. Prathap on Monday evening, informed him about the various losses that the State has suffered. He told the Central team that standing crops on 4.03 lakh hectares have been affected due to floods, and pointed out that 22 districts in the State had faced a similar situation in 2018-2019 too. The flood damages include damage to roads, bridges, buildings, anganwadi kendras and government offices, Mr. Yediyurappa said, adding that the State government was helping people with funds to build houses that can withstand natural calamities. The Chief Minister informed the Central team that the State had spent over Rs. 1,500 crore on rebuilding of homes last year, and despite State finances affected by the COVID-19 pandemic, it was spending about Rs. 200 crore. The State also appealed for quick revision of guidelines for funds to be given under the National Disaster Relief Fund since the guidelines have to be revised this year. The Chief Minister also appealed to the Centre to release higher amount of compensation for people affected by floods, a note from the Chief Minister’s Office said. Indicating that the State needed higher funds to manage flood relief, he said that while Rs. 406 crore has been released towards the State Disaster Relief Fund and COVID-19, the State would be requiring higher amount of fund to tackle COVID-19 pandemic. This, he said, despite four separate funds being established by the Centre for disaster relief. Mr. Yediyurappa informed the team that the State Disaster Management Authority has approved the disaster management plan for 2020, and sought Centre’s cooperation.
08 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Candidates criticise NLAT for being ‘exclusionary’||After the National Law School of India University (NLSIU) announced the technical specifications for the online home-based National Law Aptitude Test (NLAT), candidates pointed out that the test was ‘extremely exclusionary’ as they need access to laptops, webcams and reliable Internet connectivity. Without these, aspirants from lower economic and disadvantaged backgrounds will not have the opportunity to apply for a seat in India’s premier law school. Following this criticism, NLSIU said that they were trying to relax some of the specifications. After conducting a survey, an NLSIU student found that at least 290 students had expressed difficulty in appearing for the test as they would be unable to meet the university’s technical specifications. Many students who live in remote areas said it would be difficult for them to access the Internet at the speed that is mandated. A candidate who resides in Hiranagar in Kathua district in Jammu, said, “We do not have stable Internet in our locality. If the signal drops, or if there is any technical glitch, my one year’s preparation will be in vain,” he said. The university had specified that students will need laptops or desktops that run on Windows 7 or above, though Windows 10 is recommended. The devices have to be attached to webcams with a minimum resolution of 640x480 and an integrated microphone. The examination system will not run on any other operating systems, such as Mac OS, Linux, etc. Candidates need access to a minimum Internet bandwidth speed of 1 MBPS. The university will not be responsible for any connectivity issues or failure of Internet connection during the examination. Relaxing specifications Later in the day, NLSIU on their website stated that they were working closely with the vendors engaged with NLAT 2020 to explore options that reduce the Internet bandwidth requirement for the test to 512 kbps. “Further, we are also making an effort to ensure the NLAT 2020 is accessible to candidates using Mac OS as well as Linux computers in addition to Windows computers, and that the NLAT 2020 is accessible to candidates using Android mobile devices,” they said. They also said that they are preparing suitable modifications to the proctoring protocol for the NLAT 2020 to ensure these changes do not compromise test integrity in any manner. Another candidate from Lucknow who applied for NLAT said his parents tried to arrange for a laptop, but were unable to find one that meets the specifications. He hopes to be able to take the test with the help of students from NLSIU. Mock test Although some students may get laptops on the day of the entrance examination, they said that they will be unable to take the mock test and will not be familiar with the pattern of NLAT. Manavi Atri, lawyer, Alternative Law Forum, said the manner in which the NLAT will be conducted would ensure that students from privileged backgrounds get admitted into NLSIU. “It would deny meritorious students a chance to get into an institution – where diversity is already a matter of concern.” Medical certificates NSLIU on Monday said that those with visual impairments, cerebral palsy and locomotor disability (both arms affected) are entitled to avail the services of a scribe and will need to submit appropriate medical certificates. Many candidates have decided to write both NLAT as well as the Common Law Admission Test (CLAT). The National Law Aptitude Test for entrance into NLSIU’s B.A. LLB and LLM programmes are slated to be held on September 12, while the CLAT which is the test for other 21 National Law Schools is slated to be held on September 28.  No staff participation The National Law School of India University (NLSIU), in a press release issued late Sunday night, stated that no member of the university, including the Vice Chancellor or any staff will participate in CLAT 2020 “in any manner, administratively or otherwise.” The move comes after the Consortium of the National Law Universities said that they had decided to divest the VC of his functions as the Secretary and Treasurer of the consortium.
08 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State’s industry perturbed by unfavourable ranking||The investor sentiment in Karnataka seems to have taken a big hit and industry players are perturbed. As the State’s ranking in the latest ‘Ease of Doing Business Survey-2019’ has steeply fallen, from 8th to 17th position, the industry body KASSIA has expressed its concern and deep displeasure. The survey, based on the user feedback, is seen as a huge setback for the State that is making all efforts to woo domestic and global firms through reforms, as per the trade body. In the last few months, Karnataka fast-tracked efforts to attract investors, including measures like amendments to the Land Reforms Act and Karnataka Industrial (Facilitation) Act. “The steep fall of Karnataka in the Ease of Doing Business rank to 17 is quite disappointing to say the least, though not a surprise as matters stand,” said K.B. Arasappa, president, KASSIA, in a statement. KASSIA has consistently maintained that industries in the State have had to battle bureaucratic red tape perennially affecting morale and investments. Though there are schemes and instruments on paper, these never translate into actions, he added. For example, the single window agencies in the districts never meet regularly and often not meet for months which deprives entrepreneurs’ avenues for effective redressal leaving problems unresolved, he added. “Moreover, the single window is ineffective as you face multiple clearances after application for new projects which lack meaningful coordination and follow up among the agencies. The promised online systems or deemed clearances are merely touted and never put into practice, leaving the entrepreneur high and dry,” Mr. Arasappa further added. ‘Review the systems’ KASSIA, therefore, would like to strongly urge the government to review and revamp the systems thoroughly by stipulating time-bound schedules and effecting deemed clearance as per Sakala, hand-hold officers accountable for delays, said the trade body. There is a need to realise that investors now have choices and the State will further lose if corrections are not made quickly, it cautioned.
08 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Cong. ready with 1,200 questions to corner govt. in legislature||The B.S. Yediyurappa led-BJP government is likely to be cornered over issues such as COVID-19 pandemic management and GST compensation shortfall, among others, during the legislature session starting from September 21, as the Congress has prepared about 1,200 questions. Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly Siddaramaiah has said that Congress legislators are set to raise issues on drug mafia, D.J. Halli violence, COVID-19 management, and GST compensation shortfall. During the online consultation with party leaders and legislators on Monday, he told them that questions have been prepared by a team of former Ministers already. Legislators have been asked to submit the questions to the legislature secretariat. He said that the KPCC office, and offices of Leaders of Opposition in Legislative Assembly and Council besides the chief whip offices will help legislators file their questions. Requesting the legislators to actively participate in the sessions, he said that the State government has faltered on many fronts and has completely failed in its fight against COVID-19. “All these need to be discussed. The Congress needs to raise and seriously discuss the irregularities in purchase of equipment in the pandemic management,” he told legislators, adding that the issue of the Centre asking States to raise loans to overcome shortfall in GST compensation will also have to be questioned. Further, he said that the development works have been affected, and the BJP government in the State has not been raising its voice against injustice meted out to the State by the Centre. Meanwhile, the Congress Legislative Party meeting has been convened on September 16 to finalise the Congress’ strategy during the session.
08 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||COVID-19 cases breach four lakh mark in State||Nearly six months after recording its first COVID-19 case, Karnataka breached the four lakh mark and hit 4,04,324 cases as 5,773 persons tested positive on Monday. Over 53% of this caseload was reported in August alone. With 97,001 active cases, Karnataka is in third position among States after Maharashtra. Fuelled by a spike in cases in Bengaluru, the situation in the State took a turn for the worse from the beginning of July by breaching the 2,000 mark daily initially. It subsequently jumped to over 5,000 per day, and later to over 9,000 cases. But after crossing 9,000 in the last few days, the number of cases came down to 5,773 on Monday. With 141 new deaths, the toll touched 6,534 on Monday. This is apart from 19 non-COVID-19 deaths. Since the beginning of July, COVID-19 has claimed 4,466 lives across Karnataka. The State’s Case Fatality Rate now stands at 1.61%. This month alone, the State has added 61,901 cases. On August 31, while the total number of cases stood at 3,42,423, Bengaluru Urban had recorded 1,29,125 cases. While Bengaluru Urban recorded 2,942 cases on Monday, Ballari and Mysuru saw 266and 221 cases, respectively. With 8,015 people discharged, the total number of recoveries in the State touched 3,00,770. As manyas 794 patients were being monitored in the ICUs of various hospitals as on Monday.  From 101 cases in March, the State witnessed a four-fold rise in cases in April, and subsequently a six-fold increase in May. From May to June, there was a five-fold rise, and then an eight-fold increase from June to July when the number of cases crossed one lakh. Since then, the number of cases more than doubled and touched 2,18,308 in August, while fatalities rose to 3,388. The number of positive cases in the State has been rising steadily since the beginning of June, and 80% of the total 10,118 positive cases reported as on June 24 were from June alone. Karnataka recorded its first 1,000 cases on May 15, two months and six days after the first case was detected on March 9. Thereafter, the cases doubled to 2,000 on May 24. The case count crossed the 10,000 mark on June 24. After May 24, the doubling rate reduced to eight days and subsequently to an average of three days.
08 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Govt. doctors threaten to go on strike over pay||Demanding parity of pay with their counterparts in the Medical Education Department or a revision of pay as per the Central Government Health Scheme (CGHS) scale, as many as 4,968 government doctors working in various health facilities run by the Health and Family Welfare Department have threatened to go on strike from September 15. The doctors, under the banner of Karnataka Government Medical Officers’ Association (KGMOA), had met Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and Health Minister B. Sriramulu on May 6 and submitted a detailed memorandum. Subsequently, in August, they met Deputy Chief Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan and other top officials of the Health Department and submitted their demands. But, despite assurances there has been no development so far, said KGMOA president G.A. Srinivas, who is also the Bengaluru Urban District Health Officer. The doctors, who are on frontline COVID-19 duty in various Health Department facilities, are upset that the government has been considering the demand for pay revision and incentives from various doctors’ associations, including Medical Education doctors and AYSUH doctors, without any delay. “We are not opposed to them getting higher salaries. What we are upset about is the fact that although we have been slogging during this COVID-19 crisis, the government is not bothered about our plight. Our demand for pay parity has been pending for years and the government has one excuse or the other whenever we raise our issues,” said a senior doctor from Bengaluru. The doctor also pointed out that several government health workers, who were getting infected while on duty, were not getting the required medical facilities in the districts. “Doctors have been shifted to Bengaluru for want of ventilators. We have lost several doctors, and yet we are working without caring for our lives. The government can at least be considerate by revising our salaries,” he said, pointing out that they were getting less than half of what doctors in the Medical Education Department were being paid. General body meeting Dr. Srinivas said the Chief Minister and the Health Minister had assured the doctors in May that their demands would be considered in the next 15 days. “We put off our stir last month, keeping in mind that the Chief Minister and Health Minister had been hospitalised because of COVID-19. We have our general body meeting on Saturday and will again discuss this issue. If there is no response from the government by then, we will strike from work from September 15,” he said. On Monday, the association members again met Mr. Ashwath Narayan and Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar. “They have responded positively,” Dr. Srinivas said.
08 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BJP getting ready to counter Opposition||As the Congress is readying to corner the BJP government here, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa chaired a meeting with his Cabinet colleagues on Monday evening to strategise ways to counter Congress’s move. Sources in the Chief Minister’s Office said that the discussion revolved around strategies to be adopted to highlight the government’s work in the COVID-19 pandemic management effectively as the Congress is expected to raise the issue. Besides, sources said that Mr. Yediyurappa also urged the Ministers to have greater coordination and put up an unified front to counter the Opposition move. Sources said that the Chief Minister was also keen to understand if the newly inducted Ministers, who joined the BJP recently, were comfortable with the party and also in discharging their duties. The Chief Minister is learnt to have told the Ministers to tour the respective district and be accessible to people and party workers. “Ministers have been told to visit the party office at least for a day to interact with workers. Many workers have to come to Bengaluru to get their work done. Instead, the Chief Minister said workers’ issues could be resolved in party’s office,” sources said.
08 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Defamation: High Court punishes three scribes||In two separate cases of defamation, the High Court of Karnataka imposed punishment on three journalists of a group of Kannada and English newspapers, and a weekly magazine, convicting them of defaming a cooperative bank and a schoolteacher respectively. The then editor and reporter of Kadala Koogu , a Kannada weekly magazine published from Bhatkal in Uttara Kannada district, have been convicted of the offence of defamation and were sentenced to pay Rs. 30,000 each for publishing a report harming the reputation of Selvina, who was a teacher in a local school, during 2005. If the journalists failed to pay the amount, then they will have to undergo simple imprisonment for one month each, the court said while directing the trial court to pay compensation of Rs. 50,000 to the complainant-teacher from the Rs. 60,000 to be paid by the convicted journalists. Justice Uma M.G. passed the order while reversing the 2011 verdict of the Principal Civil Judge, Bhatkal, who had acquitted the accused journalists even after finding that the report published against the complainant was objectionable. The court observed that “by no stretch of imagination the article can be said to be not defamatory”. “When we speak of right to life, it definitely includes the life with human dignity and reputation. This right of a citizen is very precious and recognised as fundamental under Article 21 of the Constitution of India. It cannot be invaded under the garb of freedom of speech and expression,” the court observed, while holding that it “did not find either the public good or good faith in the act of the accused”. In another case, Justice H.B. Prabhakara Sastry upheld the conviction and sentencing of the then printer, publisher and acting editor of Mangaluru-based Karavali Ale and Canara Times newspapers for publishing defamatory reports against M/s Mangalore Catholic Cooperative (MCC) Bank Ltd. during 2000. The trial courts in Mangaluru in 2005 and 2010 respectively had found the journalist guilty of defamation and had sentenced him to simple imprisonment of one month with Rs. 1,000 fine. The HC said that only one side of certain controversies related to MCC Bank were published without incorporating the clarification, which was issued by the bank much before publication of the defamatory report.“Non-disclosure of the said portion of the truth cannot be considered as an omission by good faith. The facts and circumstances of the case and a reading of the articles in its entirety show that the author and publisher intended to attack the reputation of the bank and its management and bring down its reputation,” it said.
08 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Ambitious plan for K.R. Market Junction||Bengaluru Smart City Ltd. has floated a tender for an integrated mobility hub and junction improvement at the historic but congested K.R. Market junction, with an estimated project cost of Rs. 20 crore. The project has been designed to ensure seamless connectivity in and around the area by integrating the junction with transport hubs to promote business and tourism. “The junction has very high footfall and has important and busy connecting roads such as S.J.P. Road, N.R. Road, and Avenue Road. It also has roads leading to Kalasipalyam Market and Victoria Hospital, among others. Hence, to avoid traffic congestion, an intelligent traffic management system is vital,” said Hephsiba Rani Korlapati, managing director, Bengaluru Smart City Ltd., explaining the goal of the project. She said the K.R. Market junction had many residual areas that were underutilised. “Hence, optimal utilisation of space in and around the junction would be a game changer. The design also emphasises maintaining the existing travel lanes and does not negatively impact traffic capacity,” she added. The plan includes public toilets, a play space for children, diaper changing desks, and a refuge area for emergency situations. “Toilets and seating areas have been designed keeping in mind children and the differently abled. Two toilet complexes are planned and there will be separate facilities for men, women, and transgender persons. They will also be disabled friendly,” said Ms. Korlapati. P.C. Mohan, MP, Bengaluru Central, said the project was planned and designed after consultations with all stakeholders, including traders, traffic police, Directorate of Urban Land Transport, the BBMP, BWSSB, and the BMTC. “It will decongest the place so that people who pass through or visit it will have a pleasant experience,” he said.  Gfx What important works does the Junction improvement work entail Development of subways Reducing the overall intersection area by not affecting traffic flow and speed Optimal utilisation of unused spaces Adequate pedestrian infrastructure, crossing and refuge areas Development of the BMTC bus stop, auto stand, and two wheeler parking Development of utility services, electrical, plumbing works and other ancillary works.
08 September 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||New app from KSHRC||Karnataka State Human Rights Commission, Bengaluru, has developed an app named ‘Manav Hakku Rakshane’. It can be downloaded from Google Play Store and may be used to file a complaint or know about human rights. KSHRC, in a release, said this app would prove to be the dawn of a new era in the field of redressal ofgrievances arising out of the violation of human rights.
08 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Reinfection case: Minister’s direction to officials||Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar on Monday directed officials to study carefully the COVID-19 reinfection case in a 27-year-old woman in Bengaluru and submit a report on how similar reinfection caseswere treated in other States. The Minister, who on Monday conducted a meeting with task force officials regarding COVID-19 at Vidhana Soudha, said other countries that have reported cases of reinfection have come up with different reasons for it. “We need to study the Bengaluru case in detail to find out if it was a reinfection or if the patient had not been cured completely the first time she had tested positive,” he said. Mr. Sudhakar added that the case should not cause panic and fear among people.
08 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Bar council urges CJ to resume regular functioning of courts||The Karnataka State Bar Council on Sunday passed an unanimous resolution requesting the Chief Justice of the Karnataka High Court to take steps within a week to resume regular functioning of courts in the State by permitting physical appearance of lawyers for hearing, filling of cases, and allowing the witnesses to appear in person. While appreciating the efforts made by the Chief Justice to ensure continuity of court proceedings through virtual mode and limited physical hearing during lockdown and unlock periods, the KSBC said in its resolution that it has received requests from advocates to approach the Chief Justice for restoration of normal court proceedings, as existed prior to lockdown, with necessary COVID-19 safety measures. Advocates of the State are also facing financial crisis in view of non-opening of courts, the KSBC’s resolution pointed out. The KSBC has also said in the resolution that the advocates have also requested for permission to take their vehicle to the court campuses and to make necessary arrangements like typist, cafeteria, notaries on the court premises.
08 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Law school students, alumni pitch in to provide laptops to candidates||Students and alumni of the National Law School of India University (NLSIU) as well as other law schools are chipping in to provide laptops so that candidates who don’t have access to the required infrastructure can give the home-based National Law Aptitude Test 2020 on September 12. The decision was taken after the NLAT was criticised for not taking into account the needs of all candidates especially those from lower income groups or who live in remote areas with no Internet connectivity. As word spread, four NLSIU students - Abhishek Kumar, Sourav Mishra, Divyansh Mishra and Aditya Krishnap - decided to reach out to students who do not have access to laptops and lend them devices for a day. Mr. Kumar said that initially he wanted to help at least one candidate who does not have a laptop take the test by providing his device to them. But as requests started pouring in, he and his friends reached out to their peers and found many willing to help out. Later, the Student Bar Association (SBA) of NLSIU as well as students from other National Law Universities also decided to step in and contact candidates in need. At least 140 students from across the country have stated that they want to lend their laptops to students. The SBA has already received written requests from 80 students for laptops, dongles and wireless routers so that they can get stable Internet connections as well. Statement A statement issued by the SBA acknowledges that many students, particularly those from marginalised backgrounds, may be at a disadvantage. In the statement, SBA president Vignesh Ramakrishnan said that student representatives from various NLU student bodies have come together. They are collaborating to create a database of students and would be willing to assist aspirants. Students who want to get in touch with them can send an email tolaptopsfornlat@gmail.com. Other NGOs are also stepping in. Increasing Diversity by Increasing Access (IDIA) - an NGO that aims to empower underprivileged children by giving them access to quality legal education - will set up physical exam centres for students who do not have laptops or access to the Internet.
08 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Ragini to remain in custody||Kannada actor Ragini Dwivedi will remain in police custody for another five days. The Central Crime Branch (CCB), which is probing the high-profile drug racket linked to the Kannada film industry, in its submission to the court, said that Ragini had not cooperated with them. “We have gathered more information about her involvement in the racket and need to question her in detail. Considering this, the court granted five days’ custody,” said a senior police official. The actress' family, however, claimed that the police have no evidence against Ragini, and that their daughter is being implicated in a false case. Her parents told the media that the CCB did not have any material evidence against her. She did not give any confessional statement, they alleged. The CCB has detained her driver for questioning. “We have retrieved the data deleted from her phone. She had conversations with drug dealers frequently,” said the police official. Drug dealer arrested The CCB arrested a peddler from Kerala on Monday. According to the police, the name of the accused, Niyaz, kept cropping up during the course of the investigation and while they were analysing call record analysis. “Niyaz was in constant touch with Ragini Dwivedi and other accused in the case, including Viren Khanna who is a party organiser based in Delhi,” said a senior police official.
08 September 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Congress backs crackdown against drug mafia||Former Chief Minister and Leader of Opposition Siddaramaiah on Monday said, “It will be a lie if we say that it (drug mafia) did not exist earlier. Our government had also tried to crack it. The government should take action against persons involved in drugs, and we will support the government’s initiative. The government should have proof to take action.” Regarding actor Ragini Dwivedi’s alleged involvement, the former Chief Minister said that the BJP is now trying to distance itself from the actor. “There are, however, photographs and videos of the actor taking part in the poll campaign with BJP leader,” he said.
08 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Mobile app to recharge smart cards||A few days ago, the BMRCL had announced that a mobile app will be made available for people to top-up smart cards. On Monday, a link was made available on the official website, but many users faced difficulty installing the ‘Namma Metro Mobile App’. The BMRCL has advised passengers to use the card after one hour of making a payment for the top-up amount to reflect in the card. It has also advised passengers to use the card at least once for travel within seven days of topping up. The official said the app has required certificates and measures have been taken to make the app available in Google Play Store.
08 September 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||CM keen on Delhi visit||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa is keen to go to Delhi to meet national leaders, including BJP national president J.P. Nadda and Home Minister Amit Shah to discuss party matters. “Though Mr. Yediyurappa had requested for a meeting with national leaders sometime back, it had not happened as Mr. Shah was indisposed. The issue of Cabinet expansion is likely to figure in the meeting if it fructifies,” sources said.
08 September 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Even Ministers have to pay bribe’||Stating that the corruption level in the government has increased, Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly Siddaramaiah has told Congress legislators that even BJP Ministers cannot get their local development funds released without paying bribe. “This is being spoken about by Ministers themselves. It has so become that those legislators who do not pay percentage are not getting funds. This has to be discussed in the legislature session,” he told legislators.
08 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Charge sheet against two officials in IMA case||The CBI has filed a charge sheet against former assistant commissioner of Bengaluru Urban district L.C. Nagaraj and ex-village accountant Manjunath in connection with the IMA ponzi scheme, in which thousands of depositors were allegedly duped. “Last week, we filed the charge sheet in the IMA case against L.C. Nagaraj and Manjunath in a CBI special court,” a CBI official told PTI on Monday. Nagaraj had allegedly taken Rs. 4.5 crore from IMA director Mohammad Mansoor Khan to give him a clean chit whereas Manjunath had taken a bribe of Rs. 10 lakh to arrange a meeting between Khan and Nagaraj. PTI
08 September 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||DC appeals for unity, decries caste bias||“If you fall sick and need blood to recover, you don’t look for the caste of the blood donor,” Hassan Deputy Commissioner R. Girish told the residents of Tejuru village in Hassan taluk on Monday. Addressing a peace meeting, convened over recent differences among the villagers, he said people of all castes should come together for the overall development of the village. “There cannot be restrictions on entering a temple. Whether it is a Muzrai temple or not, it is a public place that people of all castes should have free access to. Any form of caste-based discrimination will attract the punishment as per the law.” The Constitution had guaranteed equal rights to all and people should not treat fellow human beings based on caste. Recently, a few Dalit youths were allegedly assaulted by ‘upper caste’ people for placing a banner of a TV serial based on the life of B.R. Ambedkar in the village. The Dalits also appealed to the district administration to allow them to offer prayers in the Muzrai temple in the village
08 September 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Ex-serviceman dies as tree branch falls||An ex-serviceman died after a branch of a tree fell on him accidentally in Sakleshpur on Monday. The police gave the name of the deceased as R.L. Patel (35), a resident of Vijayanagar in Mandya. He came to Sakleshpur with his friends on Sunday. They stayed in a home-stay in the taluk. On the way back to their place, they stopped in the town to purchase coffee powder from a shop. While he was returning to his vehicle, the tree branch fell on him. He died of injuries in a hospital in the town. The incident was captured by a CCTV camera installed by a shopkeeper nearby. Sakleshpur Town Police have registered a case.
08 September 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Four die of COVID-19||Four people died of COVID-19 and 127 new cases were reported in Hassan on Monday. The number of deaths due to the disease has increased to 223, while the number of confirmed cases stands at 10,167. The number of patients discharged was 349. So far, 6,928 have been discharged and 3,106 are undergoing treatment. Among them, 53 are in the intensive care unit.
08 September 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Internal reservation: Valmiki seer sends out strong message||As the talk of providing internal reservation among the Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes has gained prominence in the wake of the apex court’s observation on the need for providing the same, through a meeting of the Valmiki community leaders and religious heads held at Rajanahalli in Davangere district on Sunday, a strong message has been sent to the State government. In the meeting, which saw participation from community leader and Health Minister B. Sriramulu and former Minister Satish Jarkiholi and several other MLAs of the community, the seer of Maharshi Valmiki Gurupeetha, Rajanahalli (in Harihar taluk), Sri Prasannanand Swami sent out a warning to the government saying that getting 7.5% reservation for the community members in education and employment was the constitutional right and if the government did not take the requisite measures, then a befitting lesson would be taught. The seer also announced that a delegation of the MLAs and MPs from the community would meet Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on September 21 in Bengaluru seeking enhancement of the reservation quota to 7.5% and a decision in this regard in the forthcoming legislature session. “Otherwise, we will be forced to intensify the agitation,” he said. Voices of dissent At a time when there are voices of dissent within the BJP over the issue of internal reservation, Sunday’s meeting and participation of Mr. Sriramulu is likely to add fuel to the differences. Not only the ruling party, there are differences among the leaders belonging to various castes under Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes belonging to other political parties, including Congress and Janata Dal (Secular). The ‘Left Hand’ and ‘Right Hand’ bifurcation among the oppressed class and their divergent views on internal reservation has made the issue a complex one. The recommendations of Justice A.J. Sadashiva-led committee on internal reservation have been kept in cold storage since long mainly because of the differences over the issue among the community leaders in all parties. Now with the apex court mentioning the need for internal reservation, the issue is likely to raise a dust.  7.5% reservation for the community members in education and employment is constitutional right and if the government does not take requisite measures, then a befitting lesson will be taught.Sri Prasannanand SwamiSeer of Maharshi Valmiki Gurupeetha
08 September 2020||Hubballi,KARNATAKA||The gap between promoting tier-2 cities and ground reality||While much is spoken about promoting tier-2 and tier-3 cities for investments by industrialists and entrepreneurs, the treatment meted out to smaller entrepreneurs who have been made to wait for more than a decade reveals the ground reality. It was way back in 2007 that Aryabhata Tech Park was set up between Hubballi and Dharwad with the objective of making the twin cities the “next IT destination.” Spread over 25.5 acres of land, the tech park raised hopes of budding entrepreneurs from the region. The tech park did take off, with the first round allotment of 15.5 acres to 11 investors, including some genuine investors, who in the last decade have started functioning from the tech park and even expanded their operations to foreign countries. The Hubballi Dharwad Municipal Corporation initiated the process for second round allotment of the remaining 10.2 acres of land and shortlisted six entrepreneurs. In 2008, the municipal corporation sent the proposal to the State government and that was the end of it. In 2017, the municipal corporation again sent a revised proposal for four entrepreneurs as by that time, two other companies had opted out because of the inordinate delay. Deepali Gotadke, award-winning woman entrepreneur from Hubballi and proprietor of ClickHubli.com and Web Dreams, is one among the chosen six, who is still waiting for the land even after 12 years. Gumbi Software and two other firms are also waiting since then. The reason, is, while the consultative committee set up by the municipal corporation recommended her name for allotment of land at the tech park, no decision was taken at the government level. For over a decade, Ms. Gotadke has paid several visits to the government offices in Hubballi and Bengaluru, but has not lost hope yet. She was the first person to start e-commerce in North Karnataka and is presently working on a United Nation’s project of e-commerce pertaining to four nations, including Nepal. The recent meeting that Large and Medium Industries Minister and district in charge for Dharwad Jagadish Shettar chaired at Bengaluru has rekindled her hopes. At the meeting, the Minister directed the authorities to decide on the issue at the earliest. “I have spent so much time waiting for this land. I even didn’t apply for land in the proposed ‘Mahila Park’ near Dharwad as it would mean starting from zero again,” she said. Municipal Commissioner Suresh Itnal told The Hindu that the issue now was of fixing the land price. “In the first allotment, the land was given at the rate of Rs. 10 lakh per acre. Now it has to be revised. The district committee headed by the Deputy Commissioner is expected to convened a meeting next week to finalise the land price,” he said. He clarified that out of the 10.2 acres land remaining at Aryabhata Tech Park, the screening committee had recommended allotment of 3.5 acres for four.
08 September 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Joint survey estimates crop damage on 89,235 hectares in Kalaburagi||A recent joint survey by the Agriculture Department and the Revenue Department of kharif crop damage due to continuous rainfall in Kalaburagi district has put the loss over three times that was estimated by an eye survey taken up towards July-end. The joint survey has found that kharif crops on 89,235 hectares have suffered damage over the eye survey’s 29,529 hectares. As per data provided by the Agriculture Department, green gram was among the worst hit. Of the crop damage in a total of 89,235 hectares, 35,868 hectares (40 %) had green gram. Green gram had achieved a sowing target of 49,100 hectares area of which 73 % of the crop has been washed away due to heavy rainfall recorded during July and August. Of the 35,868 hectares of green gram damage, major loss was reported from Sedam taluk 11,966 hectares, followed by Chitapur taluk 11,690 hectares, Chincholi taluk 6,068 hectares and Kalaburagi taluk 4,509 hectares. Of the 5,32,800 hectares of red gram, crop on 44,446 hectares (8 %) has been damaged. As much as 22,749 hectares of red gram in Aland taluk, 15,692 hectares in Kalaburagi taluk and 3,906 hectares of the crop in Chincholi taluk have suffered damage. Black gram on 4,349 hectares (14 %) of the total 29,800 hectares has been damaged. Soyabean damage was estimated on over 3,695 hectares and cotton on 571 hectares in the district. Of the total 89,235 hectares of crop damage, 28,924 hectares of crop has been damaged in Aland taluk, followed by 22,584 hectares in Kalaburagi taluk, 13,735 hectares in Sedam taluk, 12,125 hectares in Chittapur taluk and 11,605 in Chincholi taluk. While crop loss reported in Afzalpur taluk was 200 hectares, Jewargi taluk reported crop damage on 62 hectares of its total cultivated area.
08 September 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Automated driving test tracks to come up in every district||Deputy Chief Minister and Transport Minister Laxman Savadi has said that Automated Driving Test Tracks, also known as electronic driving test tracks, will be set up in every district. “The electronic driving test track system is relatively more efficient for testing the capabilities of drivers. We have already established two such tracks in Bengaluru and one in Mysuru. The establishment of electronic test tracks in Dharwad and Belagavi is under way. We will shortly establish at least one such track in each district,” Mr. Savadi announced after inaugurating a newly built electronic driving test track on the premises of the Regional Transport Office off Kusanur Road in Kalaburagi on Monday. The test track has been built at a cost of Rs. 4 crore. Kalyana Karnataka Region Development Board chairman Dattatreya Patil Revoor presided over the event. Karnataka State Urban Water Supply and Drainage Board chairman Narasimha Nayak (Rajugouda), North Eastern Karnataka Road Transport Corporation (NEKRTC) chairman Rajkumar Patil Telkur, Kalaburagi Zilla Panchayat president Suvarna Malaji, legislators Avinash Jadhav, B.G. Patil, Deputy Commissioner Vijaya V. Jyothsna, Kalaburagi Zilla Panchayat Chief Executive Officer P. Raja, NEKRTC Managing Director Kurma Rao and others were present.
08 September 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Carry forward Gurukul tradition, teachers told||Regional Director of the Regional Office of Visvesvaraya Technological University (VTU) Basavaraj Gadgay said that the teachers have the onerous responsibility of training students as nation building blocks and carry forward the concept of Gurukul tradition which was the gift of India to the world and teachers should enrich it with their experience. Speaking at a Teachers Day celebrations organised at the Sharnbasva University here recently, Dr. Gadgay said that teachers have an important place in society and it is, for this reason, that the birthday of S. Radhakrishnan is celebrated as a national festival and as Teachers Day every year.
08 September 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Savadi hits back at Kumaraswamy for his remarks on drug mafia||Reacting sharply to former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy who had alleged that drug mafia was used to topple the JD(S)-Congress coalition government headed by him, Deputy Chief Minister and Transport Minister Laxman Savadi asked him why he had not curbed the mafia when he was Chief Minister. “Why wasn’t he enlightened when he was the Chief Minister? Even though he, as Chief Minister, had the police, Intelligence wing and the State machinery at hand, he failed to curb drug mafia. Our BJP government is now coming down heavily on the menace in the State. There is no question of protecting anybody involved in the illegal activity,” he said. He was speaking to mediapersons in Kalaburagi on Monday. On the fallen revenue of State-owned transport corporations, Mr. Savadi said KSRTC, NEKRTC, NWKRTC and BMTC were together incurring a loss of around Rs. 2.5 crore every day. “In a bid for complete resumption of transport operations, we have written to Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Kerala and Puducherry to explore the possibilities of resuming inter-State bus services. We have not written to Maharashtra,” he said.
08 September 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Goonda Act will be invoked against drug peddlers: Police Commissioner||Warning drug peddlers and drug consumers of stern action, including invoking Goonda (Karnataka Prevention of Dangerous Activities of Bootleggers, Drug Offenders, Gamblers, Goondas) Act against them, Police Commissioner Vikash Kumar Vikash on Monday asked those dealing with narcotic and psychotropic substances to stay away from it. Talking to reporters after speaking to 90 of the 180 persons accused in cases registered under Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act here, Mr. Vikash said that every police station in the city was regularly conducting parade of those allegedly involved in communal incidents and drug peddling. Drug addiction has affected youth and the police was trying to make the youth understand the need to stay away from drug abuse, he said. “Due to certain circumstances, we have intensified our action,” he said. With students from different parts of the country studying in educational institutions in Dakshina Kannada, Mr. Vikash said that the police are trying to curtail sale and consumption of narcotic drugs in a big way. “Today’s rowdy parade is to warn those involved in drug peddling and sourcing narcotic drugs,” he said. Of the 90 persons in the parade on Monday, six were students, he added. Apart from invoking Goonda Act against such people and externing repeated offenders, the police was contemplating seizing property acquired through illegal means. Of the four proposals for invoking Goonda Act sent so far, the Advisory Board, comprising High Court judges, has approved one proposal. As Mangaluru was well connected, Mr. Vikash said, narcotic and psychotropic substances were coming from Kerala and Goa and also from distant places in Odisha and Andhra Pradesh. Apart from the seizure of cannabis, the police have seized synthetic and other narcotic drugs. In the last eight months, the police have booked 20 cases under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act of which 10 were registered in the last two months. The police was in touch with Kerala and other State police agencies. The police was ready to provide medical and other necessary aid for the accused who want to reform, Mr. Vikash said.
08 September 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Enthusiasts now facing waiting period for bicycles as demand goes up||Advance booking for bicycles was quite unheard of, at least, in the recent past, as customers could walk out with their preferred bike from the showrooms after completing the sales formalities. However, the situation now is such that people are booking their orders and waiting for at least a month to get their preferred bikes. The increase in demand for bicycles by at least two times and the supply reducing by about one-third are being cited as reasons by some bicycle dealers across the State. The closure of gyms during the lockdown drove the demand for bicycles as many preferred them to be the best mode to maintain physical fitness, said S.I. Mubin from Taj Cycle Co., Kankanady in Mangaluru. “As soon as lockdown 1.0 ended, we almost exhausted our stocks and recovered lockdown losses. However, there is no supply from manufacturers, either domestic or international, subsequently,” he said. Bicycle production was hit world-wide due to COVID-19 as a result of which popular brands, starting from children’s to adults, from normal to premium, were not available in the market, Mr. Mubin said. It may take more than a couple of months before normality is restored, he added. New models Stating that he was getting queries for bikes from far off places, including Guwahati, Ganesh Nayak from Jyoti Cycle and Fitness, Kadri in Mangaluru, said that more than 20 customers have pre-booked their bikes, which was unheard of. International manufacturers of brands such as Trek, Scott, Giant, Merida, bring out their next year’s model during July-September the previous year itself and the products reach India by March-April 2021. Meanwhile, though they have exhausted the 2020 model in their respective domestic market, they would not produce 2020 models thus causing a vacuum in the market, he said. There was also an enhanced pressure on Shimano Inc., the Japanese bicycle component manufacturer whose gear components almost all international manufacturers use, Mr. Nayak said. Domestic brands are unlikely to get new components until Shimano fulfils its commitment to international brands. The Indo-China stand-off too has contributed to the situation as a majority of bicycle frames are manufactured in China and Taiwan, he added. Amit Sharma from Everest Cycles, Yelachenahalli, Kanakapura Road in Bengaluru, who boasts of being Bengaluru South’s biggest showroom, too said that dealers are finding it difficult to cater to the demand that has doubled. Supplies have drastically gone down, he said.
08 September 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||More beds sought for COVID-19 patients||Dakshina Kannada Congress Committee staged a dharna in front of the Government Wenlock Hospital here on Monday alleging that the State government has failed to provide enough ventilators and beds to COVID-19 patients in hospitals in Dakshina Kannada. Speaking on the occasion, MLC and president of the committee K. Harish Kumar said that as all ICU beds in Wenlock Hospital are full, patients are approaching private hospitals where too ICU beds are full. Hence, patients who required emergency treatment in ICUs are risking their lives. The government should immediately arrange for more beds in hospitals, he said.
08 September 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Dedicated night patrol squad for Nagarahole proposed||Night patrolling will be stepped at the Nagarahole Tiger Reserve to tighten protection as a fallout of the recent tiger poaching case. A tiger was poached on August 26. The authorities nabbed all the five accused within 10 days of the crime being reported. Nagarahole Tiger Reserve Director Mahesh Kumar said they have analysed the situation and identified a few deficiencies in protection duties that will be addressed. Apart from regular patrolling by the Special Tiger Force and the anti-poaching camp personnel, the Forest Department now proposes to introduce a dedicated squad for night patrolling. This will bridge the gap in the protection duties all of which will shore up forest protection and also deter potential miscreants and poachers, the official said. There are 54 anti-poaching camps in Nagarahole and each of the camps is manned by four persons. This was considered sufficient. But a dedicated night patrolling squad will add more teeth to protection duty, said Mr. Kumar. He said there was a 25% vacancy in the field staff and the government will be informed about the imperatives of filling up the vacant posts at the earliest. Meanwhile, the Nagarahole Forest Department staff have won plaudits from wildlife conservationists and the Union Minister of Environment, Forest and Climate Change for cracking the tiger-poaching case within a few days.
08 September 2020||September 08 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Yelahanka flyover inauguration today||The State government has decided to inaugurate the flyover in Yelahanka, which will be named after Hindutva ideologue V.D. Savarkar, despite protests from various quarters. It will be inaugurated by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Tuesday. M. Shivaraju, senior councillor from the opposition Congress, told The Hindu that it was unfortunate that the BJP had turned a blind eye to the opposition. “We had opposed it in the council as well. However, the ruling party slyly approved it. There was no discussion in the council,” he said. This is the second time the inauguration has been scheduled. Earlier in May, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) had scheduled the inauguration, but then postponed the event citing COVID-19 related restrictions. At the time, many Opposition leaders, including former Chief Ministers Siddaramaiah and H.D. Kumaraswamy, had strongly opposed it. Both of them had taken to social media and demanded that the government rescind its decision and instead name the flyover after a freedom fighter from the State. Incidentally, on Independence Day, Mayor M. Goutham Kumar unveiled a bronze statue of Savarkar in front of BBMP’s Yediyur complex. While the Congress alleged that the ruling BJP was raking up unnecessary controversy to please the party leadership, the BJP claimed to be honouring a freedom fighter.
08 September 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Strong winds destroy houses in Kuttanad||At least two houses were destroyed and 35 houses damaged in heavy downpour and strong winds that lashed the district on Sunday. The two houses destroyed were in Kuttanad taluk. Officials said the total loss was yet to be ascertained. Besides, the fisheries sector too suffered losses after several fishing boats anchored at Kakkazhom, Kattoor, Ottamassery and Arthunkal were either destroyed or damaged in strong winds and high waves. Officials said they were in the process of ascertaining the losses suffered to the fisherfolk. The vessels damaged were the ones anchored on the beach areas. According to fishermen, boats from Alappuzha are banned from entering Chellanam and Thoppumpady harbours in Ernakulam due to COVID-19 restrictions. At the same time, the construction of Arthunkal harbour in the district is yet to be completed, leaving them without any option other than to anchor boats at places without any protection from the natural calamities. Compensation sought District Congress president M. Liju urged the State government to immediately compensate the fisherfolk for damaged/destroyed boats and other equipment. Mr. Liju said the timely completion of the Thottappally and Arthunkal harbours would have prevented the calamity. Ministers G. Sudhakaran, T.M. Thomas Isaac, P. Thilothaman and J. Mercykutty Amma could not wash their hands of responsibility for the disaster, he said. Meanwhile, the Indian Coast Guard that deployed ship Aryaman rescued 10 fishermen off Alappuzha coast.
08 September 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||78 test positive in Alappuzha||The district logged 78 COVID-19 cases and 132 recoveries on Monday. Among the fresh cases, 76 patients contracted the virus through local transmission. A Pulinkunnu native who came from Tripura and a person hailing from Budhanoor also tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. The Budhanoor native's source of infection remains untraceable. Of the 76 locally transmitted cases, 13 each were reported from Aryad and Cheruthana. Thiruvanvandoor recorded 11 cases, along with Alappuzha (6), Kumarapuram (3), Kandalloor (3), two cases each from Champakulam, Kayamkulam, Mulakuzha and Thrikkunnapuzha and one case each from Pandanad, Aroor, Chennithala, Ambalappuzha, Karthikappally, Bharanikavu, Vallikunnam, Chengannur, Varanam, Mannar, Mavelikara, Devikulangara, Chunakara, Arattuppuzha, Veeyapuram, Ala, Puliyoor, Krishnapuram and Venmony.  OP to be open Meanwhile, Government Medical College Hospital (MCH), Alappuzha, superintendent R.V. Ramlal said the ophthalmology and paediatric outpatient (OP) units at the hospital would start functioning in a limited way from Wednesday. Dr. Ramlal said that the OP time had been restricted for two hours from 9 a.m. to 11 a.m. The functioning of the MCH has been hit hard after several hospital staff tested positive for COVID-19. It has imposed several restrictions and Dr. Ramlal said that only people who need emergency treatment should come to the hospital. However, the labour room, cardiovascular intensive care unit and casualty are functioning as normal. Parts of wards 21 and 43 in Alappuzha municipality, 6,7 and 9 in Neelamperoor, 8 in Thaikkattussery, 22 in Cherthala South and 5 in Ezhupunna grama panchayat were declared as containment zones.
08 September 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Award for art teacher||Saji Kumar V.S., an art teacher at Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya, Chennithala, Mavelikara, was conferred with National Teacher's Award 2020 by President Ram Nath Kovind in a virtual ceremony on Saturday. A Ministry of Education statement said Mr. Kumar has done excellent work as an art teacher, making relevant inter-disciplinary connections with other subjects such as Mathematics, Science, Social Studies and Physical Education.
08 September 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Kuvi shrugs off tragedy, walks into new life||Kuvi, the pet dog which helped in tracing the body of little Dhanushka from beneath a bridge about 4 km away from the site of the Pettymudy landslip, is slowly walking back to life. It has completed the first phase of the heel walk training after it was adopted by the Idukki police dog squad. Ajith Madhavan, dog squad trainer, on Monday said Kuvi was being trained on a par with the members of the dog squad and its ability as a tracker was evident. Tracing body Dhanushaka’s body was traced away from the accident site. The dog continuously barked and brought the attention of the search team to the spot and it helped in recovering the body of the two-year-old. “Kuvi was inducted into the dog squad on August 21. There are five tracker and sniffer dogs in the Idukki dog squad, in addition to two others under training. This is for the first time a local dog is being adopted into the squad and being trained,” Mr. Madhavan said.  Special order “It needed special order for inducting Kuvi into the squad,” Mr. Madhavan said The Police Department decided to adopt and train Kuvi after Mr. Madhavan realised its ability as a tracker. The training is divided into three phases. “Kuvi successfully completed the first phase of heel walk training within three days,” Mr. Madhavan said.
08 September 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Fish to be reared in cages in reservoir||The Fisheries Department is gearing up to launch a caged aquaculture project to tap the potential of inland fisheries in the Banasura Sagar reservoir of the Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) at Padinharethara in Wayanad district. Fisheries Minister J. Mercykutty Amma will inaugurate the project through videoconferencing at 11 a.m. on Tuesday. “The project, under the Rebuild Kerala programme, aims at tapping the fisheries potential of the reservoir, one of the largest earthen dam in the country, and improving the lives of the tribespeople on the banks of the reservoir,” M. Chitra, Assistant Director, Fisheries Department, told The Hindu . As many as 90 batteries of cages, each of 6x4x4 m, in nine blocks had been set up in the Kuttiyam Vayal area of the reservoir for the project and 3,840 fingerlings could be deposited in each cage, Ms. Chithra said. “We are planning to deposit 3,45,600 fingerlings of Gift Tilapia species of fish and it can be harvested in six months,” she said. “Harvest can be done twice a year and we expect an average production of 1,35,000 kg of fish in each harvest,” she said. Ninety tribal fishermen families would benefit from it, Ms. Chithra said, adding that the department had constituted a cooperative society of tribal fishermen for the purpose. A sum of Rs. 3.2 crore has been spent for the project and the Agency for Development of Aquaculture Kerala is the implementing agency.  She said the department would soon launch a similar project at the Karapuzha reservoir with 10 cages. It would be carried out under the Innovative Aquaculture project of the State government, Ms. Chitra added.
08 September 2020||Kannur,KERALA||Kannur on high alert again with 260 cases||Kannur district with 260 new COVID-19 cases topped the State in daily count of SARS-CoV-2 infections on Monday. Collector T.V. Subhash declared 40 more local body wards in the district as containment zones in the wake of surge in cases. In a joint statement, the District Collector and the District Police Chief urged the public to be more vigilant and responsible. The joint statement was issued after a meeting of the District Disaster Management Authority. In Malappuram As many as 187 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Malappuram district on Monday. The district authorities said that 174 of them had got the infection through local contacts. The source of infection in nine cases could not be traced. While three cases came from abroad, one came from another State. However, 206 infected persons recovered from COVID-19 in Malappuram on Monday. Officials said that 1,825 were being treated at different hospitals and nearly 47,000 people were quarantined. In Palakkad In Palakkad, 118 persons tested positive on Monday. While 73 of them contracted the virus through local transmission, nine came from other States and one from abroad. The source of infection could not be traced in 35 cases. District officials said that 71 infected people recovered from the disease in Palakkad on Monday. In Thrissur As many as 128 COVID-19 cases were reported in Thrissur on Monday. Among the total cases, 123 were infected through contact. The district also reported 155 recoveries. In Kasaragod Kasaragod district saw 134 more COVID-19 cases on Monday. Among these, 111 were local transmission cases. The district also recorded 97 recoveries. Kasaragod has so far reported 6,242 cases. In Wayanad Wayanad saw a sharp decline in the number of new COVID-19 cases as only four people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Monday. Of the four cases, two were infected through local transmission of the virus. The other two persons had come from Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh. So far, the district has reported a total of 1,708 cases. There were 29 recoveries in the district. The number of infected persons currently under treatment fell to 250. As many as 2,602 persons are under observation.  (With inputs from Malappuram, Palakkad, Thrissur, Kasaragod, and Wayanad bureaus)
08 September 2020||Kannur,KERALA||Muraleedharan seeks CBI probe into bomb blast||Senior Congress leader K. Muraleedharan, MP, has demanded Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probe into the recent twin murders in Venjarammoodu, the Kathirur bomb blast and Bineesh Kodiyeri’s alleged links with drug mafia. He was speaking at a one-day fast organised by Congress leaders led by District Congress Committee president Satheesan Pacheni on the old bus stand premises at Thalassery on Monday to protest against the alleged violence perpetrated by the Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)]. The MP said the village where the bomb exploded was a CPI(M) bastion. Inaugurating the fast through videoconferencing, KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran said that the CPI(M) had more weapons stockpiled than the police stations in Kerala.
08 September 2020||Kasaragod,KERALA||Another cheating case against MLA||Another cheating case has been registered against Manjeswaram MLA and Muslim League leader M.C. Kamaruddin on a complaint by people who invested their money in Fashion Gold. Five Uduma natives, including a local Muslim League leader, alleged that their investment of Rs. 73 lakh had been embezzled. The case was registered by Kasaragod Town Police. With this, 13 cheating cases have been registered against the MLA, who was the chairman of Fashion Gold. Apart from the cheating cases, Mr. Kamaruddin and Muslim League leader Pookoya Thangal have also been facing a check bounce case. Both have been summoned in a case filed in Kanhangad magistrate court.
08 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Reverse quarantine measures to be strengthened in district||Reverse quarantine measures will be strengthened among the elderly and critically-ill patients in Ernakulam as a preventive measure against the possible spike in COVID-19 cases in the coming months. Nine per cent of the infected in the district belong to the age group of 60-90 years, while 91% of the positive cases are people in the 20-50 age group, according to official estimates. “The spread of infection among those aged above 50 years and critically-ill patients will increase the death rate. Hence, reverse quarantine will be implemented in the district to protect vulnerable sections,” said Agriculture Minister V.S. Sunil Kumar on Monday. A campaign will be organised involving the Departments of Local-Self Government and Health and the district administration to step up reverse quarantine. The number of daily positive cases is expected to touch the 350-400 mark in the district. Preparatory measures have been strengthened to tackle the surge in positive cases. The estimated spread (97.8%) of disease in August was accurate, he said.  Ernakulam has registered a total of 7,502 positive cases till Monday. Over 2,400 persons are under treatment. The district has recorded 45 deaths. The authorities have asked employers of migrant labourers to step up vigil. The Labour Department has also been told to improve surveillance. The restrictions in West Kochi would continue despite the situation remaining under control as the density of population in the region was high, they said.
08 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Merchants stage protest against police barricades||Merchants associated with the Kerala Merchants’ Chamber of Commerce have protested against the police keeping barricades on byroads connecting major trade centres in Ernakulam, alleging that this is dissuading customers, adversely affecting businesses. The unique protest involved keeping pots upside down, indicating that their livelihoods have been hit. ‘Repeated requests’ While permission was granted by the police to reopen business establishments in what used to be COVID-19 containment zones, the barricades put up along byroads stayed, despite repeated requests to the police to remove them. This has affected business, said KMCC president G. Karthikeyan, and secretary K.M. Vipin.
08 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Communist martyrs too may be out||After the Wagon tragedy victims, a report to the Indian Council for Historical Research (ICHR) has suggested dropping the Communist martyrs of the Punnapra-Vayalar, Karivelloor and Kavumbayi agitations from the list of martyrs of India’s Independence struggle. C.I. Issac, a member of the ICHR, gave a report to this effect four years ago after scrutinising the manuscript of the now controversial publication The Dictionary of Martyrs: Freedom Struggle 1857-1947 . The names of 46 martyrs of the Punnapra-Vayalar agitation and Kumaran Pulluvan and Kunhiraman Pulukkal of the Kavumbayi stir and Keeneri Kunhambu, a 16-year-old minor who was killed in police firing during the Karivellur uprising, are on the list. Incidentally, the Communist parties in Kerala hold the victims of these agitations as martyrs of the freedom movement and the anniversaries of the agitations are passionately commemorated. Wagon Tragedy too  The Hindu had reported on the suggestion to remove the victims of the Wagon Tragedy and Malabar Rebellion from the list, which was uploaded onto the website of the Ministry of Culture the other day. “These Communist agitations cannot be counted as the part of the Independence movement as they took place after the interim government led by Jawaharlal Nehru assumed office. These riots were basically against the interim government,” Dr. Issac, also vice president of the Bharathiya Vichara Kendram, said. The report, accessed by The Hindu , pointed out that it was “indeed strange to conclude that the party which boycotted and sabotaged the national movement organised freedom struggle in the remote corner of Kerala.” History The “Punnapra-Vayalar uprising occurred only after September 2, 1946, the day when Nehru’s interim national government took over the Indian administration.” The “Indian Communists believed that India is not a cultural and political unit. It is the conglomeration 17 nationalities. Thus their agitation was against the government of Nehru. So the following names which appear in the project associated with the Communist movement in Kerala should be deleted from the yet to be published project,” it was reported. According to the report, the Karivelloor uprising took place on December 20, 1946. “It is also not part of the Indian freedom struggle. It was to regain the lost image of the Communist party,” Dr. Issac reported. Another Communist movement in Kerala took place at Kavumbayi on December 30, 1946. The names of the two Communist martyrs creating riots should not be incorporated in the martyrs’ dictionary, he suggested.
08 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Centre considering metro extension||Kochi metro trains began commercial operations from the Pettah station at 2 p.m. on Monday, an hour after Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and Union Minister for Housing and Urban Affairs Hardip Singh Puri flagged off the 1.3-km-long Thykoodam-Pettah extension, through videoconferencing from Thiruvananthapuram and New Delhi respectively. The commissioning of the extension signals the end of the Rs. 6,218-crore first phase of the Kochi Metro Rail project. Earlier in the day, metro trains resumed service in the Aluva-Thykoodam viaduct after a break of over five months following COVID-19 precautions. More riders Mr. Puri hoped that the extension would increase the daily average count of riders from 65,000 (during pre-COVID days) to over 1 lakh. “The 11-km Kakkanad metro extension up to Infopark that the Kochi Metro Rail Ltd. (KMRL) has proposed is under Centre’s active consideration. Kochi is one of the fastest-growing urban space in India. The upcoming Water Metro project (in the Greater Kochi area) will be commissioned in 2021. This will further enhance Kochi’s position on the global tourism map,” he said. The Kochi metro, the Minister said, was the first in India to have a communication-based train control (CBTC) system.
08 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Trade unions go on 48-hour strike at BPCL-Kochi Refinery||Nearly 60% of non-management staff of Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited (BPCL)-Kochi Refinery are taking part in the 48-hour strike called by workers of BPCL against what they alleged were attempts to privatise the company in the guise of pay reform. A statement issued by the workers said a total of 4,570 workers, led by 13 unions in BPCL Mumbai, Kochi Refinery and marketing sectors of BPCL, were part of the strike. They said there was a move to grant the company management the right to review terms of 10-year service contracts after June 2020. They feared it would place workers at the receiving end in view of the likely privatisation of the company before March 2021. “The workers are being forced to accept that retirement benefits would only be available to them if the company stayed in the public sector,” said the statement. The strike is being led by Cochin Refineries Workers Association at BPCL Kochi Refinery (CITU), Cochin Refineries Employees Association (INTUC), the Refinery Employees Union and the BPCL Mazdoor Sangh (BMS). The protest on Monday was inaugurated by CITU national secretary K. Chandran Pillai. Meanwhile, the company issued a statement saying that it had held four rounds of discussions with the unions on the disputed long-term settlement of non-management employees and had given an offer. The strike had taken place despite the High Court restraining the workers from doing so, as the conciliation process was under way. The strike, it said, had not affected the refinery operations.
08 September 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Dairy farmers in 4 districts to get vet help at their doorsteps||The Ernakulam Region Cooperative Milk Producers’ Union is introducing a programme to make available the assistance of veterinary doctors at the doorsteps of dairy farmers. Chairman of the Ernakulam region milk cooperative John Theruvath said that the union had approved a project to hire veterinary doctors on contract basis to meet requirements of farmers who needed emergency help in taking care of milch animals. “It is a decentralised programme that will take care of farmers’ requirements,” he said. Under the programme, 18 veterinary help units have been established. Of these, four units each have been set up in Kottayam and Thrissur districts while five units each have been set up in Idukki and Ernakulam districts. “The hiring of veterinary doctors by the milk union will help farmers address health issues of milch animals at expenses that are affordable to them and, at the same time, make it available at their doorsteps,” he added. The Ernakulam region milk cooperative comprises areas of Kottayam, Thrissur, Idukki and Ernakulam districts. Battling pandemic “The milk union is also making available thermal scanners for temperature checks and automatic sanitiser dispensers for farmers at subsidised rates in view of the COVID-19 situation,” Mr. John said. The subsidy programme for sanitiser dispensers and thermal check equipment is in addition to providing a ‘Corona Rakshak’ insurance scheme for those involved in the dairy sector. Mr. John said that the insurance scheme would cover dairy farmers, workers in dairy cooperatives as well as the family members of those in the dairy sector. The dairy sector, said Mr. John, had been affected by the restrictions imposed on activities to contain the pandemic. However, the region saw a record sale of 7.70 lakh litres of milk on August 30.
08 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||‘CSML work disfiguring Fort Kochi’||A section of residents and heritage enthusiasts of Fort Kochi have termed many ongoing road renovation and drainage works undertaken by Cochin Smart Mission Limited (CSML) as being contrary to heritage norms. “As permanent residents and stakeholders of the heritage town, we were proud and excited when in 2015 the news came that Kochi city was ranked fifth in the Smart Cities Challenge of the Central Government. But as the project is being rolled out, our hopes are turning into a nightmare where all of us fear that the precious heritage characteristics of the locale, evolved over centuries and are its unique selling points, are being permanently destroyed due to the ongoing works. Drains are being built even in place where there is no water-logging,” said former Mayor K.J. Sohan. “Today, we feel pained to see the unique streets and lanes being laid with cement tiles and in the process, the street levels are raised by over a foot, resulting in water flowing into compounds on either side which have centuries’ old laterite and lime buildings, whose walls are over a metres in width. The walls get irreversibly damaged when water seeps in. The trees that are many centuries old, the vast open spaces and the quaint street scapes are all being affected by the ‘vandalism’ being done in the name of making this historic town ‘Smart’,” reads a mass memorandum being readied to take up the issue with authorities. The Kochi Corporation and the State government had declared this as a heritage town 30 years ago and formed the Art and Heritage Commission,with the mandate to conserve the town’s heritage. “We together appeal to you to treat this as an SOS call and immediately put a stop to the works being carried out and a team of experts must take a relook at the whole project,” stakeholders have said. A similar sentiment was echoed by Alex Thomas, a tour guide, who organised heritage walks. “The heritage zone does not need undue modernisation. Rather, focus must be given to ensure cleanliness of the beachfront and heritage streets. ,” he said. Responding to the concerns, sources in CSML said they had gone ahead with the works after getting approval from the Corporation Council. Engineers of the civic body too were present when plans were finalised. “We hope to address the concerns at a meeting shortly,” they said.
08 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Postings: aided colleges in MGU violate norms||The practice by a section of private, aided colleges under the Mahatma Gandhi University of designating a faculty member of their choice as drawing and disbursing officer enjoying the powers of the principal continues in spite of an order issued in March this year. An order issued by the Syndicate on March 17 had pointed out that such persons were found misusing the powers vested in a principal approved by the varsity as per the regulations prescribed by the University Grants Commission (UGC). The varsity had asked college managers to appoint the senior-most faculty member as the principal-in-charge till the process of appointing a principal as per the UGC regulations is completed. However, senior-most teachers eligible for the post pointed out that the managements often appointed junior teachers or persons of their choice as the principal in-charge. Despite reminders, neither the management nor the varsity had taken any steps to rectify the anomaly, they said. ‘Protecting interests’ Vice Chancellor Sabu Thomas said certain managements were protecting their interests by entrusting the powers of principal to a faculty member designated as drawing and disbursing officer. “We have made it clear that no approvals will be given to the appointment of principals that fail to meet the norms under the Academic Performance Indicator score as per the UGC regulations,” he said. Stating that there would be no dilution in quality, Mr. Thomas said the managements would be directed to strictly follow the UGC regulations on selection of principals. On why the varsity was yet to take action against managements that had not complied with the order issued on March 17, the Vice Chancellor said that he would soon convene an online meeting of principals to resolve the issue.
08 September 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Nod to question gold smuggling case accused||The Customs will interrogate the six accused in the diplomatic baggage gold smuggling case, including K.T. Rameez, in connection with the recent Bengaluru drug seizure case. The Economic Offences Court, Ernakulam, allowed the Customs to probe the angle following a submission from the agency. Investigation agencies had found out that the names of the accused in the gold smuggling case was on the phone contact list of the accused in the drug case. The accused will be questioned at the Central Jail, Viyyur, in the presence of the jail superintendent.
08 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Preparation for polls in progress, SEC tells court||The State Election Commission (SEC) on Monday informed the Kerala High Court that the commission would take a call on the date and schedule of local body elections after deliberations with stakeholders and after assessing all inputs received. It was yet to fix the programme of the election and no notification for the polls had been issued, the commission said in a statement before the court. The statement was filed in response to a writ petition seeking a directive to the commission to postpone the local body elections. Preparations for holding the elections were in full swing. The election machinery had been alerted so as to be in a state of readiness for the timely holding of the elections, the commission added. The term of the present panchayats at all levels, municipalities (except Mattannur municipality) and municipal Corporations would expire on November 11, 2020. The election to constitute new local bodies would have to be held before November 11 so that the members could assume office by November 12. The commission pointed out that the High Court had earlier dismissed a public interest litigation seeking a directive not to conduct the elections till the pandemic was brought under control. The petition In his petition, Muhammed Rafi of Malappuram said restrictions imposed to contain COVID-19 would be flouted during election campaigns. That might result in a grave situation. Besides, a large number of people would either be in hospitals or in quarantine and would not be able to vote. The court adjourned hearing on the petition to September 14.
08 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Demand for discussion on Corpn. audit reports||The LDF leaders in the Kochi Corporation Council have asked the Mayor to convene separate meetings to discuss the last four reports of the Local Fund Audit wing. The audit reports since 2013 should be discussed separately as each report had pointed out serious discrepancies in the functioning of the local body, said a joint statement issued by LDF leaders K. J. Antony and V.P. Chandran. They said the corporation’s move to discuss the audit reports of 2015-16, 2016-17, 2017-18 and 2018-19 and the 2014-15 Mayor’s Development Fund together was an attempt to bypass the provisions of the law and cover up its failures. The reports had pointed out instances of corruption and mismanagement. It had flagged the persons responsible for the misdeeds. Hence, the reports should be discussed separately, they demanded.
08 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||130 more test positive||As many as 130 persons in the district tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Monday. Of them, 125 persons were infected through local contact. The places where higher number of COVID-19 cases were reported include Kumbalanghi, Thrikkakara, Palluruthy, Mattancherry and Vadavucode. Recoveries A total of 184 persons tested negative on Monday. The number of persons undergoing treatment in Ernakulam is 2,437. Health officials are awaiting the results of 882 swab samples sent for testing.
08 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Bad weather spells doom for farmers||The extreme weather conditions in early August have caused a loss of at least Rs. 7 crore to the farming sector in Ernakulam. An initial account of losses sustained by farmers in the district said several places bore the brunt of heavy rain, wind, and flooding in the first two weeks of August. Areas where intensive farming is taken up ahead of Onam like Nedumbassery, Kothamangalam, Chengamanad, and neighbouring Keezhmad and Choornikkara were inundated. Crops lost to bad weather include banana and paddy as well as rubber and various vegetable crops. Farmers at Nedumbassery, Aluva, Kothamangalam, Perumbavoor, and Kalady suffered the most, as flooding, minor landslips, and breach of bunds resulted in crop losses.
08 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Online Lok Adalat next month||Come October, one could seek resolution for pending and fresh litigations without being present in adalats. The Kerala Legal Services Authority (KELSA) is organising the first-ever online Lok Adalat on October 17. Those with functional phone numbers and e-mail IDs can seek resolution of disputes. Applications can be submitted till September 15. Parties to both pre-litigation and post-litigation matters can apply for the Lok Adalat through email, helpline numbers, WhatsApp, Google form, or the online filing form of the authority. KELSA will refer the cases eligible to be considered for the Lok Adalat to the other party in the case through email, helpline numbers, or WhatsApp. Details can be obtained at 98467 00100 and 0484 239 6717.
08 September 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||71 fresh cases in Kollam||The district reported 71 new cases of COVID-19 and 131 recoveries on Monday. While 67 patients contracted the infection through contact, others include three persons from abroad and one from Tamil Nadu. Kollam had the highest single-day spike on Sunday with 328 new patients and it included over 60 cases from Kollam Corporation. The district currently has 15,889 people under observation and the total number of samples collected is 47,567. While 559 people completed home quarantine on Monday, the Health Department has traced 21,308 primary and 5,410 secondary contacts of the positive cases. At present 13 COVID-19 firstline treatment centres are operating in the district and the number of active cases is 1,671.
08 September 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||154 cases in Kottayam||As many as 154 patients tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kottayam on Monday. Of the fresh cases, 150 people contracted the virus through contact. Kottayam recorded 16 people testing positive. Thiruvarppu reported 12 cases while Erattupetta witnessed 11 cases. Karoor, Pambady, Mutholi and Kurichy panchayats reported six cases each. With 115 recoveries during the day, the district currently has 1,689 active cases.
08 September 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||State yet to have unified public health Act||Even 64 years after the formation of the State, Kerala is yet to have a unified public health Act covering the erstwhile regions of Travancore, Cochin and Malabar. A proposal for the law is learnt to be stuck in bureaucratic tangle even as the health apparatus is battling the COVID-19 pandemic. According to Health Department sources, at present there are two Acts governing the public health machinery in the State, the Travancore-Cochin Public Health Act,1955 for the southern and parts of central Kerala and the Madras Public Health Act, 1939 for the rest of the State. Unsuccessful attempts Though efforts to unify these two to form a common Act for the entire State have been on for quite some time, they have not succeeded for various reasons. Senior officials claim that the lack of a common Act is leading to a lot of confusion when it comes to the implementation of policies. Notifications would have to be issued separately to cover all districts. There are also technical differences in the exercise of official power in the existing Acts. Functionaries of an organisation representing health officials told The Hindu that a committee was again formed in December 2014 to prepare a unified public health Act. Law dept.’s contention However, the Law Department pointed out that some of the provisions in the draft Bill were similar to those in the Kerala Panchayat Raj Act. It also pointed out that since the State already had a Kerala Municipality Act and a Food Safety Act, with somewhat equivalent norms, introducing another Act could lead to dispute on distribution of power. This was followed by consultations with the Directorate of Health Services and the State Health Systems Resource Centre, a technical support unit of the Health Department. The distribution of powers was decentralised in the draft Bill and some provisions were removed. The modified proposal was submitted to the Department of Local Self-Government (LSGD), whose approval is yet to come. Asked about the status of the Bill, Health Minister K.K. Shylaja is reported to have said in the Assembly on March 2 that any follow-up would depend on the report from the Local Self-Government Department.  There is confusion while executing policies, as notifications have to be issued separately to cover all districts.
08 September 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||A comeback with multiple purposes||There is a lot more to the decision to bring back Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) leader P.K. Kunhalikutty, MP, to State politics than meets the eye. For quite some time, party sources said, trouble has been brewing in the rank and file when hawkish elements began to have a sway over the cadre after the Left Democratic Front assumed power in 2016. The absence of Mr. Kunhalikutty, who is known for drawing up strategic electoral moves, has made a dent in the ideological base of the party. Widening chasm The chasm between the moderates and extremists in the party began to widen after the Supreme Court delivered the final verdict in the Ayodhya dispute in November last. Then came the Citizenship (Amendment) Act. Early in July, a section of party leaders publicly advocated a tactical understanding with the Jamaat-e-Islami-backed Welfare Party of India for the three-tier local body polls. The IUML-backed Samastha Kerala Jamiyyathul Ulama has taken a critical stand of the party having any poll understanding with extremist organisations or radical outfits. However, such caution has not trickled down to the local cadre. Senior leaders believe that bringing back Mr. Kunhalikutty, who has been credited with a secular image and is popular among the rank and file, would quell the discontent among the youngsters in the party. It is a personal gain for Mr. Kunhalikutty to re-enter State politics when the ruling Left government appears to be on a shaky wicket.
08 September 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||278 recover from disease in Kozhikode||The number of those who recovered from COVID-19 in Kozhikode district on Monday was more than double of people who were declared tested positive for the virus. As many as 278 people were cured and 103 were newly added to the list of infected patients. Local transmission According to a release by the District Medical Officer, 86 of the newly infected persons got it through local transmission. The source could not be ascertained in 12 cases. The number of cases through local transmission in the Kozhikode Corporation was 35. The figures for Velam and Kottur were 22 and nine, respectively. The number of active cases in the district has come down to 1,619.
08 September 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||SPC selection on marks basis upsets parents||The selection of Student Police Cadets (SPC) from among 8th standard students during the COVID-19 lockdown has caused heartburning to some sections of parents and students across the State. Considering the lockdown situation, the schools conducted the SPC selection on the basis of the marks they scored in seventh standard. Till this year, the SPC selection was made on the basis of a special written test and a physical test. A section of parents alleged that the new selection procedure had denied chances for the so-called ‘all-rounders’ among the students. Instead, only those who topped in class and annual examinations were considered for selection. According to teachers and SPC managers, the selection process would not ensure 100% quality, but would not deny the chances of toppers in classes. State-level SPC officials said they had little choice as the COVID-19 lockdown had upset all schedules. The authorities decided to conduct the selection for the current academic year on the basis of last year’s marks as they feared that a break would cause the SPC programme to stop. In 747 schools Introduced in 2010, the SPC is currently being implemented in 747 high schools and higher secondary schools across the State. Equal consideration is being given to boys and girls in SPC. Twenty-two boys and girls each were selected from designated schools. They would undergo training for two years and would be awarded grace marks for SSLC if they qualify. SPC managers, however, refuted the claims of the parents that physical fitness would matter a great deal in the SPC selection. Unlike the National Cadet Corps (NCC), the SPC does not require a ‘considerable’ fitness. However, what caused angst to some parents was the selection of the SPC before other grace-mark winning programmes like Scouts and Guides, NCC, Junior Red Cross, and Little KITEs. Usually, all those selections used to take place at the same time and most students would secure a selection for any of them.
08 September 2020||Palakkad,KERALA||Two children drown in well||A woman jumped into a well with her two children at Kinasseri near here on Monday. While the children drowned, the woman was rescued by a man. The police registered a case against Manjula, 27, wife of Vinod, for attempting to end her life and for murdering her children Abhin, 6, and Abhith, 3. The woman was living with her mother after a quarrel with her husband. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104, Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline of Maithri - 0484 2540530, Thanal Suicide Prevention Centre - 0495 2760000 and DISHA - 1056
08 September 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Inter-State BonD service from today||The Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) will launch its first inter-State BonD (buses on demand) service from here to Coimbatore on Tuesday. KSRTC executive director (north zone) C.V. Rajendran will flag off the service here in the morning. The service will be for government and private sector employees. The bus will leave Palakkad at 8 a.m. and will leave from Coimbatore at 5.15 p.m. The BonD passengers should have an e-pass for travel.
08 September 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||24 new cases in Pathanamthitta||After witnessing a sharp rise for days on end, the number of fresh COVID-19 cases in Pathanamthitta came down considerably on Friday with only 24 people testing positive for SARS-CoV-2. Of these, 23 people including an unidentified person who succumbed to the virus infection, contracted the virus through local transmission. The person, who lived on the streets in the Thiruvalla-Parumala region, was tested positive for the virus posthumously. With this, COVID-19-related deaths in the district rose to 30, taking the overall fatality rate to 0.75 percent Yet to be traced The contact source of at least seven cases was yet to be identified. Meanwhile, the COVID-19 clusters at Kadakkadu and Kollakunnu were active during the day. With 86 recoveries during the day, the number of active cases in Pathanamthitta stands at 834.
08 September 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Curbs on ferrying COVID-19 patients on ambulances at night||Taking a serious note of the incident in which a COVID-19 patient was raped inside an ambulance, the Pathanamthitta district administration has decided to regulate the operation of ambulance services for COVID-19 patients during nights. According to District Collector P.B. Noohu, only patients with serious health problems will be permitted to use the facility after 7 p.m. A decision to this effect was made during a videoconferencing convened by the Collector with officials here on Monday. “If a patient has to be rushed to the hospital after 7 p.m, the decision will have to be made at the hospital level or else, the district administration must be duly apprised of the situation. In such cases, steps will be taken to ensure the safety of patients,” the Collector said. Ambulances during day In view of the regulation in operating ambulances during nights, more number of ambulances would be required to transport the patients during daytime. To address the situation, it was decided to deploy 10 ambulances each at the taluk and block levels. The meeting also decided to improve security for women employees in hospitals, especially during nights, besides entrusting the hospital superintendents and nodal officers with ensuring the safety of patients. The tahsildars have been directed to evaluate the issues pertaining to patients at the treatment centres and take help of Deputy Collectors to fix those. Regarding the alleged security breach in the Aranmula rape case, the Revenue Divisional Officer and the District Medical Officer have been directed to submit detailed reports. Meanwhile, the police here on Monday approached the District Sessions Court, Pathanamthitta, seeking the custody of Noufal, the ambulance driver accused of raping a COVID-19 patient. While preliminary investigations suggested that the accused might have misbehaved with female COVID-19 patients on earlier occasions as well, the police are yet to receive any complaints to this effect. An 11-member team led by R. Binu, Deputy Superintendent of Police in Adoor, has been constituted to probe the episode. Official sources said even if custody was granted, the interrogation of the accused was likely to be delayed in the absence of a certificate testing him negative for SARS-CoV-2.
08 September 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Finance scam accused in police custody||The police team probing the Rs. 2,000-crore scam involving the Pathanamthitta-based Popular Finance here on Monday received the custody of the key accused Thomas Daniel, his wife, and two daughters, for seven days. Official sources said the accused were brought to the Konni police station by Monday evening and interrogated. The accused are slated to be taken to the registered office of Popular Finance in Vakayar on Tuesday for evidence collection. Three days ago, the police had raided 10 locations, including the residences of a few relatives of the accused, and seized several documents. Preliminary probe revealed that the accused had collected deposits in the name of limited liability partnership firms and diverted huge amounts abroad.
08 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Corporation to amend IDO||The city Corporation is considering amendments to the Interim Development Order (IDO), which governs the awarding of building permits and all kinds of land use in the city, in the absence of a sanctioned master plan. The amendments could be beneficial to those who were having difficulties in getting their building permit applications cleared as their land was wrongly marked as paddy field or meant for public use. The Town Planning Department, which is now in the final stages of preparation of a draft master plan, had recently written to the Corporation to consider these amendments. “The land use patterns in the IDO were decided based on the data collected from cadastral surveys. It does not have details on plot subdivisions or other finer details. The land use is not clearly demarcated. So, areas marked as paddy fields need not be so. If the owner of such a land submits a building permit application, it is likely to be rejected. As of now, the IDO does not say what should be done if it is not actually paddy land or that set aside for other public purposes. So, some amendments could be brought about to achieve some clarity on this,” said a town planning official. For discussions The city Corporation's town planning standing committee chairman Palayam Rajan said that the committee is set to take up these proposed amendments for discussions, after which it will be presented in the Corporation council. “Quite a few people have come to us saying that they have been unable to get building permits as their land is supposed to be paddy land or in some specific zone, even though they are not. In such cases, we usually send them for concurrence to the Regional Town Planner’s office. With these amendments, we can take the decision at the Corporation itself and avoid the delays faced by the public,” said Mr.Rajan. Draft master plan Though the draft master plan is almost ready, it is unlikely to be discussed and finalised in the city Corporation council before the upcoming local body elections. The IDO is thus expected to be in force at least till the end of this year.
08 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||UDF unlikely to yield ground to Mani group||The Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) seems disinclined to yield further political ground to retain the Jose K. Mani faction of the Kerala Congress (M) in the coalition. A crucial meeting of the front partners here on Tuesday is expected to discuss the byelections for the Chavara and Kuttanad Assembly seats along with the KC(M) issue. The feud in the KC(M) has long been a thorn in the side of the UDF. The dispute now threatens to chip away at the foundation of the coalition with the Left Democratic Front (LDF) making overtures to Mr. Mani. The coalition appears to be at the end of its tether regarding Mr. Mani. Indian Union Muslim League leader P.K. Kunhalikutty had said on Sunday that any reconciliation between Mr. Mani and KC(M) chairperson P.J. Joseph seemed remote. Moreover, Mr. Mani had not obeyed the UDF decision to hand over the chairmanship of the Kottayam district panchayat to the Joseph group. The circumstance that cost him his right to attend UDF meetings remained unchanged, Mr. Kunhalikutty said. Another possibility A UDF leader pointed out that Mr. Kunhalikutty’s words also indicated that the two factions could explore the possibility of continuing as separate entities within the coalition. The LDF is of the view that Mr. Mani’s support could help tip the scales in favour of the ruling front in the local body elections in Pathanamthitta, Kottayam, and Idukki districts. The CPI is yet to reveal its mind on accommodating Mr. Mani in the LDF. Its State executive is likely to meet on September 23 and 24 to consider the issue. CPI leaders had earlier expressed scepticism about allowing Mr. Mani into the LDF. By one account, the CPI might ask Mr. Mani to articulate his political stance and state whether he would hold on to the Rajya Sabha seat he won on the UDF ticket. The CPI(M) State secretariat had also discussed the question of Mr. Mani’s entry. The National Congress Party (NCP) is opposed to giving the Pala Assembly seat to Mr. Mani if he joins the front.
08 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Low testing brings down cases to 253||The daily COVID-19 case graph nosedived to 253 in the capital district with testing falling drastically on Monday. While testing picked up following the Onam holidays and reached 631 on Sunday, only 197 swab samples were collected and sent for examination on Monday. On the brighter side, as many as 614 people recovered from the disease and were discharged on the day. The death toll continued to mount with seven more people–natives of Parassala (65-year old), Kattakada (48), Karumkulam (63), and two each from Peringamala (aged 54 and 41) and Manacaud (both aged 68)–succumbing to the illness during the last few days. The pandemic has claimed 117 lives in the district so far. Among the freshly reported cases, all except three imported cases have been attributed to local transmission. These included 11 health care workers. The sources of infection in seven cases reported from Kakkavila, Poonthura, Anayara, Kalliyoor, Kallattumukku and Perunkavu were unknown. Sixteen employees of a jewellery store in Attingal tested positive for the infection. They were tested a day after a worker there was diagnosed with the disease. The outlet was closed on the basis of orders issued by the Attingal municipality. Shut for three days The Kattakada grama panchayat office was also shut for three days after the secretary and other employee tested positive. Sixteen people were also diagnosed with COVID-19 in Kallikad grama panchayat from among 41 people who were subjected to testing. Anjuthengu also reported five fresh cases after 15 people were tested. Karimadom colony in Manacaud ward and Kuriyathi residents association in Kuriyathi ward, Thiruvananthapuram Corporation; Kallyam and Plavuvila in Karakulam grama panchayat; Punnakulam and Office ward in Kottukal grama panchayat; Pazhayakada in Thirupuram grama panchayat; and Kidangummal ward in Vellanad grama panchayat were included as containment zones. Containment zones were withdrawn in Palaikonam, Irinjal and Pallivetta in Arayanad grama panchayat; Kadukkamoodu in Vellanad grama panchayat; and Telugu Chetti street in Karamana, Thiruvananthapuram Corporation.
08 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Impact of rain too will be forecast for capital now||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has rolled out impact-based forecasts for Thiruvananthapuram and Kochi cities as part of introducing new weather forecast-related features. A typical impact-based forecast for heavy rainfall offers such details as realised weather, a three-hour forecast and the ‘impact’ that may be expected (such as waterlogging on major roads, flooding and uprooting of trees) along with suggested precautions (such as traffic restrictions or evacuation of people). Every three hours The forecast is also accompanied by the now-familiar colour codes green, yellow, orange and red indicative of the severity of the situation. The impact-based forecast can be updated every three hours, and, if needed, every two hours or so during especially intense spells of rainfall, K. Santhosh, director, IMD Met Centre, Thiruvananthapuram, said. The IMD is already offering impact-based forecasts in many major cities. This is the first time that it has been introduced for two major cities in the State. Following the 2018 floods, the State government had requested the national weather agency for more accurate and localised forecasts to aid disaster mitigation and management. The IMD had added 15 more automatic weather stations (AWS) in Kerala, the first batch of a total 100 new ones planned across the State. Reports in 16 more sites The Met Centre, Thiruvananthapuram, has also expanded its ‘City Forecast’ list to include 16 locations in Kerala and four on the Lakshadweep Islands for providing local weather reports and forecasts. Current weather data from the AWS across the State and ‘Highway Forecast’ also are provided. The IMD had rolled out the mobile apps Mausam (weather forecast), Meghdoot (agro advisory) and Damini (lightning alerts) as part of initiatives to improve weather forecast and warning services. The apps are compatible on iOS and Android platforms.
08 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||1,648 positive in State||On Monday, when the COVID-19 testing seems to have dipped in the State with just 20,215 samples having been tested in the past 24 hours, the number of fresh cases reported too went down to 1,648. The recoveries reported on Monday were more than the new cases, at 2,246. The cumulative case burden now is 89,489, with 22,066 patients currently being treated in various hospitals. The total number of recoveries reported by the State till date is 66,997. The COVID-19 toll of the State has risen to 359 as on Monday with the addition of 12 more deaths on the provisional death list prepared by the Health Department . Seven of these deaths were in Thiruvananthapuram, three in Kozhikode and one each in Thrissur and Ernakulam. Even when the case numbers have dipped, 94% of the new cases reported — 1,556 out of the 1,648 new cases — are locally acquired infections. These include 61 health-care workers, of which 30 cases are in Kannur and 11 in Thiruvananthapuram. In 112 cases, the source of infection could not be traced. Kannur reported the maximum number of new cases with 260 cases, followed closely by Thiruvananthapuram with 253 cases. Malappuram has 187 cases, Kottayam 154, Kasaragod 134, Ernakulam 130, Thrissur 128, Palakkad 118, Kozhikode 103, Alappuzha 78, Kollam 71, Pathanamthitta 24 and Idukki and Wayanad have four cases each. The number of hotspots in the State at present is 575.
08 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||‘Senior students’ make an effortless switch to new technology||Some children may take more time to get used to online classes, but for 106-year-old Bhageerathi Amma and 98-year-old Karthiyayani Amma, these are now part and parcel of their lives now. Winners of the Central government’s Nari Shakti Puraskar and students of the seventh standard equivalency course, both now have their eyes firmly set on completing the tenth standard equivalency tests. The State Literacy Mission has elaborate arrangements for taking forward their equivalency courses during the pandemic period. Since regular classes are impossible, online sessions are provided through the Aksharam YouTube channel of the literacy mission. Soft copies of the lessons for each month are set through literacy preraks. Education Minister C. Ravindranath had presented a laptop to Karthiyayani Amma from Alappuzha for scoring 98 out of 100 marks and securing the first rank in the Aksharalaksham literacy examination conducted by the mission. “The laptop is quite helpful. She spends much time studying from the material on the mission’s website. She intently listens to the video tutorials in the YouTube channel and takes down notes,” says Sathi, Karthiyayani Amma’s teacher. Bhageerathi Amma from Kollam accesses the online lessons with the help of her teacher Sherly, with whom she studies with her doors shut to keep away all noise from the grandchildren at home. She has already set a sort of record by completing the fourth standard equivalency examination at the age of 105. The duration of the seventh standard equivalency course is eight months. Once they complete it, they can join tenth standard equivalency.
08 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Street veggie markets to be a regular feature||Thrilled by the public response to the temporary outlets opened during Onam, the Agriculture Department is set to make street markets for vegetables a regular feature in the capital city. Three locations have been identified for the initiative in the first stage — Kuravankonam, Vazhuthacaud and Vanchiyoor. The markets will serve as platforms for farmer clusters that are part of the department’s vegetable promotion programmes to directly sell their produce to city residents. Weekly affair Initially, the markets will be held as weekly, fortnightly, or monthly affairs, depending on the demand, Principal Agricultural Officer (Thiruvananthapuram) George Alexander says. Street markets are being created as part of the government's market intervention strategies under the mission mode Jeevani vegetable cultivation programme and the Subhiksha Keralam food security project. The Agriculture Department will identify a suitable location and help the farmers tie up with residents’ associations and the local body concerned. In due course, the department hopes to increase the number of such outlets in the city area as part of creating more markets for agricultural produce. “Undoubtedly, the city is the biggest market in the region. Through such markets, the farmers can forge direct tie-ups with the local residents. This would ensure them better prices for their produce, avoid pilferage and reduce dependence on intermediaries. For city residents, these markets will increase their access to farm-fresh veggies,” Mr. Alexander says. Overwhelming response The overwhelming response to a ‘Farmer’s Market’ organised on the Kowdiar-Kuravankonam road in August and the five-day Onam vegetable outlet at Vazhuthacaud encouraged the department to make the street markets a regular feature. The Ecoshop in Anad organised the event in Kuravankonam with the help of the residents’ association at Kowdiar. Sales touched Rs. 35,000 in just two and a half hours, according to agriculture officials. The Onam market at Vazhuthacaud was organised from August 26 to 30. Daily sales had crossed Rs. 1 lakh at this outlet.
08 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||NEP a threat to regional pluralities, says Jaleel||The National Education Policy (NEP) 2020 posed a threat to regional pluralities of the education system by pushing through a general tendency of homogenisation, Higher Education Minister K.T. Jaleel has said. Dr. Jaleel was addressing the annual Governors’ Conference on the NEP, hosted by the Rashtrapati Bhavan, which was also attended by State Education Ministers and academicians, on Monday. Raising the State’s concerns towards the policy, he said it lacked provisions to ensure social justice and protect federalism. Opining that the policy was announced without “meaningful discussions,” the Minister said the move was made by the Centre despite education figuring on the concurrent list of the Constitution. He flagged the lack of guidelines on financial assistance and grants offered by the Centre to the States to achieve the targeted Gross Enrolment Ratio of 50%. The States currently did not possess the financial capability to meet the expenses required to achieve the objectives of NEP 2020.
08 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Orange alert issued for 4 districts today||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has put Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Alappuzha and Malappuram on orange alert on Tuesday as these districts are likely to receive isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall. Yellow alert has been issued for all other districts in the State, except Palakkad and Kasaragod. Meanwhile, the low pressure area which had formed in the Arabian Sea on Sunday is expected to weaken by Tuesday. Parts of Kerala are likely to receive isolated heavy rainfall till Friday, the IMD indicated on Monday.
08 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||New device to reduce cardiac surgery cost||A team of researchers at the Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute for Medical Sciences and Technology (SCTIMST) here have developed a cost-effective blood flow meter that will make it easier to track the results of open-heart surgeries. Designed and developed by the team comprising Sarath S. Nair, Vinod Kumar V., Sreedevi V., and Nagesh D.S. of the Department of Medical Devices Engineering, the device can replace expensive imported blood flow meters. Cost difference The institute claims that the indigenous device can be produced for a few thousands of rupees against imported devices priced around Rs. 25 lakh. The palm-size portable battery-powered device measures the flow rate of blood using a novel magnetic method and a signal conditioning technique. In addition to its application in bypass surgery, it can be used for measuring the flow of conductive fluids for various industrial applications. Kochi-based firm The SCTIMST has applied for patent and published two scientific papers based on the technology used to develop the device. The know-how has been transferred to a Kochi-based firm for commercial production, a press note said.
08 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Micro containment zones in coastal areas||The containment zones in the coastal areas will be replaced with micro containment zones. The District Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) has directed the Health and police departments and the local bodies to submit recommendations for converting the containment zones in coastal areas to micro containment zones. District Collector Navjot Khosa convened the meeting. Only 50 people were allowed to attend marriages and 20 people at funerals till September 21. Deputy Commissioner of Police Divya V. Gopinath and Deputy Collector (Disaster Management) Anu. S. Nair attended.
08 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Ashadhara project launched||Minister for Health K.K. Shylaja inaugurated Ashadhara, a project for treating haemoglobinopathy, and a comprehensive haemophilia treatment centre set up at SAT Hospital here at a cost of Rs. 1 crore on Saturday. The Minister said the Ashadhara project was aimed at providing the best treatment to haemophiliacs and those with haemoglobinopathy. Besides SAT, haemoglobinopathy treatment centres were coming up at Aluva district hospital, Kozhikode MCH, and Mananthavady district hospital.
08 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Waste management facilities inaugurated||Mayor K. Sreekumar on Monday inaugurated the material recovery facility and aerobic bins set up at Poonthura ward for community-level waste management. The Corporation has till now set up 55 material recovery facilities, 418 aerobic bins, and 220 portable aerobic bins.
08 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Vattiyurkavu zonal office gets new building||City Corporation Mayor K. Sreekumar inaugurated the new building for the Vattiyurkavu zonal office on Monday. The office building, which includes a community hall, was completed at a cost of Rs. 1 crore. Mr. Sreekumar said that civil works of Rs. 10 crore each had been completed in all the wards.
08 September 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||All eligible families will get title deeds: Minister||The government is committed to disburse title deeds to all eligible families in the State, Revenue Minister E. Chandrasekharan has said. He was speaking after inaugurating an online distribution of title deeds in the district on Monday. “In all, 5,136 title deeds will be disbursed this time in the district. So far, 36,654 title deeds have been disbursed since the LDF government came into power,” the Minister said. “The government aims at disbursing two lakh title deeds in the State. So far, 1,55,000 families have received them. The procedures for distribution for the rest are progressing,” he said. ‘Tedious process’ The process of getting title deeds for forestland was tedious. Joint efforts of officials led by the Collector made it possible. In all, 333 forestland title deeds are among those distributed this time in the district. The title deeds would be disbursed from respective village offices, maintaining COVID-19 guidelines, the Minister said. Minister for Agriculture V.S. Sunil Kumar presided over. Minister for Local-Self Government A.C. Moideen and Chief Whip K. Rajan also attended the online function from the District Planning Committee office. The title deeds for forestland were a long-pending demand of settler farmers. Farmers who have been holding forestland up to January 1, 1977, were eligible for title deeds. Title deeds being disbursed this time include 4,616 land tribunal title deeds, 111 Puramboke title deeds, 10 Enam title deeds, 24 colony title deeds, 37 tsunami title deeds and five surplus land title deeds.
08 September 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Swapna hospitalised||Swapna Suresh, an accused in the diplomatic baggage gold smuggling case, was admitted to Government Medical College Hospital here on Monday after she complained of chest pain. A minor variation was detected in her ECG. She, along with other accused K.P. Rameez and Sandeep Nair, was brought to the high security prison at Viyyur on Friday night. However, as there is no women’s wing there, she was sent to the women’s jail.
08 September 2020||September 08 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Trail of destruction||
08 September 2020||September 08 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Traditional ritual||
08 September 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Make road safety profiles ready by month-end’||The Supreme Court committee on road safety has taken strong exception to the Andhra Pradesh State Road Safety Council for not preparing individual district road safety profiles. It has pointed out that only four of the 13 district road safety panels met twice in each quarter up to June 2019, while the rest did not comply with it. The judicial committee has directed that the district panels in the State must ready their respective road safety profiles by the month-end. In an attempt to meet the September 30 deadline fixed by the apex court committee to prepare and publish the ‘district road safety profile’, the Anantapur panel, which did not meet after October 2019, hurriedly held a marathon meeting and discussed all the 23 aspects pointed out by the judicial panel. The district panel has proposed to hold a consultative meeting with all stakeholders within a week to finalise the district-specific strategy. The MPs, MLAs and implementing agencies such as the RTA, police, municipality, and health officials would tour the Anantapur city to identify the problems before ascertaining corrective measures. The judicial panel, in a letter to the State on July 27, took strong exception to the delay in setting up of the ‘lead agency’ and a road safety fund that receives money from all penalties collected for the violators of traffic norms.  Spurt in fatalities The lakhs of rupees collected as penalties during the lockdown imposed in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic need to be utilised for implementing road safety measures in specific districts. The Supreme Court panel has also expressed concern over the increase in fatalities on the National Highways in Andhra Pradesh. The fatalities which was 58.43% of total in 2017 went up to 63.87% in 2018 (38.76% on NHs and 25.11% on SHs). The panel held the Police Department responsible for not effectively enforcing accident prevention measures. On the 260-km stretch including 170 km in Anantapur district between Bagepalli-Kodikonda checkpost on the Karnataka border to Lingala checkpost in Kurnool district along the inter-State border of Telangana, the police and RTA need to check accidents, the panel observed. In Anantapur, the district committee under the chairmanship of Collector Gandham Chandrudu has identified 14 junctions that either need ‘traffic calming’ measures, or engineering correction. The panel also discussed setting up traffic signals, speed breakers, regulating traffic flow, travel in the wrong direction, and improvement of bridges. The Tapovanam junction on the NH- 44 in Anantapur district was identified as the worst, followed by the junction opposite Pennar Bhavan, Pangal Road, Rudrampeta flyover beginning, the junction at the GGH flyover. Traffic aid posts would be set up on the NH and the toll plazas at Marur and Kasepalli (Gooty) on NH-44 in Anantapur district. The panel observed that the authorities should have been active in implementing road safety measures.
08 September 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Roja launches bike ambulances in Nagari||Andhra Pradesh Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation (APIIC) chairperson and Nagari MLA R.K. Roja inaugurated two units of “first responder motorbike ambulances” at the Government Area Hospital at Nagari. Mandals to be covered One each vehicle would be allotted to the government hospitals at Nagari and Puttur, and would cover the mandals of Puttur, Nagari, Nindra, Vijayapuram, Vadamalapeta and the neighbouring mandals of Karveti Nagaram and Narayanavanam mandals of Satyavedu constituency. Speaking to mediapersons, Ms. Roja said that following high prevalence of the COVID-19 cases and due to the remoteness and inaccessibility of some of the hamlets in the constituency, she had placed a request with the Hero motors at Sri City for donation of two vehicles. Thanking the donors, the MLA said that the motorbike ambulances would be suitably modified to suit the requirement of transporting the COVID patients to the hospitals, while the facility would also be used in certain emergency cases. Medical and paramedical staff of the Puttur and Nagari government hospitals and the field staff were present.
08 September 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||2 killed, 3 injured by lightning||Two teenagers were charred to death, while three others were critically injured when lightning struck them in the fields at Kodambattu village in Sullurupeta mandal in Nellore district on Monday evening. The deceased and injured students belonged to Kuvvakoli village of Varadaiahpalem mandal in Chittoor district, a few metres away from the tragic spot. According to the Varadaiahpalem police, some students were playing cricket at a field that falls on the border zone. Around 4 p.m., the boys rushed to the shade of a neem tree when it started raining. In a few minutes, lightning struck the tree, killing two of them, and injuring three. The deceased were identified as Geetham Komal (17) and Muniraju (18). The three injured students, Dinesh, Anam Vinay and Anam Adarsh, all three aged 17, were rushed to a hospital in Nellore, and the bodies of the deceased were shifted to area hospital for autopsy. Case registered Varadaiahpalem Sub-Inspector Purushottam Reddy said that as the place where the incident occurred falls under the jurisdiction of Sullurupeta police in Nellore district, the area police were informed about the tragedy, and a case was registered there.
08 September 2020||ELURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||Doctor charged with running COVID centre without govt. nod, held||The Three Town police arrested Murali Krishna Super Speciality Hospital managing director Murali Krishna for allegedly running COVID care centre without the government permission. A team of officials raided the hospital in the town on August 23 and found that the management was providing treatment to the patients without obtaining permission from the government and collecting excess fee. The officials seized some case sheets, rapid test kits and injections worth lakhs of rupees. The hospital was also seized. Meanwhile, BJP Yuva Morcha State RTI cell convenor Adidam Vamshi Krishna lodged a complaint with the Union Home Ministry on September 4, demanding criminal action against the management of Murali Krishna Hospital. He alleged that 13 COVID patients died due to poor treatment, but the doctors collected more than Rs. 10 lakh from some patients. Responding to the complaint, the Union Home Minister directed the Assistant Secretary and Joint Secretary to look into the issue. When the police produced Dr. Murali Krishna in court, it remanded him to judicial custody. He was shifted to special court, Bhimavaram, on Monday, said West Godavari district Superintendent of Police K. Narayan Naik.
08 September 2020||ELURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||Endowments official booked||The Two Town police registered a case against in-charge Assistant Commissioner (AC-Endowments) V.V. Pallam Raju on the charges of sexual harassment. Complaint lodged Following a complaint that the officer had misbehaved with a woman employee in the office guest house, police registered a case on Monday. “We registered a case against V.V. Pallam Raju under Section 354 (d) IPC and investigation is on,” a police officer said.
08 September 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Minister refutes Naidu’s charge on R&R package for Gandikota project||Minister for Irrigation Anil Kumar Yadav said here on Monday that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had announced Rs. 972 crore for the Gandikota project R&R package and released Rs. 676 crore within 15 months of coming into power. The remaining amount of Rs. 296 crore would be released soon. Refuting the allegations of Leader of Opposition N. Chandrababu Naidu on Rehabilitation and Resettlement (R&R) package for the Gandikota project in YSR Kadapa district, Mr. Anil Kumar Yadav said that Mr. Naidu has been propagating false information on the R&R package and said the Gandikota reservoir would have stored 26 tmcft if Mr. Naidu had completed the R&R package process during his tenure. The Minister said it was Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy who announced an additional compensation of Rs. 3,25,000 to the previous government’s package. The Minister said Mr. Naidu had neglected the R&R package with regard to Polavaram, Gandikota and Veligonda projects and questioned him how much money he had released for the R&R packages during his regime. The Minister said the YSRCP government initiated the Rayalaseema Lift Irrigation scheme to provide water facility to Rayalaseema and Nellore districts. Uttarandhra Sujala Sravanthi project would be completed soon. The government also planned a lift irrigation scheme with Rs. 1,500 crore in the Palandu region to fulfil the water needs of the area. Two barrages would be build downstream of the Prakasam Barrage, said the Minister. The Minister alleged that Mr. Naidu pushed the State into a debt trap forcing the present government to clear the dues. The Minister ridiculed that Mr. Naidu was not even available in Amaravati even for 10 days in the last six months and he was playing ‘dirty’ politics sitting in Hyderabad.
08 September 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Inscriptions discovered at Srisailam temple||Twenty-eight Tamrapatra Sasanas (inscriptions on copper leaves) were discovered in the Ghanta Matham at Bhramaramba Mallikarjuna Swamy Temple in Srisailam on Monday while the renovation work was on at the Matham site. Workers found 28 copper foils/leaves with inscriptions in Odiya, Telugu and Devanagari while renovating the Panchamathas of the Srisailam temple. Temple Executive Officer Karanam S. Rama Rao and other engineering staff verified the ancient items found between rocks on the northern wall of the Matham premises. According to Srisailam Publications Editor Anil Kumar, while four copper plates each of 5 inches X 9 inches and 4.75 in X 9.5 were found, there were two plates of 3.5 inches X 8 inches each. The remaining were found in six different sizes of 4.25-6.25 inches X 8.5-9.75 inches. Police and revenue officials were immediately informed about the discovery and a panchanama was done by the temple executive engineer Murali Balakrishna in the presence of Circle Inspector of Police Ravindra, Mandal Revenue Inspector G. Ravi and Telugu University professor R. Chandrasekhar Reddy.
08 September 2020||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fresh cases come down in Prakasam||Fifteen more persons-- ten in Prakasam and five in Nellore district died of COVID in the last 24 hours taking the combined toll in the two districts to 677 so far. The two south coastal Andhra districts, which had been recording 1,000 plus new cases every day during last one week, registered a dip in fresh cases. While Nellore district recorded 949 new cases, the number of fresh cases in Prakasam district stood at 419 during the period. With this, the number of cumulative confirmed cases increased to 40,393 in Nellore district and 29,493 in Prakasam district. The toll in Prakasam district rose to 330 with 10 more patients succumbing to the disease while the toll went up to 347 in Nellore district, a health bulletin released by the State Government said on Monday night. The recovery rate was also encouraging as 1,242 patients recovered in Nellore district and 494 patients in Prakasam district. Encouraged by the fall in fresh cases in the wake of enforcement of the ‘Janata curfew’ on Sunday, Nellore district Collector K.V.N.Chakradhar Babu said a stringent lockdown would be implemented from September 9 to 15. Restrictions would be relaxed from 6 a.m. to 1 a.m. for people to buy essential commodities. In Ongole, Prakasam District Collector P. Bhaskar constituted a youth wing of the Indian Red Cross Society to reach out to the needy. The wing would contribute its mite to promote plasma donation, Sd. Niyamuttulah Basha, a member of the wing, said. So far, 25 recovered patients had donated plasma, he said.
08 September 2020||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Stop adding religious colour to fire incident’||Backward Classes Welfare Minister Ch. Venugopala Krishna on Monday alleged that certain political parties were adding religious colour to the Antarvedi temple fire incident for political gain. Speaking to the media here, Mr. Venugopala Krishna appealed to the political parties to stop the campaign claiming that ‘the fire was a targeted attack on the temple in East Godavari district.’ “This is not time to play with the religious sentiment of people. The government is probing into the fire from all angles. A man, said to be mentally unsound, from West Bengal has been taken into police custody for interrogation over his alleged involvement in the fire. The reported failure by the Endowment staff to prevent the incident is also being investigated,” said the Minister. “A lead that some people attempted to collect honey from a beehive on the wooden chariot by setting the hive on fire is also being investigated,” he added. TDP fact-finding team Meanwhile, a TDP ‘fact-finding team’ led by Peddapuram MLA N. Chinarajappa visited the Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy temple on Monday. “The government should order a judicial probe into the incident,” said Mr. Chinarajappa.
08 September 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Credit for EoDB rank should go to Naidu’||Telugu Desam Party(TDP) Srikakulam district president Gowthu Sirisha on Monday said that the Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy government had no moral right to claim credit for the first rank in ease of doing business (EoDB). Addressing a media conference here, she said that credits should go to former Chief Minister and TDP president N. Chandrababu Naidu for it was his hard work that won the State the award. “The Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy government could not attract one industrialist in the last one year. Moreover, his policies had led to the shut down of many industries,” said Ms. Sirisha. She said that 3,675 industries were given incentives for their survival during the TDP rule. “Youngsters in North Andhra are worried about their future with closure of many industries. The entire cashew industry is in crisis. But there is no support from the government,” she added.
08 September 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Speaker lauds new scheme||A.P. Legislative Assembly Speaker Tammineni Sitaram on Monday said that the YSR Sampurna Poshaka Pathakam launched on Monday would ensure good health of children as also parents. Along with Deputy Chief Minister Dharmana Krishnadas, Mr. Sitaram attended a video conference conducted by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy in Srikakulam Collector’s office. Later, Mr. Sitaram told mediapersons that 556 crore is being spent on the scheme and expressed happiness over effective implementation fo Balamritam, Bala Sanjeevini, Amrita Hastam and other schemes. Meanwhile, he reviewed developmental activities of Amadalavalasa constituency.
08 September 2020||Sumit Bhattacharjee,ANDHRA PRADESH||Private hospitals cashing in on pandemic||The district administration, the police and media houses are flooded with complaints from various sections of the society, expressing ire over the exorbitant rates being charged by the private hospitals, including those empanelled by the district administration, for treating COVID-19 patients. And this is happening despite the State government fixing rates for various categories of treatment, based on the condition of the patient. Without any inhibition or considering the situation the entire world is in, due to the pandemic, the management of private hospitals are showing no mercy or consideration, said a senior officer from the State government, who faced hell in the recent times. Narrating her tale, she said, “My husband tested positive and based on our physician’s advice we admitted him to a private hospital, as per his recommendation. A couple of days later, both me and my daughter tested positive and despite doctor’s advice for hospitalisation, we preferred home isolation. Meantime, my husband turned serious and the hospital called me around midnight one day and told us to shift him to another hospital that has ventilator facility. By that time, we paid Rs. 4 lakh for five days. But when we tried to shift him, the hospital management demanded another Rs. 1.5 lakh. It was around 1 a.m. and I promised to pay by morning. But they did not budge and somehow after experiencing hell till 4 a.m., I could mange to pay after calling a few relatives and friends, and get my husband released.” Being a senior government officer, she lodged a complaint with the Vigilance Department and the hospital management was told to explain. But what about common man, she says. The hospital management in most hospitals refuse to give receipts for the amount paid and also the case sheets of the patients. “It has come to our notice that they even turn down patients who come under Aarogyasri, by saying that there are no vacant beds,” said a senior officer from the Vigilance Department. In another recent case, the family members of a retired officer from a PSU, was charged Rs. 20 lakh for treatment for 20 days, at a private hospital. “We had to pay, despite he is not surviving the illness. But we have no clue about the treatment that costed us so much,” said a family member. A senior doctor from the Health Department, when contacted by The Hindu, said that the department is aware of the fleecing but there is nothing much that they can do. There is a fear that if the whip is cracked, the private hospitals may back off, and then the pressure would fall on the government health infrastructure. Moreover, as per a few senior doctors, the rates fixed by the government is also not adequate for COVID treatment. There are a lot of risk issues and HR problem, which needs to be addressed by the hospital management, and the rate fixed by the government is inadequate to address these issues. “The government should enhance the rates and then force the private hospitals to stick to it, so that there is a win-win situation for all. There are a few private hospitals ready to give the entire hospital with equipment, but sans manpower, to the government. But the government is not ready to take the offers, as it knows that it cannot be managed,” said the doctor. In the city there are about 22 category A hospitals, including government and private hospitals, which are totally dedicated to COVID care and about 16 category -B hospitals, which are partially used for COVID treatment.
08 September 2020||T. Appala Naidu,ANDHRA PRADESH||Antarvedi temple chariot insured for first time this year, says EO||The wooden chariot that was gutted on the premises of the Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy temple at Antarvedi in East Godavari district has insurance coverage of Rs. 84 lakh. However, the appraiser from the insurance company is yet to estimate the damage done to the chariot, temple Executive Officer N.S. Chakradhara Rao said. Early this year, the Endowments Department subscribed to an insurance policy for the chariot for the first time, with the provision for claim of compensation in the event of any damage due to fire and earthquake. “We bought the policy from the United Indian Insurance group for the chariot with the coverage of Rs. 84 lakh in the event of damage due to the fire and earthquake. The policy is valid till January 2021,” Mr. Chakradhara Rao told The Hindu.  He further said that the chariot was insured for the first time. Until now, the temple jewellery had insurance coverage in the event of theft. The appraiser from the insurance company is yet to estimate the damage done to the chariot to fix the coverage. On Monday, Endowments Minister Vellampalli Srinivas discussed the proposal to build a new chariot with the engineers and other senior officials of the department and hand it over to the temple by February next year, so that it could be used during the Kalyanotsavam. “The Endowments Department is planning to build a new chariot before the Kalyanotsavam scheduled to be organised from February 19 and 28 next year,” the Minister told The Hindu over phone. Meanwhile, the Endowment Department has insured the 70-year-old chariot of the Kukkuteswara Swamy temple at Pithapuram against any fire mishap. Seven decades ago, the 22-foot-high chariot was donated by the Pithapuram royal family to the temple. The chariot is put to use during the procession of the presiding deity on the occasion Maha Shivaratri festival every year.
08 September 2020||Tharun Boda VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State’s COVID-19 tally crosses 5-lakh mark||Andhra Pradesh’s COVID-19 tally has crossed the five lakh mark and reached 5,06,493 on Monday with 8,368 new infections reported in the past day. For the first time after 12 days, the day’s tally was below 10,000. A.P. is now the second State after Maharashtra to witness five lakh cases and it took just 10 days to see 1,02,877 new infections. Similarly, it took only 42 days for the State’s tally to jump fivefold from one lakh on July 27. Maharashtra took 57 days to cross the five lakh mark since breaching the one lakh mark. However, A.P. has a higher testing ratio and lower death rate than Maharashtra. A.P.’s mortality rate is at 0.89% against Maharashtra’s 2.93%. The State’s test per million ratio is also highest at 78,016 while that of Maharashtra was 37,274, as per the data released by the State government. However, the State stands top in the number of confirmed cases per million at 9,485 while Maharashtra has 7,264 and Tamil Nadu 6,019. Meanwhile, nearly half of the last one lakh cases were reported in five districts – East Godavari, Nellore, West Godavari, Chittoor and Prakasam – which have been witnessing a surge of late. Seventy deaths were reported in the past day and the toll has gone up to 4,487. On the other hand, the number of recoveries also crossed the four lakh mark with 10,055 new recoveries. Recovery rate The recovery rate is at 79.78% and there are 97,932 active cases at present. So far, 41,66,077 samples were tested and the positivity rate is at 12.16%. East Godavari reported the highest number of new infections while Prakasam reported the highest number of deaths. The new cases and deaths are as follows: East Godavari (1,312 and 3), West Godavari (950 and 7), Nellore (949 and 5), Chittoor (875 and 8), Guntur (765 and 9), Vizianagaram (594 and 0), Anantapur (584 and 4), Srikakulam (559 and 4), Kadapa (447 and 7), Prakasam (419 and 10), Visakhapatnam (405 and 4), Kurnool (316 and 4) and Krishna (193 and 5). The district tallies are as follows: East Godavari (68,260), Kurnool (48,702), Anantapur (45,884), West Godavari (43,853), Chittoor (43,436), Visakhapatnam (41,192), Guntur (40,900), Nellore (38,227), Kadapa (31,928), Prakasam (29,493), Srikakulam (28,543), Vizianagaram (24,505) and Krishna (18,675).
08 September 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD allows online tickets during Brahmotsavams||Contrary to its earlier decision, the TTD decided to make special entry darshan online tickets available to the devout even during the annual Brahmotsavams. The decision was taken in the backdrop of the TTD Board resolving to observe the nine-day annual event in ekantham (private).  Prelude ceremony Devotees can now avail themselves of the online darshan tickets during the Brahmotsavam days from September 19 to 27 as well as on September 15, the day on which the prelude ceremony Koil Alwar Thirumanjanam will be performed. The online darshan tickets have been made available to the devout from Monday evening.
08 September 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP, Jana Sena allege land-grabbing in Tirupati||The spate of land-grabbing incidents over the last weekend created a sense of fear among the peace-loving denizens of the temple city. The precious chunks of land, especially on the city outskirts, have been eyed by professional land-grabbers who descended the city from elsewhere. There have been several instances of anti-social elements, often armed, threatening the land owners who possess valid documents. C. Obul Reddy of Akkarampalle complained to the Police Department’s ‘Spandana’ programme on encroachment of his land, but to no avail. With more cases revealing links to the ruling party leaders, none other than the local MLA Bhumana Karunakar Reddy openly appealed to the public recently not to link him or his men to the land-grabbing incidents. Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) workers, led by State secretary G. Bhanuprakash Reddy and spokesperson Samanchi Srinivas staged a demonstration at the Sub-Collector’s office on Monday, seeking the government’s intervention in cracking the whip on the perpetrators. Carrying ‘Save Tirupati’ placards, the party leaders appealed to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to rein in his partymen, who they said were coercing and terrorising the gullible public into parting with their landed properties. “Even the police and revenue officials are not properly responding to the issue, which casts a shadow on their credibility,” Mr. Bhanuprakash Reddy observed. Expressing ire over some police officials reportedly suggesting to the victims to get the issue ‘settled’ with the perpetrators, Mr. Srinivas wanted P.D. Act invoked against the culprits. Similarly, Jana Sena also submitted a representation to District Collector Bharat Narayana Gupta seeking his intervention into such instances in Tirupati urban and rural mandals.  CCTV footage The party’s Tirupati constituency in-charge K. Kiran Rayal referred to the recent attack on a timber depot owner by alleged rowdy elements that failed to trigger any reaction in the official circles, in spite of its CCTV footage aired prominently on television channels.
08 September 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Anganwadis will be strengthened: Dy. CM||Deputy Chief Minister K. Narayanaswamy has said that the government would launch measures to strengthen the Anganwadi centres in the State and the introduction of the ‘YSR Sampoorna Poshana’ and ‘YSR Sampoorna Poshana Plus’ are the first step in this direction. As Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy launched the schemes at his camp office on Monday, Mr. Narayanaswamy participated in the event in virtual mode from Tirupati, along with Member of Parliament (Chittoor) N. Reddeppa, Tirupati MLA B. Karunakar Reddy, Collector Bharat N. Gupta, MCT Commissioner P.S. Gireesha and Joint Collector S. Veerabrahmam. The schemes were meant to support pregnant women, lactating mothers and infants. Benefits As part of the initiatives, milk, rice, dal, vegetables and eggs will be provided for 25 days in a month to 66,000 pregnant women and lactating mothers under the purview of 52 ICDS projects, eight ITDA limits and 8,320 Anganwadi centres. Mr. Narayanaswamy also watched the exhibits put up by the government departments and distributed the nutrition kits to the beneficiaries.
08 September 2020||TIRUPATI/KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Congress opposes power meters for farm connections||The Congress party has taken a serious exception to the decision to fix power meters to the agricultural connections and flayed the State government for “directly harming the farming community”. Andhra Pradesh Congress Committee working president N. Thulasi Reddy on Monday submitted a representation to the Kadapa district Collector, Ch. Hari Kiran, appealing for withdrawal of G.O. No.22 issued to this effect. He said that ‘free power’ was the brainchild of the Congress government of 2004 when its Chief Minister the late Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy affixed his first signature on the file after coming to power. Any form of tampering with this scheme would deal a severe blow to farmers and sound the death knell to the rural economy, he cautioned. While the TDP heckled at the scheme and called it impossible, the present YSRCP regime was bent on undoing it, causing more harm than expected, Mr. Thulasi Reddy observed. “Fixing a meter to an agricultural connection is similar to tightening the noose around a farmer’s neck,” he warned, recalling the idiom that a nation-State would be doomed if its farmers shed tears. Protest Meanwhile, the party workers led by State general secretary Doddareddy Rambhupal Reddy staged a demonstration at the Tirupati Sub-Collector’s office and submitted a representation to the State government to withdraw the move. “The government has reduced allocations to agriculture and irrigation sectors and fixed a mere Rs. 5,000 as ‘Rythu Bharosa’ after undoing the farm loan waiver scheme,” he said. He opined that farmers strongly believed that the government was going back on its words and moving towards harming their interests.
08 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||UiPath ties up with APSSDC to train youth in robotic skills||Robotic Process Automation (RPA) software company UiPath has partnered with the Andhra Pradesh State Skill Development Corporation (APSSDC) as part of its academic alliance programme which is designed to build the RPA resiliency among more than 50,000 students in the coming year. According to a release, the APSSDC will act as the regional centre for all UiPath academic alliance activities in the State. To begin with, the UiPath will take on board 100 APSSDC institutes which will have access to the curriculum, content, learning material, educator enablement sessions and software tools to provide training to students. “The aim is to equip the youth with in-demand and employable skills and the APSSDC intends to build a more secure future for them,” said APSSDC Chairman Ch. Madhusudan Reddy. Digital workforce Corporation CEO Arja Srikanth said the demand for RPA skills is on the rise and there is a need to invest in large scale education enablement programmes. “Our affiliation with the UiPath will build an ecosystem for students with the right digital skills,” he said. UiPath, India and South Asia president Manish Bharti said, “Building a digital workforce will begin by making RPA education available at a fundamental level. The partnership with the APSSDC, through our academic alliance programme, helps us inch closer to our vision of a robot for every person.” He further said companies need experienced developers and consultants to help automate their solutions and educators can help enable an RPA ready talent pool, he added. Educators and students can also avail of 50% discount on UiPath certified professional global certifications.
08 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State tops in EoDB despite heavy odds, says Mekapati||Minister for Industries and Commerce Mekapati Goutham Reddy, Special Chief Secretary R. Karikal Valaven and Director of Industries J.V.N. Subramanyam met Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy at his camp office on Monday and apprised him of the No.1 position in Ease-of-Doing Business (EoDB) 2019 rankings secured by Andhra Pradesh amid stiff competition from other progressive States. Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy complimented the Minister and his team of officials for getting the distinction against heavy odds and expressed confidence that the State would continue to be a role model for others. Speaking to the media, Mr. Goutham Reddy said unlike in the past, a comprehensive survey of the EoDB parameters was done in 2019, and took pride in the fact that AP emerged as the clear winner in the race, whereas it had shared the No.1 rank with others previously. He said the necessary steps were being taken to consolidate the leadership position. The Industries & Commerce and other departments were drawing up a strategy for building on the strengths which each district possesses to realise their potential. Mr. Goutham Reddy said AP excelled in 187 reform action points and 12 reform areas. These areas were: access to information and transparency, single window system, land administration and transfer, land availability and allotment, environment registration enablers, construction permit and labour regulation enablers, obtaining utility permits, paying taxes, inspection enablers, contract enforcement (courts) and sector-specific measures. AP was the first State which implemented district-level business reform action plan, he said. Reacts to TDP claim Commenting on the TDP government's claim to have garnered investments amounting to approximately Rs. 32 lakh crore, Mr. Goutham Reddy said: “it is nothing but a publicity blitzkrieg as a sum of not more than Rs. 50,000 crore has actually been invested. As far as the KIA Motors' manufacturing plant is concerned, it came at a heavy price to the State as the present dispensation is obliged to pay out subsidies over the next 20 years.”
08 September 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||HC to hear plea on review of policies today||The High Court has adjourned to September 8 (Tuesday) the hearing on the petitions filed by TDP leaders Alapati Rajendra Prasad and Varla Ramaiah against the constitution of the Cabinet Sub-committee for reviewing the major policies, projects, programmes, institutions and key administrative actions since the State bifurcation and the setting up of a Special Investigation Team (SIT). Justice D.V.S.S. Somayajulu on Monday heard the arguments made by the parties to the dispute. Advocate-General (AG) S. Sriram asserted that the petitioners were not authorised by their party to file the writs by suggesting that the process thereof was not followed, all the more since the TDP has come out openly expressing its readiness for any investigation into the challenged policies and actions. He said that the petitions were nothing but ‘benami peddling of public law litigation’ which needs to be stopped. In fact, the SIT was constituted as a police station much before the writs were filed, he added.
08 September 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||SEC letter: HC stays probe into alleged destruction of evidence||The High Court has stayed the investigation of the alleged destruction of evidence of State Election Commissioner (SEC) N. Ramesh Kumar’s letter to Union Ministry of Home Affairs (about the threat to his life) by the commission’s assistant secretary K. Samba Murthy, till the government files a counter-affidavit and posted the matter to next week. A single-judge bench comprising Justice D. Ramesh issued the interim order during Monday’s hearing on the petitions filed by Mr. Ramesh Kumar for declaration of the CID’s interference in the functioning of the commission as illegal, and Mr. Samba Murthy’s plea for a stay on his arrest. Government Pleader (GP) Ch. Sumon took an objection as to the maintainability of the writ petition filed by Mr. Ramesh Kumar saying he was a stranger to the prosecution as he had not been named in the FIR registered in the name of Mr. Samba Murthy. Mr. Sumon cited Supreme Court judgements which held that third parties and strangers could not seek quashing of FIRs. Mr. Sumon argued that the SEC could not speak about the commission’s independence in the context of his private meetings with some politicians at a hotel in Hyderabad. With regard to Mr. Samba Murthy’s role in the episode, the Government Pleader said the forensic investigation revealed that the accused had tampered with the computer documents and the file number which he (Mr. Murthy) quoted as that of the letter sent to Union Home Secretary was in fact the file number of a representation given by an MLC.
08 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Prizes distributed to winners of online painting competition||Prizes were distributed to children who participated in the online drawing/painting competition on the theme of the pandemic, organised by NGO Child Rights Advocacy Foundation (CRAF), on Monday. Theme The paintings, posted through mails, depicted people wearing headgears, masks and gloves or people following social distances, maintaining good hygiene at homes and at public places.  Categories In sub-junior category, Manuri Chandramouli, Chintapalli Rethika and P. Rithi Harahs won first prizes. In juniors category, Balla Abhiram, J. Pavani, Ch. Koteswara Rao and D. Rajashekar stood top in the competition. Mandala Usha Rani, Avala Pavani and Y. John Sudhakar won first prizes in seniors category, said CRAF State Director P. Francis Thambi. “The aim is to raise awareness among the students on COVID-19, and its preventive measures, particularly in rural areas. As many as 1,500 students participated in the competition, organised through Village Child Protection Committees (VCPCs) and Bala Melas in the villages,” Mr Francis said. Competitions were conducted in Dubacherla, Madhepalli, Uppalapadu, Kantheru, Ananthavaram, Tangellamudi, Nidumukkala, Sriparru, Kothuru, among others, said the CRAF team.
08 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Power cut in Masula||There will be no supply of power in the areas of Anandapet, Edepalli, Machavaram and Srinivasa Nagar Colony of Machilipatnam from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. on Tuesday.Officials said that maintenance works would be carried out on the 11 KV feeder at the district court premises due to which power will be taken down.
08 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||VSEZ records 12.07% growth in first quarter||Despite the adverse effect of COVID-19 on the country’s economy, the VSEZ has recorded a growth of 12.07% in exports, by grossing up a total turnover of Rs. 35,953 crore in the first quarter of the financial year. It had contributed close to 1/8th of the total exports from all the SEZs in the country, said A Rama Mohan Reddy, Development Commissioner, the Visakhapatnam Special Economic Zone. According to him, to save the units from closing, VSEZ approved eight units, for making COVID-related items. As as result a total 5.59 crore face masks, 69 lakh face shields, 14.5 lakhs PPE kits and 9 lakh shoe covers were manufactured and supplied. So far 3,19,000 COVID-related items had been supplied to various agencies and still these units had reserves of 6.98 lakh, he said. Earlier known as VEPZ, which was started in 1989, VSEZ today is a zone spread over A.P., Telangana and Chhattisgarh. So far 85 SEZs had been notified under the zone, and 60 were fully operational with 505 units. The zone had achieved total exports to the tune of Rs. 96,886 crore, which accounted for 12.3% of the country’s exports from SEZs.  New units “Till now an investment of Rs. 56,180 crore has been made, and employment provided to over 3.79 lakh people,” he said. Due to the impact of the pandemic there had been a nominal reduction in man power of around 3,871, which was less than 1%, said Mr. Reddy. “About 90 new units have been approved during the financial year 2019-20, with an investment of Rs. 8,397 crore and exports in the next five years from these units are expected to be to the tune of Rs. 58,722 crore and projected employment is around 68,875. VSEZ has approved 13 new units this year too, despite the COVID crisis,” said Mr. Reddy. He pointed out that IT/ITES sector had contributed to about 71% of exports. There are 30 IT/ITES SEZs, 26 in Telangana and four in A.P., with about 372 units – 322 and 50 respectively. During 2019-20 fiscal, these units grossed up about Rs. 68,623 crore exports. Exports so far in this fiscal were around Rs. 23,953 crore, recording a growth of 12.50%. Employment in this sector was 3,06,834, with about 2.90 lakh persons working from home, due to the pandemic, he said. According to him, exports by pharma units during 2019-20 were Rs. 15,027 crore and in this year they had already clocked Rs. 7,402 crore till August 20, up by 32.7% compared to 2019-20.
08 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Somu Veerraju sees BJP-JSP win in 2024 general elections||BJP State president Somu Veerraju has said that the BJP-Jana Sena Party (JSP) alliance will gain power in the State in the 2024 general elections. Feted He felicitated corporator candidates, who had won the civic elections in the past on behalf of the party, at the party office here on Monday evening. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Veerrarju said that this time the BJP-JSP combine would win the forthcoming GVMC elections. He recalled that NTR had won the hearts of the people with his tour in 1982. Though the Congress wave was sweeping across the nation, following the assassination of Indira Gandhi, the TDP had won in the and became the Opposition party at the Centre, he said. Mr. Veerrarju said that the BJP was not afraid of the politics of ‘back stabbing.’ Money has become the mainstay of politics and the BJP-JSP combine would put an end to such trends, he said.
08 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Gold case: official files complaint against 4 persons||Simhachalam devasthanam filed a complaint against four persons in the alleged gold scam of Rs. 1.44 cr with the Gopalapatnam police on Monday. Sri Varahalakshmi Narasimha Swamy Devasthanam Assistant Executive Officer Y. Srinivasa Rao in the complaint said that outsourcing employee of the devasthanam B. Sekhar and B. Madhu and Yadla Srinu, who were working for Andhra Bank at the temple, in collusion with Sekhar’s sister Hymavathi created fake receipt books and forged signature of the temple EO. ‘Fake documents’ He said the four brought disrepute to the temple by using the fake documents and sought thorough investigation into the case. He said M. Sravani from Nellore had sent an e-mail to the devasthanam informing that she paid money to Hymavathi to purchase gold from temple in auction and sent copies of tax invoice and cash bills along with the mail. As per the bills she wanted to buy gold biscuits and ornaments of the temple. He said however, during scrutiny it was found that the invoice and cash bill were fake and signature of the EO was forged. Though the transactions between Sravani and Hymavathi were personal, but since the devasthanam name was misused and fake bills were produced it impacted the image of the temple and sentiments of devotees. He said action should be taken against the four accused. Meanwhile Sravani, who was cheated by Hymavati, lodged a complaint with the Sullurpeta police stating that Hymavathi had duped her of Rs. 1.44 crore, which she paid to her in cash and also through online, as she promised to procure gold biscuits and ornaments of the temple for her. However, she neither gave the gold nor returned her money, Sravani said. Mr. Srinivasa Rao also said that a complaint will be lodged with the cyber crime police station.
08 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Five arrested in PM Palem robbery case||The city police cracked the PM Palem robbery case on Monday with the arrest of five persons. On August 17, Rs. 20 lakh was robbed from one P. Koteswara Rao near PM Palem in the city. The police have recovered Rs. 12.5 lakh from the gang and investigation is on to nab the prime accused in the case and recovery of the remaining amount. The arrested have been identified as Attada Seetharam alias Chandrasekhar Reddy, a real estate broker and resident of West Bengal, Ambati Santhosh, real estate broker and resident of Vizag, G. Muthyala Naidu, working as PET in a private education institution the city, K. Shiva Durga Rao, a driver and resident of Guntur, and P. Gnaneshwar Rao, resident of Vizag. However, the prime accused Sudharshan Reddy, who plotted the robbery, is still absconding. Addressing a press conference, DCP (Crimes) V Suresh Babu said that P. Koteswara Rao, a real estate agent, lodged a complaint with PM Palem police stating that he and his brother-in-law Y. Chitti Raju met a real estate broker Chandrasekhar Reddy near Dr. YS Rajasekhara ACA-VDCA Cricket Stadium at PM Palem on August 17, to buy some gold bars weighing 500 gms lower than the market price from Chandrasekhar Reddy. Koteswara Rao was carrying Rs. 20 lakh cash to buy the gold. While the transaction was going on in the car around 11.30 p.m., a white luxury car with police siren and two persons in police uniform approached them. One of them got down from the car and questioned Koteswara Rao on the pretext of vehicle checks. At that time, Chandrasekhar Reddy managed to steal the cash from the car and he along with the other person who posed as a policeman got into the car and escaped from the spots. The investigation and the CCTV footage has revealed that Chandrasekhar Reddy, Santhosh and Sudharshan Reddy are acquaintances. Initially, the trio assured Koteswara Rao to check out some land sites and later they claimed that they are also involved in the gold business, the DCP said. He said that Chandrasekhar Reddy was involved in cheating cases in Kolkata in West Bengal and Tekkali in Srikakulam district, Anakapalle, Sabbavaramm, Gopalapatnam and under a few other police station limits in Vizag city also. The police nabbed Chandrasekhar Reddy in Kolkata and the remaining accused persons in Vizag city and recovered some part of the cash stolen.
08 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CSR block will provide better services to patients: Minister||Minister for Tourism Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao has said that better services will be provided to COVID-19 patients through newly-constructed CSR block at the King George Hospital (KGH). He inspected the CSR Block during a visit to KGH on Monday. He asked KGH Superintendent P.V. Sudhakar about the facilities available at the block for patients. Later, speaking to the media, Mr. Srinivasa Rao appreciated the yeomen services being extended by doctors and paramedical staff despite the pandemic situation. The new block, constructed with CSR funds, has 500 beds and 175 ventilators. The availability of beds for COVID-19 patients in the city has now gone up to 1,200. The other hospitals offering treatment in the government sector are the Chest Hospital and the ENT Hospital. The Visakha Institute of Medical Hospital (VIMS) is offering free treatment to patients from the four districts of north Andhra. COVID screening tests were being done at all PHCs in the district, he added.
08 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||City gets 10 more smart traffic signals||Ten more smart signals have gone operational after a trial run in the city on Monday. These signals are part of the GVMC Smart City project. “As of now we already have 50 smart signals operating in the city and additional 50 were sanctioned under the smart city project. We have installed 25 out of them and 10 have gone operational on Monday,” said ADCP (Traffic) Ch. Adinarayana. The 10 were installed in places such as Collectorate Junction, Pandimetta Junction, Railway Station, DRM Office Junction and a few other places. These smart signals will have CC cameras and will be connected to the GVMC and Police Command Control Centre. The signals are equipped to change, as per the traffic flow and give way to emergency vehicles such as ambulances on its own, said Mr. Adinarayana. Of the 25, ten have gone operational on Monday and the remaining 15 will be installed and be ready in another two or three days, he said. The remaining 25 will be installed by the month-end. According to the ADCP (Traffic), the smart signals will not only facilitate regulating the traffic during peak hours, but will also serve as deterrent to traffic violators and act as surveillance eyes with the help of built in CC cameras. Mr. Adinaryana has appealed to the public to follow the traffic signals and welcomed suggestions. “People who intend to give suggestions can call me on 94407 96004,” he said.
08 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||AU V-C hints at online classes from September 21||Andhra University Vice-Chancellor P.V.G.D. Prasad Reddy said that online classes for PG and engineering students should begin from September 21. At a meeting with Principals of AU Colleges on Monday, Prof. Reddy called upon them to make the necessary arrangements for online classes . He directed the officials to make arrangements for holding of examinations by the month-end. In charge Registrar G.V. Ravindra Babu, Principals Peri Srinivasa Rao, K. Srinivasa Rao, K.V. Ramana Murthy, SK Bhatti, K. Rajendra Karmakar and Madhusudhan and Examination Wing officials were among those present.
08 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tribals take out rally||A rally was organised by the tribal people against the Maoists in the ‘cut-off area at Darlagadda of Chitrakonda block at the Andhra Odisha Border on Monday. The tribals raised slogans demanding that the Maoists leave the area as they were hindering development of the region.
08 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rein in private hospitals, MLA urges CM||TDP MLA P.G.V.R. Naidu has appealed to the Chief Minister and the State/ district health department to address issues concerning the exorbitant fees being charged by private hospitals on Monday. He pointed out that many hospitals were running without proper support and facilities and yet charging high fees and were not accepting patients with insurance cover. Though the State government has passed a GO limiting the daily fee and brought COVID-19 under Arogyasri it is not being implemented on the ground, he said. He requested the health officials to take feedback from the public who have been treated and fleeced by the private hospitals. Taking feedback from the public will give an understanding about the ground realities, he said.
08 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District records four more deaths, 387 new cases||The district recorded one of the least number of COVID-19 positive cases in the last 24 hours, in the recent times, on Monday. With the recording of 387 cases, the total tally of positive cases have gone up to 41,904. This has been lowest in the last 40 to 50 days, said health officials. The district also recorded four deaths, taking the tally to 293. The number of discharges stand at 605, taking the total to 35,846. According to COVID-19 Special Officer and Principal of Andhra Medical College P.V. Sudhakar, the number of very active clusters are 61, active clusters are 55, dormant are 601 and denotified are 192.
08 September 2020||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||23-year-old ‘ends life’||A youngster reportedly committed suicide by hanging himself from a ceiling fan in his residence at YSR Colony area under PM Palem police station limits here on Monday night. The deceased was identified as I. Arun Kumar (23). According to the police, he reportedly took the extreme step unable to bear the rejection by the girl he loved. Minutes after the incident, a girl of the same colony tried to end her life by jumping from the terrace of her residence and she suffered injuries and she was shifted to King George Hospital in the city, where her condition is said to be out of danger. The police have registered a case and investigation is on. People with suicidal tendencies can call Dial 100
08 September 2020||VIZIANAGARAM/SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Engineering colleges see a ray of hope in changed scenario||Coronavirus has turned into a blessing in disguise for many engineering colleges in Vizianagaram and Srikakulam districts as several parents are averse to send their children to deemed universities located in other States due to various factors. For the last five years, reputed colleges in the two districts could not get 100% admissions due to stiff competition from deemed universities. Deemed universities charge a fee ranging from Rs. 2.5 lakh to Rs. 4 lakh per year. Many parents opted for such universities with the assurance of campus recruitment in top companies of the country. However, the situation was totally different this year because of the COVID-19 pandemic. Many businessmen, who generally used to opt for deemed universities for their children, changed their plans with significant drop in their income due to the impact of COVID-19 and prolonged lockdown. "We have to spend at least Rs. 20 lakh on fee and hostel accommodation to ensure completion of engineering course in deemed universities. In the current scenario, it is not possible for us to shell down such a big amount during this crisis period,” says V.Satyanarayana of Cheepurupalli in Vizianagaram district. Drop in attendance of students for Joint Entrance Examination mains indicates more admissions in local colleges. Only 70 % of the candidates applied for the JEE mains turned up for the test. It has also raised the hopes of managements of local engineering colleges. They feel that many parents and students are not interested in joining the colleges located in far away places in the backdrop of Coronavirus pandemic. General choice "Normally, the first choice of students is National Institute of Technologies and Indian Institution of Technologies for which admissions are done through JEE. And the parents who can afford to admit their children in deemed universities if they don't get seats in IITs and NIT colleges. But the situation may be different this year as parents are very particular about the safety of their children. That is why, we are getting enquires even before EAMCET examination," says I. Shravan Kumar, Managing Director of Avanthi Group of Educational Institutions. Budumuru Sriramamurthy, Director of Sri Venkateswara College of Engineering and Technology, Etcherla of Srikakulam district, has urged the government to continue the admission process to save the academic year.
08 September 2020||September 08 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Risky job||
08 September 2020||September 08 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Hoping for a catch||
08 September 2020||September 08 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Enchanting view||
08 September 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Free vocational training programmes||The Nava Bharat Vocational Institute (NBVI), Palvancha, has announced free vocational training programmes for unemployed youth. The Palvancha-based NBVI will conduct training programmes in various trades such as welding, air-conditioning and two-wheeler mechanism besides other self-employment-oriented programmes for women in tailoring, beautician, palm leaf craft, ready-made garments, sanitary napkins and jute bag making, besides DTP and other computer courses. Further details can be had over phone number: 8096999384.
08 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Testing declines yet again on a Sunday||The number of tests conducted to detect COVID-19 dropped yet again on a Sunday. While 60,000 swab samples were being analysed on a daily basis in the past two weeks leading to detection of over 2,500 cases, only 36,593 tests were conducted on Sunday (September 6) and 1,802 samples tested positive for the virus. Starting from July 26, comparatively less number of tests are conducted on Sundays. Of the 36,593 persons who underwent the tests, 16,467 were primary contacts and 5,123 were secondary contacts. The new 1,802 cases include 245 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation, 158 from Rangareddy, 136 from Karimnagar, 103 from Sangareddy, 106 from Siddipet. Nine more COVID-19 patients died, taking the toll to 895. On the whole, there were 31,635 active cases, while 1,10,241 have recovered apart from the 895 deaths. As per the media bulletin issued by the State Health department, of the 1,42,771 total cases in the State, 98,512 were asymptomatic and 44,259 were symptomatic. In the 42 State government hospitals, 3,563 oxygen beds and 542 ICU beds were vacant. In case of 196 private hospitals, 2,492 oxygen beds and 1,185 ICU beds were available.
08 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||19,000 passengers travel by Metro on day one||Hyderabad Metro Rail and L&T Metro Rail Hyderabad (L&TMRH) officials had expected up to 10,000 passengers on the first day of resumption metro rail operations beginning with Corridor 1 — L.B. Nagar to Miyapur. But, the count was 19,000 much to their satisfaction with about 120 trips done from 7 a.m. to 12 noon and again from 4 p.m. to 9 p.m. Managing Director of HMR N.V.S. Reddy informed on Monday night that the passenger count was on “expected lines” and metro rail operations will start on Corridor III between Nagole and Raidurg from Tuesday and all the three corridors, including Corridor II from Jubilee Bus Station to Mahatma Gandhi Bus Station (MGBS), Imlibun, will be operational from Wednesday. During the pre-COVID-19 days, the metro rail service to used to make as many as 800 trips across the three corridors and was carrying more than four lakh passengers. Overall, the MD was happy that the passengers had adhered to the newly introduced rules of social distancing, sanitisation measures and other safety measures to prevent the spread of coronavirus. Earlier in the day, the usual rush at the metro stations and inside the metro trains at the beginning of the week was missing as fewer passengers with mandatory face masks made their way in and kept to the social distancing norms and allowed themselves to be thermal screened before making their journey. Stations were mostly empty with very few of the inside retail stores opening. Trains were run for every five minutes and it was about sufficient for the authorities to complete the first day operations successfully. Passengers have been advised to opt for smart card for ticketing or through the QR code available through the TSavaari mobile app and also record the journey with the code available on each coach. The metro rail service is being run after a gap of more than five months following the pandemic lockdown in March 22 and metros became operational in other cities across the country too.
08 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Bhima Koregaon case: NIA summons professor, journalist||A university professor and a journalist, both from Hyderabad, would be appearing before officials of the National Investigation Agency, Mumbai on Wednesday in connection with the Bhima Koregaon case. They are sons-in-law of revolutionary writer Varavara Rao from Telangana who was arrested by Pune police of Maharashtra for his alleged links with the outlawed CPI-Maoist and lodged in prison for over past 18 months. Professor K. Satyanarayana of English and Foreign Languages University and K.V. Kurmanath, Deputy Editor with the The Hindu-BusinessLine daily received summons to appear before NIA-Mumbai authorities. The summons were issued under Sections 160 and 91 of Criminal Procedure Code to appear as witnesses in Bhima Koregaon violence related cases. In August 2018, Pune police raided the professor’s quarter here stating that they had to conduct searches to gather evidences against his father-in-law Varavara Rao. By then already a case was registered against Mr. Rao. His flat in Chikkadpally here too was searched along with that of Mr. Kurmanath and residences of some others that time. “I stated on the day of searching my flat by Maharashtra police that I was in no way connected to Bhima Koregaon police,” Mr. Satyanarayana said. “The fact of Mr. Rao being my father-in-law was used to raid my house and cause mental agony to my family,” he said. Stating that he was a family member of Mr. Rao, the professor reiterated that he had no links whatsoever with Bhima Koregaon case. The notices sent by NIA, in the backdrop of deteriorating health of Mr. Rao in Maharashtra prison and the coronavirus pandemic spreading fast, distressed the family, he said. Maoist connections A special team of Pune police landed in Hyderabad and arrested Varavara Rao on August 28, 2018 from his flat here alleging that he had connections with CPI-Maoists and conspired to create disturbances in Maharashtra. Four other rights activists were picked up by that State police from different parts of the country on about similar charges. Mr. Rao was taken to Pune from Hyderabad. Following a writ petition filed by historian Romilla Thapar, Supreme Court passed an order to keep the writer under house arrest. The writer’s house arrest period was extended from time to time by the apex court. However, in November the same year, Pune police arrested the revolutionary writer and shifted him to a prison in Maharashtra. Since then, he is in the prison.
08 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||House pays rich tributes to Pranab Mukherjee||The State Legislative Assembly paid rich tributes to former President Pranab Mukherjee on Monday, the first day of the monsoon session. Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao led the members in recalling the services of Pranab Mukherjee asserting that the country had lost a towering personality in his death. Mr. Rao said Pranab Mukherje, who was born in a remote village in West Bengal, grew from strength to strength to become the first citizen of the country. Known as “man of all seasons” by his colleagues and contemporaries, Pranab da (as Pranab Mukherjee is called) held major portfolios including Finance, Commerce, External Affairs, Defence and Industry effectively. “There is not a single page without Pranab Mukherjee’s name in the development story of the country since 1970s,” he said recalling that Pranab Mukherjee was adjudged one among the five best Finance Ministers of the world. He said the former President was closely associated with Telangana movement by heading the panel which elicited the views of all political parties during the erstwhile UPA coalition. “Incidentally, it was he (Pranad Mukherjee) who signed the Bill creating a separate Telangana State,” he said. CLP leader Mallu Bhatti Vikramarka said Pranab Mukherjee was probably the only parliamentarian who headed 95 Groups of Ministers, a record that is unrivalled. The former President was reputed as a trouble shooter during his five-decade political career, he said adding the country, more so Telangana, suffered an irreparable loss in his death. Ministers Eatala Rajender, S. Niranjan Reddy, A. Indrakaran Reddy, G. Jagdish Reddy, Congress member Komatireddy Rajagopal Reddy, MIM member Ahmed Pasha Quadri and others who spoke recalled the contributions made by Pranab Mukherjee to the country. The House also paid tributes to TRS member from Dubbak Solipeta Ramachandra Reddy who died while undergoing treatment last month. The Chief Minister described his death as unfortunate and painful and said Ramalinga Reddy was a progressive politician who was uncompromising in taking up struggles on behalf of the people. Minister K.T. Rama Rao and others recalled their association with the deceased member since the days of separate Statehood struggle and the active role Ramalinga Reddy played during the movement.
08 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Bahubali star’s big gesture||Film star Prabhas of Bahubali fame, on Monday, declared that he was adopting a reserve forest on the Outer Ring Road, as part of the ‘Green India Challenge’ promoted by MP J. Santosh Kumar. Mr.Prabhas has adopted 1,650 acres of Khajipally reserve forest located near Dundigal, 20 km from the city, and handed over Rs. 2 crore to the Forest department officials for development of the forest. Laying foundation stone for an urban forest park along with Minister for Environment and Forests A. Indrakaran Reddy and Mr. Santosh Kumar, Prabhas said he would donate more funds in instalments depending on the progress of the work. The Forest department is converting a small portion of the reserve into urban forest park while keeping the rest of the forest as conservation zone. Khajipally reserve forest is known for its medicinal plants and is extended in three compartments, a press note informed. The entire 1,650 acres will be fenced off immediately, and development of the forest park will be started, it said.
08 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Krishna and His Ashtamahishis in a tiny temple||Contrary to popular perception, Lord Krishna gives darshan not only with Rukmini and Satyabhama, but also six other Mahishis (principal queens) at the 11th century Kalyani Chalukya period temple at Ramadugu in Karimnagar district. Perhaps it is the only temple in the country where Lord Krishna manifests his ‘rupam’ with his eight consorts. The 11th-century temple has come into light recently after a chance finding by a senior archaeologist. Located 20 km north of Karimnagar town, the unique and tiny temple is the abode for eight celestial incarnations with the eighth avatar of Lord Vishnu. “It is an extraordinary shrine of Lord Venugopalaswamy and a very peculiar abode and bears hitherto unknown distinguished Pauranika (mythological) form of Lord Krishna along with his Ashtamahishis,” former superintending archaeologist in the Archaeological Survey of India, Chennai, D. Kanna Babu said. ‘Marvellous monument’ He said that the temple is a marvellous monument constructed during the period of Kalyani Chalukyas with all perfect architectural features and other requisite components for the worship of divinity. “It contains an entrance portico, vestibule as well as sanctum sanctorum. Both the sanctum and vestibules are decked with doorways and guarded by Jaya and Vijaya. This temple is highly momentous for its typical arrangement of deities. Its ceilings bear decorations of lotus medallions,” Mr. Babu told The Hindu . Narrating the uniqueness of the temple, he said that it is only one of its kind due to its enshrining of presiding deity Lord Krishna along with his Ashtamahishis. “Most temples dedicated to Sri Krishna, either in north or southern regions in India, are only meant for him alone or along with his two consorts — Rukmini and Satyabhama. But no such example like this shrine has been exposed so far,” he said. Idols in three rows After proceeding through the vestibule into the sanctum one can find deities of Venugopala and his eight chief consorts — the Ashtamahishis Rukmini, Satyabhama, Jambavati, Kalindi, Mitravinda, Nagnajiti, Bhadra and Lakshmana. The space inside the sanctum is limited therefore all the idols are kept in three rows. “While Lord Krishna is placed in the centre, Rukmini and Satyabhama are on his either side. Rest of the queens are placed in two rows at his front,” Mr. Babu said. The Lord gracefully stands in Tribhanga posture on a pedestal and playing the flute with his lower left and right hands and the upper hands hold ‘Sankha and Chakra’. One more interesting feature of this temple is that the seated images of twelve Alvars of Srivaishnava school of thought are also placed for worship. “Dhwajastambha and Dipastambha are also erected in the temple complex during the same period,” he said, adding that Ramadugu is also famous for a mighty fortification.
08 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Jewellery, phones stolen from COVID patients at Gandhi||A group of newly-joined workers at Gandhi Hospital were handed over to the police on the charge of stealing jewellery and phones from COVID-19 patients. It was the hospital administration that identified the workers following an inquiry upon receipt of several complaints. Usually what happens is some patients are rushed to the COVID-designated hospital in unconscious state or critical condition and attendants are not allowed to stay with them. The only means of contact with them is through phone, or when officials pass on information about the patient’s condition. The stolen mobile phones led to an unexpected problem. Since family members were not able reach the patients through phones, they started to panic about their condition. The issue landed hospital authorities in an embarrassing situation. Measures taken Superintendent of Gandhi Hospital, M. Raja Rao said that after receiving the complaints, they identified the newly joined workers and handed them over to the police. “We have planned to install some more closed-circuit television cameras and placed security personnel in each floor. They are responsible if there are any further thefts. We are not allowing any valuable items like gold ornaments, money, credit cards, documents, etc when patients get admitted. We hand over the valuables to relatives at the gate and take their signatures,” Dr Raja Rao said. In some cases, officials are depositing money or jewellery in lockers at the hospital. The Superintendent added that it is unfortunate and inhuman to steal patients’ belongings. “Most of the workers are putting their lives at risk to serve patients. It is painful to know that some of them are doing such inhuman things,” Dr Raja Rao added.  We are not allowing any valuable items inside when patients get admitted. We hand over the valuables to relatives at the gate and take their signatures. M. Raja Rao, Superintendent, Gandhi Hospital
08 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Over 80 NPA staffers test positive||Four days after the ‘Dikshant Parade’, over 80 staff members of the Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel National Police Academy here have tested positive for COVID-19. Most of them are non-gazetted officers and live in Site-A, located opposite the main campus. “They are mainly attached to the maintenance and administrative wings,” a senior officer said, adding that those who tested positive for the infection were isolated in site-A, and are being provided nutritious food and proper medical care. “They were engaged in urgent works related to the passing out parade. Many of them returned from leave a few days ago,” the officer told The Hindu . There is no scheduled training at the academy as the newly graduated IPS officers of 2018 batch went to their native places, and the IPS probationers of 2019 batch are attached to their allotted cadres for District Practical Training. “The academy is not shut, but we have restricted entry. The officials who will be required for functioning of the academy will be called and all other non-emergency activities will be deferred,” he said.
08 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||MAUD Minister launches online portal for LRS||Minister for Municipal Administration and Urban Development K.T. Rama Rao urged the citizens across Telangana to make use of the new Layout Regularisation Scheme (LRS) and get their illegal plots and unauthorised layouts regularised, in both urban and rural areas. Launching the online website and services of Layout Regularisation Scheme through the ‘Meeseva’ here on Monday, the Minister said regularising plots and layouts will help in legitimising the property so that building permissions and registrations can be done. It will also help the government to provide for planned civic amenities like roads, water supply, sewage network and parks, among others, for use by the citizens. The window for application —lrs.telangana.gov.in— is open till October 15 and fee can be paid till January 2021. This one time opportunity is not available for plots on government lands, those coming under the Urban Land Ceiling Act, Temple lands, water bodies and so on. Mr. Rao also released a publicity awareness poster on the occasion. Municipal Administration Secretary Arvind Kumar, Water Board MD Dana Kishore and Finance Secretary K. Ramakrishna Rao were present.
08 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Low turnout of commuters at L.B.Nagar||Crowds were very sparse at the L.B.Nagar metro rail station on the first day of resumed operations post COVID-19 lockdown. Even during peak hours during morning and evening, there were hardly any crowds at the station. According to the staff, the maximum number of people in an hour did not exceed 20 to 30 the whole day. Trains largely left the station empty, with only about three to four commuters visible in each coach. Staff outnumbered the commuters. “Our office did not grant work from home even during the peak stage of the pandemic. I had been a regular commuter on metro rail, and used two wheeler after the shut down. Now I have returned, and I am satisfied with the measures they have taken, such as checking temperature, and compulsory wearing of mask,” said M. Kishen, employee of a pharmaceutical company. A vertical sanitiser dispenser is placed near the security check at the concourse level, and a thermal scanner is being used to check the temperature of each entrant. Staff were seen sanitising the frequently touched surfaces.
08 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||VRO administration at stake||The State government’s decision to disband the institution of village revenue officers by a legislation on Monday evening brings into sharp focus the chequered history of the village revenue system after it took roots during NTR regime following abolition of hereditary Patel-Patwari system in the combined State. With the fall of Patwaris who looked after revenue administration in villages till 1985, came Village Assistants who numbered about 4,500 in 1986. They continued in the post on pay scales fixed by the government and each of them looked after five to six villages. There were two or three Village Assistants for each mandal. Based on a Supreme Court order subsequently, the Village Assistants were sidelined as office staff and full fledged Village Administrative Officers (VAOs) on an honorarium of Rs. 750 per month were appointed in 1992. Parallelly, a separate stream of Village Development Officers (VDOs) who served the interests of Panchayat Raj administration was created. The services of VAOs who numbered about 15,500 and VDOs were merged, and, all together 18,500 of them were appointed with pay scales as Panchayat Secretaries by N. Chandrababu Naidu government on January 1, 2002. It was not only VDOs but people appointed on compassionate grounds and those from other departments joined as Panchayat Secretaries, said Garike Upendra Rao, President, Telangana VROs welfare association. It was the Panchayat Secretaries who enjoyed complete sway on village accounts which initially numbered 44 but gradually pruned to 11 by 1996. The services of Panchayat Secretaries were withdrawn from revenue administration and they were confined to Panchayat Raj departmental works when the Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy government undertook a major recruitment of VROs exclusively to handle the eleven types of village land records. About 7,000 of them were recruited in entire AP in February 2007. Presently, the VROs did only one out of eleven functions in their job chart, that is, maintaining Pahani in Village Account No. 3. The other ten functions remained on paper, according to land laws expert and an Adjunct Professor at NALSAR University of Law N. Suneel Kumar. He said the VROs wrote the Pahanis manually till 2010 but were left to merely assist Tahsildars, revenue inspectors or revenue officers in inquiries over land disputes after computerisation of records and online data entry by computer operators with biometric authentication by Tehsildars, Mr. Kumar said.
08 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Chief Secretary’s orders set the ball rolling||The bulk printouts of village revenue records ordered by Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar last month set the ball rolling for today’s decision of government to divest VROs of land records maintenance. The Chief Secretary issued a circular directing Revenue officials to print six sets of each village record and club them together in the form of a booklet for distribution to various departments at village, tehsil, district and State-levels. The copies must reflect 1 B register containing landholding of farmers in all survey numbers of the village and Form 1 A register which lists out details about land owners survey number wise as per Record of Rights (RoR). The circular led to intense debate in the Revenue Department that the move was aimed to scrap the village revenue administration as voiced by Panchayat Raj Minister Errabelli Dayakar Rao earlier. The decision of the government was triggered by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao's outbursts against the VRO system three years ago which was followed by constitution of a six member committee headed by then Rangareddy Collector Raghunandan Rao to look into its merits and demerits. The government had launched updation of land records in September 2017, a month after the committee was formed. The committee made no such recommendation as to abolish the system, something which Collectors also said the same. At a Collectors conference, the Chief Minister sought the views of the participants when majority of them did not favour abolition. The Chief Minister raised the issue in all his election speeches in 2018 and 2019 Assembly and Parliament polls respectively. Mr. Rao called up a farmer randomly over phone to hear his opinion and then passed critical remarks against village revenue officers which caused deep anguish among them. Recently, Mr. Rao expressed his desire to overhaul the revenue administration and, as a follow up, the entries in Dharani, an online portal providing many land revenue and land registration services, were freezed up to August 6. It was then that the printing of village records was taken up on the directions of the Chief Secretary. Panchayat Raj Minister Dayakar Rao announced at a meeting in connection with Palle Pragati programme of the government at a village in Jangaon district on June 5 that the withdrawal of village revenue administration was on the anvil. He held the VROs responsible for the names of farmers not entering land records. As a result, they did not get government benefits. As a matter of fact, the village revenue system was a reporting authority on the status of lands in villages.
08 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Rare surgery performed on cancer patient in city||The mangled mandible or lower jaw of a 45-year-old cancer patient was reconstructed using Fibula-long bone in his leg.The process was highly challenging and the man had just recovered from COVID-19. Since massive cancerous tumour had penetrated the jawbone, it had to be removed, resulting in loss of ability to speak or swallow besides causing disfigurement. Doctors took CT scan of the lower jaw, used 3D mapping to take measurements of the part, and reshaped fibula into mandible. This procedure helped the patient retain the ability to speak and swallow. While titanium plates could have been used to replace the jaw bone, Umanath Nayak, senior consultant head and neck surgical oncologist said that when radiation is offered as part of the caner treatment, the titanium plates react to it. “Since fibula is taken from his body, there will be no such reactions. Besides, dentures or teeth can be replaced on the fibula which is not possible on the plates,” Dr Umanath said. The city resident had extensive cancerous growth on the floor of his mouth and a badly mangled mandible. He consulted doctors at Apollo Cancer Institute on July 24. He was suffering for three months and delayed treatment due to COVID-19 outbreak. The patient was found to be COVID-positive two weeks prior to consulting doctors. He was re-tested after a week, was found to be negative and a surgery was planned. The surgery involved removal of the extensively spread cancer in the floor of the mouth along with the central segment of the mandible. To mitigate the functional disruption of the jaw and reduce disfigurement, the team of specialists headed by Dr Umanath, and aided by reconstructive surgeon B. Rahul, performed a mandible reconstruction surgery with a vascularised segment of bone harvested from the fibula, using specialised computer software and 3-D virtual planning, on August 3. The procedure lasted around 10 hours. The patient has been discharged.
08 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Regular users happy over resumption of service||Irrespective of the lukewarm response and the sparse flow of commuters, lots of optimism was seen among the Metro Rail passengers at Miyapur station, the starting point of Miyapur-L.B. Nagar corridor, on the resumption of the elevated and fast mode of public transport facility in Hyderabad on Monday. None of the three coaches of about half a dozen trains that left for their destination from Miyapur station on Monday morning had even a dozen passengers each, as observed at the starting point for over half-an-hour. A few passengers who reached Miypur station from L.B. Nagar station expressed satisfaction over the safety measures taken by the metro rail authorities. They (authorities) have marked spots for passengers who travel without seat in the coaches and in the seating arrangement on the sides of the coaches every alternate seat was marked for it to be kept vacant. “Since it’s the first day the number of commuters availing the transport mode appears to be very less and it has to be seen how authorities would cope in case the flow of passengers increases,” Manoj, who took a ride from L.B. Nagar just out of curiosity, said at Miyapur.  Cheaper travel However, the resumption of metro rail service has brought cheers to some private employees, regular riders of metro till the services were suspended on March 22, as they had been finding it very difficult to reach their place of work in the absence of any public transport facility since the phased reopening of the economic activity from July. “I have been spending nearly half of my daily earnings of Rs. 500 on share auto transport to reach Ameerpet from KPHB and return home every day and the resumption of metro rail service is a big relief to me,” Kiran who works in a novelties shop in Ameerpet area said. Similar was the opinion of Sarita, who works for a private firm also in Ameerpet area.
08 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Kodandaram demands LRS suspension||Telangana Jana Samithi president M. Kodandaram on Monday urged Telangana government to suspend the Land Regularisation Scheme, observing that it would impose heavy burden on poor and middle class families. People belonging to poor and middle class sections would have to lose their lands unable to pay the taxes for regularisation of their properties, he said addressing a press conference at Warangal. The LRS would be a blow to people already facing difficult times due to the COVID-19 pandemic, he said. He said that the government should, instead of passing the bill on LRS in haste, should take into consideration suggestions on the matter from all sections of society. He said TJS would fight for the rights of poor and middle-class families. Noting that Revenue Department and its functioning should be reformed in the State, Mr. Kodandaram observed that revenue records issues became chaotic due to unwarranted interference of TRS leaders.
08 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Couple held for cheating job aspirants||A couple was arrested by the Hyderabad Central Crime Station police for cheating gullible people on pretext of providing jobs. The accused are Kamtam Sanjay Kumar and his wife Kamatam Yamini of M/S Kindergraph Technologies Private Limited, Secunderabad and residents of Vanasthalipuram. Based on the complaint lodged by one Rajeswari and 13 others, a case was registered and the two were arrested on Monday. “They had collected deposit amount from the job aspirants under the guise of providing training and later did not pay their salaries nor returned their deposited money. They were absconding since December last year,” Joint Commissioner of Police (Detective Department) Avinash Mohanty said.
08 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Yacharam Balagram chief passes away||Rev. Philip Ramban, founder-director of St. Gregorios Balagram, Yacharam in Ibrahimptnam, passed away on Sunday night at his Ashram at Puduppady in Keala. He was 86. Orthodox churches in the city and institutions have condoled the death of Ramban and special prayers were held in the churches. Since the establishment of the Balagram at Yacharam in 1985, Philip Ramban has been at its helm taking care of children of leprosy patients. A monk belonging to the Malankara Orthodox Church, Ramban came to this part of then united Andhra Pradesh after the worst cyclone in 1977 . In fact he did relief work among the cyclone-hit people on behalf of the Orthodox Church which had constructed houses for the victims and rehabilitated the homeless people. His work among the victims of the cyclone made him establish the Balagram in Hyderabad for children of leprosy patients. During the last more than 35 years, hundreds of children have come out of the Balagram, some of them having passed engineering degree, computer training, lab technician course, graduation course etc. One or two students are now studying for medicine too. He has also set up an eye hospital on the Balagram premises. This hospital is serving the villagers, particularly in free cataract operations. A CBSE school is also being run by it.
08 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||People’s Assembly comes to a close||Congress Legislative Party Floor leader Mallu Bhatti Vikramarka flayed the government for shutting down the media point in the Assembly, and said all political parties and people’s organisations should raise their voice to protect media in the State. Speaking at the concluding session of the online ‘Telangana People’s Assembly’ here on Monday, Mr. Vikramarka questioned the rationale behind opening liquor sales during the thick of COVID-19 pandemic, which aided to the spread of the disease uncontrollably. He also alleged that the wrong policies of the government will see the State steeped in Rs. 6.34 lakh crore cumulative debt by 2023-24, when it will be difficult even to pay the salaries of employees. TJS chief M. Kodandaram said the lockdown has hit people in an unprecedented way, be it unorganised workers, farmers, migrant workers or traders. Other leaders who spoke in the session included Chada Venkat Reddy from CPI, Ravula Chandrashekhar Reddy from TDP, Vemulapalli Venkatramaiah of CPI(ML) New Democracy, D.G. Narasimha Rao of CPM, Lubna Sarwat from Socialist Party (India), Cheruku Sudhakar of Telangana Inti Party, and others. Comprehensive people’s agenda from all the six thematic sessions of People’s Assembly was presented before all the political party representatives. It has been resolved to take the agenda to all the 33 districts.
08 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||CLP meeting resolves to expose government||The Congress Legislature Party (CLP) that met here before the commencement of the monsoon session of Telangana Legislature on Monday has decided to expose the government failures, particularly in containing the spread of Covid-19, providing wage employment to people in need of it in the wake of contraction in every economic activity. Chaired by CLP leader Mallu Bhatti Vikramarka, the meeting also decided to raise the issue of the government proposal to scrap the Village Revenue Officer (VRO) system to minimise the irregularities being taking place in the transactions of lands and demand for a debate. All the legislators who attended the meeting were unanimous that they would expose the government failure on tackling the Covid pandemic. The CLP meet was attended by legislators D. Sridhar Babu, T. Jayaprakash Reddy alias Jagga Reddy, D. Anasuya alias Seethakka, Komatireddy Rajagopal Reddy and T. Jeevan Reddy. The recent visit of a CLP delegation led by Mr. Vikramarka to the government hospitals in districts had helped the party gather sufficient information on the status of government interventions in tackling the Covid at ground-level. The party has plans to expose the government hollowness in its claims on healthcare services in public sector in the matter of infrastructure, doctors, supporting staff, availability of medicines with the help of statistics. Besides, the CLP has also decided to explain to people from the floor of the Assembly on how the government had been “misleading” them in the matter of conducting Covid screening/detection tests, announcement of positive cases and deaths. They have also decided to raise issues of unemployment, inter-State river water issues, particularly the government failure on the plans of Andhra Pradesh to divert Krishna water in excess of its allocation, lack of recruitment for filling vacancies of government posts, irregularities in the execution of irrigation projects and others.
08 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Unusual calm in Assembly||An unusual calm prevailed in the State Legislature premises on Monday, the first day of the monsoon session. With several restrictions in place over the movement of members, officials as well as the media, the usually busy Assembly premises wore a deserted look, but for the vehicles dropping the members in front of the entrance points. The usually busy visitors’ galleries were empty as entry of visitors had been barred for the session in view of the Covid-19 pandemic while the media point usually abuzz with activity wore a desolate look. With restrictions imposed on the movement of the PAs/secretaries of the members, the Assembly lobbies too were empty. The only semblance of movement was of the security personnel and those deployed to check whether the operating protocols issued for the novel Coronavirus (Covid-19) were being followed.
08 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||COVID claims ZP vice-chairman||Adilabad Zilla Parishad vice-chairman A. Rajanna succumbed to COVID-19 infection while undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Hyderabad on Monday. Elected in July 2019, Mr. Rajanna tested positive for the virus last week and was shifted to a private hospital in Adilabad town, where he was admitted for three days. As his condition worsened,he was rushed to Hyderabad. Forest and Environment Minister A. Indrakaran Reddy expressed his shock over Mr. Rajanna’s death.
08 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||HCA treasurer summoned over Azhar’s complaint||Hyderabad Cricket Association (HCA) president and former Indian cricket captain Mohammad Azharuddin on Sunday approached Uppal police alleging that he was verbally abused by the HCA treasurer Surender Agarwal. Mr. Azharuddin also alleged that a false propaganda was spread against him within the association. Based on his complaint, a case under Section 504 (Intentional insult with intent to provoke breach of the peace) and 506 (Punishment for criminal intimidation) of Indian Penal Code was registered against Agarwal, who was summoned to the police station on Monday. “Mr. Azharuddin alleged Mr. Agarwal used filthy language against him and an umpire, Yousuf, over some internal issue,” police said, adding that a notice was served to Agarwal. For the past few days, Mr. Azharuddin had been facing a revolt within the association after he decided to appoint retired Supreme Court judge Deepak Verma as ombudsman of the association. The decision was opposed by other four members.
08 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Villagers attack forest range officer||Forest range office, rest house and the govt. hospital in Khanapur of Nirmal district were attacked by tribals on Monday, after a youngster, who was taken into custody by forest officials for laying snare traps, fainted. One Kishan (23) from Lingapur was taken into custody on Sunday after he was caught on cameras while laying a snare trap for leopards in Kawal Tiger Reserve. “While patrolling, we found snare traps in the tiger reserve, and his images were caught in the cameras installed inside the jungle for monitoring the movement of wild animals,” Nirmal District Forest Officer SP Suthan said. Despite providing food and water, Kishan fainted and he was soon rushed to govt. hospital, from where he was shifted to another hospital in Nirmal.
08 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Woman, daughter found dead in Bhainsa||A 39-year-old woman and her daughter were found dead at their residence in Bhainsa town of Nirmal district here on Monday. The victims Bhagyasri and Senni (20), who migrated from neighbouring Maharashtra, committed suicide by hanging from a ceiling fan. While Bhagyasri was a tailor, Senni was studying medicine. Police said that they resorted to the extreme step due to financial problems.  Suicide prevention helpline: +914066202000 or 6666 1117.
08 September 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||‘Sanction SC, ST sub-plan funds for Dalit colonies’||Activists of the Kula Vivaksha Vyatireka Porata Sangham (KVPS) took out a rally in the town on Monday demanding sanction of SC and ST sub-plan funds for development of Dalit colonies and financial assistance to the coronavirus crisis-hit Dalit families. The demonstrators also staged a dharna at Dr B R Ambedkar statue near the Zilla Parishad office in pursuit of their charter of demands. Their other main demands include sanction of “long delayed” loans to the Dalit unemployed youths from the SC Corporation for self-employment units, provision of Rs. 7,500 monthly financial aid and 15 kg rice to each Dalit family affected by the pandemic triggered crisis.
08 September 2020||Khammam,TELANGANA||MP donates ultrasound scanning device||In yet another act of charity, Khammam MP Nama Nageswara Rao on Monday donated an ultrasound scanning machine to St. Mary’s Mission Hospital. The hospital staff received the brand new ultrasound scanning machine from the representatives of the town-based Nama Muttaiah Trust. Mr Rao, the TRS floor leader in the Lok Sabha, had handed over a cheque for Rs. 1.23 crore to Industries and Information Technology Minister K.T. Rama Rao in Hyderabad on Saturday for purchase of six ambulances. According to a press release, the six ambulances will be handed over to the Health department for deployment in Wyra, Madhira, Sattupalli, Aswaraopeta, Kothagudem and Khammam as well as Palair constituencies.
08 September 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Father rapes minor||In a shocking incident, a five-year old minor was raped by her father. The incident took place at Indrakaran village. The father of the victim is a labourer. Based on the complaint by the girl's mother, a case was registered and the accused was arrested. The girl was shifted to government hospital for medical examination.
08 September 2020||Mumbai,||Chaos ahead of monsoon session over COVID-19 test reports||Chaotic scenes were witnessed on the Maharashtra Vidhan Bhavan premises on Monday before the commencement of the two-day monsoon session of the legislature as several MLAs were not allowed inside since their COVID-19 test reports were not available. Former speaker Haribhau Bagade and other legislators, who were not able to enter the Vidhan Bhavan, complained to Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar when he arrived there. Mr. Pawar called legislature secretary Rajendra Bhagwat and asked him to ensure that all legislators whose test reports were negative be allowed inside at the earliest. He also summoned the local deputy commissioner of police and asked him to clear the crowd gathered at the Vidhan Bhavan’s main gate. “Check the badges of members and their test reports first. Many members have got their tests done privately, allow them in if their reports are negative,” Mr. Pawar told the legislature staff. According to Vidhan Bhavan sources, 2,115 samples for COVID-19 tests were collected from legislators, ministers, bureaucrats,legislature staff members, and journalists over the weekend. So far, 58 samples have tested positive, the sources said. Meanwhile, some Opposition MLAs staged a protest on the stairs of the Vidhan Bhavan building, demanding scrapping of the regional reservation for medical admissions. State officials have put in place a slew of measures like compulsory antigen tests for legislators, distribution of COVID-19 kits, and a new seating arrangement to ensure House proceedings go on without any hindrance.
08 September 2020||Mumbai,||Rs. 29,084 cr. supplementary demands tabled; big chunk goes to farmer loan waiver||Supplementary demands to the tune of Rs. 29,084 crore for the fiscal 2020-21 were tabled in the Maharashtra Assembly by Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar on Monday. The two-day monsoon session began in the backdrop of spiralling COVID-19 cases in the State. Mr. Pawar also holds the finance portfolio. A major chunk of the demands, Rs. 10,500 crore, was allocated to farmer loan waiver, while Rs. 2,100 crore was earmarked for health and medical education. A sum of Rs. 50 crore was proposed for purchase of ambulances for rural and urban areas. Other expenses proposed are Rs. 69 crore for nutrition on rural hospitals, Rs. 541 crore for Mahatma Phule health scheme instalment payment, Rs. 50 crore for primary health centres, and Rs. 634 crore for purchase of medicines for pandemic control. A sum of Rs. 300 crore was proposed for procurement of equipment for medical colleges, Rs. 50 crore for horticulture damage caused by Cyclone Nisarga, and Rs. 30 crore for financial assistance to kin of police personnel who succumbed to COVID-19. A sum of Rs. 316 crore has been earmarked for milk powder scheme due to falling milk prices, the Social Justice Department will get Rs. 825 crore, and the Urban Development Rs. 500 crore. The Agriculture Department has been given Rs. 441 crore and the Water Resources Department Rs. 305 crore. The PWD Department, headed by Congress leader Ashok Chavan, gets only Rs. 50 crore. A debate on these demands before their passage in the House will take place on Tuesday.
08 September 2020||Mumbai,||Retail chain director crushed to death||A 46-year-old director of a retail chain was crushed to death under a lift after he stepped into its shaft in Worli, the police said on Monday. The incident occurred on Sunday evening when Vishal Mewani, director of Kohinoor Electronics, went to meet his friend in the two-storey Buena Vista building, a police official said. He called for the lift, but stepped into its shaft after opening the lift channel. On realising that he was in the shaft, he tried to move out but failed and got crushed under the lift which was coming down. Fire brigade officials rushed to the spot and Mewani was pulled out. He was taken to Breach Candy Hospital where he was declared dead on arrival.
08 September 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Police book 19 MNS workers for forcibly opening temple||The police on Monday booked 19 Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) workers for allegedly breaking the lock of a temple in Panvel. The party claimed that even after various warnings, the State government did not allow the opening of the temples and hence, they decided to take things into their hands. “The State is undergoing unlock phases. Malls and alcohol shops have been opened, and buses are plying. Temple is the most needed place for people right now for emotional support. Yet, the government is not opening them,” Yogesh Chirle, MNS workers union secretary, said. He added that MNS chief Raj Thackeray had written to the State government urging it to open the temples or else party workers would open them. “Hence, we did that at Virupaksha temple in Panvel,” Mr. Chirle said. A week ago, BJP workers, including MLA Prashant Thakur, had protested outside every temple in Panvel demanding their opening by singing ‘ Daar ughad Uddhava ’ (open the doors Uddhav). “The protests did nothing to get the temples opened. We opened it by breaking the lock. We chose the oldest temple in Panvel taluka, built by Peshwas, to send out a strong message,” Akshay Kashid, MNS Raigad district head, said. All the 19 workers were booked under Section 188 of IPC.
08 September 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Panvel civic body inspects other constructions by Mahad builder||After inspecting the buildings constructed by Farooq Mamudmiya Kazi, the builder who developed the Mahad building that collapsed, the Panvel Municipal Corporation (PMC) has served notices to all the buildings. On August 24, the five-storey Tarique Gardens building at Mahad had collapsed, killing 16 and injuring nine people. The building was just around seven years old and the shoddy construction and cheap construction material led to the collapse. “After police stations and ward offices notified us, we conducted inspections of all three buildings and found that they all had developed cracks on the columns and are not in good condition. We have served the buildings with notices to get stability certificate. A structural stability certificate can be procured by charted engineers after conducting a thorough inspection. If they fail to get a positive report, CIDCO will be informed and they will have to take a call about the further procedure as CIDCO is the authority that gave building permission and occupancy certificate,” PMC Commissioner Sudhakar Deshmukh said. Mr. Kazi, who runs Kohinoor Developers, is a resident of Taloja. He developed Tarique Heritage at Sector 10 in Panvel around 12 years ago and Tarique Sapphire at Sector 2 around six years ago. He also developed Tarique Paradise, which is also in Panvel. “Another building in Taloja Phase I at Sector 2, which is under construction, was also inspected. We have notified CIDCO about it and they would further look into its construction permissions and other formalities,” Mr. Deshmukh said. Mr. Kazi, who had been on the run since the collapse in Mahad, surrendered before the Mangaon session and district court during his hearing for anticipatory bail on September 3. He was the arrested and produced before a Mahad court on September 4, which sent him to police custody till Tuesday.
08 September 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Police book 19 MNS workers for forcibly opening temple||The police on Monday booked 19 Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) workers for allegedly breaking the lock of a temple in Panvel. The party claimed that even after various warnings, the State government did not allow the opening of the temples and hence, they decided to take things into their hands. “The State is undergoing unlock phases. Malls and alcohol shops have been opened, and BEST and ST buses are plying. Temple is the most needed place for people right now for emotional support. Yet, the government is not opening them. It is only considering its revenue and not common man’s mental state,” Yogesh Chirle, MNS workers union secretary, said. He further said that MNS chief Raj Thackeray had written to the State government urging it to open the temples or else party workers would open them. “Hence, we did that at Virupaksha temple in Panvel,” Mr. Chirle said. A week back, Bharatiya Janata Party workers, including MLA Prashant Thakur, had protested outside every temple in Panvel demanding their opening by singing ‘ Daar ughad Uddhava ’ (open the doors Uddhav). “The protests did nothing to get the temples opened. We went a step ahead and opened it by breaking the lock and then conducted aarti. We chose the oldest temple in Panvel taluka, which was built by Peshwas, to send out a strong message,” Akshay Kashid, MNS Raigad district head, said. All the 19 workers were booked under Section 188 of the Indian Penal Code. “The temple is closed for public visit until the State allows its opening. The priest visits the temple twice a day for the rituals,” Ashok Dudhe, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Zone II), said.
08 September 2020||Pune,||Pune district officials come hard on those flouting COVID-19 rules||To curb the alarming spread of novel coronavirus in Pune’s rural areas, the district administration and the police are cracking down on citizens flouting COVID-19 regulations by not wearing masks or adhering to other precautionary measures. The administration has so far collected more than Rs. 1.13 crore in fines from nearly 40,000 violators in a week’s time, Pune Zilla Parishad chief executive officer (CEO) Ayush Prasad said. The Pune Municipal Corporation (PMC), too, has started taking offenders to task with the Pune City police collecting Rs. 25 lakh in fines from more than 5,000 people in just three days. “At a time when cases are surging drastically, it is vital that people behave in a more responsible manner. We have penalised around 40,000 people from more than 1,400 gram panchayats, who were found moving about without wearing protective gear like face masks, or were caught spitting and not following social distancing norms,” Mr. Prasad said. The fines were collected by the police and gram panchayat officials with Haveli and Indapur leading the offenders’ list among the 13 taluks in the district. “Fines totalling Rs. 22 lakh from nearly 8,000 residents of Haveli and around Rs. 15 lakh from more than 8,500 people from Indapur were collected,” Mr. Prasad said. The district has been witnessing more than 4,000 cases each day in the last fortnight, clocking a record jump of nearly 5,000 fresh cases for the last two days consecutively. While acknowledging the steep rise in cases, Mr. Prasad pointed out that the mortality rate had gone down. “About 80% of the cases are to be found in just 69 gram panchayats, which constitute just 5% of the total gram panchayats in Pune district. So, we are working on reducing cases and fatalities in these areas,” the CEO said. He said that a massive increase in the rural medical infrastructure had been effected in the last two weeks. “During this period, we have opened seven additional COVID-19 care centres (CCCs) and four new district Covid health centres (DCHCs), and made one district Covid hospital (DCH) operational. At present, we have enough oxygen and critical care beds to cope with the spike in cases,” Mr. Prasad said. The Pune rural region at present has 30 CCCs, 52 DCHCs and six DCHs with a total 1,098 oxygen beds and 1,019 ICU beds of whom 191 have ventilators, officials said. The ‘penalising’ drive of Pune district officials comes in the wake of recent review meetings held by Nationalist Congress Party chief Sharad Pawar, Union Minister Prakash Javadekar, Deputy Chief Minister Ajit Pawar, and State Health Minister Rajesh Tope — all of whom expressed concern over the case surge. The district currently has more than two lakh reported COVID-19 cases, making it the worst-hit in the country. Of them, more than 35,000 are active cases (around 10,000 of these are from the rural parts of Pune) while nearly 4,700 people have succumbed to the virus thus far.
08 September 2020||Berlin,||Navalny out of coma: Berlin hospital||Russian opposition leader Alexei Navalny, who Germany says was poisoned by a weapons-grade Novichok nerve agent, is now out of a medically induced coma and is being weaned off mechanical ventilation, the Berlin hospital treating him said Monday. “He is responding to verbal stimuli,” Charite hospital said in a statement, reporting that the 44-year-old’s condition “has improved”. However, the hospital said it was too early to determine the long-term impact of the poisoning. Mr. Navalny fell ill after boarding a plane in Siberia last month. He was initially treated in a local hospital before being flown to Berlin for treatment. The German government said last week that toxicology tests have found “unequivocal evidence” that Novichok was used on Mr. Navalny, prompting Chancellor Angela Merkel and her Western counterparts to demand answers from Russia. Earlier on Monday, Ms. Merkel’s spokesman underlined that she would not rule out consequences on the multi-billion-euro Nord Stream 2 pipeline project if Moscow failed to thoroughly investigate the case. The Kremlin has, however, denounced attempts to blame the poisoning on Russia as absurd. “Attempts to somehow associate Russia with what happened are unacceptable to us, they are absurd,” President Vladimir Putin’s spokesman Dmitry Peskov told journalists.  Novichok is a military-grade poison that was developed by the Soviet government towards the end of the Cold War and can be deployed in an ultra-fine powder, liquid or vapour. It was used against ex-double agent Sergei Skripal in Britain in 2018.
08 September 2020||Tunis,||IS claims responsibility for Tunisia terror attack||The Islamic State jihadist group on Monday claimed responsibility for a knife attack in Tunisia the previous day which killed one National Guard officer and badly wounded another. Three assailants were shot dead in an ensuing firefight on Sunday in the same tourist district of the coastal city of Sousse, the National Guard said, labelling the attack a “terrorist” act. The IS said on Monday its “fighters” had carried out the attack, in a brief statement by its propaganda arm Amaq on the Telegram messenger service. Tunisian authorities said they had arrested seven people over the attack, in which the assailants had rammed the officers with a vehicle and then stabbed them. The wounded officer was “in a stable condition” on Monday, interior ministry spokesman Khaled Hayouni told AFP. Seven arrested Since Sunday, “43 people have been questioned and seven of them arrested,” Guard spokesman Houcem Eddine Jebabli told private station Radio Shems. They included “the wife of one of the assailants, who described her husband as a 'martyr' during the interrogation,” he said. Two brothers of one of the attackers and a person suspected of recruiting them were also arrested, he added. He said the attackers were a pair of twins and a third man from the marginalised northwestern region of Siliana, he said, without confirming or denying reports of a fourth attacker. Mr. Jebabli said the twins had visited Facebook pages dealing with “explosive and armed attacks” but had stayed under the radar of the authorities. Prime Minister Hichem Mechichi vowed to “eradicate terrorists as soon as possible”. Mr. Mechichi urged Tunisians “not to be afraid” of assailants, whom he described as “microbes”. Tunisia, since its 2011 revolution, has been hit by a string of jihadist attacks.
08 September 2020||COLOMBO,||An all-powerful President and a ‘rubber stamp’ Parliament?||When the Sri Lankan government recently gazetted the draft 20th Amendment (20 A) to the Constitution, it was merely keeping an election promise — to repeal the 19th Amendment of 2015 that clipped the Executive President’s unfettered powers, in turn empowering Parliament. With the necessary two-third majority on their side, President Gotabaya Rajapaksa’s government is now closer to enacting it. However, Opposition parties are strongly opposing the move that, they fear, will take the country back by a decade, to the days of the 18th Amendment. Brought in by former President and current Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa in 2010, it added wide-ranging powers and sweeping immunity to the President’s office, while removing its term limit. Among the very few key features that the 20th Amendment Bill retains from the 19th Amendment are the five-year terms for the President and Parliament, and the two-term limit to presidency. Following its parliamentary group meeting on Monday, the main Opposition party Samagi Jana Balawegaya (SJB, or United People’s Front) resolved to challenge the government’s move. “The [proposed] 20th Amendment will lead to concentration of all power in the President’s office, whereas Parliament will be a rubber stamp with no powers. The President is trying to do away with the legislature and judiciary,” said Harsha de Silva, the party’s Colombo MP. ‘Virulent form’ In addition to reducing judicial review and curbing citizens’ right to challenge Bills, the proposed amendment allows the President to dissolve Parliament after one year. Further, it discards the Constitutional Council that vetted appointments to the judiciary and independent commissions, instead opting for a Parliamentary Council whose approval the President will not require while making key appointments. The prospect of significantly greater presidential powers without restraint has raised alarm within Sri Lankan civil society. The Colombo-based Centre for Policy Alternatives noted that denying the citizen the opportunity to challenge the Executive’s actions through fundamental rights applications suggested that “the President is above the law”. The amendment Bill underscores a “particularly virulent form of Presidentialism”, said senior constitutional lawyer Kishali Pinto Jayawardene in the Sunday Times recently.  Ceremonial PM  While on the one hand, the Bill explicitly seeks to make the President way more powerful, it also drastically reduces the authority and functions of the Prime Minister, sparking speculation over the power dynamic between the ruling Rajapaksa brothers in such a scenario. The PM “has been reduced to a mere functionary consulted in most cases only “if necessary”, the Sunday Times noted in its editorial. Despite growing opposition from many quarters, the government, assured of the required numbers in the 225-member legislature, is likely to go ahead with its pledge. Asked how the SJB might oppose it, with only 54 members in the House, Mr. de Silva said the party would mobilise other parties and seek public support. “We will oppose the move inside and outside Parliament,” he said. Meanwhile, Jaffna legislator and Tamil National Alliance spokesman M.A. Sumanthiran cautioned against getting trapped in the technicalities of the 19th Amendment or its likely replacement, for it might take the focus away from the historic promise to abolish Executive Presidency. Ever since the 1978 Constitution — under the United National Party (UNP) government — was enacted with a 5/6th majority in Parliament, there has been consistent opposition to Executive Presidency, from the then Opposition Sri Lanka Freedom Party (SLFP) and all other opposition parties. Even the UNP, which initially brought in such a powerful presidency, in 1996 resolved to abolish it, paying heed to the growing public opinion against the system. Since the 1990s, almost every presidential election — including when Mahinda Rajapaksa ran in 2005 — was won on the promise of abolishing Executive Presidency, except that none of the leaders kept their word. “The 2015 election too was fought on the same assurance by the Maithripala Sirisena-Ranil Wickremesinghe coalition. The 19th Amendment that imposed substantial curbs on presidential powers was the first step in that direction,” said Mr. Sumanthiran, a senior constitutional lawyer. Power struggle The Rajapaksa camp — most of whom voted in favour of the 2015 legislation — subsequently blamed the 19th Amendment for the power struggle between the President and the PM in the last government, which, they argue, led to the grave lapses in the intelligence apparatus, leading to the Easter terror blasts in April 2019. The Rajapaksas made the abolition of the 19th Amendment a key poll pledge in the November 2019 presidential race, and the August general election this year, seeking a super majority for the same. “While it is true that the draft 20th Amendment seeks to enhance executive powers, just as the 18th Amendment did, we should not lose sight of the need to abolish the extremely problematic Executive Presidency system itself. The Opposition to the draft Amendment should be centred on this,” Mr. Sumanthiran said, adding: “By focussing on the technicalities of the 19th Amendment, the Rajapaksas are trying to quietly erase the historic pledge from public discourse.”
08 September 2020||BEIJING,||Journalists for U.S. media face possible expulsion from China||China is delaying the renewal of press cards for at least five journalists working at four U.S. media outlets, an organisation of foreign correspondents said on Monday, making them vulnerable to expulsion in apparent retribution for Washington’s targeting of Chinese reporters working in the United States. China’s Foreign Ministry responded by saying applications for renewal were being processed and those reporters involved would not have their lives in China “affected in any way.” “If the U.S. government truly cares about American journalists, it should extend visas for all Chinese journalists as soon as possible, instead of taking journalists from the two countries as hostages for the certain politicians’ political interests,” Mr. Zhao told reporters. Atlanta-based CNN said its China correspondent was among those given a letter authorising him to continue reporting for the next two months instead of the usual one-year press card. The Foreign Correspondents’ Club of China, or FCCC, said The Wall Street Journal and Bloomberg have also been targeted. It did not name the fourth outlet, but said more foreign journalists are expected to receive similar treatment. While the targeted outlets are all American, the journalists involved are of various nationalities. Mr. Zhao did not say what future actions China might take, but said “all options are on the table, and the U.S. side knows that very well.” “If the U.S. insists on going down the wrong path and continuously making mistakes, China will have to make the necessary and legitimate responses to firmly safeguard its legitimate rights,” he said. 90-day visas China’s move comes after the U.S. capped the number of Chinese citizens who could be employed by Chinese media outlets and placed them on 90-day visas. China first responded in March by expelling reporters from The New York Times, The Wall Street Journal and The Washington Post.
08 September 2020||Riyadh,||8 jailed for Khashoggi’s murder||A Saudi court on Monday overturned five death sentences over journalist Jamal Khashoggi’s murder in a final ruling that jailed eight defendants to between seven and 20 years, state media reported. “Five of the convicts were given 20 years in prison and another three were jailed for 7-10 years,” the official Saudi Press Agency said, citing a spokesman for the public prosecutor. None of the defendants were named in what was described as the final court ruling on the killing which had sparked an international outcry. The verdict came after Khashoggi’s sons said in May they had “pardoned” the killers. The family’s pardon spared the lives of five unnamed people sentenced to death over the 2018 murder in a December court ruling, which was lambasted by human rights groups after two top aides to the crown prince were exonerated. Khashoggi — a royal family insider turned critic — was killed in the kingdom’s consulate in Istanbul in 2018.
08 September 2020||September 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Fresh blaze on stricken oil tanker off Sri Lanka||A massive fire that crippled an oil tanker off Sri Lanka has reignited in strong winds, the island nation's Navy said on Monday, just a day after the blaze was extinguished. The Panamanian-registered New Diamond, carrying over 270,000 tonnes of crude and diesel, was en-route from Kuwait to the Indian port of Paradip when it issued a distress call on Thursday after an engine room explosion that killed a Filipino crew member. The ensuing fire was put out Sunday through the combined efforts of Sri Lanka's Navy and Air Force, the Indian Navy and coastguard, as well as private operators. Firefighters continued to douse the tanker with water and dry chemicals, but the squally conditions — where winds were blowing at up to 70 km per hour — led to a fresh flare-up. “Due high winds... the fire which has already been doused, has re-ignited from the effects of extreme temperature and sparks onboard,” the Navy said in a statement. Sri Lanka Navy spokesman Captain Indika de Silva told AFP the blaze was at a “serious level, but we hope we will be able to contain it”.
08 September 2020||Riyadh,||Saudi Arabia wants ‘fair’ solution for Palestinians||Saudi Arabia supports a “fair” solution for the Palestinian cause, King Salman has told Donald Trump in a phone call, as the U.S. President praised the kingdom for opening its airspace to Israel-UAE flights. Saudi Arabia has said it will not follow the United Arab Emirates, which announced last month it would establish diplomatic ties with Israel, until the Jewish state has signed a peace accord with the Palestinians. In a phone call to Mr. Trump on Sunday, King Salman affirmed the “kingdom’s keenness to reach a lasting and fair solution to the Palestinian cause to bring peace”, the official Saudi Press Agency reported. Last week, Saudi Arabia agreed to permit UAE flights to “all countries” to overfly the kingdom.
08 September 2020||London,||London, Sept 7, 2020 (AFP) -||WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange returned to court in London on Monday for a hearing to decide whether he should be extradited to the U.S. for leaking secrets about the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. Supporters protested as the 49-year-old Australian was brought to the Old Bailey, brandishing placards reading “Stop this political trial”.AFP
08 September 2020||Lhokseumawe,||Lhokseumawe, Indonesia, Sept 7, 2020 (AFP) -||Nearly 300 Rohingya migrants reached Indonesia on Monday claiming to have been at sea for seven months, the United Nations refugee agency said. The migrants, including more than a dozen children, were spotted on a wooden boat by locals, who helped them land near Lhokseumawe city.AFP
08 September 2020||September 08 2020 00:00 IST,||China’s LAC aggression, India’s obfuscation||For a political party that never misses out on even a remote opportunity to indulge in aggressive military talk, the Bharatiya Janata Party and the government led by it seem to be sending out confusing signals about the ongoing India-China stand-off on the Line of Actual Control (LAC). Media reports about the Chinese aggression started trickling in from April this year, and yet there continues to be little clarity even today either in the country’s strategic community or the general public on the exact nature of developments on the China-India border. Did the Chinese soldiers indeed cross the LAC and capture Indian territory? Is the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) currently in possession of Indian territory? What exactly are the two sides talking about in their discussions pertaining to ‘disengagement’? How does New Delhi plan to retake lost territory? Unanswered questions While the Prime Minister had claimed on June 20 that “neither has anyone intruded into the Indian territory nor has anyone captured any military posts”, the Ministry of External Affairs’ press note of June 17 had said that “the Chinese side sought to erect a structure in Galwan valley on our side of the LAC”. Adding to this confusion, India’s Foreign Secretary Harsh Shringla said as recently as in early September that it “cannot be business as usual” with China until the status quo is restored on the disputed border. One thing that emerges from these and other contradictory statements is that something is not adding up vis-à-vis the government’s claims about the LAC. Basic questions continue to remain unanswered. Soft steps, domestic politics What is also becoming clear is that the government is seeking soft measures in stitching together a response to China. The government’s approach, as the External Affairs Minister stated the other day, is that “a solution to the situation has to be found in the domain of diplomacy”. Put differently, the BJP government has, on the one hand, decided not to reveal the exact nature of the situation on the LAC and, on the other hand, is attempting to negotiate Chinese withdrawal from Indian territory rather than using kinetic means or tit-for-tat measures to reclaim its territory. The BJP government’s inability to take a factual and unambiguous position on the LAC flows directly from its domestic political calculations. Acknowledging Chinese possession of Indian territory is bad optics for a party whose hardcore supporters revel in the military bravado of the party. Objective facts about adverse territorial possession matter, but not to everyone. In BJP strongholds in the Hindi heartland, upbeat from the inauguration of the Ram temple and the Article 370 ‘victory’, what essentially matters is ‘feel good’ optics and high-pitched rhetoric about a strong and unrelenting national leadership; not factual, actual positions on the ground regarding India’s national interest. Therefore, even if the BJP’s critics, some ‘pestering’ quarters in the media, and the Opposition cry foul about the government’s handling of Chinese aggression on the LAC, it would hardly make any political difference to the party. The BJP is simply not bothered about how it is perceived other than among its core support base. More so, its rather bold policies in Kashmir and towards Pakistan over the years have created sufficient political cushion to absorb a few misadventures or pushbacks, even if they were to become public knowledge. Obfuscation of facts or confusing signals about the LAC stand-off, therefore, serve an important purpose. Two-and-a-half front situation Yet another reason why there is a deliberate attempt to refrain from disclosing full facts of the Chinese action on the LAC to the public is also the recognition within the establishment about the reality of a “two-and-a-half front situation”. Not that the Indian military and political leadership have not spoken about it before; but it is far easier to talk about fighting a two-and-a-half front war than actually fighting, and winning, it. Today, we are literally facing a “two-and-a-half front situation” — a restive Kashmir, an aggressive China and a Pakistan that never misses an opportunity to get at India — together forming a formidable national security challenge. While Pakistan’s interference in Kashmir is too well-known to be mentioned here, China may have emerged as a third key player in the Kashmir conflict. This has diplomatically emboldened Pakistan, and it would be unwise for us to rule out more China-Pakistan military and diplomatic coordination against Indian interests in the years ahead. Not that the two had not collaborated before, but this might see an increase in the days ahead. New Delhi’s strategists may have read this situation correctly. If so, it makes perfect sense for the political masters to underplay its gravity and seek a diplomatic solution to address the most dangerous piece in the “two-and-a-half front situation” — i.e. Chinese aggression on the LAC. In doing so, a confusing narrative is certainly helpful for domestic signalling. West’s support is limited India’s inability to clearly articulate, identify and address the Chinese threat is also a function of another sobering realisation within the establishment regarding the limited utility when it comes to Euro-American assistance in checking China in South Asia. In an international system that is preoccupied with the domestic political, economic and public health worries of COVID-19, there is little enthusiasm to resolutely stand by India in pushing back China. The unpredictability of U.S. President Donald Trump adds to Indian woes, and until a new President is sworn in in January 2021, Washington DC’s ability to make up its mind and act on it vis-à-vis China-India affairs would be limited. New Delhi does recognise this lukewarm global mood, and so does Beijing. Picking a fight with China, therefore, is not the wisest strategy; obfuscating the exact nature of the China threat is indeed a much better strategy. In democracies, sometimes partisan political interests trump national interests, and a deeply divided political landscape accentuates such partisan considerations. The BJP’s diplomatic approach to deal with China’s aggressive land grab also stems from a capacity deficit. While a bean counting of the Chinese and Indian military capabilities might lead us to believe that we are not militarily far inferior to China, what might offset this consideration is China’s growing capabilities in domains such as cyber and space. While India’s naval capabilities may be stronger in the Indian Ocean, growing Chinese naval capabilities and its increasing reach in the wider region around India are also likely to dampen India’s enthusiasm about the Euro-Atlantic focus on the Indo-Pacific and the Quad (or the Quadrilateral Security Dialogue, which is an informal strategic dialogue between the U.S., India, Japan, and Australia) as tools to check China in the maritime space. If India is serious about checking China’s maritime influence in the region, it would need to invest in more resources to improve its naval capabilities. But where will the money come from? The combined effect of a pre-existing economic slowdown and the impact of COVID-19 on the economy means that the government would struggle to meet its basic expenditure needs for the foreseeable future. Defence expenditure is bound to take a back seat, and the China threat is unlikely to make a difference. A dissonance The BJP-led government’s confusing claims, political grandstanding and obfuscation of facts have also led to a great deal of elite dissonance within the Indian strategic community on how to address and deal with the China threat. In times of major crises, nations normally stand together and speak in unison, but the LAC crisis does not seem to have brought the country’s political and strategic elites together unlike say during the Kargil crisis or the Mumbai terror attacks. The BJP’s confusing claims, intended to obfuscate the real nature of the threat, have in many ways led to this elite dissonance. This could have lasting implications for the country including for putting in place coordinated institutional responses to external challenges. No useful theory of victory can be born out of political denials about strategic challenges. Happymon Jacob teaches national security at the School of International Studies, Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi
08 September 2020||September 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Nitish Kumar won’t have it easy||The outcome of the 2020 Bihar Assembly election will be determined by factors such as industrialisation, employment creation, infrastructure development, migration and inclusive growth. This is a welcome departure from the past when politics in the State centred on polarising factors such as caste, identity and social justice. More than the anti-incumbency trend, this development shows that the frontier of ‘hope’ that for long was associated with Chief Minister Nitish Kumar might be crumbling. Troubles within and outside For critics, the election seems to be all about finding a new leader and a new movement that will help them overcome their existential challenges. The Nitish Kumar-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government has failed to negotiate well with the Central government and get Bihar its long-denied ‘special status’ as well as investments. Ground reports suggest that people have had enough of the old leadership. The NDA in Bihar is aware of this, which is why it has been undermining the deep uncertainties related to COVID-19, the migrants’ issue, and the floods. What makes its troubles worse is the unrest in the NDA camp. The Lok Janshakti Party (LJP), which is part of the NDA, has launched repeated attacks against Mr. Kumar, including for his government’s “delayed and less than adequate response” in fighting COVID-19. LJP chief Ram Vilas Paswan, who was once termed by Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) president Lalu Prasad as a mausam vaigyanik (weatherman) for knowing in advance the political trends and making decisions accordingly, is now being seen as the man who can upset Mr. Kumar’s plan to be Bihar’s Chief Minister for the seventh time. MP Chirag Paswan’s campaign, ‘Bihar First, Bihari First’, is possibly the most frank assertion of his party’s stand against the apathy of the government towards matters concerning the masses and its autocratic way of functioning. Though the NDA is still in the race for a comeback with its massive disposable resources, state machinery and caste equation, Mr. Kumar’s leadership stands challenged. There are other challenges for Mr. Kumar too. Even now, the RJD has an impressive cadre base in Bihar. The anti-incumbency factor, the growing sympathy for Mr. Prasad’s deteriorating health, and stitching up a broader alliance can help the RJD. Former Union Minister Yashwant Sinha’s re-entry into active politics is making an impact in Bihar. His campaign for a ‘Behtar Bihar (Better Bihar)’ is consolidating the old political ranks who for long were on the fringes in State politics. The success of this will depend on how he along with other parties can work on a comprehensive common minimum programme. Political strategist Prashant Kishor has not made his political preference public yet. Pappu Yadav’s Jan Adhikar Party has been at the forefront helping the migrants of Bihar across India. His hold on Seemanchal has tightened. Political crossovers too will be crucial in this election. The lack of industrial employment in the State has led to high outmigration from Bihar. And with the pandemic and the sudden lockdown imposed by the Central government, thousands found themselves suddenly stranded in other States without jobs or a source of income. Many began returning to Bihar. However, the State government has been unable to do anything for their welfare by announcing a substantial economic package or creating a blueprint for gainful employment. The floods issue in Bihar cannot be overlooked. According to the State Disaster Management Department, this year’s flood swamped 1,232 panchayats across 16 districts of the State. About 70 lakh people were affected, and 24 died. Sadly, in the last 15 years, water cooperation between India and Nepal has waned. Not much has been done to avert disasters and use water resources for productive purposes, including the generation of hydroelectricity, in the Terai region. The acute mishandling of the reverse migration crisis and the floods are two pressing factors this election. They add significantly to the anti-incumbency factor. Following Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s style of blaming India’s first Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru’s policies for the current mess in his regime, Bihar’s Deputy Chief Minister Sushil Kumar Modi blamed the Lalu Prasad-Rabri Devi regime for not building enough hospitals in the State. According to a report inThe Lancet, Bihar is among the most vulnerable States during this pandemic as its public health infrastructure is extremely poor to handle a crisis like this. Bihar’s other development indicators are no better. According to the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE), in June 2020, Bihar’s unemployment rate was nearly double the national average in the year ending June 2019. Earlier, another CMIE report stated that Bihar’s unemployment rate increased by 31.2 percentage points in April 2020, rising up to 46.6%. Unemployment had risen from 1.6% in April 2017 to the current rate. These figures question the myth surrounding Mr. Kumar’s sushashan (good rule). Moreover, an extremely poor law and order situation makes the overall scenario worse in Bihar. Crisis over numbers At the height of the COVID-19 crisis, the State government replaced the Principal Secretary (Health), Sanjay Kumar, who was known for regularly updating the public on the number of COVID-19 cases and deaths in the State. Since then, confusion has prevailed over the numbers. On August 3, in the State Assembly, Bihar’s Health Minister Mangal Pandey said that of the total of 6.12 lakh tests carried out for COVID-19 in the State till August 1, 3.24 lakh had been carried out through RT-PCR. However, contradicting this, the Chief Minister stated that less than 10% of the tests are being done through RT-PCR. Whom do we believe? Also, Bihar is relying on antigen tests. These tests have low credibility. Therefore, the actual number of cases cannot be ascertained through these tests. With Bihar facing so many crises, it remains to be seen if Mr. Kumar will emerge from this poll unscathed. History will be kinder to Mr. Kumar and Deputy Chief Minister Sushil Kumar Modi if they acknowledge the problems of their administration and the opportunities foregone under their rule and work out a plan to tackle those in the poll agenda. Atul K. Thakur is a policy professional and columnist. Email: atulmthakur@gmail.com
08 September 2020||September 08 2020 00:00 IST,||The search for an end to the complex Naga conflict||Despite having huge strategic significance, India’s northeastern frontier has largely remained marginal in the country’s popular imagination as well as mainstream politics. The region has witnessed multiple crises including bloody insurgencies, but still lacks the emotional resonance of the Kashmir conflict due to geographical, cultural, and ethnic factors. Rooted in the politics of sub-nationalism, complexities of regional geopolitics and the evolving dynamics of counterinsurgency tactics, the Naga insurgency has defied a lasting solution; it is an extraordinarily complicated conflict whose management has involved a mix of violent response and bargaining. The absence of R.N. Ravi, the Nagaland Governor and the Centre’s interlocutor for Naga peace talks, in the recently-held meeting of the Naga peace process in New Delhi and the subsequent involvement of the Intelligence Bureau to carry the talks further only testifies the intractable nature of the conflict. But it is not negotiating table alone where various issues pertaining to the Naga problem are being discussed and addressed. The politics of its ‘resolution’ is taking place at multiple sites. ‘Ceasefires’ and factions The Naga insurgency has come a long way, and so has the politics to contain it. In the early phase, the Naga insurgents were provided with what has come to be known as ‘safe haven’ in Myanmar. India’s adversaries (China and Pakistan) also provided them with vital external support at one point of time. A major accommodative tactic in the form of statehood to Nagaland in 1963 was not successful. Thereafter, the constant pressure from security forces coerced the Naga National Council (NNC) to sign the Shillong Accord of 1975, whose offspring was the National Socialist Council of Nagalim (NSCN). When the NSCN split into several factions, the Centre responded with entering into peace negotiations with almost each of them. But the undesirable outcome of these ‘ceasefires’ has been the creation and existence of unspoken ‘spheres of influence’. It is these spheres that have come under increasing scrutiny and attack from the Centre through the Nagaland Governor. The Modi government and the National Socialist Council of Nagalim (Isak-Muivah), or the NSCN-IM, the most powerful of the Naga insurgent groups which has been in peace talks with the Centre since the 1997 ceasefire, had signed a framework agreement in August 2015 which was claimed a historic achievement at that time. But a final accord has remained elusive since. When the Centre realised that privileging one insurgent group could eventually distort the contours of the final peace accord, it subsequently enlarged the peace process by roping in seven other Naga insurgent groups under the umbrella of Naga National Political Groups (NNPG). But another important group, the NSCN- Khaplang, whose cadres are reported to be inside Myanmar, is still outside the formal process. Culture of extortion Given this complex backdrop, Mr. Ravi’s recent letter to Nagaland’s Chief Minister Neiphu Rio seems to have opened a Pandora’s box. In his widely-circulated letter, Mr. Ravi had expressed his anguish over the culture of extortion and the collapse of general law and order situation in Nagaland, where organised armed gangs run their own parallel ‘tax collection’ regimes. Extortions in the name of taxes have been a thorny facet of the Naga issue. The ‘taxes’ levied by insurgent groups are so intricately intertwined in almost all developmental activities in Nagaland that any serious discussion of the issue has been conveniently avoided. One of the major aims of the NSCN-IM has been to acquire formal recognition to this informal practice through negotiations. As the Governor has crossed the proverbial Rubicon, the NSCN-IM cannot be happy for the simple reason that it is loath to being branded as an ‘armed gang’ and is vehemently opposed to the treatment of the Naga issue as a ‘law and order’ problem. Offended by military actions initiated against its cadres in recent months, the NSCN-IM is equally unnerved over a recent directive by the Nagaland government asking its employees to self-declare the membership of any of their close relatives with underground groups. Unease over interpretations There has already been much debate and controversy about the interpretation of ‘sovereignty’, as reflected in the latest “Naga Independence Day” speech by NSCN-IM chief Thuingaleng Muivah. Demand for a separate flag and a ‘constitution’ has been a key hindrance in building trust among the parties. Some Indian States contiguous to Nagaland have been affected through the mobilisation of the Naga population in these States. That is why they are apprehensive of the demand for ‘Greater Nagalim’, which would imply a ceding of their Naga-inhabited territories. Another significant issue is how the weapons in the NSCN-IM camps are going to be managed. As a ‘ceasefire’ group, its cadres are supposed to retain their weapons inside the designated camps for self-defence only, but more often than not, many influential cadres are seen moving with weapons in civilian localities, leading to many problems. It would be an uphill task for the Centre to ensure that all weapons are surrendered at the time of the final accord. The last word The NSCN-IM has demanded the removal of Mr. Ravi as the Centre’s interlocutor in the peace process, asking for affirmation of the 2015 framework agreement as being “alive in its original form”. What has further widened the trust deficit is the allegation by the NSCN-IM that the interlocutor has subtly manipulated the framework agreement. Was it a case of over-promise and under delivery on the part of Mr. Ravi? Nevertheless, the Centre must keep in mind that most of the armed insurgencies across the world do not end in either total victory or comprehensive defeat, but in a grey zone called ‘compromise’. It has become even more urgent in view of China’s unusually aggressive behaviour in Ladakh. One need not forget that some high-profile NSCN-IM commanders are reported to have fled last year to China’s Yunnan province to seek Beijing’s support. Mahendra L. Kumawat is former Chairman, Ceasefire Monitoring Group, Nagaland and former Special Secretary, Internal Security, Ministry of Home Affairs. Vinay Kaura is Assistant Professor, Sardar Patel University of Police, Security and Criminal Justice, Rajasthan
08 September 2020||September 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Empower the youth first||On Independence Day, the Prime Minister belaboured his government’s leitmotif of an ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’. In today’s India, we can achieve that goal of self-reliance only if we enhance our citizens’ capabilities. Given our demographic composition, we must begin by empowering our youth. Are we investing in our youth? The 2014 National Youth Policy (NYP) defined youth as persons between 15 and 29 years. This cohort accounted for 27.5% of the population then. According to the NYP report, the Central government spends about Rs. 2,710 per youth on education, skill development, employment, healthcare and food subsidies. The total amount is pegged at more than Rs. 90,000 crore. Assuming that States spend an equal amount, the total investment in our youth would be under 1% of the GDP, hardly commensurate with their population and potential. A World Bank report pegged the projected cost (read: loss) of not investing in children and youth at 4% of the GDP every year. Of this, the costs of unemployment account for 0.6%. As of 2017-18, youth participation in India’s labour force was 38.3%. Drawing from the 2018 State of Working India Report, we peg the youth unemployment rate to be at least 18.3% (3.47 crore youths). About 30% of youth fall under the ‘neither in employment nor in education’ category and 33% of India’s skilled youth are unemployed. Further, around 50 lakh youth are expected to be entering the workforce annually. Following the COVID-19 lockdown, the CMIE estimated a loss of 14 crore jobs in April alone of which 2.7 crore concerned youth. These numbers, coupled with impending grim implications of the pandemic, have landed us in uncharted turbulent economic waters. The way forward The aspirational younger generation born after 1991 invariably hold the key to India’s economic and political future. India has just a decade’s time to seize the opportunity and realise this youth demographic dividend. Therefore, it is an appropriate time to launch an Indian Youth Guarantee (IYG) programme, akin to the European Union Youth Guarantee (EU-YG) but tuned to our country’s context. EU-YG emerged in 2010 at a time when youth unemployment rates were soaring above 20%. An IYG initiative, with statutory backing, can function as a facilitatory framework for ensuring gainful and productive engagement of youth. At a time of fiscal stress, one way to allocate budgetary resources would be to create a Youth Component Plan, earmarking a specific percentage of funds under a separate head on the lines of the Special Component Plan for the Scheduled Castes and the Tribal Sub-Plan. The Youth Component Plan would be formulated by States/Union Territories/Central Ministries to channelise flow of outlays and benefits proportional to the percentage of youth population based on sub-regional requirements. IYG should not be just another budgetary scheme. Its strategic goal should be to ensure that within a fixed time frame, young people graduating from college or losing a job either find a good quality job suited to their education and experience or acquire skills required to find a job through an apprenticeship. An important aspect of IYG should be to rope in the district administration and local bodies for effective outcomes. Existing youth schemes and skilling infrastructure need to be dovetailed and streamlined while leveraging industry to enable an in situ empowerment of youth. Learning from MGNREGA The Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) has been very effective in providing rural livelihood security and social protection. Yet only about 4% of youth in the labour force have been impacted by it. While an urban youth employment programme will be a new intervention, we believe that rural youth employment should be instituted alongside MGNREGA. IYG needs to be implemented across the country to address youth unemployment particularly given the rapid structural changes in the economy. How would such a guarantee identify the needs of the youth? The Youth Development Index (YDI) in India serves as an advisory and monitory tool for youth development. It helps recognise priority areas, gaps and alternative approaches specific to each State. The index also packs a new dimension of social inclusion to assess the inclusiveness of societal progress due to prevalence of systemic inequalities. In short, YDI can be revisited and deployed to play a vital role in crafting a region-specific IYG. A focus on our youth is the first step towards self-reliance. It is time we summon the political will to guarantee our youth a viable future. C.R. Kesavan is a former Vice President of the Rajiv Gandhi National Institute of Youth Development. K.R. Vignesh Karthik is a doctoral researcher at King’s College, London
08 September 2020||September 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Reviving the economy||Such has been the great fall of the Indian economy that the issue is as lamentable on the surface as it is a few data points deeper. The analysis of the quarterly GDP number for Q1 2020-21 needs to be fair and balanced. Though no magic could have brought encouraging results, the performance has been way below anyone’s expectations. The numbers for Q1 will be even lower in reality as they don’t account for the informal sector, the hardest hit. Four key indicators For coming up with an approach to resolve an issue, the first step is to acknowledge that an issue exists. Living in denial might delay the realisation but not the outcome. I am afraid that is precisely what’s happening right now. The signs of economic paralysis were evident for the last 18 months or more. The quarterly GDP growth numbers had been falling for the last nine quarters, barring Q4 of 2018-19. Out of many, four key indicators have had me worried for the last 18 months. First, the Gross Fixed Capital Formation (as % of GDP) had been on a constant decline (except in 2018) between 2014 and 2019, falling from 30.1% to 27.4%. Developing countries generally invest heavily in fixed assets to increase aggregate demand and prepare capacities to meet future demands. Second, consumer demand in urban India. Exactly a year ago, domestic car sales were on a steady decline for nine consecutive months with a 41.09% decline in sales in August 2019. Even commercial vehicle sales were down by 39% indicating a fall in industrial activity. Third, weak FMCG demand in the rural economy. Data from India Ratings indicated that average real rural wage growth dropped from 11.18 % in FY13-FY15 to just 0.45 % in FY16-FY18. No wonder consumer confidence was badly hit, leading to sluggish demand. Last, the eight core sectors registered a growth of -0.2% in August 2019, indicating that there was not only an issue with the demand but also with our preparedness for supply. At a time when there should have been an acknowledgement of the problem at hand and a plan for resolution and revival, there was a game of musical chairs going on, except no one wanted to take the chair of blame. Eventually, urban millennials were blamed for low passenger vehicle sales as they now prefer app-based taxis to owning cars. Good box-office collections were cited as a proof of a healthy economy. Earlier, Jawaharlal Nehru was to blame for the economy, now it is said to be an “act of God”. No one admits that it was the botched-up policymaking and implementation of Modi 1.0 and Modi 2.0 that has led to all of this. Before we even start with the recommendations, let’s analyse where we stand at the moment. The investment appetite of urban households is low, urban consumption is low. There is contraction in the eight core sectors indicating that even if demand picks up, we are not well placed to meet those demands. The only saving grace is the rural economy. Rural demand has been better than urban demand thanks to a surplus monsoon and a higher disposable income through MGNREGA wages. The way forward Policymaking and implementation around three things need to be given a long, hard thought. First, the urban economy has to get running. Investments need to go up and this has to be driven by private and household investments since the contribution in capital formation by the government and the public sector is only 24%. So, government spending alone won’t help. Creating more jobs is the need of the hour. Second, the rural growth model needs to be sustainable. Increasing disposable income may work in the short term but it would be more sustainable to increase job opportunities at the rural level and strengthen MGNREGA. Third, there needs to be a massive push on infrastructural spending to boost the core sector demand and generate jobs. Extending MGNREGA to cities and towns will also attract migrant workers to move to the cities again. Last, with a focus on demand generation, supply issues need to be sorted. The eight core sectors that have shown contraction would need structural reforms to bring them back on track. Gourav Vallabh is Professor of Finance and national spokesperson, Congress party. Views are personal
08 September 2020||September 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Test by choice||On September 4, India crossed four million novel coronavirus cases, 13 days after crossing three million on August 22. On Saturday, the fresh cases reported surpassed China’s total recorded cases (90,070) so far. On Sunday, India surpassed Brazil to record the second highest number of cases in the world. Since August, India has been reporting the highest number of cases each day, which has been steadily increasing — from over 50,000 in the last week of July to over 60,000 in the first week of August, over 70,000 in the fourth week, before jumping to over 80,000 cases in September. Though the number of tests done each day has been over one million for the past week, the test positivity rate nationally is still high at 7.7%, indicating that testing has to be ramped up. Though the testing done each day by many States has been growing, nearly 50% of them are rapid antigen, of only about 50-60% sensitivity. Unfortunately, with no repeat testing of negative cases and only a small percentage of people with symptoms but negative results being validated with a RT-PCR, many of the infected are not being diagnosed. The ICMR’s latest advisory provides for testing on demand to “ensure higher levels of testing”. While ramping up testing is needed, testing on demand by anyone might not be the correct approach to adopt. The ICMR is theoretically making India’s 1.3 billion people eligible for a test, even when there is no capacity to undertake this. While it is a welcome measure, especially in the private sector, the general fear about infection might result in diverting some of the government’s stretched health resources if it has to test those who do not, on the face of it, require a test. With States not validating the negative results from rapid antigen tests with RT-PCR, non-directed tests on demand might help more in increasing the number of tests done each day and hence in reducing the test positivity rate than in early detection and containment. The focus must remain on diagnosing the most probable cases listed out by the ICMR — those with symptoms or at high risk. Since many of those infected have mild or no symptoms, tests on demand might be particularly helpful in detecting cases that might otherwise have been missed. But such a strategy should be restricted to clusters, hotspots, and containment zones, besides dense urban areas with anticipated high transmission in the unlock phase. Else, States might be forced to use their discretionary power to deny tests for people not exhibiting symptoms or in low-risk categories, or selectively charge for testing to pay for procurement of testing kits and to avoid more pressure on the testing infrastructure. There is also the possibility of an over-reliance on antigen testing to cope with the growing demand for testing. A more nuanced approach to testing guidelines is therefore necessary.
08 September 2020||September 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Deal in danger||British Prime Minister Boris Johnson’s move to set an October 15 deadline for reaching a post-Brexit U.K.-EU trade deal has raised fears of a no-deal scenario. While his threat hangs like the sword of Damocles above the negotiating teams, the British government is reportedly planning a piece of legislation that would overwrite parts of the withdrawal agreement — the divorce deal signed between the U.K. and the EU last year. The agreement had sought to avoid a hard border coming up between Northern Ireland, which is part of the U.K., and the Irish Republic, an EU member. According to the Northern Ireland protocol, signed alongside the agreement, the region is expected to follow some EU rules in trade with the Irish Republic. The hard Brexiteers in Mr. Johnson’s Conservative Party were critical of this clause, claiming that it endangers the U.K.’s sovereignty. Now, the planned domestic legislation, the Internal Market and Finances Bill, will allow U.K. courts to follow new U.K. laws rather than the divorce agreement. Northern Ireland leaders have already called it a “betrayal”. The real risk of cutting the region off the EU customs code is that physical checks could emerge between the two Irelands, threatening the Good Friday agreement that brought peace. Though the U.K. formally exited the union, it continues to abide by the EU rules during the transition period, which ends in December. The challenge is to reach a trade deal in the absence of which WTO trade rules will kick in, starting January. With weeks to go before the deadline, there is still no consensus on issues such as workers’ rights, environmental regulations, state aid to businesses and the Irish border. While the EU wants the U.K. to adopt rules that are close to its own to ensure a “level playing field” in trade, the British government argues that the whole point of the EU divorce was to break free from common rules. Regarding Northern Ireland, the hard Brexiteers are opposed to any special treatment to the region. The new legislation suggests that the government is hardening its position on Ireland as well. Driven by English nationalist fervour, the British leadership appears to be blind to the economic and political consequences of its hard line. The Brexiteers have already pushed the U.K. into an unenviable position in Europe. A no-deal exit will inflict severe economic costs on the British, at a time when the economy is in dire straits due to COVID-19. Besides, it risks disrupting peace in the island of Ireland. Mr. Johnson and his cabinet should ask themselves whether the no-deal risk is worth taking. They should instead respect the withdrawal agreement, and be flexible in the talks as well as on deadlines. Both sides should focus on reaching a consensus on trade and other future relations, and not on ending the relationship at any cost.
08 September 2020||September 08 2020 00:00 IST,||De-recognition: Princes notified||The Finance Minister, Mr. Y.B. Chavan, announced in the Rajya Sabha to-day the President’s decision to de-recognise all the Rulers and thereby terminate their privy purses and privileges with immediate effect. But he assured the de-recognised princes that the Government would honour its declared policy of making transitional payments to enable them to make the necessary adjustment to the changed circumstances. Even before Mr. Chavan made the announcement, the Home Secretary to the Government of India despatched letters individually to all the 278 princes — and other beneficiaries of the privy purses in Gujarat where the law of primogeniture does not apply in all cases — formally notifying them of the President’s decision. Altogether about 320 former princes and their dependents will be affected by this decision abolishing the very concept of rulership and terminating the privy purses to them. The 278 former Rulers who are regular recipients of privy purses include Dr. Karan Singh, the Maharaja of Jammu and Kashmir, whose privy purse was paid all these years not on the basis of any covenant signed by his father after the State’s accession but on the strength of the letters patent exchanged with the Government of India at the time of the renunciation of his ruling powers.
08 September 2020||September 08 2020 00:00 IST,||India’s Defence (From an Editorial)||Soon after the war began and India was “bled white” in men and material and left with hardly 15,000 troops to defend the country and to keep in subjection 315 millions of loyal people, Lord Chelmsford succeeded Lord Hardinge as Viceroy and his military training and instincts prompted the formation of an Indian Defence Force. A local force in the shape of volunteers existed; but such a force was clearly unfitted both by lack of training and good material for the double task of defending India against foreign aggression, and maintaining British power and prestige in case of local disorders. Hence the Indian Defence Force, composed mainly of Europeans and Anglo-Indians was brought into being. Complusion to join the force was used where necessary in the case of Europeans and Anglo-Indians, and Indians were permitted to volunteer for service.
08 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Measures needed to protect growth potential’||The 23.9% contraction in first-quarter GDP “should alarm us all” and policymakers need to be “frightened out of their complacency” and take meaningful steps, former Reserve Bank of India Governor Raghuram Rajan wrote in a post on LinkedIn. “Without relief measures, the growth potential of the economy will be seriously damaged,” Dr. Rajan wrote, stating that with discretionary spending expected to stay low until the virus was contained, government-provided relief assumed far greater significance. The government’s reluctance to do more immediately and instead conserve resources for a possible future stimulus was a “self-defeating” strategy, he opined. The former IMF chief economist said India’s economic contraction compared with a decline of 12.4% in Italy and 9.5% in the U.S. — two of the most pandemic-affected advanced countries. “Yet, India is even worse off than these comparisons suggest. The pandemic is still raging in India, so discretionary spending, especially on high-contact services like restaurants, and the associated employment, will stay low until the virus is contained,” he wrote. “Government-provided relief becomes all the more important. This has been meagre,” Dr. Rajan added. ‘Economy as patient’ “If you think of the economy as a patient, relief is the sustenance the patient needs while on the sickbed and fighting the disease. Without relief, households skip meals, pull their children out of school and send them to work or beg, pledge their gold to borrow, let EMIs and rent arrears pile up,” he wrote. “Similarly, without relief, small and medium firms — think of a small restaurant — stop paying workers, let debt pile up, or close permanently. “Essentially, the patient atrophies, so by the time the disease is contained, the patient has become a shell of herself. Now think of economic stimulus as a tonic. When the disease is vanquished, it can help the patient get out of her sickbed faster. But if the patient has atrophied, stimulus will have little effect,” he added. Noting that Brazil, which had spent ‘tremendously’ on relief, was seeing a much lower downgrade to medium-term growth than India, he wrote: “government officials who hold out the possibility of a stimulus when India finally contains the virus are underestimating the damage from a more shrunken and scarred economy at that point.” Stating that because of the pre-pandemic growth slowdown and the strained fiscal condition, officials were wary of spending on both relief and stimulus, he suggested the government would have to expand the resource envelope in every way possible, and spend cleverly. India could also borrow more without scaring bond markets if it committed to return to fiscal viability over the medium term — by setting debt reduction targets through legislation, and committing to transparent fiscal numbers with an independent fiscal council. The government would need to prioritise its spending. “MNREGA is a tried and tested means of providing rural relief and should be replenished as needed. Given the length of the pandemic, more direct cash transfers to the poorest households, especially in urban areas that do not have access to MNREGA, is warranted,” he wrote. Government and public sector firms should also clear their payables quickly so that liquidity moved to corporations, he added. Also, small firms below a certain size could be rebated the corporate income and GST tax they paid last year, with the rebate tapering off with firm size. “India needs strong growth, not just to satisfy the aspirations of our youth but to keep our unfriendly neighbours at bay,” he wrote.
08 September 2020||Mumbai,||RBI sets sectoral norms for resolution of COVID-19 related stressed assets||The Reserve Bank on Monday specified five financial ratios and sector-specific thresholds for resolution of COVID-19 related stressed assets in 26 sectors, including auto components, aviation, and tourism.  The circular issued by the RBI for resolution of stressed assets is based on the recommendations of the K.V. Kamath committee, which submitted its report on September 4. “The recommendations of the Committee have been broadly accepted by the Reserve Bank,” RBI said in a release. The key financial ratios suggested by the committee are total outside liabilities/adjusted tangible networth; total debt/EBITDA; current ratio, which is current assets divided by current liabilities; debt service coverage ratio; and average debt service coverage ratio. Specified sectors The 26 sectors specified by the RBI include automobiles, power, tourism, cement, chemicals, gems and jewellery, logistics, mining, manufacturing, real estate, and shipping among others. The RBI said the ratios prescribed “are intended as floors or ceilings, as the case may be, but the resolution plans shall take into account the pre-COVID-19 operating and financial performance of the borrower and impact of COVID-19 on its operating and financial performance at the time of finalising the resolution plan, to assess the cashflows in subsequent years, while stipulating appropriate ratios in each case.” It also said lending institutions may, at their discretion, adopt a graded approach depending on the severity of the impact on borrowers while implementing the resolution plan.
08 September 2020||MUMBAI,||Vodafone Idea hints at tariff hike, rebrands offering as ‘Vi’||Vodafone Idea Ltd. (VIL) signalled on Monday it was likely to raise tariffs to ensure sustainable operations. “We believe the tariff has to go up,” said MD and CEO Ravinder Takkar, after the telecom operator unveiled a new brand identity ‘Vi’ (pronounced ‘we’). “This is very important to get the industry back on track. Since the merger [in August 2018], we have increased prices twice. “The prices need to go up and we are not shying away to say that. Every player is selling below the cost and it is not sustainable. There needs to be reasonable returns [on capital],” added Mr. Takkar. Commenting on the recent Supreme Court order directing telecom firms to pay the Adjusted Gross Revenue (AGR) dues over 10 years, he said, “We had requested for 20 years but the honourable SC asked us to repay in 10 years. This is a good outcome. Our first instalment is in March 2022”. The telco’s AGR liability exceeds Rs. 50,000 crore. “With our new brand Vi, we stand committed to partner the government to accelerate India’s progression towards a digital economy,” said chairman Kumar Mangalam Birla. The Rs. 25,000 crore the firm planned to raise would be adequate to fund its business plan, Mr. Takkar said.
08 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Samsung aims to double online mobile business||Samsung India expects to double its online mobile business in the second half of the current year, driven by new introductions in the festival season combined with customer preference for highend devices. “In the second half, we are seeing a strong resurgent growth. We expect to double our online business in the second half of 2020 over the second half of 2019,” Asim Warsi, senior VP, Samsung India told The Hindu . ‘Uptake in ASPs’ He added that the company was seeing a “significant uptake” in the average selling prices (ASPs) of mobile phones in the online business, and these may grow in excess of 50% to be in the range of $250-300 (approximately Rs. 18,000-22,000). The growth in the online business, he said, will be driven by the new smartphone M-51 which comes with a 6.7-inch display, a 7,000-mAh battery, Qualcomm Snapdragon 730 processor, 64MP quad rear camera setup and 32MP front camera and will be unveiled on September 10.
08 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Curbs on current account affecting MFIs: Sa-dhan||The revised guidelines from the RBI pertaining to current accounts will lead to numerous difficulties and operational issues for the microfinance sector, industry body Sa-Dhan, said in a letter to RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das. Sa-dhan demanded that microfinance institutions be exempted from the restrictions on the opening and operation of current accounts. In the recent circular, RBI instructed banks not to open current accounts for customers who had availed credit facilities in the form of cash credit (CC)/ overdraft (OD) from the banking system and said all transactions shall be routed through the CC/OD account. “In the current scenario, when borrowers require urgent credit to restart their lives, implementation of the revised guidelines will result in numerous difficulties and operational issues for the microfinance sector,” P. Satish, executive director – Sa-Dhan, said. The industry body reasoned that microfinance institutions (MFIs) have various current accounts with banks based on the location of their branches. “Since demonetisation, all loan disbursements of MFIs are being credited to the bank accounts of their borrowers. Many MFIs also have ECS mandates for loan collections. Such banks may or may not have CC/OD facilities extended to such MFIs,” Sa-Dhan said.
08 September 2020||Bengaluru,||‘Medical data not safe with hospitals’||About 57% of the people do not want their medical information stored at the state or the hospital levels, but only at the central level, over privacy concerns, a study has indicated. The study was carried out to understand the public pulse with regard to the creation of a digital health ID for citizens. Also, 48% of the citizens surveyed are against the use of this information for research and promotional activities. Some 82% said they do not want to share sensitive data such as banking details. The survey by LocalCircles, a community social media platform, received about 34,000 responses from 272 districts of India.
08 September 2020||MUMBAI,||RBI to buy, sell G-secs worth Rs. 10,000 crore||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has announced the simultaneous purchase and sale of Government of India securities (G-secs) for Rs. 10,000 crore each under the open market operations (OMO). The auction is scheduled for September 10, the RBI said in a statement. The second tranche of auction would be conducted on September 17. On August 31, the central bank had announced special simultaneous purchase and sale of government securities under OMO for an aggregate amount of Rs. 20,000 crore in two tranches of Rs. 10,000 crore each as part of measures to foster orderly market conditions.
08 September 2020||Mumbai,||Emirates returns $ 1.4 billion to customers in refunds||Emirates said it had returned $1.4 billion in COVID-19- related travel refunds till date, making steady progress on its commitment to customers to complete pending refunds. More than 1.4 million refunds requests have been completed since March, representing 90% of the backlog. This includes all requests received from customers across the world until the end of June, it said.
08 September 2020||NEW YORK,||Novak Djokovic disqualified||Novak Djokovic was dramatically disqualified from the US Open on Sunday after accidentally striking a woman line judge with a ball during his last-16 match, sending shock waves through the tournament. The World No. 1 hit the ball in frustration after losing his serve to go 5-6 down in the first set to Spain's 20th seed Pablo Carreno Busta at the Arthur Ashe Stadium. Djokovic appeared to be looking the other way when he pulled the ball from his pocket and smacked it in the direction of the official, hitting her full on the throat. Gasping for breath The official cried out and began gasping for breath as she collapsed to the ground. Djokovic rushed over to check on her, placing his hand on her back as she struggled to breathe. After a few minutes she got up and walked off the court looking dazed. Around 10 minutes of discussions ensued between Djokovic and tournament referee Soeren Friemel. The umpire then declared that Busta had won following a default for Djokovic. The Serb shook hands with his opponent before leaving the court. He later apologised for the incident by releasing a statement. Djokovic’s disqualification blows the men’s draw wide open and means it will crown a first-time Grand Slam winner on Sunday. “Now it gets interesting,” said fifth seed Alexander Zverev, who described Djokovic as “very unlucky.”  Meanwhile, fifth seed Zverev bulldozed past Spain's unseeded Alejandro Davidovich Fokina 6-2, 6-2, 6-1, while 12th seed Canadian Denis Shapovalov beat David Goffin for a maiden Grand Slam last-eight spot. Rogers stuns Kvitova In the women's draw, American Jennifer Brady, seeded 28th, stunned three-time Grand Slam winner Angelique Kerber while eighth seed Petra Martic was bundled out by Kazakhstan's 23rd seed Yulia Putintseva. American Shelby Rogers upset sixth seed Petra Kvitova 7-6(5), 3-6, 7-6(6). She will next play two-time Slam winner Naomi Osaka, who defeated Estonia's Anett Kontaveit 6-3, 6-4.
08 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Dronacharyas recall their long journeys||A coach is at his proudest when his ward becomes a Dronacharya. The first Dronacharya of Indian shooting, Prof. Sunny Thomas, was understandably elated about one of his prime wards, Jaspal Rana, winning the Dronacharya award. ‘Like my son’ “Jaspal, you are like my son. I have scolded you also. Welcome to the Dronacharya Club,” said Prof. Thomas, with considerable warmth, in a recent online interaction. Jaspal’s entire shooting career which he closed in 2006 after multiple gold medals in the Doha Asian Games, spanned within the coaching spell of Prof. Thomas that lasted till 2012. The former national coach recalled vividly how Jaspal had overcome a painful knee to shoot the World Championship junior gold with a world record in 1994 in Milan. He also recalled the vibrant performances of Jaspal in the Commonwealth Games and the Asian Games that year. Acknowledging Jaspal’s role as the chief national junior coach, Prof. Thomas praised him for his wards making the senior team, winning many accolades and qualifying for the Tokyo Olympics. “You were not just a coach, but a mentor, friend and brother,” said Jaspal, about the significant role played by Prof. Thomas in grooming him. Viewed as a hard disciplinarian who keeps the young shooters away from their mobile phones, ice cream and their friends, Jaspal said that he had learnt good basics from his coaches. Prime task Prof. Thomas remembered that bringing about discipline in the team was a prime task when he took over as the national coach early in the 1990s. “The action was transparent. If they were shooting well, they were in the national team. “Gradually, I won their confidence and it worked miracles,” said Prof. Thomas. “As a coach, I have become more disciplined,” revealed Jaspal. Saying that he had learnt a lot from the late Tibor Gonczol, Jaspal said that he realised the importance of working with the “back benchers” to help in their progress. “When it comes to the World Championships, the Olympics and Youth Olympics, the coach and student become one,” he said.
08 September 2020||Bengaluru,||No carrying past baggage, says Kohli||The past failures of Royal Challengers Bangalore (RCB) in the IPL will not affect the team, skipper Virat Kohli said. RCB is yet to win an IPL title — a burden that its players have long carried. “I spoke to A.B. de Villiers about this. We’ve never felt so calm going into an IPL before. He is batting like it is 2011; he is fit as ever. We’re disconnecting with the past. We’re not carrying any baggage, something we’ve done too many times in the past,” Kohli said, in a RCB Bold Diaries interview. The star batsman explained that the current squad is well balanced. “The reason why Chris Morris has been included is that he brings balance to the team. Some of the youngsters are quite exciting too. Aaron Finch has a lot of international experience; Josh Philippe is very exciting. We have a great balance of experience, T20 skill and eager youngsters. This is the most balanced squad since our memorable 2016 season,” Kohli said. Kohli added that playing at only three venues, and staying at the same hotel through the duration of the IPL makes life easy for players. “All teams will know the three venues inside out. This makes a more level-playing field. It will boil down to skill,” Kohli said.
08 September 2020||KOLKATA,||‘Russell could make a double hundred at No. 3’||In the backdrop of the pandemic, Kolkata Knight Riders’ chief mentor David Hussey feels he needs to keep the players in a relaxed frame of mind during the 53-day long Indian Premier League (IPL). A privilege Terming the opportunity to play cricket amid the pandemic ‘a privilege,’ Hussey said he would support KKR’s captain and coaches in making the players comfortable. “It's all about getting around the group as much as possible and just try to make everybody feel as relaxed as they possibly can. Make sure they know their roles with clarity… they can execute their skills under immense pressure,” said Hussey during an interaction on Sunday, adding he would address the players individually. Acclimatisation The Australian said getting acclimatised to the conditions would be important. “It will be a hot weather tournament. It will be windy as well. The pitches will get used and tired as the tournament goes on. “It’s up to the teams to adapt quickly. It’s the strength of the squad (that) will go a long way to win this tournament.” Hussey counted on the English duo of Eoin Morgan, who could assist captain Dinesh Karthik on the field and play a key role in the middle order, and Tom Banton, the ‘better version of Kevin Pietersen,’ as much as he showed faith in the Indian pair of Shubman Gill and Nitish Rana.  He hoped old hand Andre Russell would continue to do wonders, especially if sent up the batting order. “If it benefits the team and helps us win matches, why not (send him up). If that means he comes in at three and that's 60 balls, he might actually make a double hundred.” According to Hussey, having a pace-heavy attack was not a disadvantage for KKR. “We have got some fine fast bowlers — Pat Cummins, Lockie Ferguson, (Shivam) Mavi and (Kamlesh) Nagarkoti… fortunately, we are very talented in both disciplines: fast bowling and spin.” The Aussie backed his team, saying it was “well-balanced in all disciplines of the game.”
08 September 2020||KOCHI,||A message for Neeraj in Vetter’s amazing throw||With German Johannes Vetter producing the second longest throw in javelin history in Poland on Sunday, former world-record holder Uwe Hohn feels that Neeraj Chopra should get ready to fight the big throws to win the Olympic gold in Tokyo next year.  “I don’t know if Vetter or (Olympic champion Thomas) Rohler can show that in Tokyo but I think Neeraj needs to be prepared to get at a similar level to fight for gold,” said former world record holder Hohn, the Indian National javelin throw coach, in a chat with The Hindu from Patiala. “But maybe you can win with 86.89m like in Doha (World Championships) last year.” Former World champion Vetter’s 97.76m throw, which was just 72cms behind Czech Republic’s Jan Zelezny’s 1996 world record of 98.48m, surprised everybody. “I actually didn’t expect that now but his technique improved this year to the level he had when he threw 94m in Luzern (in 2017) and he changed the preferred javelin to Nordic which is flying better as you can see,” said Hohn, whose world record throw of 104.80m in 1984 forced the world body IAAF (now renamed World Athletics) to redesign the javelin to make it safe for everybody inside the stadium. Nordic an advantage? There appears to be something special about Nordic Sport’s javelins, especially the new Valhalla model.   “I think they are the top javelins for 800g at least, it’s different for 600g. “Probably about 70% of the world’s top 10 throwers use them,” said the German. But it looks like Neeraj, the Commonwealth Games and Asian Games champion and the brightest prospect to win India’s first-ever athletics medal in the Olympics, is not comfortable with Nordic yet. “Neeraj likes Nordic in training but he doesn’t trust them in competitions. Nemeth (the javelin Neeraj uses in competitions) is, maybe, more forgiving but I think Nordic is better for great results,” said Hohn. “He is probably not confident with changing things and he used to throw the Nemeth javelin really good ... in Bydgoszcz (Poland where he won the under-20 World gold with a junior world record in 2016).” That’s probably Neeraj’s dilemma.
08 September 2020||KOLKATA,||PWL: WFI to adopt wait and watch mode||The Wrestling Federation of India (WFI) is waiting for the pandemic to subside to put the Pro Wrestling League (PWL) back on track. Since its inception in 2015, the PWL saw four editions before hitting a roadblock due to differences — resulting in a court case — between its promoter Pro Sportify and the WFI. Following negotiations between the two sides, the promoter withdrew the case and paved the way for re-staging the league. However, the coronavirus outbreak spoilt the plan. Now all the stakeholders are waiting for COVID-19 to subside. “The roadblock was cleared after they withdrew the case. But we cannot hold it in the current situation. Once things become normal, we will think of scheduling it,” said a WFI official. End of December? A couple of franchise owners are hopeful that the PWL will be held towards the end of December or early next year. The new edition of the PWL will welcome a new franchise, which has teams in two other leagues. Notwithstanding the four COVID positive cases — Rahul Aware (57kg), Navin (65kg), Deepak Punia (86kg) and Krishan (125kg) — the national camp for elite men wrestlers at the Sports Authority of India (SAI) Centre, Sonepat, will go on. “The virus has come from outside. There is no problem with the SAI Centre. Training will begin in the camp shortly,” said a source. A meeting will be held next week to deliberate about the elite women’s camp.
08 September 2020||Chennai,||CSK’s foreign players will be match-fit: Viswanathan||The Chennai Super Kings will be without paceman Josh Hazlewood and allrounder Sam Curran for the first two games of the IPL. Both are in England for the Australia-England limited-over series, and according to CSK CEO K.S. Viswanathan, will arrive in Dubai only on September 17. It would be a near thing for three more CSK foreign players — pace bowling allrounder Dwayne Bravo, left-arm spinning allrounder Mitchell Santner and leg-spinner Imran Tahir — who would be landing in the UAE on September 13 after the completion of the Carribean Premier League. Six-day quarantine All the foreign cricketers have to undergo six days of quarantine which will include three COVID-19 tests. Allrounder Shane Watson, batsman Faf du Plessis and his compatriot paceman Lungi Ngidi are already with the CSK team in Dubai. Viswanathan said, all the foreign cricketers are arriving from tournaments and will be match-fit. He added, “We are confident. And let me tell you we have enough pacemen as net bowlers. We have Shardul Thakur, K.M. Asif and Monu Kumar plus three Tamil Nadu pacemen [here as net bowlers] who are COVID-free. And Watson can chip in.” CSK begins its campaign against MI on September 19.
08 September 2020||HYDERABAD,||Sindhu to play Uber Cup||World champion P.V. Sindhu will take part in the Thomas and Uber Cup badminton championships to be held in Denmark from Oct. 3 to 11. On Monday Sindhu changed her original decision to pull out of the event after the Badminton Association of India top brass appealed to her to play in the tournament. “I have requested Sindhu to join the team as we have a favourable draw and have the best chance to take a shot at the medal at the Cup,” Himanta Biswa Sarma, BAI chief, tweeted in the evening.
08 September 2020||MADRID,||Ansu Fati creates history||The 17-year-old Ansu Fati became the youngest goalscorer in Spain’s history when he scored in the 4-0 win over Ukraine in the UEFA Nations League on Sunday.  The results: League A: Group 4: Spain 4 bt Ukraine 0; Switzerland 1 drew with Germany 1.   League B: Group 3: Serbia 0 drew with Turkey 0; Hungary 2 lost to Russia 3; Group 4: Rep. of Ireland 0 lost to Finland 1; Wales 1 bt Bulgaria 0.   League C: Group 3: Kosovo 1 lost to Greece 2 ; Slovenia 1 bt Moldova 0.   League D: Group 1: Andorra 0 lost to Faroe Islands 1; Malta 1 drew with Latvia 1 .
08 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Anil Jain is AITA chief||Dr. Anil Jain, MP, was unanimously elected president of the All India Tennis Association (AITA) in the annual general meeting here on Sunday. All posts were filled without the need for a contest. Davis Cup captain Rohit Rajpal will take over as treasurer and Anil Dhupar as secretary-general. There will be eight vice-presidents, including former president Anil Khanna, apart from the outgoing secretary-general Hironmoy Chatterjee and Vijay Amritraj. There will be four joint-secretaries in Premkumar Karra, Raktim Saikia, Suman Kapur and Sunder Iyer. There will also be seven executive committee members. Dr. Jain said: “We propose to set up a High Performance Tennis Academy in Delhi,”
08 September 2020||KOLKATA,||LaLiga India head all praise for ISL||The Indian Super League has established itself as a brand and is creating recognisable football figures, says Jose Antonio Cachaza, managing director of LaLiga India. Speaking at an interaction prior to the launch of 90th season of LaLiga (starting on September 11), Cachaza said “India is in the process of reshaping its football and taking steps in the right direction. There is an increase in number of youngsters playing football at the grassroots level and an improvement is also happening with the Indian national team. “ISL is also creating recognisable football figures like Sunil Chhetri and Gurpreet (Singh Sandhu). ISL as a league is growing and is already a brand watched by most of the people in India.”
08 September 2020||New Delhi,||Stokes likely to miss first part of IPL||Ben Stokes is likely to miss the first part of IPL 2020 as he is currently in New Zealand with his ailing father, according to Rajasthan Royals sources.
08 September 2020||Paris,||French Open to allow spectators||Spectators will be allowed at the French Open tennis tournament, starting on Sept. 27, despite the growing number of coronavirus cases in the country, organisers said on Monday.
08 September 2020||September 08 2020 07:32 IST,||Sudoku - September 8, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
08 September 2020||September 08 2020 00:00 IST,||When bubbles go tech||Yes, the pandemic has disrupted the sporting — and pretty much every other — calendar for 2020. However, in July, international cricket resumed with the England and West Indies series, almost four months after COVID-19 halted all-live action. It was followed by another cricket series between England and Pakistan. Notably, these two tournaments have something remarkable in common — other than England winning both test series. All matches were played in a ‘bio-secure bubble’ or its more popular portmanteau ‘biobubble.’ And now, the Indian Premier League (IPL) in UAE on September 19 and the Indian Super League (ISL) football championship in Goa from October 2020 till March 2021, will be played inside the bubble. A safe and secure environment that is isolated from the outside world to minimise the risk of COVID-19 infection, a bio-bubble permits only authorised sports persons, support staff and match officials to enter the protected area after testing negative for COVID-19. Naturally, individuals must be regularly tested, temperature checked with respective health reports filed accordingly. The bio-bubble does not just limit itself to the pitch or field; it is, of course, mandatory that all entities partake in this new form of quarantine. The Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) will provide ‘bio secure bubbles’ in hotels, training sessions, matches and transportation, as confirmed by Brazilian footballer Joao Victor of ISL’s Hyderabad FC, in a previous interview with The Hindu . IPL teams staying in different hotels are advised to order food to their individual rooms and avoid common areas. Physical distancing and masks are a must, even while interacting with others within their bubble. Teams are allowed to hold meetings outdoors to adhere to physical distancing norms. In fact, players will not be allowed to meet their families or friends until the tournament is over. The IPL Governing Council has made it clear that wilful breach of bio-secure bubble will invite strict action as it can put all players at risk. Should a player disobey the code in IPL, he will be isolated and be asked to test negative twice before entering the bubble again. Into the tech To maintain no transmission risks, a great deal of tech on a large scale is required. IPL’s secure bio-bubble has been created by a UK-based safety and technology firm, Restrata. Its software is COVID-19 regulations compliant, comprising a trio of tech we have seen mentioned on a quotidian basis: testing, contact tracing and Artificial Intelligence. During the England versus West Indies series, Restrata had installed Bluetooth technology in stadiums to accurately track and trace any suspected COVID-19 outbreaks in real time. The company’s software helped organisers monitor people working in specific zones, and check whether they adhered to physical distancing and capacity limits norms. A similar technology is reported to be deployed for the IPL. Contact tracing is broken down into three stages: contact identification, contact listing and contact follow-up, and recent technologies leverage Bluetooth (with a six-foot detection range) and Artificial Intelligence to automate this continuous data collection and processing, so that monitoring is detailed, seamless and in real-time. Often, wearables or an accreditation card will carry a chip-enabled GPS device to provide Restrata, IPL authorities and franchises detailed and live capability to track and trace individuals at all times. Player perspectives Former India captain and current National Cricket Academy head, Rahul Dravid had questioned the concept of bio-bubble in May when ECB (England and Wales Cricket Board) proposed the idea of keeping players in isolation for the entire tour to keep cricket up and running amid the pandemic. At a webinar in May for non-profit organisation YUVA, Dravid called the plan “unrealistic”. He raised questions on what will happen if a player tests positive during the test match. It is worth noting that the ECB has been successful in managing the bio-bubble as no players tested positive during the two different series. But, even before the 80-day bio-bubble of IPL began, Rajasthan Royals fielding coach, Dishant Yagnik tested positive for COVID-19. And recently, 13 members of the Chennai Super Kings contingent, including two players, have tested positive. As a result, concerns about the safety and security of players arose, and has invited strict directions from owners, coaches and captains of other teams. However India and Royal Challengers Bangalore (RCB) captain Virat Kohli, during an episode of ‘Bold Diaries’ on RCB’s official YouTube channel, says the bio-bubble is there for a reason, explaining, “We are all here to play cricket...The bio-bubble needs to be respected at all times for the tournament to happen eventually. We are not here to have fun and roam around saying ‘I want to hang out in Dubai’.” So, it is literally a case of ‘getting with the programme’ — from your TV room for fans. The idea here is that players stay safe and focussed on the game so the experience feels as close to pre-COVID times as possible.  Contact tracing is broken down into three stages of contact identification, contact listing and contact follow-up, but recent technologies leverage Bluetooth (with a six-foot detection range) and Artificial Intelligence...
08 September 2020||September 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Ms. Marvel to the rescue||A few weeks ago, we played the Avengers beta — a worrying experience. Earth’s mightiest heroes’ first big game looked like it was going to be so flat, it should have been named Average-rs. Thankfully, the final game, which just released on September 4, successfully dispelled that with a campaign that is powerful enough to be its own Avengers movie. The story of Marvel’s Avengers follows the young and charismatic Kamala Khan, better known as Ms. Marvel, a Pakistani-American Muslim human, and an Avengers superfan who gets a chance to meet her heroes in the flesh. Disaster strikes and she is imbued with superpowers when the helicarrier, Chimera, is destroyed in a terrorist attack. The event splits the Avengers, sending them all into hiding. Five years later, it is up to a grown-up Kamala to find and reunite them to help her take on a new evil. Made by Crystal Dynamics, the studio responsible for Tomb Raider, Avengers plays out like an Uncharted game initially with Kamala tracking down each Avenger. While this is her story, you also get to play as the Avengers. The campaign hits all the right notes, too, lasting for a little more than 10 hours. You can explore a new world ruled by a dystopian corporation called AIM (Advanced Idea Mechanics). Style and power Gameplay-wise, Avengers veers from platforming to all out beat-em-up action, deftly handling with style. Where the game falters is the way it handles powered characters such as Thor and Hulk, particularly in one scene when they are destroying trucks and tanks. In another, they seem to have trouble with normal low-level enemies. Sure, the game has a rational explanation for that in the form of robots designed to take on the Avengers. It would be great if it would let us feel like we are playing as a superhero. On the upside, fighting as Kamala features both grace and power in her stretchy moves as she pummels enemies. Of course, Iron Man is a lot of fun to fight as, as you can chain combos with funky aerial moves. Each character has many equitable special moves and a lot of loot, costumes and more to collect. To give you more Avengers, there is a multi-player component, which is in the form of replayable missions after the main story is complete. These are largely rehashed and designed to let you grind along with three other friends, or AI companions, in very generic locations where you are so under-powered that you have to constantly keep playing a repetition of missions to get upgrades and level ups for your characters. There are many characters on the way as downloadable content, too: Spider-Man for PlayStation 4 gamers in 2021, the upcoming Hawkeye, and Kate Bishop, as well as a rumoured Black Panther and She-Hulk. Suggestion from our end: they should make the post-game multi-player content even more exciting, with more balances and tweaks to make it less of a time drain. Getting the live game portions are always tricky, so let us hope Crystal Dynamics gets it right. No matter which system you play it on, Avengers is ready for the next generation with amazing details in the environments and on the characters. Yes, the game does suffer from a few occasional glitches and long load times when you die... but at least the loading screens look pretty. Marvel’s Avengers lives up to the hype. It has got heart and is a blast to play. If you are feeling the void of a year without a Marvel movie, this is just what you need. The writer is a tech and gaming enthusiast who hopes to one day finish his sci-fi novel  Marvel’s  Avengers  Developer:Crystal Dynamics, Eidos Montreal  Publisher: Square Enix  Price:Rs. 3,999 on Playstation 4, Xbox One and Rs. 2,999 on PC
08 September 2020||New Delhi,||Fewer cases as testing dips 38%||With the number of tests falling by 38%, the city on Monday recorded 2,077 fresh COVID-19 cases in the past 24 hours, according to a health bulletin released by the government. The total cases now stand at 1,93,526. On Sunday, 3,256 new cases were reported and 36,046 tests were conducted, which fell to 22,954 as per Monday's bulletin. 32 more deaths The average number of tests done in the past three days is 37,053. Also, 32 more fatalities have been reported, taking the death toll to 4,599. Of the total cases, 1,68,384 people have recovered and there are 20,543 active cases. Monday also witnessed an increase in the number of active cases and people admitted in hospitals. Though the number of new cases has been seeing a spike, the new cases is less compared to June. On June 23, daily new cases touched almost 4,000 — highest so far. Also in June, the average daily tests were around 20,000 or lesser, which has gone up in September. The number of active cases in the city on Monday was high compared to August. The number of positive people under home isolation was 11,613 on Monday and is the highest in over 55 days. People in hospitals — 5,218 — are also the highest in more than two months. The number of containment zones in the city has jumped to 1,114, which has been increasing for about 20 days. The government on Monday also completed collecting blood samples for the third serological survey to find the percentage of the population with antibodies against the virus. The first survey had shown that 22.8% of people surveyed had developed antibodies and the second survey had shown 29.1% had antibodies.
08 September 2020||Ghaziabad,||Driver from Delhi killed by 3 passengers on U.P. highway||A driver from Delhi was killed by three unidentified persons in Greater Noida on Sunday when he was returning from Bulandshahr after dropping a passenger, police said. While the family members allege it is a case of lynching, the police denied any hate crime angle. According to the FIR registered at the Badalpur police station in Gautam Buddha Nagar on the complaint of Mohammed Sabir, the deceased’s son, Aftab Alam, a resident of Delhi’s Trilokpuri area, was killed on his way back from Bulandshahr by unidentified assailants. After taking the client to his destination, Aftab called his family to say he is returning home. "Around 8 p.m., he called me from the Dadri toll plaza to get his FASTag charged. When I did that, he called up again to say that he paid cash and didn’t hang up. While he didn’t utter a word to me, I could hear him conversing with other persons in the car who sounded like they were in an inebriated state,” the FIR quoted Mr. Sabir. It further said two mobile phones and Rs. 3,500 that Aftab was carrying were missing.  ‘Forced to drink’ On Monday, Mr. Sabir, a student of Delhi University, alleged his father was forced to drink alcohol and compelled to say “Jai Shri Ram” before being killed. “This became clear from the audio recording. He is told, ‘Jai Shri Ram bol’, and sometime later they offered him liquor. After that, his phone was switched off. I forwarded it to the police, but they didn’t add the lynching angle to the FIR. It seems criminal elements forced their way into the car and killed him after they discovered he is a Muslim,” he claimed. He also claimed there were clear injury marks on his head, face, and neck. Harish Chander, Deputy Commissioner of Police, Central Noida, said there was no religious angle to the murder. “I have listened to the recording two-three times and it is clear that one of the assailants was talking about how he eats mutton and drinks liquor with a friend from Dubai whenever he comes to India. As for the slogan, I think the assailants asked Aftab to stop to buy a packet of roasted chana [a snack] and asked the person they bought the packet from to chant Jai Shri Ram. In fact, one of them could be heard telling another why he was indulging in useless talk.” DCP’s assurance The DCP said the culprits would be caught soon. “These seem to be local guys who have a habit of taking free rides. The CCTV footage confirms that they were three and boarded at the Bulandshahr Bhud crossing. I guess Aftab got suspicious of their activities, leading to a fight that resulted in murder. Preliminary medical reports suggest he died of shock and hemorrhage,” said Mr. Chander. Assistant sub-inspector Rajeev Kumar, who was present when Mr. Sabir and his relatives reached Badalpur police station on Sunday night, said when the deceased’s family approached the Mayur Vihar police in Delhi, they tracked Aftab’s number to Bulandshahr and Gautam Buddha Nagar border. “The car number was flashed across the district. Around 9 p.m. on Sunday, an official vehicle of the Badalpur police station found a car parked near Mohan Swarup Hospital on Dadri road. Aftab was found in an unconscious state on the front passenger seat. He was taken to the hospital where he was declared brought dead,” said the ASI. Deepak Kumar, the investigation officer in the case, said he hadn’t accessed the recording yet. “If there is something substantial, we will add it to the FIR. We are collecting details. No blood was found inside the car. The post-mortem report is awaited.”  Father was forced to drink alcohol and compelled to say Jai Shri Ram before being killed Mohammed SabirSon of victim Aftab Alam
08 September 2020||New Delhi,||Social distancing easy as metros run nearly empty||The Delhi Metro opened to a lukewarm response from commuters on Monday — five months after it came to a halt due to a lockdown following COVID-19 outbreak.  As part of its graded resumption with staggered timings, the first lines to resume services were the 49 km Samaypur Badli-Huda City Centre corridor (Yellow Line) and the 12 km Rapid Metro in Gurugram — operational from 7 a.m. to 11 a.m.; and from 4 p.m. to 8 p.m. The Rapid Metro network, mostly catering to Cyber City and Golf Course Road, witnessed almost nil ridership. Most commuters welcomed resumption of metro services saying they would save time and money, and added that they were satisfied with the safety measures in place to contain the spread of the deadly virus. Pooja Soni, an art consultant, said: “Initially, I was apprehensive and had thought that the temperature checks would not be done properly. But then I saw that every rule is being followed quite strictly. As long as one does not step into crowded coaches and so on, it should be fine.” The Hauz Khas station, a major interchange between the Yellow and Magenta lines remained nearly deserted. Shrishti Sharma (28), travelling from the station to Central Secretariat, said: “I am a regular metro commuter and I have never seen this station empty. For the first day, all arrangements and precautions look fine. We can only hope this will continue and everyone will follow the rules.” Motiur Rahman, another passenger travelling from the Hauz Khas station to Gurugram, said: “Even though the number of COVID-19 cases are increasing, ultimately we need to take care of ourselves. Additionally, with the state of the economy, it was imperative that metro services resume so that some revenue can be generated.” With a drastic reduction in the number of commuters, social distancing on the first day was not an issue. Carrying capacity of trains have also been reduced to 20% of pre-lockdown period. Ashu Panwar (22), a resident of Shahdara, said she had to shift to Gurugram a few weeks back as it was not feasible for her to make the daily commute to work. A special needs children educator, Ms. Panwar said she could now return to Delhi and stay with her family. “As soon as I entered the station, the staff checked my temperature, sanitised my hand bag and asked me to sanitise my hands. Only four people were travelling in my coach so social distancing was not an issue,” she added. At the HUDA City Centre metro station in Gurugram — one of the busiest stations with a footfall of around 1.5 lakh daily prior to lockdown — metro employees and media persons outnumbered commuters. Many unaware While there was heavy deployment of Delhi Metro staff and volunteers, many reaching the stations were not aware of the scaled-down operations and restricted timings. At the entry gates, passengers were also asked to show their status on the Aarogya Setu app. With tokens being discontinued and recharge facilities of smart cards made completely cashless, many commuters returned dejected. Satya Narain (65), was left stranded at HUDA City Centre metro station after staff refused to accept cash in return for a Smart Card. Not all were on board with resuming services. Hemant (31), an IT engineer, said that opening the metro was not a good idea with cases on the rise. He said he would avoid travelling by buses or metro trains till the time the corona scare lasted. “I have taken the metro because my motorcycle broke down today,” said Mr. Hemant, on his way to work in Delhi from Gurugram’s IFFCO Chowk metro station. Meanwhile, the Noida-Greater Noida Aqua Line, which also resumed services on Monday, saw a ridership of just around 600 passengers till 8 p.m. The 389-km Delhi Metro network, including Rapid Metro and Noida-Greater Aqua Line, will become fully operational by September 12.
08 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Centre launches 24/7 toll-free mental health helpline||The Union Social Justice and Empowerment Ministry on Monday launched a 24/7 toll-free helpline to provide support to people facing anxiety, stress, depression, suicidal thoughts and other mental health concerns. The mental health rehabilitation helpline, KIRAN, can be called from landline and mobile phones across the country at the number 1800-599-0019, the Ministry announced. In a statement, the Ministry said the helpline had been launched “in view of the growing incidence of mental illness, particularly in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic.” Shortage of professionals Speaking during the online launch event, Joint Secretary Prabodh Seth said there was a shortage of qualified mental health professionals while 10.6% of adults and 7.3% of adolescents faced mental illness, according to a NIMHANS survey in 2015-2016. He said the helpline operators had been sensitised not to ask the caller for name or any identification details. The helpline would function as the first step for callers to get advice, counselling and referral to psychologists and psychiatrists, the statement said. The helpline will be available in 13 languages and has 660 clinical/rehabilitation psychologists and 668 psychiatrists as volunteers. While the helpline was formally launched by Social Justice and Empowerment Minister Thaawarchand Gehlot on Monday, testing has been on since last month. Speaking during the virtual launch, Dr. Amrita Sahay of the National Institute for the Empowerment of Persons with Intellectual Disabilities (NIEPED) said the helpline was already receiving calls from school and college students anxious due to the COVID-19 pandemic. She said some of the students were showing symptoms of depression and reported not being able to sleep. Dr. Mita Singhal of the Pt. Deendayal Upadhyaya National Institute for Persons with Physical Disabilities said persons with disabilities had reached out to the helpline due to anxiety linked to the pandemic situation. She said the helpline was connecting them with psychologists as well as advising them to do breathing exercises, among other tips.  There is a shortage of qualified mental health professionals, while 10.6% of adults and 7.3% of adolescents faced mental illness Prabodh Seth Joint Secretary
08 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||National Education Policy lacks action plan, says Sisodia||Education Minister Manish Sisodia on Monday said that the new National Education Policy lacks the action plan to implement it and that the execution of the policy should be carefully planned so that it is not limited to just a “wonderful idea”. Mr. Sisodia was speaking at a videoconference organised by the Ministry of Education on the role of the National Education Policy 2020, and was attended by the President, Prime Minister, Governors, Lt. Governors and Education Ministers of various States. Not employable Mr. Sisodia said that at present, over 80% of the youth having a degree are not considered employable and that the policy needs to address whose fault it is. Speaking about vocational degree courses that the NEP talks about, Mr. Sisodia said it was inappropriate to treat vocational degree differently from undergraduate degree in any other subject and that these courses should be given equal importance. “It is necessary to put national education policy into practice rather than restricting it to only wishful thinking. This policy talks about spending 6% of GDP on education. It had been said in the 1968 policy as well but was never implemented. Thus, a law should be made so that successive governments are bound by it and necessary resources needed for effective implementation of the policy can be guaranteed,” he said. Rote learning Mr. Sisodia also stressed on the importance to do away with rote learning and examination-oriented education which causes immense pressure and stress among students. Welcoming the inclusion of early childhood education, he said that its success would depend on training teachers to provide the foundation for children instead of assigning the role to anganwadi workers.
08 September 2020||CHANDIGARH,||3-month extension for retiring doctors, specialists in Punjab||With both cases and fatalities due to COVID-19 going up, Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh has announced three-month extension for all retiring doctors and specialists. Captain Singh has also asked the Chief Secretary to expedite the process of recruitment of technicians and lab assistants for coping with the exponential demand in view of the increasing number of cases. As per a Cabinet decision, these doctors were earlier given extension till September 30, which has now been extended till December 31, 2020, said the Chief Minister. During a virtual review of the COVID-19 situation with top officials and medical experts, Capt. Singh pointed out that the health department is already supporting the government medical colleges with specialist manpower pending recruitment by the medical education department. Chief Secretary Vini Mahajan said both cases and fatalities had witnessed a steady increase in the past few days. The situation was being monitored on a day to day basis, she said.  Shop timings eased The Chief Minister announced some relaxations in lockdown in urban areas, including opening of non-essential shops on Saturdays and relaxation in their timing from Monday to Saturday till 9 p.m. Night curfew will be in place in all cities and towns now from 9.30 p.m. to 5 a.m., as per the revised decision. Hotels and restaurants will be allowed to remain open on all days, including Sundays, till 9 p.m., after which home delivery of food will be allowed.
08 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Lawyers representing riot-accused wary after FIR against advocate||After an FIR was registered against advocate Mehmood Pracha, a group of lawyers representing accused in communal riots cases — especially from minority community — have been feeling wary of their professional conduct and suspect it will impact their cases. An advocate who represents several accused in connection with riots cases said that the matter was discussed with officials and as of now, it was decided that we’ll remain calm and there will be no action taken. Restrict themselves Another advocate said that it’s “human nature” to restrict themselves in such a situation. “One will restrict themselves mentally, naturally. One will think twice before being bold in the court and being aggressive to prove faults in the investigation. One will obviously present facts but one would prefer to remain unnoticed,” he said. However, another advocate Shamim Akhter is of a different opinion and stated that he is not scared as he doesn’t do anything wrong. “I see my client’s interest but I don’t have to cross my limit. If I cross that limit then I am taking a risk which I shouldn’t. For instance, if my client is bailed on merit, good. If he isn’t, I wouldn’t tell him ways on how he could get one,” he said. A Delhi court on August 22 ordered probe into the allegations levelled against Mr. Pracha — who is fighting multiple riot cases — after which an FIR was registered into the matter on charges of cheating and forgery. ‘False deposition’ The case is being probed by Delhi Police’s Special Cell unit. The allegation against the lawyer was that he tutored a complainant to give false deposition to make his case stronger. Another problem An advocate said that this is another “problem” which lawyers are facing. “Complaints approach us and we take their word and later, when it’s all out there, they disappear. A woman had alleged sexual assault during the riots but now she is untraceable,” he said.
08 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Ad blooper: IIT-Delhi issues clarification||IIT-Delhi has clarified that the job advertisement for a “dog handler” posted on August 26 with the eligibility criteria “B.A/B.Sc/B.Com/B.Tech or any equivalent undergraduate degree” was an error and that the qualification intended in the advertisement was Bachelor of Veterinary Science. “In reference to a job advertisement dated 26-08-2020 for a post titled ‘Dog Handler’ [on purely contract basis], IIT-Delhi would like to clarify that the minimum qualification as mentioned in the advertisement got inadvertently copied from another job advertisement. The qualification intended in the advertisement was ‘Bachelor of Veterinary Science’,” the institute said. It added that it has cancelled the current recruitment process after this mistake was brought to the notice of higher authorities and that a fresh process will be initiated to hire a Consultant with suitable minimum qualification.
08 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||JNU to organise virtual convocation in Nov.||Jawaharlal Nehru University on Monday said its Executive Council (EC) has decided that the university’s fourth convocation will be conducted online in November. JNU Vice-Chancellor M. Jagadesh Kumar said that the university revived the convocation by holding its second convocation in 2018. The first convocation was held in 1972. Commenting on the conduct of the Executive Council virtual meeting, the JNU Teachers’ Association (JNUTA) said that disparaging remarks about the JNU faculty were made throughout the meeting and the interventions of their elected representatives were repeatedly sought to be cut short by “muting” them. The teachers said that the agenda items included irregularities and violation of norms and reservation policy in appointments, which the Executive Council was expected to ratify.
08 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Boy steals Rs. 2 lakh from grandfather for PUBG||A 15-year-old boy has allegedly spent over Rs. 2 lakh from his grandfather’s bank account on the online game PUBG Mobile, in north Delhi’s Timarpur, said a senior police officer on Monday. A senior police officer said that a 65-year-old ex government servant reported the incident on September 5 at Timarpur police station. The man alleged that he had received a message from the bank alerting him of a deduction of Rs. 2,500 from his pension account. He claimed he had not made any withdrawal. The complaint was transferred to the district cybercell. During investigation, the police found a sum of Rs. 2.34 lakh was withdrawn from his account over the period of time without his knowledge. The money was the part of his pension fund. “The money was transferred from his account into a Paytm wallet, which was in the name of the complainant’s neighbour. The neighbour disclosed that the said Paytm account was operated by the complainant’s grandson,” said a police officer. The grandson was questioned and he said he spent all the money to buy features for the online game. However, after the game was banned in India, all his investment went in vain. “The boy had been regularly withdrawing money in small denominations. He used to delete SMS alerts from his grandfather’s phone,” added the officer. No FIR was registered into the matter as the grandfather withdrew the complaint.
08 September 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||National honour proves cold comfort for Odisha folk artiste||Jitendra Haripal, awarded the Padma Shri in 2017 for his contribution to the folk music of Odisha’s Sambalpur district, is keeping his fingers crossed, hoping the current dry spell of the monsoon continues. His four-roomed, tile-roofed house in the Stationpada area of Sambalpur town is on the verge of collapse. Incessant rain in the last week of August weakened the house further, with a portion of a wall caving in. The precarious structure shelters 11 members of Mr. Haripal’s family. The COVID-19 pandemic and subsequent lockdown has robbed Mr. Haripal and his family of their livelihood. The legendary singer, who shot to fame with his chartbuster ‘ Rangabati..Rangabati ’, was much sought after for stage shows and recordings. “We have managed to survive with the Odisha government’s monthly Padma Shri pension of Rs. 10,000 but it is difficult to meet other expenses, leave alone repairing the house,” said Mr. Haripal. “Our life is at risk. The rat burrows have destabilised the house further,” he added. Mr. Haripal, from the Dalit community, said he had wanted to meet the District Collector and request for a house, but has not been able to arrange an appointment.
08 September 2020||New Delhi,||‘Issue digital degrees to DU students within 7 days’||The High Court on Monday directed Delhi University (DU) to issue digital degree certificates to students, who have already graduated and urgently require the document for taking admission in a foreign university or for employment, within seven working days. Justice Prathiba M. Singh expressed displeasure that despite its earlier order, the university was not issuing digital degrees to pass out students and was demanding physical copy of proofs attached in the email requesting issuance of the document. The court directed the university to place before it separately, the timeline by when digital degrees will be issued on urgent and non-urgent requests. The court was informed that till now 30,000 students have given requests on the varsity’s portal for digital degree certificates. Earlier on August 7, the court had passed an order on a bunch of petitions, putting in place a proper procedure for issuance of degree certificates through an online mechanism to ensure that delay in printing of degree certificates does not become an impediment to students who need it. It had directed that DU shall ensure that students’ digital degree certificates are issued within a period of one week from registration. On Monday, the court was informed that data of 28,000 students which constitute half of the students who graduated in 2017 have been uploaded on ‘DigiLocker’, an initiative by the IT Ministry. However, to access it, students’ date of birth is required and DU is yet to obtain it from respective colleges, the court noted.
08 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Two terror suspects held following exchange of fire||Two suspected members of banned terrorist group Babbar Khalsa International have been arrested following a brief exchange of fire in north-west Delhi, the police said on Monday. The accused have been identified as Bhupender alias Dilawar Singh (41) and Kulwant Singh (39), both residents of Ludhiana, the police said. They were also wanted in some cases in Punjab. They are supporters of Khalistan movement and were planning to execute targeted killings in various States in northern India on the directions of Pakistani ISI sponsored Khalistani leaders, DCP (Special Cell) Sanjeev Kumar Yadav said. Bhupender is part of two pro-Pakistan-related public groups – ‘Pakistan Zindabad Khalistan Zindabad’ and ‘Defenders of Pakistan’.
08 September 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi govt. sets up testing camp inside Parliament||The Delhi government on Monday said it has set up a COVID-19 testing camp inside Parliament and is awaiting venue options from the administrative departments of many Central government buildings across Lutyens’ Delhi for the same. “Recommendations regarding the venue and size of the camps are expected to be received over the coming few days,” said a government official, adding that the government is inching closer to its target of 40,000 daily tests. The government has already ramped up testing for COVID-19 at transit points and court complexes. The rationale behind setting up camps at such buildings is to allow more testing as people return to their “normal” work routine, a source said. Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had on August 26 announced that the number of daily tests would be doubled from 20,000 to 40,000. Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal at a meeting of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority on Wednesday had directed that testing facilities be ramped up at transit points and larger construction sites in the city.
08 September 2020||New Delhi,||DERC reduces fixed rates for non-domestic users||In a relief to non-domestic (commercial and industrial) consumers, the Delhi Electricity Regulatory Commission (DERC) has dropped the fixed charges for ununitilised capacity by 50% for April and May, the Delhi government said on Monday. The total unutilised capacity during this period was 80%, out of which 84% pertains to non-domestic consumers and 75% for industrial consumers. The charges have been reduced from Rs. 250/ kVA/month to Rs. 125/kVA/month. Power Minister Satyendar Jain said: “...The expected impact of the said waiver is around Rs. 160 crore. This will benefit around 44,000 industrial consumers and around 10 lakh non-domestic/commercial consumers.” CM tweeted: “Delhi govt stands with the people of Delhi in this hour of crisis. This relief in fixed charges will help lakhs of people to face hardships caused by Corona [sic].”
08 September 2020||New Delhi,||‘Brutally removed by police during protest’||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Monday said party leaders protesting outside the Civic Centre against non-payment of salaries to municipal corporation workers were “brutally” removed by the police and later detained. ‘Taken into custody’ The party said the BJP won’t be able to suppress AAP’s voice with “dictatorship”. Addressing a press conference, AAP leader Durgesh Pathak said: “In a democratic country where it is the constitutional right of a common citizen to raise their voice against the wrong policies of the government, but the BJP-ruled Modi government is trying to suppress that voice. While protesting, AAP leaders were brutally pulled by the BJP-ruled Delhi Police and taken into custody.” The party said that they were not given permission for a rally from Rajghat to Civic Centre.
08 September 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Farmers start campaign against agri ordinances||Farmers in Punjab under the banner of the Kisan Mazdoor Sangarsh Samiti on Monday started a campaign to “court arrest” themselves as a mark of protest against the Centre’s recently promulgated agriculture ordinances. “We have started ‘jail bharo andolan’ in ten districts of the State to register our protest against the three ordinances promulgated by the BJP-led government at the Centre. We demand that the government should not pass the Bills in Parliament surrounding these ordinances. Besides, we also want the government to revoke amendment to the Electricity Act,” Sarvan Singh Pandher, general secretary of the Punjab unit of the Samiti, told The Hindu .  ‘Anti-farmer law’ “These ordinances are an ill-conceived move on the part of the Central government, which is completely anti-farmer. The implementation of the ordinances will ultimately lead to exploitation at the hands of big corporate houses. The government has given a free hand to the private corporate houses to exploit the farmers,” he added. “We will continue to court arrest as a part of our agitation until our demands are met. We also demand all the 13 MPs from Punjab to raise their voice against the Bills during the upcoming monsoon session of the Parliament,” said Mr. Pandher.  ‘CM misleading farmers’ Meanwhile, Union Minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal accused Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh of misleading farmers on the issue of agriculture ordinances. “Captain Amarinder Singh must refrain from misleading Punjab farmers by indulging in farcical opposition to the Central government’s ordinances on agriculture reforms, which he himself had implemented in Punjab in August 2017,” said Ms. Badal. She said Capt. Amarinder’s statement demanding the withdrawal of the ordinances was nothing but a ploy to inflame sentiments of farmers to divert attention from his government’s failures.
08 September 2020||JAIPUR,||Panchayat elections in Rajasthan from Sept. 28||The Rajasthan State Election Commission on Monday announced elections to 3,848 village panchayats in four phases beginning September 28. The sarpanches and ward panches will be elected in the polls, while a separate announcement will be made later for election of zila parishad and panchayat samiti members. The election process will begin on September 16 for the first phase of voting which will take place on September 28, while the subsequent phases will be held on October 3, October 6 and October 10. A total of 35,968 wards in 3,848 village panchayats situated in 26 districts will go to polls. Elections to 9,171 other village panchayats in the State were earlier held in three phases in January this year. State Election Commissioner P.S. Mehra said all precautionary measures would be taken during the polling in view of the COVID-19 pandemic and the number of voters would be reduced from 1,100 to 900 at each polling station to maintain social distancing. Mr. Mehra said the polling time had also been extended by an hour to avoid crowding at the polling booths. Elections to the posts of deputy sarpanches will be held on September 29, October 4, October 7 and October 11. The model code of conduct came into immediate effect on Monday in the areas going to the panchayat polls.
08 September 2020||United Nations,||UNICEF to lead vaccine procurement, supply||The United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) has announced that it will be leading the procurement and supply of COVID-19 vaccines to ensure that all countries have safe, fast and equitable access to initial doses when they are available. UNICEF is the world’s largest single vaccine buyer, procuring over 2 billion doses of various vaccines annually for routine immunisation and outbreak response on behalf of nearly 100 countries. With several vaccine candidates showing promise, the UN agency, in collaboration with the Revolving Fund of the Pan American Health Organization, will lead efforts to procure and supply doses of COVID-19 vaccines on behalf of the COVAX Global Vaccine Facility for 92 low and lower middle-income countries, whose vaccine purchases will be supported by the mechanism. “We are ready for an immense new challenge: to lead the global supply of COVID-19 vaccines and help end the worst stage of this pandemic,” it tweeted on Saturday. “UNICEF is the world’s largest single buyer of vaccines for diseases like measles and polio, procuring over 2 billion doses on behalf of nearly 100 countries each year. Thanks to our supporters, we now have the experience and expertise to deliver a COVID19 vaccine to the world,” it said. UNICEF will also serve as a procurement coordinator to support purchases by 80 higher-income economies, which have expressed their intent to participate in the COVAX Facility and would finance the vaccines from their own budgets, it said.
08 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Spraying disinfectants on people to fight virus not recommended: govt.||Spraying of disinfectants on humans causes both physical and psychological harm, the Union Ministry of Health informed the Supreme Court on Monday. “Spraying of disinfectants on humans is not recommended under any circumstances”, it said. The Ministry was responding to a petition filed by Gursimran Singh Narula questioning the efficacy of disinfection tunnels, spraying of disinfectants and fogging as means to prevent coronavirus infection. The Ministry said it had “nowhere issued any advisory/guidelines/SOPs for usage, installation, production, advertisement of disinfection tunnels to spray/fumigate chemical or organic disinfectants in workspace, public spaces, etc”. A Bench led by Justice Ashok Bhushan asked why the Union government had not yet banned their (tunnels) use yet. Solicitor General Tushar Mehta assured the court that appropriate orders would be issued soon. The government said spraying of chemical or organic disinfectants both indoors and outdoors hardly had any effect on the novel coronavirus. The Ministry referred to its Expert Committee recommendation of June 9, which rejected disinfection tunnels and termed spraying of disinfectants dangerous for humans. Spraying affected the skin and the respiratory tract. A Joint Monitoring Group meeting held by top health organisations, including the World Health Organisation, the Directorate General of Health Services, the Indian Council of Medical Research, etc, on April 4 logically concluded that external spraying does not kill the virus that has already entered the body. “In indoor spaces, routine application of disinfectants to environmental surfaces by spraying or fogging is not recommended for COVID-19 as the disinfectant may not be effective in removing organic material and may miss surfaces shielded by objects, folded fabrics or surfaces with intricate designs”, a 44-page affidavit filed by the Ministry said.
08 September 2020||New Delhi,||1-day special House session on Sept. 14||The Delhi Cabinet on Monday approved a one-day special session of the Delhi Legislative Assembly on September 14. Sources termed the session a routine and procedural affair in accordance with the provisions of the Transaction of Business Rules. The sitting will be held with arrangements similar to the five-day Budget Session of the Delhi Assembly, which was truncated to one-day due to the pandemic. “The agenda is yet to be determined,” an official said.
08 September 2020||September 08 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Brahmins, Dalits tortured in U.P. under Adityanath’||Attacking the BJP, AAP on Monday alleged that Dalits and Brahmins were being “tortured” in Uttar Pradesh. “Since Yogi Adityanath became the Chief Minister of U.P., there has been oppression against brahmins and dalits. In U.P, being a Brahmin has become the biggest crime. A man dying every other day is a Mishra, Dubey, Pandey, Sharma or Bajpai,” said AAP chief spokesperson Saurabh Bharadwaj at a press meet. “It was very evident that a certain section of the Hindu community get preference in everything. Mr. Adityanath whose real name is Ajay Mohan Singh Bisht comes from the Thakur community. In the government jobs and for that in the top posts, the Thakur community is getting the preference,” said Mr. Bharadwaj. He alleged that a three-time MLA from U.P., Nirvendra Mishra, was beaten to death using lathis in front of police. “Every other murder inside U.P. is either of a dalit or a brahmin. It seems that no one is safe except for Thakurs inside Yogi Raj,” the AAP leader said.
08 September 2020||September 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Intense testing||
08 September 2020||Bhubaneswar,||‘Law and order deteriorating in Jharkhand’||Bharatiya Janata Party president J. P. Nadda lashed out at the Hemant Soren government on Monday, claiming the law and order situation was deteriorating in Jharkhand, which was sign of a weak government. “I have been watching the State’s development for a long time. The development process halts when law and order situation deteriorates. I can say with conviction that the law and order situation has worsened under the Hemant Soren government,” he said addressing the State Executive Committee members through video conferencing. “In BJP-ruled States, naxalism has almost disappeared. Now in Jharkhand, naxalism seems to be on the verge of staging a comeback. Terrorism is rearing its ugly head. Murders are being committed in broad daylight. It is sign of a weak government. It is happening due to its appeasement policy,” the BJP chief said. He said the Raghubar Das-led government had served Jharkhand people well. “The BJP government in Jharkhand was the only State government to announce refilling of second cylinder received under the Ujjwala Scheme,” he said.
08 September 2020||CUTTACK,||Ex-RS member dies of virus||Former Rajya Sabha member and BJD’s longest serving general secretary Narendra Swain passed away here on Monday due to coronavirus.
08 September 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi riots: ED custody of Tahir Hussain extended by three days||A Delhi court on Monday extended by three days the Enforcement Directorate custody of suspended AAP councillor Tahir Hussain in a money laundering case related to the north-east Delhi riots in February. The ED was probing the allegation that Mr. Hussain and his linked persons laundered about Rs. 1.10 crore, by using purported shell or dummy companies, to fuel the anti-CAA protests and the riots.
