08 April 2020||New Delhi,||Govt. mulls lockdown extension amid requests from the States||The Union government on Tuesday indicated that it was actively considering an extension of the 21-day nationwide lockdown that began on March 25 and is due to end on April 14, as many States have openly appealed for its continuation as the number of COVID-19 cases continue to rise. While Telangana Chief Minister K. Chandrashekhara Rao had requested Prime Minister Narendra Modi to extend the lockdown on Monday, Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan of Madhya Pradesh on Tuesday echoed the plea. Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot also called for a phased withdrawal of the lockdown, saying that saving lives was important. In an interview to The Hindu , Chhattisgarh Health Minister T.S. Singh Deo said, “I feel people have got used to the lockdown. We should take advantage of that and deal conservatively with the question of lifting the lockdown. Certainly, borders of States should remain closed although activities within districts are on to some extent. A conservative estimate and looking at the expected spike in cases, we must go for another 14 days of lockdown at least.” Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh is understood to have conveyed to the Prime Minister during a videoconference last week that the lockdown should not be lifted all of a sudden and that it should be done in three to four phases. “There should be a partial lifting in a graded and calibrated manner. Allow farmers to harvest their crops but keep schools and colleges closed. Allow scooters and two-wheelers to ply first,” a senior Punjab government official said.
08 April 2020||New Delhi,||India lifts ban on export of hydroxychloroquine||India on Tuesday announced that it had rescinded its earlier ban on the export of malaria drug hydroxychloroquine (HCQ), which is now being used in countries such as the U.S. as a possible line of treatment for COVID-19. “In view of the humanitarian aspects of the pandemic, it has been decided that India would licence paracetamol and HCQ in appropriate quantities to all our neighbouring countries who are dependent on our capabilities. We will also be supplying these essential drugs to some nations that have been particularly badly affected by the pandemic,” Ministry of External Affairs spokesperson Anurag Srivastava said. In a notification on March 25, the government placed HCQ on a restricted items list, and then put a blanket ban on any export of the drug on April 4. The latest decision, which was taken at a high-level meeting on April 6, effectively overturns the previous notification. The MEA announcement came hours after U.S. President Donald Trump said that India could invite “retaliation” if it withheld supplies of HCQ, for which the U.S., Brazil and other countries have already placed advance orders. “I spoke to [PM Modi] yesterday, a good talk. I would be surprised [if India refused to supply HCQ] because India does very well by the U.S. For many years they have been taking advantage of the United States on trade… I spoke to him and said, we appreciate your allowing the supply to come out. If he doesn’t allow it come out, that would be OK, but, of course, there may be retaliation. Why wouldn’t there be?” Mr. Trump said at a press conference in Washington. He also told reporters in a separate briefing that the U.S. already had a national stockpile of about 29 million capsules of HCQ.
08 April 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi’s ‘5T’ war against virus||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Tuesday announced a “5T plan” created by his government to contain COVID-19 spread in Delhi. These five Ts are testing, tracing, treatment, teamwork and tracking-monitoring. “All the nations which remained a step ahead of COVID-19 have managed to control it. I have been in touch with various experts and doctors and we have formulated a five-point plan to deal with the situation in Delhi,” the Chief Minister said. The first T is testing, which when done on a mas scale enables the actual data of people affected by novel coronavirus. “Like South Korea, we will be testing on a large scale. We have ordered testing for around 50,000 people and rapid testing rounds for 1 lakh people which will begin from Friday,” he said. Through rapid testing, the government will also be able to identify COVID-19 hotspots and take necessary action, said Mr. Kejriwal. The second T is tracing, which involves identifying and quarantining people who have come in contact with infected persons. “We are taking the help of police to trace whether the people who have been advised to self-quarantine are actually doing it or not. For this, we have given 27,702 contact numbers to the police through which they are tracing their movement,” he said. The third component, he said, is treatment. The LNJP and GB Pant hospitals had been declared primary hospitals for COVID-19 treatment with 1,500 and 500 beds respectively. While the Rajiv Gandhi hospital has 450 beds, 2,450 beds are available in government hospitals and 450 beds at private ones. The fourth element of the five-point plan  i s teamwork and collective efforts are being made to fight the virus. All State governments, he said, must learn from each other and work together. The fifth T, he said, is tracking and monitoring. “It is my responsibility to ensure that all these measures are in place and all the systems are functioning smoothly. I am tracking and monitoring all these things 24x7,” he said.
08 April 2020||CHENNAI,||One more death, 69 new COVID-19 cases in T.N.||For the fourth consecutive day, Tamil Nadu reported a death due to COVID-19. A 64-year-old woman, who had no travel history but came from one of the “high-risk areas”, died at Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital on Tuesday even as the State’s tally of cases surged to 690 with 69 additions. “The patient from Chennai was in the hospital for 1.5 hours. The woman had co-morbid conditions of diabetes and hypertension. She did not have a travel history but had a contact history. She was from one of the high-risk areas and we are in the process of identifying her contact,” Health Secretary Beela Rajesh told reporters. With this, a total of seven persons, who had tested positive for COVID-19, have died in the State. “We are doing a continuous audit of every death. We have a 10-member expert committee comprising doctors from the government and private sectors. We held a meeting today and they have revised the guidelines. We have increased the protocols for treatment and monitoring. We are analysing these deaths to prevent further deaths,” Dr. Rajesh said. As on date, 19 persons had been discharged from hospitals after treatment, she added. Of the 69 new cases, 63 were linked to the “single source event” (the Delhi conference). This included those who attended the event and their contacts. Of the remaining six persons, the source of infection had been identified for three of a family from Thoothukudi. One person had inter-State travel history, another had contact with an international traveller and for one more person, tracking was under way, she added. Six persons - four women and two males - from Thoothukudi, five persons - two men and three women - from Madurai, three persons - two men and a woman - from Thanjavur, 13 men from Tiruppur, one person from Coimbatore, 39 persons - 22 women and 17 men - from Chennai and two persons from Ranipet have tested positive. A total of 1,630 samples from persons who attended the “single source event” and their contacts were sent for testing. Of the 69 new cases, 63 were linked to the “single source event” (the Delhi conference). This included those who attended the event and their contacts. Of the remaining six persons, the source of infection had been identified for three of a family from Thoothukudi. One person had inter-State travel history, another had contact with an international traveller and for one more person, tracking was under way, she added. Six persons - four women and two males - from Thoothukudi, five persons - two men and three women - from Madurai, three persons - two men and a woman - from Thanjavur, 13 men from Tiruppur, one person from Coimbatore, 39 persons - 22 women and 17 men - from Chennai and two persons from Ranipet have tested positive. A total of 1,630 samples from persons who attended the “single source event” and their contacts were sent for testing. Of this, 636 had tested positive, 961 negative and 33 were under process, she said, adding that more persons were coming in. Overall, a total of 5,305 samples were tested till date in the State, of which 201 were under process. A total of 1,864 persons were admitted to isolation wards in hospitals across the State. City sees surge Chennai witnessed another surge in the number of cases. With 39 more persons testing positive on Tuesday, the city’s tally of positive cases increased to 149. Coimbatore was second with 60 cases, followed by Dindigul with 45. Tirunelveli had 38 cases and Erode had 32. Containment activities were expanded to 34 districts, covering 15 lakh households and a population of 53 lakh persons. A total of 30,369 field workers were involved. Testing facilities In addition to the 17 existing testing facilities, T.N. got two more laboratories - IRT, Perundurai and a private laboratory, the Health Secretary said. The State has the most number of testing centres and testing kits, Dr. Rajesh said. As of now, the State had adequate testing kits, she said, adding: “This is an ongoing process. We have placed orders. We had already received 10,000 kits, and had 4,000 kits in hand. As of now, all the kits are from National Institute of Virology, Pune,” she said. On the rapid test kits, she said a detailed video-conference was held with microbiologists and lab technicians in districts. “We are working out a micro plan. We have also involved Anna University and are doing GIS mapping up to the level of house, street and number of buildings,” she said. She said that protocols for burial/cremation of persons who die due to COVID-19 had already been issued. As on date, a total of 66,430 persons were under home quarantine in the State, and another 253 in government quarantine facilities. A total of 27,416 persons had completed the 28-day home quarantine.
08 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Death toll goes up to four; 11 more test positive in State||The State has reported one more death due to COVID-19, taking the toll to four so far. The deceased, a 45-year-old man from Kurnool district, was admitted to the Kurnool Government General Hospital on April 1 and was tested positive for the virus later. The man with type 2 diabetes succumbed to the disease two days later on April 3, a bulletin by the Health Department issued on Tuesday said. The deceased had no history of travel, which is an indication of community transmission in the district which reported the highest number of cases in the State. On the other hand, Guntur reported nine more positive cases and Kadapa and Nellore reported one each case taking the State's tally to 314 as of Tuesday evening. Kurnool tops the list Kurnool with 74 cases is followed by Nellore (43), Guntur (41), Krishna (29), Kadapa (28), Prakasam (24), West Godavari (21), Visakhapatnam (20), Chittoor (17), East Godavari (11), and Anantapur (6). So far six people recovered and were discharged from hospital. While one patient has been admitted to Intensive Care Unit the remaining are stable and recovering, officials said. Close to 4,000 samples were tested so far and most of them are either of the Delhi returnees or their close contacts. More positive cases are likely to be reported as the government is going for testing of samples of symptomatic persons, healthcare professionals, workers, sanitation workers, persons suffering from fever and people from the containment clusters across the State.
08 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Kerala-Karnataka border row sorted out, Centre informs SC||The Supreme Court on Tuesday disposed of a bunch of petitions concerning the Kerala-Karnataka border sealing case after the Union government informed that a consensus had been worked out to allow patients requiring urgent medical treatment to cross the Talapadi border and access hospitals in Mangaluru. Appearing before a Bench led by Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde, Solicitor General Tushar Mehta said a meeting was held among the Union Home Secretary and the Chief Secretaries of the States to amicably resolve the crisis. An agreement had been reached on the parameters and protocol for allowing patients into Karnataka. On April 3, the court ordered the Centre, Kerala and Karnataka to confer immediately and “formulate parameters for passage of patients for urgent medical treatment at the border at Talapadi”. The court then listed the case on April 7. The April 3 order was based on petitions highlighting how Karnataka had enforced a blockade which, the court was informed, had resulted in deaths as ambulances bound for Mangaluru were not being permitted to cross the border. The petitions asked the court to intervene to facilitate free movement of vehicles carrying persons who need urgent medical treatment across the border. Karnataka argued that the blockade was put in place in the interest of public health. The situation regarding coronavirus was “really dire”. Kerala was the “worst-affected” State in the country, with nearly 194 coronavirus cases. In this, Kasaragod, adjoining Karnataka, was the “worst-affected” district of Kerala with over 100 positive cases, it said.  Karnataka argued that the blockade was put in place in the interest of public health. The situation was “really dire”.
08 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Nine more test positive, active cases down to 263 in State||Though the State reported nine COVID-19 cases on Tuesday, the number of active cases came down to 263 from 266 with 12 earlier cases testing negative. Briefing media here on Tuesday, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said four of these cases were people who had returned from abroad, three were primary contacts of imported cases while two were linked to the Tablighi Jamaat meeting at Nizamuddin. Of the nine new cases, four were in Kasaragod, three in Kannur and one case each was reported at Kollam and Malappuram. While the total number of cases reported in the Sate so far has climbed to 336, only 263 were currently under treatment in the State. Till date, 71 patients have recovered and been discharged from the hospital, while two persons had died. The number of those under surveillance in the State has been dropping steadily as those in the currently quarantined pool have been completing their quarantine period. On Tuesday, the number of people under surveillance was 1,46,686, of whom 752 were in isolation wards in hospitals. The Chief Minister said the State was very much concerned about the plight of Keralite nurses in various parts of the globe who were on the front line in the fight against COVID-19. On Tuesday, World Health Day (April 7), everyone should be concerned about the safety of Malayali nurses whose supreme sacrifices have been the strength of Kerala’s fight, earlier during the time of Nipah and during the present pandemic, he said. Mr. Vijayan appealed to organisations of Malayali expatriates to intervene and help the nursing community wherever possible.
08 April 2020||HYDERABAD,||Criminal cases against ‘foreigners’ in Hyderabad, Nalgonda||Close on the heels of police in Karimnagar filing cases against 10 Indonesians accusing them of violating visa regulations, cases were registered against some foreigners in Hyderabad and Nalgonda district. Many of these foreigners came to Telangana after attending the Tablighi Jamaat meeting in Delhi last month. Majority of them came to India on tourist visa but allegedly took part in religious meetings which are against the rules, the police said. The additional charge against them was that they had contacted a disease, which was already declared a pandemic, and still moved around posing threat to the lives of others. Different provisions of Indian Penal Code, the Foreigners Act and the Epidemic Act were invoked against them. In Nalgonda district, a case was registered against 12 Vietnam nationals. Another case was booked against 17 Rohingya (Myanmar nationals). “None of the Vietnamese tested positive for coronavirus. One of them attended the Delhi meeting,” Nalgonda SP A.V. Ranganath said. Among the Rohingya, two tested positive for coronavirus. All of them are residents of Balapur near Chandrayanagutta in Hyderabad. They came to Nalgonda and participated in religious activities, the SP said. In Hyderabad, nearly nine cases were registered against 70 persons, who included Indonesians, Kyrgyzstanis and Malaysians and some from Hyderabad. The latter arranged accommodation for the foreigners and also their participation in religious programmes, the police said. These foreigners were quarantined, the police said. “We are yet to get any instructions on further course of action. Once they are discharged, the government has to take a call whether to deport them or go ahead with legal action,” a police officer said.
08 April 2020||New Delhi,||IRCTC suspends bookings of three trains till April 30||The Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) has cancelled booking for three “corporate trains” operated by it. Earlier, the bookings were suspended only till the period of the 21-day nationwide lockdown, that is, April 14. The three trains are Kashi Mahakal Express (between Varanasi and Indore), the Lucknow-New Delhi Tejas Express and the Ahmedabad-Mumbai Tejas Express. An IRCTC official said that travellers who had already made their bookings on these trains will be fully refunded. The move comes amid reports that the government is considering extending the 21-day lockdown to check the spread of coronavirus following requests from State governments. The official added that bookings for other trains after the lockdown period is currently being undertaken, and any decision with regards to these trains will come from the Indian Railways.
08 April 2020||Bengaluru,||12 districts in Karnataka remain free from virus||As many as 12 districts in the State continue to remain free from COVID-19 even as 12 new cases were reported on Tuesday, taking the total number of cases to 175. While no new cases have been reported from the cluster hotspots of Nanjangud, Gowribidnur, and Bhatkal on Tuesday, Gadag and Mandya, which did not have cases so far, reported one and three positive cases, respectively. The other cases include four participants of the Tablighi Jamaat congregation and three contacts of earlier COVID-19 confirmed participants. As many as 25 persons have been discharged so far. While three Tablighi event attendees (whom the department has now termed as those with travel history to Delhi) from Bengaluru and Bengaluru Rural areas have tested positive, another person from the city has also tested positive. Two persons from Bagalkot, including one who attended the congregation and another neighbour of the 75-year-old who succumbed to the infection, tested positive. On Tuesday, one person each from Gadag and Kalaburagi with a history of severe acute respiratory infection (SARI) tested positive. They did not have travel history or contact history. Another person from Kalaburagi, who is the daughter-in-law of the doctor who attended the 73-year-old who succumbed to the illness, tested positive. The total government labs in the State have increased to 11 with ICMR approving one more government lab in KIMS, Hubbali. Besides, another private lab in Sakra World Hospital in Bengaluru has also been approved, Primary and Secondary Education Minister Suresh Kumar told presspersons.  BOX   No decision yet on extending lockdown  Special Correspondent Bengaluru The State government has not taken any decision on extending the lockdown beyond April 14 as of now, said Primary and Secondary Education Minister Suresh Kumar on Tuesday. “While the spread has been noticed in 18 districts, the case load is high in three districts. We are monitoring the situation and discussing with experts. The COVID-19 task force comprising expert doctors such as C N Manjunath and Devi Prasad Shetty is likely to submit a report in two days. We will decide after that,” he said.
08 April 2020||CHENNAI,||T.N. to pool Rs. 1 crore each from MLACDS funds||A day after the Centre promulgated an ordinance suspending MPLADS for two years, Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Tuesday said he had ordered pooling of Rs. 1 crore each from the MLA Constituency Development Scheme (MLACDS) funds of all legislators towards precautionary and relief measures being taken against COVID-19. In a statement, Mr. Palaniswami said Rs. 1 crore from each MLACDS fund would be used to meet the expenses incurred in the fight against COVID-19. The Chief Minister’s statement came shortly after DMK president and Leader of the Opposition M.K. Stalin tweeted, alleging that funds allotted by DMK MLA V. Senthil Balaji were being turned down by the district administration. The Chief Minister clarified that the funds were to be integrated at the district and State levels and spent on the fight against COVID-19. Speaking to The Hindu , a DMK MLA said: “When the entire State is facing the threat of novel coronavirus, how can the government take away the already paltry funds allotted to us?” The legislator also recalled an incident last week, when his request to use his MLACDS funds for disinfectants and personal protective equipment for conservancy workers in his constituency was turned down by the district collector. "Instead of issuing an announcement to make it mandatory for using the funds for COVID-19, this announcement by the CM shows how he is mismanaging and how his plan is flawed and how this government is blindly following Prime Minister Narendra Modi without a clear plan," the MLA, elected from one of the northern districts, contended. Every MLA is allotted Rs. 3 crore under MLACDS. According to the guidelines issued in June last year for the scheme, the funds are to be spent on tied components and untied components. Funds to the tune of Rs. 1.5 crore in the tied components basket are to be spent on infrastructure, anganwadis, kitchens in schools and drinking water supply, among others.
08 April 2020||CHITTOOR,||Twelve taken ill after consuming datura seeds||Twelve persons, who included five children, were taken ill after they consumed a liquor made of toxic seeds of datura (’Ummetta’ plant in local parlance), which resembles the shape of COVID-19 virus, believing that it will protect them from the disease, at Alla Kottur village of Baireddipalle mandal, 80 km from here, on Tuesday. As per information, a youth, who reportedly watched a video on social media that suggested that datura seeds could act as a deterrent to the virus, especially for the elderly and children, allegedly encouraged some families to follow the tip. The seeds were collected from the nearby tank bund on Monday evening. After crushing the seeds, it was mixed with some oils used in Ayurveda. The “drug” was administered to the interested families before breakfast on Tuesday. Close to noon, 12 who developed vomiting and giddiness were rushed to the primary health centres at Baireddipalle and Theertham. Medical officers Veera Narayana Swamy and M. Siva Pratap administered them first-aid and shifted them to the Government Area Hospital at Palamaner. “Some showed signs of giddiness and vomiting. The seeds are toxic and will have undesirable impact on the nervous and metabolic systems.,” Dr. Siva Pratap said. Meanwhile, a team of COVID-19 Task Force officials rushed to the village and took up an awareness campaign among the residents against consuming toxic seeds.
08 April 2020||Srinagar,||Mehbooba leaves jail, detained at home now||Former Chief Minister and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) president Mehbooba Mufti was shifted from a Srinagar sub-jail to her official residence, also declared a sub-jail, on Tuesday to put her under house arrest. “In exercise of the powers conferred by Clause (b) of Section 2 of the Prisoners Act, 1990, the government hereby declares Fairview, Gupkar Road, Srinagar as subsidiary jail,” an order issued by Principal Secretary to the J&K government Shaleen Kabra said. Fairview is the official residence of Ms. Mufti, who was arrested on August 5, 2019, as part of a crackdown ahead of the withdrawal of J&K’s special status. She was booked under the Public Safety Act on February 6 and has been in solitary confinement for more than eight months. Several regional parties, including the National Conference (NC), JK Peoples Movement (JKPM) and JK Apni Party (JKAP), had asked the Centre to release Ms. Mufti. “Ms. Mufti must be set free. Shifting her home while continuing to keep her detained is a cop-out,” said NC vice-president Omar Abdullah, who was released from detention late last month.
08 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Schools, colleges may remain closed till May 15||The Union Health Ministry on Tuesday said the country has registered 13 deaths and 508 new COVID-19 cases in the past 24 hours, taking the total death toll to 124 with 4,789 cases nationwide. A total of 326 persons have recovered from the infection, Joint Secretary in the Union Health Ministry Lav Agrawal said at the daily press briefing. Amid calls from the States on the need for a calibrated lifting of the lockdown, a meeting of the Group of Ministers on COVID-19, chaired by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, recommended that the closure of all educational institutions and restrictions on all religious activities having public participation be extended till May 15, irrespective of the government decision, official sources said. The recommendation came as State Health Departments reported 20 more deaths, taking the nationwide toll to 165, with 5,126 confirmed cases. Maharashtra reported 12 more deaths, taking the tally of the deceased so far to 64, with 1,018 confirmed cases. Four more deaths were reported from Gujarat, while Andhra Pradesh, Odisha, Jammu & Kashmir and Tamil Nadu reported one death since Monday. In Rajasthan, which saw the number of active cases touching 283 with 24 new cases, Health Minister Raghu Sharma said the government had decided to step up screening in hotspots using rapid testing kits. Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said that one lakh random rapid anti-body tests would be conducted in the city’s hotspots. (With PTI inputs)
08 April 2020||HYDERABAD,||23-day-old newborn tests positive for COVID-19||Three people from a family in Mahbubnagar, including a 23-day-old newborn, tested positive for coronavirus. The three patients including the newborn were admitted to isolation wards of Gandhi Hospital. State Health officials said that after coming to know that a person has returned from the Markaz event New Delhi, swab samples from him and his primary contacts including his family members. “Of them, his son, wife, and 23-day-old grandchild tested positive for COVID-19,” said S Venkata Rao, Mahbubnagar district collector. However, the Markaz returnee has tested negative for coronavirus. Suspecting that the result was false, a second set of swab samples were collected whose results are awaited. “Besides, his son (who tested positive) is a preacher. Another suspicion is that the son might have contracted it from someone else,” said an official from State Health department. Results of the newborn’s tests were received on Monday.
08 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Workshops, cellphone shops to open on specific days||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Tuesday said cellphone shops could open from 7 a.m. to 5 p.m. on Sundays. Workshops and automobile spare-part shops could open for business on Sundays and Thursdays. Registered electricians could attend calls as usual. The government would soon designate a day for dealers of fans and air-conditioners to open for business. It was also weighing whether it could allow salons to open on a specific day. The task force led by former Chief Secretary K.M. Abraham has suggested a slew of measures to walk the State back from the lockdown in carefully calibrated phases. The government has sent the report for the consideration of the Centre. The national lockdown would end on April 14. Centre to decide The ball is in the Central government’s court to decide whether it should be extended or not. The Centre would pronounce its decision soon. Then States, including Kerala, would have their say, Mr. Vijayan said. He said stale fish earmarked for making compost was being peddled in Kerala as fresh catch from across the border in Tamil Nadu. Authorities have impounded and destroyed several such toxic consignments.
08 April 2020||April 08 2020 00:00 IST,||A battle won||
08 April 2020||HUBBALLI,||Gadag records first COVID-19 positive case||Gadag district recorded its first case of COVID-19 pandemic on Tuesday with an 80-year-old woman testing positive for infection. Confirming the development, Minister for Mines and Geology and District in-charge C.C. Patil told presspersons in Gadag on Tuesday that the patient (P166) was admitted in the Gadag Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS) with complaints of severe respiratory problems. “Her throat swabs were sent for testing and she has tested positive. All necessary treatment is being given,” he said. The Minister said that the elderly woman had participated in a dinner at a family function at S.M. Krishna Nagar in Gadag Betageri. “All 44 persons who had come into contact with the elderly woman have been quarantined now,” he said.
08 April 2020||April 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Kerala panel for phased reversal||The time is not yet ripe for the “full withdrawal of the lockdown” and it should be gradual and phased to ensure that the case load is always kept below the capa–city of the healthcare system to deal with it, a Kerala task force has said.page 5
08 April 2020||April 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Re-use masks, AIIMS staff told||The AIIMS medical staff have been asked to reuse protective equipment. A circular said they will be provided with only five N-95 masks each for 20 days. The masks are to be disinfected and re-used at least four times each.Page 9
08 April 2020||April 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Standing guard||
08 April 2020||April 08 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Beware of cyberattacks’||The International Criminal Police Organization has warned member countries that cybercriminals were attempting to target hospitals and institutions on the front lines of the fight against COVID-19 with ransomware.page 10
08 April 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi reports two more deaths, 51 new cases||Two deaths and 51 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Delhi on Tuesday. The toll now stands at nine with the total number of cases reaching 576. Four of the new cases are from the Tablighi Jamaat centre in Nizamuddin. So far, 333 people from the centre have tested positive in Delhi.
08 April 2020||Patna,||Bihar to take action against 198 doctors||The Bihar government is all set to take action against 198 doctors who were found absent from duty on different dates. The State Health Department had earlier cancelled all leaves, except maternity and study leave, for doctors and healthcare personnel till April 30.
08 April 2020||Bhopal,||Indore surpasses Delhi, Mumbai in death rate||With deaths due to COVID-19 spiralling in Indore, the case fatality rate in the city touched 8.6% on Tuesday, arguably the highest for any city, even ahead of Mumbai and Delhi which had recorded thrice the number of cases.
08 April 2020||Bengaluru,||Helpline: 15% gap in demand, delivery of food||The Hunger Helpline (155214) was launched in Bengaluru on March 28 with the promise that food would reach those in need. However, its efficacy has been criticised with many saying that not only is it difficult to get through, but several requests successfully placed are going unattended.
08 April 2020||Bengaluru,||Villages blocking officers can affect crop insurance||Villagers across Karnataka deciding to shut out strangers from their villages have led to concern among officials who are yet to complete procedures for estimating crop output and also insure farmers.
08 April 2020||Bengaluru,||NIMHANS to help shun stigma, overcome trauma||IThe Union Health Ministry has entrusted NIMHANS, the country’s premier mental health institution, with the task of preparing information, education and communication material on psychosocial aspects related to COVID-19.
08 April 2020||YADGIR,||Dies of suspected pneumonia||A five-year-old girl from a labour family that returned to Kongandi village in Shahapur taluk of Yadgir on April 1 died on Tuesday. Chief Medical Officer of the Shahapur Taluk Hospital Mallappa K. told The Hindu over phone that it was a suspected case of pneumonia. “We have sent samples for medical examinations,” he added.
08 April 2020||UDUPI,||Rain in Udupi||Udupi city and parts of the district received pre-monsoon showers on Tuesday. In fact, there was heavy rain in the city bring relief to the people.
08 April 2020||ERODE,||Case booked against six Thailand nationals||Cases were registered against six Thai and 11 Indonesian nationals in Erode and Salem, respectively, on Tuesday. The Erode South police registered a case against six Thai nationals for violating visa norms and having been involved in religious preaching that had eventually led to the spread of COVID-19 in the city. The accused foreigners are now in the isolation ward of the Government Erode Medical College and Hospital at Perundurai. Seven persons from Thailand had arrived in the city in the second week of March and had been involved in preaching activities.
08 April 2020||CHENNAI,||Market cess waived for farmers, traders||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami announced a waiver of market cess and various other charges paya- ble by farmers and traders till April 30. The decision was taken to increase the movement of essential goods, such as foodgrains and vegetables, and to ensure smooth supply to the public during the COVID-19 lockdown.
08 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Meals made by Tihar inmates feed the hungry||On Tuesday afternoon at a government school in New Delhi, residents of JJ cluster in Khyala’s Raghubir Nagar stood in two separate queues waiting for meals. While this could have been mistaken for a common scene during the COVID-19 lockdown, what stood out was that the food was prepared by Tihar jail prisoners Starting a couple of days after Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the nationwide lockdown, meals prepared by Tihar inmates was distributed within a 5 km radius of the jail based on requirements, said a senior officer at Tihar jail. At the school, head warden Yogender Kumar with his team and 10 Civil Defence officials ensured that the residents maintained a safe distance from each other and received dal, chapatis, and rice. Interestingly, the meals to be distributed are essentially leftovers after the inmates are served at the jail. “On most days, food for at least 40-50 people are left over after every meal. Therefore, it was decided that we must send this food for those who need it, especially the ones dependent on daily wages. Therefore, the food that is left from nine prisons in the Tihar jail premises is collected and sent,” the prison official said. Lunch is served inside the prison at 11 a.m., and so by 11.45 a.m., the officials get an idea of how much will be surplus. Mr. Kumar then starts collecting from each prison and finally leaves for the various venues by 12.30 p.m. for lunch and by 6.30 p.m. for dinner — with food for about 500 people. The head warden said the food is taken to places where the Delhi government has set up relief centres. Government officials share the requirement with Mr. Kumar, who is tasked with the transport of food from Tihar jail. The official said when a superintendent-rank officer of one of the jails shared the idea of food distribution with the inmates, one had said, “Sir, we will eat one chapati less, if required.” At the JJ cluster, people were unaware that the food was prepared by Tihar inmates. A 28-year-old woman, Devi, said, “It doesn’t matter who is cooking as long as we are getting food.” However, as Devi went an hour after the distribution began, she had to return empty-handed. Meanwhile, many others said the food tasted “okay”. School principal R.B. Singh said people queued up at 8 a.m. on Tuesday in the hope of getting dry rations. However, these people were later informed that there was no such facility. “People kept a bag or one of their belongings to mark their place in the queue even if they don’t stand,” Mr. Singh said.
08 April 2020||NEWDELHI,||Opposition slams drug export||The Opposition criticised the Union government for the quick capitulation in the face of a veiled threat by U.S. President Donald Trump on the ban on export of anti-malarial drug hydroxychloroquine. The government lifted the ban within hours of Mr. Trump’s comments. Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi took to Twitter to argue that Indians have the first right over life-saving medicines during the coronavirus pandemic. “Friendship isn’t about retaliation. India must help all nations in their hour of need but lifesaving medicines should be made available to Indians in ample quantities first,” he said without mentioning President Trump's name. Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala said that though the Congress valued and cherished India's friendship with the U.S., it saw Mr. Trump's language as ‘unwarranted’. Allowing the export of hydroxychloroquine by bowing down before a foreign power cannot be in national interest, he said. “Modi ji , we request you with folded hands to adopt India and Indians first policy. The government should think deeply about the export of essential medicines as our citizens have the first right over them”. Senior Congress leader Shashi Tharoor expressed shock over the language used by President Trump. “Never in my decades of experience in world affairs have I heard a Head of State or Govt openly threatening another like this. What makes Indian hydroxychloroquine "our supply", Mr President? It only becomes your supply when India decides to sell it to you,” he tweeted. Let down India: Yechury CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury said the statement by the U.S. President was completely unacceptable. “But Modi govt has succumbed to the threat by allowing the export. That this happened after an expensive gala was organised for him by Modi, instead of preparing to contain Covid-19, shows how this govt has let down India,” he tweeted. Senior TMC leader and Lok Sabha member Saugata Roy said that while the humanitarian gesture made by the Indian government was welcome, it should have raised concern over the language used by Mr. Trump.
08 April 2020||LUCKNOW,||U.P. to move asymptomatic patients to hotels and lodges||Uttar Pradesh plans to lodge asymptomatic COVID-19 patients in facilities such as hotels, lodges or hostels to free up space for more serious patients admitted to hospitals, a senior official said on Tuesday. U.P. currently has over 10,000 isolation beds and by moving asymptomatic patients to facilities near hospitals, the government can accommodate an additional 10,000 patients, said Amit Mohan Prasad, Principal Secretary, Health. “The hospital beds can be more useful for the more serious patients,” said Mr. Prasad. While it was estimated that around 75% of COVID-19 patients are asymptomatic, the U.P. government was going with a “conservative” estimate of 50%, he said. The government would “hire” the buildings near hospitals to accommodate the asymptomatic patients and treat them there, he said. U.P. has also set up 4,243 quarantine homes and lodged 1.29 lakh persons in them till Tuesday, said Awanish Awasthi, Additional Chief Secretary, Home Department. The district police chiefs and magistrates have been instructed to ensure “entertainment” facilities for people lodged in these centres. Television sets could be installed where needed and food menus changed, he said. The number of positive cases in U.P. has climbed to 314, spread across 37 districts, said Mr. Prasad. Out of these, 166 were linked to the Tablighi Jamaat. U.P. currently has testing facilities at 10 laboratories. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath has said COVID-19 testing laboratories would be set up in district hospitals of all divisional headquarters. Sample collection centres would be set up in all 75 districts, he said.
08 April 2020||April 08 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Starting early gave Chhattisgarh a head start in tackling COVID-19’||With nine of its 10 patients having recovered from COVID-19 in just 20 days, Chhattisgarh is in the limelight for one of the best recovery rates in the country. Starting early helped, says State Health and Family Welfare and Panchayat and Rural Development Minister T.S. Singh Deo . Approaching each family to record travel history and symptoms if any bolstered efforts to quarantine over 77,000 suspected cases.  What are the strategies that have worked so far in Chhattisgarh in its continuing efforts in containing the virus spread? We started early. The day after the Republic Day celebrations on January 26, we set up a war room in Raipur and deployed rapid response task force in districts headed by the Collector. The war room meets daily to ensure the delivery of the protocol. Once we had the rapid response teams going, we were able to put procedures in place, right from identifying places where people could be kept to being prepared for contact tracing, the most important measure in the absence of a much wider testing protocol. Through these procedures, 77,847 people,who had possibly come into contact or travelled from outside, were home quarantined until April 6. In addition, 146 people were placed in government quarantine facilities. Then we set up dedicated COVID facilities. Each of the 26 districts was asked to put up an independent facility of 100 beds. There, no other treatment would take place. In hostels, you could keep asymptomatic patients but identified cases need a medical establishment. So, we have been able to identify 4,700 beds. And we have taken over a 500-bed private medical college, as a stand-by. We set up verticals for various activities like the command centre, medical equipment supply, quarantine in home, facility quarantine, mobility and logistics support, media, data management, contact tracing, community tracing, hospital management and treatment, volunteer doctors, testing, training, planning and management. An IAS officer has been placed in charge of each vertical with a support team comprising related experts. What would you majorly attribute the cure of almost all the patients in Chhattisgarh to? One, their immune systems. And certainly they were looked after well by experts. But they were not serious enough to be put on the ventilator. It also meant we were lucky that all the 10 patients who came to us were the serious and not the very serious ones. Have you also roped in departments other than the health and ancillary ones to identify suspects who need to be quarantined? How did you go about identifying migrant workers from your and other States and support them? The District Collector, who heads the response teams, can utilise the services of other departments, including the Panchayat. We have asked them to get forms filled by every villager mentioning symptoms and travel history. We have requested the urban development department to similarly reach out to every citizen, ideally. We are identifying people through mass mobilisation of the government machinery. As a result, we could reach such a huge quarantine figure. Officials will visit each family to procure information and will upload it on our IT system. How are you ensuring the lockdown continues in force? Have you employed any innovative means to ensure this? We are encouraging home-based activities. Self-help groups have sold more than a crore face masks. Similarly, they are making soap and sanitiser. Through the MGNREGA, we are encouraging activities within a compound, say preparation of organic manure. These activities are remunerative and are not target-based. Several States have asked for a continuation of the lockdown, what is your view? I feel that people have got used to the lockdown now and have got into the habit. We should take advantage of that and deal conservatively with the question of lifting the lockdown. A conservative estimate and looking at expected spikes in cases, we must go for another 14 days of lockdown at least. How do you view the Centre’s strategy in combating the COVID-19? Since Central agencies recently conducted raids in Raipur that the Chhattisgarh government strongly objected to, how has the coordination been on containing the disease spread? There hasn’t been any purposeful lack of support. We are doing our thing, they are doing theirs. We are paying for almost everything, but they were trying to streamline the supply. I don’t think they would have taken the attitude of being stepmotherly in providing materials. Where I have not been in agreement with the Centre was the screening protocol they adopted. We did not go in for a stronger protocol for testing as widely as many other countries did. If South Korea was testing 4,000-6,000 people per million, we were testing three per million owing to our protocol. Are you going to continue with the strategy already in place, or ramp up/alter efforts in the future? At this point, we are focussed entirely on providing relief in medical facilities. Projections are that 20-60% of India’s population will be affected by the disease. Today we are taking a conservative projection of 10%. Of these, symptomatic patients would probably be 10%, of which those who would be serious and very serious would be 15% and 5% respectively. We are planning for the three crore people of Chhattisgarh with that figure in mind. We are building a protocol around that.  (For full interview, log on to https://bit.ly/TSSinghDeo)    Looking at expected spikes in cases, we must go for another 14 days of lockdown at least
08 April 2020||CHENNAI,||Hospitals warned of cyberattacks||The International Criminal Police Organisation (Interpol) has warned member countries that cybercriminals were attempting to target major hospitals and other institutions on the front lines of the fight against COVID-19 with ransomware. In an alert sent to 194 nations, including India, Interpol said organisations at the forefront of the global response to the COVID-19 outbreak had also become targets of ransomware attacks, which were “designed to lock them out of their critical systems in an attempt to extort payments”. The agency’s Cybercrime Threat Response Team had detected an increase in the number of attempted ransomware attacks against key organisations and infrastructure engaged in the virus response. “Cybercriminals are using ransomware to hold hospitals and medical services digitally hostage, preventing them from accessing vital files and systems until a ransom is paid,” Interpol said in a note. Interpol also issued a ‘Purple Notice’. “At this point, the ransomware appears to be spreading primarily via e-mails —often falsely claiming to contain information or advice regarding the coronavirus from a government agency, which encourages the recipient to click on an infected link or attachment,” the agency said. It added that prevention and mitigation efforts were crucial to stopping the attacks. “As hospitals and medical organizations around the world are working non-stop to preserve the well-being of individuals stricken with the coronavirus, they have become targets for ruthless cybercriminals who are looking to make a profit at the expense of sick patients,” said Interpol Secretary General Jürgen Stock. “Locking hospitals out of their critical systems n will not only delay the swift medical response required during these unprecedented times, it could directly lead to deaths. Interpol continues to stand by its member countries and provide any assistance necessary to ensure our vital healthcare systems remain untouched and the criminals targeting them held accountable,” he added. Pattern of crimes Separately, Interpol warned that with a majority of people working from home due to the pandemic, there was a change in the pattern of crimes. The lockdown period had not only led to a “significant” increase in domestic violence but made business establishments/factories vulnerable to thefts. A spurt in drug commerce via social media/encrypted apps, fraudulent trade in personal protective equipment and anti-viral medicines, and individuals/businesses on reduced income becoming potential targets of loan sharks were among the threats perceived by the organisation. Santosh K. Misra, Chief Executive Officer, Tamil Nadu e-Governance Agency and Commissioner of e-Governance, told The Hindu that alerts had been received from the Government of India on the threat of ransomware/malware attacks and the same was communicated to the concerned departments.
08 April 2020||New Delhi,||States pick up huge haul of grains||Several states, led by Uttar Pradesh and Bihar, have begun lifting additional foodgrain from the Food Corporation of India (FCI), in order to provide the extra free ration of 5 kg per person promised under the Centre’s COVID-19 welfare package. However, only a few States have begun offering the scheme to beneficiaries as yet. According to FCI data released on Tuesday night, a total of 17.43 lakh tonnes of grains have been unloaded by more than 15 States since the lockdown began. This includes 7.25 lakh tonnes of wheat and 10.19 lakh tonnes of rice. Uttar Pradesh has been the largest beneficiary so far, lifting almost 2.5 lakh tonnes of foodgrains, followed by Bihar, which has lifted 2.1 lakh tonnes so far. Karnataka, West Bengal and Tamil Nadu have also picked up large quantities. “FCI has sent enough stocks to States throughout the country to implement the PM Garib Kalyan Ann Yojana (PMGKAY) wherein 5 kg foodgrain per person per month for next three months has to be distributed free to all National Food Security Act (NFSA) beneficiaries,” said a Food Ministry statement, adding that about 15 States had started lifting grains for this purpose, apart from the regular NFSA allocation. However, reports from around the country suggest that the extra free ration announced by the Centre has only started making it into the hands of consumers in a few States so far. Rajasthan ration card holders have reportedly begun receiving the double ration. In Tamil Nadu, a senior official of the Civil Supplies department said the distribution of additional rice to ration cardholders has also begun along with the original entitlement. This is over and above the State government’s move to give free rice, sugar, pulses and edible oil to all ration card holders, apart from a cash dole of Rs. 1,000 each. However, in some other States, the Centre’s extra allocation is being mixed up with benefits announced by the State. In Jharkhand, for example, the State government’s announcement to give two months worth of ration in April itself at a subsidised cost is creating confusion on whether this includes the Centre’s doubled ration amount or not. In Odisha, reports suggest that three months worth of regular ration is being given in advance in some areas, but the Central allocation has not yet been distributed. In States like Gujarat and Delhi, the State governments decided to give the regular allocation free of cost, but the Centre’s extra allocation is not yet being distributed, according to ground reports. In fact, FCI data shows that Delhi is yet to lift its allocation as well. ( With inputs from   T. Ramakrishnan )
08 April 2020||Mumbai,||Dharavi reports two more cases||As Dharavi reported two more positive cases on Tuesday, Shiv Sena MP from the area Rahul Shewale has demanded that Asia’s biggest slum be locked down. He has demanded that every resident of the slum, with a population of eight lakh, be tested and the Reserve Police Force be stationed here as people are not maintaining social distancing. The two patients reported on Tuesday are the 80-year-old father and 49-year-old brother of a 30-year-old woman who had tested positive earlier. The three are residents of Baliga Nagar that had been declared a containment zone earlier. Her family members had already been declared high risk contacts and were under isolation. The father has now been moved to Kasturba hospital while her brother is at the COVID-19 facility in Andheri. With this, the number of positive cases in Dharavi have now increased to seven, including one death. Of the seven, four were in Baliga Nagar alone, one on Dharavi main road, one at Mukund Nagar and one in Madina Nagar. Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation has been holding health camps in these containment zones and so far, more than 3220 people have been screened for symptoms. Six are considered highly probable and have been quarantined already. In all, 78 people have been actually tested for the virus in Dharavi. Mr. Shewale wrote to Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, demanding a complete lockdown of Dharavi.  Dadar reported a third case , a 69-year-old man living on Chitale Road in Dadar West. Prior to this, one case has been reported at Shivaji Park and another near Portuguese church.
08 April 2020||GUWAHATI,||Assam MLA arrested for quarantine centre remarks||An Assam MLA, who claimed through an audio clip that people being quarantined will be killed with injection, was arrested by the police for sedition and other charges on Tuesday. The police in central Assam’s Nagaon district said Aminul Islam, who represents the All India United Democratic Front (AIUDF) from the Dhing Assembly constituency, was arrested at 1 a.m. after Assembly Speaker Hitendra Nath Goswami was informed. He was booked under four Sections of the Indian Penal Code, including 124a dealing with sedition and 153a related to promoting or attempting to promote communal disharmony. Nagaon Superintendent of Police Gaurav Abhijit Dileep said the MLA confessed to making the audio clip and forwarding it. “The communal statements in the audio clip have the potential to cause enmity between two communities. The clip raises question marks on the Government of India, the Constitution and the secular fabric of the country. There is a lot of wrong information in the clip,” he told mediapersons. “We have seized his mobile phone for ascertaining who the clip was forwarded to. We will bring all of those in the gamut of our investigation and find out how many people were involved and if it was a conspiracy,” Mr. Dileep said. In the audio clip, Mr Islam is heard saying people were being kept in quarantine centres to be killed.
08 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Fix responsibility for Tablighi event’||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Tuesday demanded a judicial inquiry to fix responsibility for the Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi and asserted that his government favoured a phase-wise lifting of the three-week lockdown in coordination with the Union government. Addressing a press conference through video conferencing, Mr. Gehlot said a sitting or retired judge of the Supreme Court should probe the matter of the role of the Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi’s Nizamuddin area becoming a super carrier “An inquiry by a sitting or retired Supreme Court judge should be conducted in the Nizamuddin episode to make clear who all are responsible. Those who are at fault should be booked and punished. It will also make clear whether there was any mistake on part of the administration,” he said. “The truth should come out as the issue has drawn global attention. And it is being used to create an atmosphere that is not right under present circumstances,” Mr. Gehlot added. Congress communication chief Randeep Surjewala, who also addressed the press conference, said the party was not against action against Tablighi Jamaat in Nizamuddin if they violated any rules. Mr. Gehlot said Rajasthan would start rapid testing within a week as his government had ordered 10 lakh testing kits from China that were expected soon. He said his government had set up two task forces that would go into challenges posed by COVID-19 and a decision would be taken only after their recommendations.
08 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Centre files report on migrant workers||A status report filed by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) in the Supreme Court on Tuesday shows that Kerala government operates over 65% of the total number of active shelters and relief camps for stranded migrant workers run by various States governments in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic. Maharashtra government comes a distant second with 1135 camps, though NGOs in this State run 3397 camps. Tamil Nadu government operates 178 active relief camps and shelters for migrant workers. Two in the State are run by NGOs. While the number of relief camps run by other State governments for migrant workers is in two and three digits, there are 15541 such camps and shelters in Kerala, all of them run by the State government. The total number of active relief camps and shelters for migrant workers run by various State governments and NGOs are 22567 and 3909, respectively. The MHA report also shows that 15 lakh stranded migrant workers were given shelter and food by their own employers/industry following the COVID-19 lockdown. A Bench led by Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde was informed that the government, Centre and States gave food to 54,15,458 migrant workers while NGOs fed over 30 lakh.  PILs criticised The Ministry criticised the PILs asking questions about the plight of migrant workers following the lockdown. The hearing was based chiefly on a petition filed by activists Harsh Mander and Anjali Bhardwaj. The case was listed for further hearing on April 13.
08 April 2020||Mumbai,||Goa announces salary hike for frontline workers||The Goa government has hiked salaries of staff working at COVID-19 facilities by 20% along with providing them a Rs. 50 lakh insurance cover. Chief Minister Dr. Pramod Sawant said that this was being done as a way of thanking and appreciating the work being undertaken by the frontline staff in the State. “The insurance and 20% salary increase on their basic pay will continue till the COVID-19 fight is on. This will cover doctors, nurses and even sweepers, security and cleaning staff,” he said. The government will make this available to all contractual staff sourced through private vendors, who would be made to comply with the decision. Rapid testing Rapid testing with results available in an hour commenced from Tuesday. The State government has procured 2,000 Truenat rapid testing kits from Molbio Dx, a Goa-based company. The test is a real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (rRT-PCR) test for the qualitative detection of nucleic acid from SARS-CoV-2 in upper and lower respiratory specimens (such as nasopharyngeal or oropharyngeal swabs) collected from individuals suspected of COVID-19. Health Minister Viswajit Rane said the tests would be conducted at the Goa Medical College and Hospital, Bambolim, Asilo Hospital in Mapusa and the Sub-District Hospital in Ponda.
08 April 2020||New Delhi,||Ministry’s move could lead to sex determination: Brinda||Brinda Karat, CPI(M) polit bureau member, has raised concern over the suspension of certain provisions under the Pre-Conception and Pre-Natal Diagnostic Techniques Act by the Union Health Ministry citing the COVID-19 pandemic. In a letter to Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan, she said the Gazette notification dated April 4 could be misused for conducting illegal sex determination tests freely. The suspension of Clause 9(8) is of particular concern, Ms. Karat said in her letter. The Rule reads: “Every Genetic Counselling Centre, Genetic Laboratory, Genetic Clinic, Ultrasound Clinic and Imaging Centre shall send a complete report in respect of all pre-conception or pregnancy related procedures/techniques/tests conducted by them in respect of each month by 5th day of the following month to the concerned Appropriate Authority.” Since the medical facilities come under essential services and thus are exempted from the lockdown, Ms. Karat said if the clinic is open and conducting tests it should be duty-bound to keep a register of such tests and suspension of the rule could lead to illegal procedures. She asked why the rules have been suspended till June 30 when the lockdown ends on April 15. “There was no urgent reason to suspend Rules,” she said, demanding its withdrawal.
08 April 2020||Kolkata,||Abhijit Banerjee suggests more tests, hotline in West Bengal||Nobel Laureate Abhijit Vinayak Banerjee on Tuesday recommended more widespread testing across West Bengal and setting up of a ‘hotline’ through which people with symptoms of coronavirus can approach the State government to contain its spread. Prof. Banerjee has been roped in by Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee as a member of the State’s Global Advisory Board to contain the crisis. In a meeting through videoconference with the Chief Minister at the State Secretariat, the Nobel Laureate said a system of “reporting” or information be set up at the local level to pre-empt the spread of COVID-19. “If in a particular locality it is found that a number of people are coughing a lot, then there should be a system by which that is immediately reported so that tests can be carried out in that area. If necessary, a hotline be established for it. This way the virus will not be given a chance to spread to other localities. If a reporting structure is set up it will be good,” he said from his residence in the U.S. According to Prof. Banerjee, such a system is necessary because if the outbreak takes place in a number of areas simultaneously, it will be difficult to handle. Facilities at markets Earlier, during the interaction with the senior officers, the Chief Minister had said that markets selling essentials like vegetables should be kept open. Prof. Banerjee suggested that those visiting markets should wear masks, while maintaining social distancing and washing of hands. He recommended that provision for cleaning hands at the entry and exit points of markets be made available. Citing instances of other countries where people entering markets are sanitised, he added that ‘before entering markets if one uses a hand sanitiser at the entry point and again at the time of exit, it will yield good results in combating the spread of the virus’. Death toll rises to 5 The Chief Minister told journalists that active cases in the State had increased to 69 and the number of deaths had increased to five. While Ms. Banerjee did not give details about the new cases or deaths, she along with other officials said there were seven areas where active cases had been reported. The Chief Minister said most of the cases had been reported from certain families. Ms. Banerjee refused to take questions on those from the State who attended Tablighi Jamaat in Delhi. Earlier in the day, a Left Front delegation including CPI(M) State Secretary Surjya Kanta Mishra and Left Front Chairperson Biman Bose met the Chief Minister at the State Secretariat.
08 April 2020||Bengaluru,||Amid lockdown in Russia, Gaganyaan trainees healthy||Countries and organisations around the world have halted routines and chosen isolation as the way to check the COVID-19 pandemic. Evidently the four Indian astronaut candidates training in Moscow are no exception to a lockdown in their own spaces — for at least this month. While space missions have been quietly suspended and deferred in India and everywhere else. In an e-mailed reply to The Hindu , Russian space company Glavkosmos JSC (Joint Stock Company) quoted its Director General Dmitry Loskutov as saying that isolation applied to the Indian astronaut trainees as employees across Moscow switched to tele-work from March 30 up to the end of April. “Lockdown has strongly been recommended for the astronaut-elects, as well as for the personnel” of the Gagarin Research & Test Cosmonaut Training Center (GCTC), Mr. Loskutov said. Glavkosmos stressed that the training has been neither stopped nor suspended and is going on as scheduled. They are healthy and have been working and exercising on their own for the last week or so at the GCTC. The four candidates are pilots in the Indian Air Force. They started their year-long general training programme in early February. The finalist/s will circle Earth for a few days as part of the first Indian human space mission, Gaganyaan, which is planned for the year 2022. The Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) had not replied to a similar query at the time of going to print. The candidates are healthy and have completed 25% of the programme and continue working according to their training plan, Mr. Loskutov said.
08 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||AIIMS staff told to reuse masks, PPEs||A day after the Union Health Ministry advocated for the rationing of personal protection equipment (PPEs), the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS) has issued a circular on Tuesday stating that protective N-95 masks will be provided to all healthcare workers involved in direct patient care. However, medical staff have complained that there may have been “over-rationing of the masks”, with the circular from AIIMS stating that it will provide only five N-95 masks each to doctors, nursing officers, technical staff, security guards and maintenance staff for 20 days. The circular states that the issued N-95 masks are to be disinfected by individual users and re-used at least four times each, thus stretching their use for over half a month. “It is imperative that in accordance with evidence-based scientific literature these N-95 masks are to be disinfected by individual users [by keeping them in open after use or by other methods] and reused at least four times each,” states the circular. Following the circular on masks, AIIMS also issued guidelines for reuse of PPEs which noted that the COVID-19 pandemic has strained resources tremendously in the healthcare setting and that one of the most urgent issues is the fast depletion of PPEs used in the care of patients. However, it warns that while decontamination and reuse of PPEs may extend existing on-hand supplies, currently decontamination of PPEs for purposes of reuse is not recommended.
08 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Loss of smell may be linked to cells: study||Can a loss of smell be an early warning for a COVID-19 infection? Multiple reports have surfaced, primarily from Europe and the United States, from physicians and ear, nose and throat specialists, of COVID-19 patients complaining of an inability to smell — or anosmia. However, it is not clear whether neurons in the brain that are responsible for recognising various odours are damaged, or whether other cells may be involved. Researchers at Delhi’s Indrapastha Institute of Information Technology report in the study that is still being peer-reviewed but available as a public preprint, that it is not neurons but a class of cells in the upper regions of the nasal cavity that may be involved: these are called sustentacular cells and horizontal basal cells. Crucially, both are not directly involved in helping us smell, but nourish and support the cells that help us do, and so the virus may be inflicting an indirect attack on the olfactory sensory cells. While research on this aspect of the disease is emerging, studies say the loss of smell is different from diminished smell or a lack of perceiving flavour in food when one is afflicted with a cold or stuffy nose. Researchers Krishan Gupta, Sanjay Kumar Mohanty, Siddhant Kalra, Aayushi Mittal, Tripti Mishra, Jatin Ahuja, Debarka Sengupta and Gaurav Ahuja inferred this by bio-informatics tools and estimating the presence of a key enzyme — called ACE 2 (Angiotensin Converting Enzyme) — in these olfactory cells. The coronavirus has spike proteins that bind to ACE 2 receptors on human cells and the enzyme’s presence is a proxy to revealing the signature of the virus in the body’s cells. Clinical symptoms Research so far suggests that it take between 5-14 days for clinical symptoms of the virus — dry cough, laboured breathing and fever — to show and unless this manifested, those infected are likely to continue socialising and spreading the virus. The authors did not offer comment on their work because it has not yet been published in a scientific journal. Samir Brahmachari, a molecular biologist and former Director-General of the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR), who was familiar with the study, said that the findings pointed to a potential diagnostic. “Because the loss of smell surfaces much earlier, anyone who does not feel sick but registers a significant inability to smell could self-isolate. A questionnaire could be used via an app, for users to check or report these systems to a doctor,” he said. An analysis by a team at King’s College London showed that 59% of COVID-19 positive patients reported a loss of smell and taste, compared with only 18% of those who tested negative for the disease. These results were much stronger in predicting a positive COVID-19 diagnosis than self-reported fever, he added.
08 April 2020||New Delhi,||WhatsApp puts strict limit on forwards||To slow the spread of misinformation via its platform, WhatsApp on Tuesday announced a new stricter limit on forwarding messages. Now, frequently forwarded messages — those which have been previously forwarded five times or more, can only be forwarded to one chat at a time. “With billions of people unable to see their friends and family in person due to COVID-19, people are relying on WhatsApp more than ever to communicate,” the Facebook-owned firm said in a blog. It, however, added that, “...we’ve seen a significant increase in the amount of forwarding which users have told us can feel overwhelming and can contribute to the spread of misinformation. We believe it’s important to slow the spread of these messages to keep WhatsApp a place for personal conversation.” WhatsApp said that its previous move to place limits led to a 25% decrease in message forwards globally at the time. The company had in 2018 started testing the forwarding limit of five chats at once in India, where people forward more messages, photos, and videos than any other country in the world. The limit was later introduced around the world in 2019. The company had also started labelling messages that have been forwarded many times with double arrows to indicate they did not originate from a close contact. “In effect, these messages are less personal compared to typical messages sent on WhatsApp. We are now introducing a limit so that these messages can only be forwarded to one chat at a time,” it said.
08 April 2020||JAIPUR,||High Court quashes FIR against Twitter CEO||The Rajasthan High Court on Tuesday quashed an FIR registered against Twitter CEO Jack Dorsey and film critic Anna M.M. Vetticad in 2018 for posting a picture in which Mr. Dorsey, accompanied by some journalists, was holding a banner stating “Smash Brahminical Patriarchy”. Rajkumar Sharma, a resident of Jodhpur, had registered the FIR through a complaint filed in the court with the contention that the Twitter post had maligned the Brahmin community and hurt his religious sentiments. The High Court had stayed the arrest of Mr. Dorsey in December 2018, but refused to quash the FIR. The FIR was registered under IPC sections pertaining to outraging religious feelings, defamation and public mischief. Justice Mehta at the High Court’s principal seat in Jodhpur ruled that the impugned phrase had only challenged the sociological concepts of a particular section of Brahmin community. The court did find any offence made out against Mr. Dorsey and Ms. Vetticad and said that allowing investigation in the matter by the police was “absolutely uncalled for”. “The impugned FIR does not disclose necessary ingredients of any cognisable offence.”
08 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Gender violence is a shadow pandemic: UN||The UN Women has urged member-states to include prevention of violence against women in their action plans on COVID-19 and consider shelters and helplines essential services, calling the rise in gender-based violence a “shadow pandemic”. “Helplines, psychosocial support and online counselling should be boosted, using technology-based solutions such as SMS, online tools and networks to expand social support, and to reach women with no access to phones or Internet. Police and justice services must mobilise to ensure that incidents of violence against women and girls are given high priority with no impunity for perpetrators,” Phumzile Mlambo-Ngcuka, Executive Director of the UN Women, appealed to various countries in a press statement issued late evening on Monday. According to UN Women, globally 243 million women and girls aged 15-49 have been subjected to sexual and/or physical violence perpetrated by an intimate partner in the previous 12 months. “The number is likely to increase as security, health and money worries heighten tensions and strains are accentuated by cramped and confined living conditions.” It says according to emerging data, violence against women and girls, particularly domestic violence, has ‘intensified’. As per data compiled by the U.N. body, France has seen a 30% increase in domestic violence since the lockdown on March 17. In Argentina, emergency calls for domestic violence cases have increased by 25% since the lockdown on March 20 and Cyprus (30%), Singapore (33%) have also registered an increase in calls. Canada, Germany, Spain, the U.K. and the U.S. have also registered an increase in cases of domestic violence and demand for emergency shelter. In an earlier message, U.N. Chief Antonio Gueterres appealed for a ‘ceasefire’ on domestic violence after “a horrifying global surge in domestic violence”.  Helplines, psychosocial support and online counselling should be boosted
08 April 2020||New Delhi,||Christian Michel James’s interim bail plea rejected||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday rejected the interim bail plea of Christian Michel James, an alleged middleman arrested in connection with the AgustaWestland VVIP helicopter deal case, terming his apprehension that he may contract COVID-19 while in jail as “unfounded”. Jutice Mukta Gupta, who conducted the hearing through video conferencing, noted that Mr. James was lodged in a separate cell with only two other prisoners and was not in a barrack or dormitory where there are a number of prisoners. “It is not the case of the petitioner that any of the two inmates residing with him are suffering from COVID-19. Hence, the apprehension of the petitioner, also because of the vulnerable age and overcrowding in jail, that he is likely to contract COVID-19 which may be detrimental to his health, is unfounded,” the judge ruled. The Court also said that further investigations, after the filing of the charge sheet by CBI and the complaint in the case by the Enforcement Directorate, were pending in both the cases. “Hence, at this stage, release of the petitioner even on interim bail is not warranted,” it said. Mr. James had claimed that his health condition was critical, especially with the risk of contracting the COVID-19 infection.
08 April 2020||April 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Mehbooba leaves jail, detained at home now||Leader of the newly formed JKAP Rafi Ahmad Mir urged the Centre to take a purpose-oriented call on these unwarranted detentions and free all political detainees, including Ms. Mufti. “Ms. Mufti's release would provide some solace to her family. The situation demands that all political leaders and activists should be freed,” he added. JKAP also called for release of NC’s Ali Mohammad Sagar, PDP’s Naeem Akhter, Sartaj Madni, Peerzada Mansoor, JKPM's Shah Faesal, Hilal Rather and Kashmir Bar Association president Mian Qayoom and traders' leader Yasin Khan.  “Ms. Mufti is home but still booked under the PSA. Media wasn’t given access to her at all despite waiting for hours. Is the Government of India scared that she’ll articulate her views on illegal abrogation of Article 370? Time doesn’t change facts or erase a betrayal etched in memory,” Ms. Mufti’s daughter Iltija Mufti said in a tweet. She said her mother will approach all stakeholders for a joint strategy to move forward, once restrictions are finally lifted on her. “Opposing a move that seeks to obliterate our identity has been criminalised. But you can’t wish away the resentment and alienation people feel by criminalising a debate about illegal abrogation of Article 370,” she said.
08 April 2020||New Delhi,||Sonia offers suggestions to govt. in pandemic fight||In the wake of the COVID-19 outbreak, Congress president Sonia Gandhi on Tuesday wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, offering five suggestions to cut government expenditure, including scrapping the Rs. 20,000-crore for the Central Vista project, bannning government advertisements to media and putting on hold all official foreign trips. “I am writing to convey our support for the decision taken by the Union Cabinet to reduce salaries of Members of Parliament by 30%. Austerity measures which can be used to divert much needed funds to the fight against COVID-19 are the need of the hour. In this spirit, I am writing to offer five concrete suggestions,” she said. Ms. Gandhi made it clear that the suggestions were in response to the Prime Minister asking for suggestions from the Congress during a telephone conversation last Sunday. “First, impose a complete ban on media advertisements — television, print and online — by the Government and Public Sectors Undertakings [PSUs] for a period of two years. The only exceptions should be advisories for COVID-19 or for issues relating to public health,” she wrote. “Secondly, suspend the Rs. 20,000 crore ‘Central Vista’ beautification and construction project forthwith. I am certain that Parliament can function comfortably within the existing historical buildings,” she stated. The money could be spent on “constructing new hospital infrastructure and diagnostics along with equipping our front line workers with Personal Protection Equipment [PPE] and better facilities,” she added. Ms. Gandhi said there should be a proportionate 30% reduction in the expenditure budget (other than salaries, pensions and central sector schemes) for the Union government. “This 30% (i.e. Rs. 2.5 lakh crore a year approximately) could then be allocated towards establishing an economic safety net for migrant workers, labourers, farmers, MSMEs and those in the unorganised sector.” “All foreign visits, including that of the President, the Prime Minister, Union Ministers, Chief Ministers, State Ministers and bureaucrats must be put on hold,” she wrote. Exceptions could be made in case of special emergency or exigencies in national interest. Lastly, Ms. Gandhi suggested that all money under the PM CARE Fund moved to the Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund PMNRF to ensure “efficiency, transparency, accountability and audit in the manner in which these funds are allocated and spent.”
08 April 2020||April 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Government mulls lockdown extension||Government sources told The Hindu that “many State governments as well as experts have requested the Central government to extend the lockdown and the Centre is thinking in this direction.”The number of COVID-19 affected districts increased from 62 on March 20 to 284 on April 6 across 30 States and Union Territories. On Tuesday, the Border Security Force (BSF) sent a message to all its formations that leaves of all those on leave be extended up to April 21. The personnel who went on leave before the lockdown came into force were to join work in the coming few days. It also issued similar instructions to its training centres where programmes are already running and due to terminate in the coming days. “No movement before April 21. Stay wherever you are,” the BSF said in a statement.  A Group of Ministers (GoM), led by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh met on Tuesday to review the situation. This was its fourth meeting since March 25. Inputs, suggestions and feedback from the discussions at the meetings are conveyed to the Prime Minister by Mr. Singh. The GoM recommended steps to enhance testing facilities in laboratories and expressed satisfaction over the measures in place to provide shelter and food to migrant workers. Mr. Singh tweeted that the GoM had an extensive discussion on the prevailing situation. “The amount saved through these decisions would be utilised in strengthening India’s fight against COVID-19. The ministers also shared their insights on how we can overcome the situation and help the people stay motivated & vigilant in the battle against COVID-19,” he tweeted.
08 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC seeks reply on plea to evacuate Indian students||The Supreme Court on Tuesday asked the government to respond to a petition to urgently evacuate hundreds of Indian students stranded in the United Kingdom due to lockdown and disruption following the COVID-19 pandemic. A Bench led by Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde issued notice to the Ministries of External Affairs and Civil Aviation. They have to reply by April 13, the next day of hearing. The petition, filed by Supreme Court advocate Madhurima Mridul, whose daughter is one among many students stuck in the U.K., said India is “probably the only country that has imposed an embargo on the return of its own citizens, and while other countries are making all possible efforts to repatriate their stranded citizens, India, with its travel bans, has made it impossible for its own citizens to come back home.” The petition said countries with far greater incidence of mortality like China, Spain, Italy, Iran, South Korea and the United States had not imposed any embargo on the return of their nationals from foreign shores. “It was unreasonable and arbitrary to not make optimum use of the national resources at this critical juncture,” it said.
08 April 2020||April 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Schools, colleges may remain closed till May 15||Stating that India had moved from local transmission phase to the next higher scale of large outbreaks amenable to containment phase, Mr Agarwal said three types of health care facilities have been set up for various categories of COVID-19 cases for triaging and decision-making. State government have now been asked to offer COVID Care Centres (CCC) for mild to very mild cases, dedicated COVID health units or blocks for moderate cases and dedicated COVID hospitals for cases clinically assigned as severe. “These [last] facilities should either be a full hospital or a separate block in a hospital with preferably separate entry\exit and fully equipped ICUs, ventilators and beds with assured oxygen support,’’ added Mr. Agarwal. “We have issued guidelines for cluster outbreak containment and this strategy is working well in areas like Agra, Gautam Buddh Nagar, Pathanamthitta, Bhilwara and East Delhi which saw large number of cases recently. Government has been adopting a strategy for cluster containment and for outbreaks that are amenable to management. This strategy is producing positive results,’’ he said. “Indian Railways has prepared 40,000 isolation beds in 2,500 coaches and they are making 375 isolation beds daily and this is going on across 133 locations across the country,’’ he added. The Ministry added that technology-led initiatives for undertaking surveillance, monitoring quarantine facilities, tracking the health of suspected patients and their contacts placed under home quarantine, providing up-to-date information to citizens, making predictive analytics using heat maps, with real-time tracking of ambulances and disinfection services are being conducted across districts.
08 April 2020||April 08 2020 00:00 IST,||India lifts ban on export of hydroxychloroquine||While the drug’s efficacy is not yet clinically proven, Mr. Trump has been a proponent of its use, calling it a “game changer”. The Indian Council for Medical Research has also cleared HCQ to be used as a prophylaxis, or preventive medication, by doctors, nurses and other health staff. Despite the requirement, the Centre said it had assessed that current stocks of HCQ and other drugs that had been freed for export were sufficient for “for all possible contingencies”. The MEA also denied criticism that its decision to reverse its ban had been taken under pressure from the U.S. and other countries. “Like any responsible government, our first obligation is to ensure that there are adequate stocks of medicines for the requirement of our own people. In order to ensure this, some temporary steps were taken to restrict exports of a number of pharmaceutical products,” the spokesperson said.
08 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Veterans to assist civil administration in States||Several thousand ex-servicemen have been mobilised across the country to assist the civil administration in dealing with COVID-19, the Defence Ministry said on Tuesday. It is being coordinated by the Department of Ex-Servicemen Welfare (DESW) and veterans are being contacted through the Kendriya Sainik Board and a network of 32 Rajya Sainik Boards at the State level and 403 Zila Sainik Boards. “Brig. Satinder Singh (Retd.), Director Rajya Sainik Board, Punjab, has said they have employed 4,200 ex-servicemen (ESM) as guardians of governance who are present in every village of Punjab for data collection and community surveillance,” the Ministry said in a statement. According to Brig. Ravi (Retd), the Zila Sainik Boards in 75 districts of Uttar Pradesh are assisting a team of ESM in monitoring ration distribution, community surveillance and running of community kitchens. They have already identified and contacted 6,592 ESM from the Army Medical Corps and put them on standby for any contingency, the statement said. In Andhra Pradesh, around 300 ESM are assisting the police while some ESM associations are distributing food and essential commodities among the poor, the Ministry said. Brig. Ravi Munniswamy (Retd.), who is coordinating the effort across Karnataka, is leading a team of 45 veteran bicycle riders in Bengaluru, who through a WhatsApp group are providing medicine and essential supplies to the old and the infirm.
08 April 2020||New Delhi,||‘Health more important than wealth’||At the end of the two weeks of lockdown, Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu on Tuesday said considerations of the health of the people should take precedence over stabilisation of economy. “In my view, while the concerns of economy can wait for another day, that of health can’t,” Mr. Naidu said. “The next one week of lockdown is very critical for evolving an exit strategy since the data regarding the spread of virus and its rate during the next week will have a bearing on the decision to be taken,” he added. Mr. Naidu said the Tablighi Jamaat congregation was an avoidable slip.
08 April 2020||Ghaziabad,||Man skips quarantine in U.P.’s Baghpat||ACOVID-19infected person jumped quarantine in the Khekra area of Baghpat in Uttar Pradesh on Monday, police said. The 60-year-old was quarantined after it was found that he was part of a group that attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation. He broke a window to escape from the isolation ward. “The person is from Nepal and was admitted to the isolation ward of Khekra community health centre,” said Pratap Govind Yadav, Superintendent of Police, Baghpat. Prima facie, he said, the person broke the grill of the window and used his own clothes to leave the hospital. The official said teams have been formed to trace him. “We are also making announcements at the local mosques,” Mr. Yadav said. Chief Medical Officer R.K. Tandon said that he was one of the two COVID-19 positive persons in the district. “One is admitted at a Delhi hospital and now the second one has run away,” said Dr. Tandon.
08 April 2020||CHENNAI,||Two CSIR labs start virus sequencing||As on April 7, India has shared nine whole genome sequences of the novel coronavirus (SARS-CoV-2) with the Global Initiative on Sharing All Influenza Data (GISAID) — a public platform started by the WHO in 2008 for countries to share genome sequences. All these have been shared by the Pune-based National Institute of Virology. On April 2, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) allowed all national research laboratories including those under the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) to conduct testing for the novel coronavirus. According to CSIR Director-General Dr. Shekhar C. Mande, both the Hyderabad-based Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CSIR-CCMB) and the Institute of Genomics and Integrative Biology (CSIR-IGIB), Delhi have already started sequencing the virus. Dr. Rakesh K. Mishra, Director of the CSIR-CCMB told The Hindu that they had begun sequencing the genome a few days ago. “We have sequenced the genome of five virus isolates.”
08 April 2020||Guwahati,||Army helps man trapped in Tibet||The Army on Tuesday facilitated the safe return of a man from Arunachal Pradesh, who had reportedly crossed over to the Tibetan Autonomous Region of China in search of herbs on March 19. People living on both sides of the McMahon Line, the India-China border, are often said to cross over to collect herbs such as the cordyceps, a caterpillar fungus commonly known as the Himalayan Viagra. 21-year-old Togley Singkam had gone to collect herbs from the land belonging to the Naa clan of the Tagin tribe in Upper Subansiri district. The district’s Tagin Cultural Society said Chinese soldiers ambushed him and two others. The other two, Gamshi Chadar and Ronya Nade, managed to escape and report the incident to the local authorities. “Our personnel approached the Chinese side utilising the established border management mechanism. Owing to peace and tranquillity that is existing in the region and the bonhomie that has developed between both the border guarding forces, Mr. Singkam was handed over to us on Tuesday,” Defence spokesperson Lt. Col. P. Khongsai said.
08 April 2020||Patna,||Bihar to take action against 198 doctors||Amid the COVID-19 pandemic, the Bihar government is all set to take action against 198 doctors who were found absent from their duty on different dates. The State Health Department had, earlier, cancelled all leave, except maternal and study leave, for doctors and healthcare personnel till April 30. The government also enforced the Epidemic Diseases COVID-19 Regulation, 2020, on March 17. The State on Monday transferred civil surgeons in 16 districts. The State Health Department found 76 doctors absent from duty on March 31, 60 on April 1 and 62 on April 2. Later, the Department issued show-cause notices to 76 government doctors, while giving them three-days’ time to respond. “They have been asked why they should not be proceeded against under sections of the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, and the Disaster Management Act, 2005,” Principal Health Secretary Sanjay Kumar said.
08 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Special UN session likely tomorrow||India is gearing for diplomatic activities as the U.N. Security Council appears set for a special session over the COVID-19 pandemic. Sources here indicated that South Block is tracking reports that a special closed session of the UNSC is to be held as early as on April 9 when all 15 members of the highest U.N. body are likely to discuss the situation on the intensifying crisis that has disrupted life and economy in India as well. The session will draw statements from all the member-countries with interested non-members participating as observers. A meeting of the UNSC had been talked about since the beginning of the pandemic in China in December 2019, but the process seems to have taken off with the arrival of the Dominican Republic as the president of the body. Though other regional and global bodies like G20 have convened urgent virtual summits, the Security Council’s inability to meet raised concern in world capitals in recent weeks.
08 April 2020||Ghaziabad,||Coronavirus: One infected person skips quarantine in U.P.’s Baghpat||ACOVID-19infected person jumped quarantine in the Khekra area of Baghpat in Uttar Pradesh on Monday, police said. The 60-year-old was quarantined after it was found that he was part of a group that attended the Tablighi Jamaat congregation. He broke a window to escape from the isolation ward.
08 April 2020||Banda,||36 booked for failing to inform authorities about participation in Nizamuddin congregation||Cases have been lodged against 36 persons in Chitrakoot range in Madhya Pradesh for negligence after they failed to inform authorities about their participation in a religious congregation in Delhi’s Nizamuddin, police said. They have been quarantined.
08 April 2020||Lucknow,||U.P. official alleges assault by BJP MP, supporters||Tehsildar Arvind Kumar in Kannauj in Uttar Pradesh on Tuesday alleged that BJP Lok Sabha MP Subrat Pathak and his supporters allegedly barged into his residence and assaulted him for not distributing rations to people listed by the politician. The group thrashed him, he said.
08 April 2020||April 08 2020 00:00 IST,||mumbai||
08 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Survey safe if precautions are followed’||After a section of residents expressed apprehensions that the deployment of 16,000 workers of the Chennai Corporation to carry out a COVID-19 symptoms survey might actually cause the disease to spread, public health experts clarified that as long as physical distance was maintained, and masks used, there was no risk. V. Ramasubramanian, consultant, Infectious Diseases, Apollo Hospitals, said that as long as anyone maintained a three-foot distance, the infection would not spread. “If this distance is maintained, there is absolutely no reason to worry. The surveyors should wear masks, even cloth masks are good enough. Then, there is no risk at all,” he explained. Of the 16,000 workers, more than 12,000 have been recruited for COVID-19 surveillance work in the last four days without any medical test, and this has residents wondering if the process is safe. The Corporation, too, launched a drive on Tuesday to clear doubts regarding the visit by workers for the survey, and addressed the apprehension that the workers without personal protection equipment would cause infection. Commissioner G. Prakash led a team of workers to localities such as Tiruvottiyur and carried out the survey among residents. “Once residents report symptoms, a team of doctors will visit their houses with adequate equipment to test for COVID-19. Every three wards has a team of doctors,” said Mr. Prakash. ‘Screen affected areas’ R.B. Saravanan, a resident of Kamarajapuram in Nungambakkam, asked if there was a real need to screen in unaffected areas by workers who had been recruited without any medical screening. “Let them screen in affected areas. We do not need such workers visiting our house. Residents are worried. We want to remain safe. No worker has visited my house so far. If there is a need, we will request the Chennai Corporation to send properly trained persons for a survey,” he said. “The person who came to our apartment today for the survey had a mask but he was not wearing it. I told him to wear it because my neighbours are old people. But he maintained a distance. We had to repeat the names many times,” said a resident of Purasawalkam. A T. Nagar resident complained that of the two people who came for the survey, only one was wearing a mask and maintaining the requisite distance. Egmore MLA K.S. Ravichandran said more than 50% of residents in the area had reported problems, of some sort, relating to the COVID-19 survey in the past few days. “The situation is improving. But many problems are yet to be resolved,” he added, urging the Corporation to clarify all doubts first. College students, who volunteered with the Greater Chennai Corporation to go door-to-door and collect data, in parts of Mylapore, were seen wearing masks and scarves, but no gloves while approaching households. “We have been going around since morning without any breakfast. While most residents are cooperating and providing data, a few refuse to divulge details. Some ask why we are going around without wearing proper safety gear,” said a student who collected data from residents of Balakrishna Street. Clearly, proper use of masks is essential to this exercise. P. Kuganantham, former city health officer, said Corporation staff should wear masks when they take up door-to-door checks. “They can make inquiries with the residents without entering their homes. They are going to check if any residents have symptoms of fever, cough and breathlessness. They should ensure that they do not touch anyone or any furniture in the house,” he said. He added the staff should maintain physical distance with the residents. “During their visit, they should stand at least one metre (about 3 feet) away from the resident. They should insist on physical distancing while imparting awareness on COVID-19.”
08 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Sanitation workers, mortuary staff too need protective gear’||The government’s proposal to provide protective gear to sanitation workers has brought into focus their vulnerability, especially during the COVID-19 pandemic. Doctors say they need as much protection as healthcare workers. On Saturday, the Municipal Administration Minister had indicated that those who go on door-to-door visits would also be provided protective equipment. A public health expert said protective gear should be supplied to those on the field and others doing field-related work, such as keeping the city clean or collecting data during house surveys. If they are not well protected, they might get infected or pass it on. “The city has around 40,000 sanitation workers of which the Corporation employs around 30,000,” said P. Kuganantham, former city health officer and currently COVID-19 task force member. “They are invariably exposed to pollution. They could be provided aprons, gloves, boots and five-layer masks. The workers could be given five sets of masks so that they can wash and reuse them,” he added. It is observed in many places that all those who do the survey were not wearing masks. Without proper orientation, it will only result in worsening the epidemic.  Handling bodies Forensic medicine expert K. Mathiharan said even those who handle bodies of the infected persons should be provided adequate protective gear. “There is no evidence yet to suggest that COVID-19 has been transmitted from a cadaver. The body should be wrapped in cloth and transferred at the earliest to the mortuary for disposal, be it cremation or burial. Children, persons older than 60 years of age and those with underlying illnesses or compromised immune system should not handle bodies,” he said. The expert said the mode of disposal is a matter of cultural choice and available resources. However, funeral ceremonies must be postponed till the end of the epidemic. Only a few members should be allowed to participate and they should strictly observe physical distance at all times. They must also maintain the respiratory etiquette and hand hygiene, he said. Mortuary workers should be provided protective equipment, such as masks, face shields or goggles, gloves, boots and disposable gown with impermeable apron. Since human coronaviruses can remain infectious on surfaces for as many as nine days, it is important to disinfect the surfaces used to prepare the body with soap and water/detergent and later disinfect the surface with a minimum concentration of 0.1% of sodium hypochlorite (bleach) or 70% ethanol for at least one minute. ‘Follow protocol’ A similar protocol should be followed if a person dies at home, Dr. Mathiharan said. Similarly clothes and fabrics used by the deceased should be machine-washed in warm water at 60−90°C (140−194°F) and laundry detergent, he added.
08 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Traders, ryots don’t have to pay charges till Apr. 30||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Tuesday announced a waiver of the market cess and various other charges payable by farmers and traders till April 30. The decision was taken to increase the movement of essential foodgrains, vegetables and fruits and to ensure the smooth supply of such commodities to the public during the ongoing COVID-19 lockdown. In a statement, Mr. Palaniswami announced that the 1% market cess levied on traders who win bids for agricultural produce from farmers in as many as 272 markets across the State will be waived. A senior government official explained that the waiver of the cess was aimed at encouraging more people to take part in the bidding process. The official added that even if the lockdown is lifted after April 14, the concessions would remain in place till April 30. Cold storage facilities Mr. Palaniswami also announced a waiver of the charges collected from farmers for storing their agricultural produce in cold storage facilities in various districts. Since many farmers were not getting a good price for their produce, they could avail themselves of these facilities for free, he said. The Chief Minister said farmer producer organisations (FPOs) will be granted loans of up to Rs. 10 lakh so that they could get some working capital. An additional 500 mobile units for selling vegetables and fruits will be introduced in urban areas, he added. Farmers could call the State-wide helplines 044-22253884, 22253885, 22253496 and 9500091904 between 10 a.m. and 6 p.m. for any assistance relating to agriculture and horticulture.  Even if the lockdown is lifted after April 14, the concessions will remain in place till April 30, officials said
08 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Cracking the Delhi puzzle||A select group of officials from the Police, Revenue and Health Departments have been tasked with the process of finding order in a chaotic environment. They have built manageable categories of the people who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat conference at Nizamuddin in Delhi, in an attempt to first understand the issue and then handle it. According to sources, the team has split the Delhi conference attendees into four basic categories. In the first category, they have slotted the foreign preachers who had been in Delhi and had come to Tamil Nadu after the conference. Some of them had visited the local mosques, and they were said to have arrived a little earlier than the others. In terms of numbers, this is the smallest group among the Tablighi Jamaat in Tamil Nadu. The second category comprises a set of people from Tamil Nadu who had gone to Malaysia and Indonesia to attend conferences there, but had returned after those events were called off or cut short. This is a small group, but has more members than the first category of people. Sources say the third category comprises people from other States who had attended the conference at Nizamuddin Markaz, but had landed in Tamil Nadu and are currently here. This group is roughly the size of the first two groups put together, it is learnt. The final and the largest category of people is a set of Tamilians who had visited Delhi and returned. They had reportedly attended the last few days of the seminar, and possibly landed in Tamil Nadu between March 21 and 23. Since this was close to the ‘Janata Curfew’ and the subsequent lockdown, it is believed that they may not have had too much time to mingle. Their samples are being tested, and contact tracing of their family and travel mates is on, according to officials. The Chief Minister’s appeal to people who had attended the Nizamuddin conference to reveal details about themselves seems to have had the desired effect, and many who may have been omitted from a count have now been included. This list has turned out to be distinct from what the special task force had prepared, officials say. But for this fortunate turn of events, the entire list may have still been in the making.
08 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM renews appeal for donations to fight COVID-19||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Tuesday reiterated his appeal for donations to the Chief Minister's Public Relief Fund (CMPRF) to aid the efforts to combat the spread of COVID-19. “The precautionary measures will be strengthened in the coming days. The Tamil Nadu government needs the participation of industrialists, leading private companies, NGOs, donors and the people of Tamil Nadu to efficiently adopt these precautionary measures,” Mr. Palaniswami said in a statement. Noting that many have already pitched in, he said, “Children and students have come forward to donate whatever amount they can.” The CM had previously appealed for donations on March 27. While the donations made from within the country would be 100% exempted for tax under Section 80G of the Income Tax Act, contributions from NRIs would be eligible for tax exemption under Section 50 of the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act, 2010, an official press release said. Contributions could be made online using credit/debit card or through Electronic Clearing Service (ECS) or demand draft. Those who wish to contribute through net banking or credit/debit card could do so by visiting https://ereceipt.tn.gov.in/cmprf/cmprf.html. For those who wish to use the ECS option, the details of the bank are as follows: Indian Overseas Bank, Secretariat Branch, Chennai 600009. The savings account number is 117201000000070, the IFSC is IOBA0001172 and the CMPRF’s PAN is AAAGC0038F. Those who opt for ECS are requested to provide the following details: name, amount contributed, bank and branch, date of deposit, acknowledgement number, full postal address and e-mail ID. NRIs wishing to donate could do so by using the SWIFT Code IOBAINBB0001 for the Indian Overseas Bank, Central Office, Chennai. Those who do not wish to use any of the abovementioned options could send a demand draft to Deputy Secretary to Government and Treasurer, Chief Minister's Public Relief Fund, Finance Department, Tamil Nadu Government, Secretariat, Chennai 600009, Tamil Nadu, India. Donors could e-mail the details of the transactions to dspaycell.findpt@tn.gov.in The CMPRF has received funds to the tune of Rs. 79.74 crore so far. In the last four days alone, it has received Rs. 17.44 crore.
08 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tipplers in city feeling the pinch||Five days after Tamil Nadu declared a lockdown on March 24, psychiatrists started to see persons walking into hospitals and de-addiction centres, with alcohol withdrawal symptoms. The sudden closure of TASMAC outlets across the State prompted the District Mental Health Programmeto issue guidelinesfor doctors to assess and treat persons who are addicted to alcohol and who seek help for withdrawal symptoms. Now, there is a steady flow of persons with withdrawal symptoms. At the Institute of Mental Health (IMH), the outpatient department has been seeing a minimum of three new patients with withdrawal symptoms every day. “We usually get patients with withdrawal symptoms. Now, the number of patients is more despite lack of public transportation. They come in with complaints of tremors, headaches, restlessness, nausea and vomiting. Many of them have moderate and severe withdrawal symptoms,” a doctor said. Lakshmi Vijayakumar, a psychiatrist who has been managing the de-addiction centre at Voluntary Health Services, said, “We are seeing quite a number of people with withdrawal issues. There are persons who have experienced seizures and psychological symptoms such as visual and auditory hallucinations. There are persons with underlying psychological disorders with alcohol use disorder (AUD). Co-morbidity is common in AUD. Some have mood disorders. We are seeing a high number of such patients too.” In addition, they were receiving cases of domestic violence associated with withdrawal symptoms, she said. Most of the patients, she said, are from the low and lower-middle sections of the society. “Initially, those with withdrawal symptoms require medical treatment. Some will experience tremors, difficulty in eating that could last for four to five days. They will also experience an inability to sleep and will feel the need to seek medical help. We need to provide hydration. They will need IV fluids and sedatives. Those absolutely addicted to alcohol — AUD — require detoxification for the first three to four days, which can be followed by counselling,” she said. R. Thara, vice-chairman of Schizophrenia Research Foundation, said they have had family members of persons experiencing withdrawal symptoms approaching them with queries. “There are persons with symptoms ranging from mild to severe. In fact, there is an economic dimension too, as they are trying to buy alcohol sold at exorbitant prices in the black market. This has led to an economic drain in the families. In future, these aspects should be taken into account and closure should be in a staggered manner,” she said. IMH doctors said many persons were unaware that treatment was available for withdrawal symptoms. “We are also informing their family members that care should be taken to ensure there is no alcohol relapse after the lockdown is lifted,” a doctor said.
08 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||With no takers, unsold flowers at Koyambedu market end up in trash||With no takers during the lockdown, heaps of flowers are being dumped at the Koyambedu flower market. With the sharp fall in demand due to the pandemic, over the past few days, several vendors have little choice but to dump the flowers, soon to perish, at the end of the day. The wholesale market now functions till 1 p.m., every day. On average, the market receives 8-10 lorries of flowers from across the State. It normally receives 30 truckloads of flowers. Flower merchants noted that each lorry brings in five tonnes of flowers. S. Mookiah, president of the Koyambedu Wholesale Flower Market Merchants’ Association, said transportation was a major issue in bringing flowers to the market and transporting them to other markets in the State. “It may not be an essential commodity like vegetables and fruits, but we have sought permission to function to help the farmers,” he said. A sharp fall According to flower merchants, of the 50 tonnes brought to the market in a day, about 10-15 tonnes are being dumped as waste. N. Shiva Peter, a flower merchant, said that small vendors from other markets such as Parrys’ Corner and Tambaram visit Koyambedu. Now only 25-30% of the retail traders visit the market, he added. The demand has dipped, as places of worship are shut, and functions are not being held.
08 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Centre has taken MPs’ rights away by suspending MPLADS, says Stalin||By suspending the MPLADS for two years, the Centre has deprived the MPs of their rights and powers, DMK president M.K. Stalin said on Tuesday. “The MPLADS fund is essential for implementing projects in various constituencies for the benefit of the people,” he said. The cancellation of the fund will come in the way of fulfilling ordinary people’s demands,” he added. Many MPs from Opposition parties in Tamil Nadu have also criticised the Centre’s move. VCK leader and Chidambaram MP Thol. Thirumavalavan said the decision contradicted a circular issued two weeks ago, allowing MPs to utilise the MPLADS funds to address COVID-19-related challenges in their respective constituencies. Madurai MP from the CPI(M) Su. Venkatesan accused the Union government of centralising power at a time when it should be decentralising it. DMK Chennai South MP Thamizhachi Thangapandian said, “All of us are with the government in this fight against COVID-19. We realise that this is not the time to criticise [the government]. However, there is sound reasoning for why this decision is wrong.” “When an all-party meeting has been scheduled for April 8, why announce this decision without consultation?” she asked. Congress MP from Tiruchi Su. Thirunavukkarasar said the Centre’s decision had turned MPs into mere couriers for forwarding the people’s demands to those in power.
08 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Korean inmates at Tiruchi special camp approach HC||Two Korean inmates of a special camp in Tiruchi have approached the Madras High Court alleging that norms for physical distancing were not being followed at the camp though some of the 80 inmates were suffering from symptoms such as cold and fever. Justice S. Vaidyanathan heard the writ petitions filed by Choi Yong Suk (46) and Choe Jae Won (41) on Tuesday through videoconferencing and directed State Government Pleader V. Jayaprakash Narayanan to obtain detailed instructions from the authorities concerned by Thursday. The petitioners’ counsel C. Arun Kumar told the judge that his clients were the Managing Director and General Manager respectively of Chowel India Private Limited, a company operating from Sriperumbudur Taluk and engaged in manufacture of cowl bars, bumpers and seat frames for motor vehicles. Last year, the company was accused of not remitting Goods and Services Tax (GST) collected from its customers since 2017 and the total liability was assessed to be more than Rs. 40 crore. Hence, the authorities concerned initiated prosecution against the company and arrested its top brass. Though an Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate in Egmore had granted bail to the petitioners on November 19 last year, the Superintendent of GST and Central Excise chose to detain them at the camp and such detention was challenged by way of habeas corpus petitions. The HCPs were slated to be heard on March 26 but could not be taken up due to the nationwide lock down to fight COVID-19, the petitioners said in their affidavits and alleged that there was every chance of the pandemic spreading in the camp due to lack of preventive measures. They claimed that the camp lacked medical facilities and that no disinfectant was sprayed till date.
08 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Corpn. creates ‘island pockets’ of containment||The Chennai Corporation has created island COVID-19 containment pockets for 9.25 lakh residents, said Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash. Speaking to mediapersons on Tuesday, Mr. Prakash said the ‘island pockets’ of containment would be tightened. He refused to reveal the names of areas to prevent panic. “People are cooperating. There is minimum movement in the sealed area. We have made arrangements, permitting traders to sell essential commodities on boundaries of the sealed areas. Over two lakh families will get essential commodities without any difficulty,” he said. “We held a meeting with traders’ association on Tuesday. We have planned to give permission to 1,500-2,000 mobile retail outlets of essential commodities. The traders will be permitted to use 2,000 vehicles for sale of products for 60 days. The outlets will start operating from today,” said Mr. Prakash. “There is no shortage of essential commodities. Wholesale trade of essential commodities is permitted. Transportation of commodities has not been disrupted. We are adopting a balanced approach,” he said. Pointing to the absence of symptoms in 3,200 persons at Phoenix Mall, he said all contacts were traced on a case-by-case basis. “I request residents not to get angry with Corporation workers,” he said.
08 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Blue Cross volunteers ensure strays are fed||Ever since the city went under a lockdown to prevent the spread of COVID-19, a team of volunteers and staff from the Blue Cross of India has been working to ensure that stray animals on deserted roads do not starve. A team of 10 staff and volunteers have been making trips to feed stray dogs in the city. “This includes the Marina and the Elliot's beaches, as well as the IT Corridor, the Guindy Industrial Estate and Parry’s Corner. These areas have a high concentration of people as well as eateries, and it is here that most stray dogs can be found,” said Dawn Williams, general manager. Mr. Williams said they were focussing on areas where there was no one around to feed stray dogs. Residents’ gesture “In some areas, residents themselves have been taking care of stray dogs, ensuring that there are water bowls in place. To other areas, we take rice, dal and soya for the stray animals,” he added. In many areas, volunteers have fed stray cattle. Nearly 200 kg of rice, 30 kg of toor dal, soya powder and ghee are being used every day to cook food for the stray animals. Srikanth Ramesh, a volunteer with the Blue Cross, said a small team had been visiting the Marina beach, feeding over 200 stray dogs and around 40 puppies, found on the 5-km stretch. A few days back, the volunteers found a horse that was tied up malnourished. They have started feeding it now.
08 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Deadline for completion of registered real-estate projects deferred by 5 months||The Tamil Nadu Real Estate Regulatory Authority has extended by five months the deadline for the completion of registered projects, in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic and the consequential force majeure. “All registrations which were valid as of February 1 are extended automatically up to June 30. The validity of the registration will also be coterminous, with the revised completion date,” the authority said in a circular. The deadlines for all other statutory compliances in accordance with the Act, due in March and June, have been extended up to September 2020. “We had sought an extension for six months, and they have given five months. Most construction workers are being taken care of at the project sites. Once the lockdown is lifted, we hope to resume operations at the earliest,” S. Sridharan, chairman, CREDAI Tamil Nadu, said. Builder's responsibility K. Vaitheeswaran, advocate and tax consultant, pointed out that the builder’s responsibility towards the home buyer depends on the terms of the contract they had entered into. “It is advisable for the real-estate developer to examine the contracts and explore the possibility of sending out a notice to customers, intimating them about the impossibility of performance due to a force majeure event. It is pertinent to mention that most contracts are structured in a manner that require such intimations to be sent in order to validly invoke the force majeure clause,” he added.
08 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Workers flag their plight on social media||Help arrived for 140 migrant labourer families, who were stuck without food in two brick kilns in Thirukandalam, Tiruvallur district, after one of them took to social media to highlight their plight. On Monday, the Tiruvallur police and district administration provided them food and dry ration. According to Tikeshdas Rana, a labourer, close to 500 of them came to the brick kilns in Tiruvallur in January. “Our owner said that we would be provided food only if we work. Even after the lockdown began, we were working, but we were getting less food,” he said. “We took a video and posted it on social media. Our relative then shared it,” he said. Kalikesh Singh Deo, former MP, Bolangir Odisha, came to know about the issue and took to social media. He sought intervention from the Tamil Nadu government. Mahesh Kumar Agarwal, ADGP (operations), brought it to the notice of P. Aravindan, Tiruvallur SP. He and his team provided food for the labourers on Monday. “On Tuesday, we provided them ration that can last for 15 days,” said Mr. Aravindan.
08 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Truck repair shops can function, says government||The Tamil Nadu government on Tuesday issued an order exempting shops on highways involved in repairing trucks, preferably at fuel pumps, from the lockdown aimed at curbing the spread of the coronavirus disease. The decision is expected to remove glitches in the movement of trucks carrying essential supplies and the transport of fuel to various parts of the State. In a Government Order, Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam said shops dealing in agricultural machinery, their spare parts (including the supply chain) and repairs can remain open as well. The Government Order also allowed the tea industry, including plantations with a maximum of 50% of their workers, to function. The heads of establishments must ensure physical distancing and proper hygiene.
08 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘3 doctors have tested positive in Tamil Nadu’||Three doctors have tested positive for the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) in Tamil Nadu so far, according to Health Secretary Beela Rajesh. Addressing the media on Tuesday, she said all three, including a railway doctor, had come into contact with persons connected to the single source event (a conference at Nizamuddin in Delhi). While two of them were from Thoothukudi, the third was from Erode, she said later in the day. Thai link According to the Health Department, the 29-year-old railway doctor had come into contact with a 63-year-old person, a co-traveller of two Thailand nationals who later tested positive, at the Erode Railway Station. When asked if any of the staff deployed at airports had tested positive for COVID-19, she said two or three persons who worked at the airport had tested positive. One of them hailed from Kanniyakumari, she said.
08 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Techie from Andaman dies||Three days after a 26-year-old techie from Andaman and Nicobar Islands died in Chennai reportedly due to a cardiac arrest, his family is yet to see his mortal remains due to the lockdown. Prakhar Kumar was found dead in his room in a men’s hostel on Saturday.
08 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Man stages protest for liquor||Frustrated over the non-availability of alcohol, a 46-year-old man got into a well to stage a protest. The incident took place in Pattabiram near Avadi on Monday night. Manoharan, 46, a construction labourer, is a resident of Gandhi Nagar. He used to consume liquor daily. After the curfew was imposed, he was not able to get liquor. On Monday night, he climbed down a 25-foot well near his house and stood in neck deep water. When his family members asked him to come out, he demanded a bottle of liquor. His wife alerted the police at the Pattabiram station. SI Amirthalingam and others held talks with him. Fire and Rescue Services personnel joined them. After a while, the personnel entered the well and pulled him out by tying a rope to his waist.
08 April 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Online self-assessment test||Neuberg Diagnostics Private Limited has launched a COVID-19 self-assessment test on its website -https://neubergdiagnostics.com/covid19-selfassessment/index.html. In this, a person needs to answer a few questions to know if he/she needs to get in touch with a doctor. The self-health assessment scan to help individuals assess their risk of contracting COVID-19 has been developed as per guidelines laid down by WHO and Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, said Aishwarya Vasudevan, chief operating officer.
08 April 2020||CHENNAI/PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||NCC cadets join fight against COVID-19||Over 3,000 men and women from the National Cadet Corps (NCC) across Tamil Nadu and Puducherry have joined authorities in the fight against COVID-19. They assist officials in distribution of food and other relief material and ensure that people maintain social distancing in crowded areas. Following approval from the Centre, the NCC has accepted requests from cadets, who have come forward to assist the authorities. “Since NCC cadets are a trained force, it would be easy for them to assist officials,” a senior official said. Though this was voluntary, parental consent was necessary. “Some 3,000 cadets have come forward to assist the authorities. Presently, over 200 cadets in Tiruchi and 70 in Puducherry have reported for duty and about 50 would soon join in Kancheepuram,” Commodore Malay K. Kukreti, Deputy Director-General of Tamil Nadu, Puducherry and Andaman & Nicobar Islands (TN, P & AN) NCC Directorate told The Hindu . Only cadets in Senior Division (college boys) and Senior Wing (college girls) would be involved. All Collectors are informed and they could be enlisted closer to their homes in assisting authorities in crowd management and ensuring social distancing, he said. 70 cadets Over 70 cadets in Puducherry have been assigned to assist the district administration with various protective measures. According to a senior police officer, 46 senior male cadets and 27 female cadets headed by two officers, five Associate NCC Officers and seven Permanent Instructor staff have been deployed on duty. They have been provided with face masks, sanitisers and bottled drinking water.
08 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Beware of online banking frauds, police tell people||Those who are into online banking frauds are active even in the time of COVID-19 pandemic as they are contacting people on the pretext of offering various online banking services and giving assistance to avail of 3-month moratorium on fixed-term loans and EMIs announced by the Reserve Bank of India. The Coimbatore City Police have urged people to be careful of such calls that seek to share sensitive information like OTP, CVV of credit/debit cards, login credentials of net banking and credit cards. City Police Commissioner Sumit Sharan appealed to people not to share any such sensitive information to persons who contact over phone, often introducing themselves as customer care executives of banks. ‘Report to Cyber Cell’ “No banks will ask customers to share sensitive information like OTP and login credentials for any banking services. Such calls should be treated as fraudulent calls. Never share such information to unknown persons over phone,” he said. According to him, people who receive such fraudulent calls can report the same to the nearest police station or Cyber Cell. Several banks that are aware of the situation have started sending alerts to their customers to be cautious about such calls. “………. Bank will never ask you to share sensitive information like OTP, CVV, passwords for moratorium on your credit card bills, loan EMIs or any other payment. Beware of such fraudulent calls or emails. DO NOT share your OTP, User ID, Password, CVV, Expiry date etc with anyone. Stay safe and stay alert,” said an SMS alert sent by one of the banks.
08 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Disinfection tunnels inaugurated at four markets in Coimbatore||The Coimbatore Corporation, with help from sponsors, has set up disinfection tunnels at four vegetable markets. A release from the civic body said that it had set up the tunnels in R.S. Puram farmers’ market, Sundarapuram farmers’ market, Ukkadam Bus Stand and Gandhipuram Town Bus Stand at Rs. 1.25 lakh. Minister S.P. Velumani inaugurated the tunnels on Tuesday in the presence of Collector K. Rajamani, a few MLAs and senior Corporation officials The Corporation sources said that the tunnels measured 17 feet in length, five feet in width and seven feet in height with nozzles on the top, two sides and along the ground to spray disinfectant on a person. The nozzles along the ground was to cover the foot and footwear. The Corporation had attached 500 litre tanks and pumps to each of the tunnels to spray the disinfectant. The tank would last for two days, was the Corporation estimate, the sources added. The Corporation release said not only visitors to the markets, but the traders would also have to pass through the tunnel. The release also said the Minister also inaugurated the operation to spray disinfectants in Gandhipark using 10 tractors.
08 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Minister warns private hospitals against denying treatment||Private hospitals should not deny medical assistance to people for other health conditions by insisting that they undergo COVID-19 test first. Likewise, private establishments should not retrench workers or cut wages, Municipal Administration Minister S.P. Velumani told mediapersons after a review meeting at the Coimbatore Collectorate on Tuesday. “Hospitals should immediately attend to patients’ needs. If they are found saying that they would treat patients (for other conditions) only after the COVID-19 test, they will be punished. Likewise, companies or factories should not retrench workers or cut wages. If they are found doing so, action will follow.” Mr. Velumani said the district administration had thus far given relief assistance of Rs. 1,000 and essential commodities to 8.07 lakh public distribution system (ration) card holders. Likewise, the administration had also extended relief to 43,630 workers in various unorganised sectors. By and large people complied with the lockdown and physical distancing norms, but around 5 % of the people were not adhering to these. The 15 budget canteens (Amma Unavagam) fed 20,000-plus persons every day. The district administration, with support from various organisations, was feeding around 30,000 persons a day, including the homeless and migrant labourers. Of the 30,000, the administration directly took care of 18,000 persons. Of the 221 persons tested for COVID-19 in the district, 186 persons had tested negative. Five persons were discharged from hospital, he said. A total of 4,463 persons who had returned from abroad were being monitored.
08 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Pumpset manufacturers demand exemption from lockdown||Pumpset manufacturers in Coimbatore have appealed to the State government to classify pumpsets as an essential product since it is needed to pump drinking water and for agriculture activity. V. Krishnakumar, president of Southern Indian Engineering Manufacturers’ Association, told The Hindu several local bodies across the country needed the pumpsets to pump water during summer months. But they were unable to get it because the industries and dealer outlets were not able to move the products. Pumps came under agriculture machinery and the Central Government had permitted movement of agriculture machinery. However, in several States trucks were stopped at check posts and the products were stranded. Hence, the government should classify pumpsets as essential products and permit its movement. “We need clear guidelines from the Tamil Nadu Government on how the goods can be moved,” he said. There should be permission for the dealer outlets and godowns to be opened. Meanwhile, regarding the State government permission for continuous process industries to operate, foundry and textile mill sources here said they were discussing the possibility to operate the units. “There are several practical problems. The migrant workers staying inside the unit are unskilled. Supervisors should be able to come to the industries,” said a foundry owner. A textile mill source said that in several large-scale mills, there were migrant workers staying on the campus. District administration officials said the industries should get individual permission as the primary focus was on ensuring lockdown. Further, the units were permitted to work only with skeletal staff.
08 April 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Hindu Munnani, VHP workers booked||The Sulur police on Monday booked a worker of Hindu Munnani for his social media posts that allegedly defamed a particular religion. The police said Ananth from Sulur was booked based on the complaint filed by a resident of Ukkadam. The complainant had alleged that the accused circulated messages through Facebook and WhatsApp that linked COVID-19 spread to a particular religion. The police was yet to arrest Ananth. Similarly, the Anamalai police registered a case against Ganesh Babu, a district level officer-bearer of Vishva Hindu Parishad (VHP) for his Facebook post that allegedly defamed a particular religion.
08 April 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||137 samples lifted from family members||As many as 137 samples were lifted from the family members of persons who tested positive and were currently in the isolation ward of the Government Erode Medical College and Hospital at Perundurai here on Tuesday. After the three Thai nationals tested positive, Kollampalayam Housing Unit and Sultanpet areas that were visited by them were announced as containment zones and precautionary measures were taken by the Corporation and the Health Department. Later, as more positive cases were reported, Marapalam, Kallukadaimedu, B.P. Agraharam, Mosikeeranar Street, Cauvery Road and Manickampalayam areas in the city were also marked as containment zones. Currently, 18,351 families comprising 70,102 members are in home quarantine in 10 zones as 23 positive cases have been reported in the city of the total 32 positive cases in the district. On Tuesday, a team of doctors from the hospital visited the houses of persons who tested positive and samples were lifted from their family members. “If needed, samples will also be taken from persons whom they had direct contact, including neighbours and tenants,” officials said. Corporation Commissioner M. Elangovan said disinfectant was sprayed in all these areas twice a day, and essential commodities were sold through vehicles and push carts every day.
08 April 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||50 passes issued at Collectorate every day||On an average, 50 emergency passes were issued to people who want to travel outside the city here. In the wake of lockdown, people have been asked to stay at homes and venture out only to purchase vegetables, groceries and medicines. However, the government announced that people, who wanted to travel on emergency grounds for medical treatment, for death or for marriages, would be given passes by the district administration. Officials at the Collectorate said that about 50 passes were issued every day for the past one week of which most of the applicants wanted to attend deaths and for medical emergencies. Applications should carry details of the purpose of the visit, place, date of journey and return date, and number of persons travelling. Along with the application, they should attach the copy of registration certificate of the vehicle and the copy of the driver’s licence. “Genuine cases were issued passes within a few hours,” an official added. Officials warned people not to obtain passes by giving false reasons.
08 April 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||‘Provide bank account details’||Workers in unorganised sectors were asked to submit necessary documents for receiving the COVID-19 relief assistance of Rs. 1,000 from the State government. A press release from D. Balathandautham, Assistant Commissioner of Labour (Enforcement), said that workers registered with Tamil Nadu Unorganised Workers’ Welfare Board and Tamil Nadu Unorganised Drivers’ Welfare Board was eligible for receiving the assistance which will be credited to their bank account. Workers who are yet to submit the details have been asked to submit the necessary details including name, phone number, copy of the front page of their bank pass book and copy of the front page of the identity card to Assistant Commissioner of Labour (Enforcement) through WhatsApp number 9562-81407 or emaillossserode@gmail.com The release said that persons who had already submitted their details need not submit again and workers need not come in person to the office. Workers can also provide the details of their bank account at the landline number at 0424-2275592, the release added.
08 April 2020||ERODE/SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Cases filed against 6 Thai nationals in Erode, 11 Indonesian citizens in Salem||Cases were registered against six Thai and 11 Indonesian nationals in Erode and Salem, respectively, on Tuesday. The Erode South police registered a case against six Thai nationals for violating visa norms and having been involved in religious preaching that had eventually led to the spread of COVID-19 in the city. The accused foreigners are now in the isolation ward of the Government Erode Medical College and Hospital at Perundurai. Seven persons from Thailand had arrived in the city in the second week of March and had been involved in preaching activities. They had visited two dargahs and a few houses in the city. Later, one of them developed fever and was admitted to the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital, but tested negative for COVID-19. However, he later died due to complications of diabetic nephropathy and septicaemia. The other six were admitted to the ward. Three of them tested positive, while the other three tested negative. Some of those who had been in direct contact with them also tested positive, leading to the home quarantining of over 30,000 persons in the city. As many as 32 persons have tested positive in the district so far. ‘Knowingly spread virus’ In her complaint, Erode Tahsildar Parimaladevi said the six had arrived in the city on a tourist visa, but had violated their visa norms. Despite knowing that they were infected by the virus, they spread it to others, she added. The police registered a case under Sections 269 (negligent act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life), 270 (malignant act likely to spread infection of disease dangerous to life) and 278 (making atmosphere noxious to health) of the Indian Penal Code and Para 1-25 and 19.8 of The Visa Manual 2019 r/w Section 13(1), (2) and 14 of The Foreigner’s Act 1946 and 134, 135 of the Tamil Nadu Public Health Act, 1939. In Salem, the city police registered a case against 18 persons, including 11 Indonesian nationals. Based on the complaint of the Village Administrator Officer of Kitchipalayam, the police registered a case against 11 Indonesians, who had come here to preach Islam, their guide from Chennai and their local contacts. They were booked for spreading epidemic disease and flouting visa rules, among other charges.
08 April 2020||Kanniyakumari,TAMIL NADU||Rs. 70 cr.-worth fish to be offloaded||The COVID–19 scare, which has delayed the offloading of about Rs. 70 crore-worth fish harvested in deep sea, may cause huge loss to fishermen of Kanniyakumari district. Around 700 mechanised boats from Thoothoor region in western part of the district ventured into the sea in February and March and have returned to their bases with decent harvest of fish, mainly tuna, a pricey and much sought-after variety in foreign countries. Each of the mechanised boats, carrying 12 crew members, spent between Rs. 4 lakh to Rs. 5 lakh towards fuel and grocery, ice bars etc. “In all, around Rs. 70 crore-worth fish have been preserved in the mechanised boats now with the ice-bars they carried with them. Since the catches have already been preserved for more than 35 days, the boat owners should be allowed to sell the fish without any further delay by allowing the traders, mainly exporters from Kerala, to buy the premium marine products. If the district administration seeks help from Marine Products Exports Development Authority, it will in no time alert exporters registered with it to buy the fish,” says Antony Pitchai, a fisherman of Poothurai. Since Thengaaipattinam fishing harbour has been closed after a resident tested positive for COVID–19, the fishermen suggest that the boats, now anchored in various villages, should be allowed to offload the catch at Irayumanthurai fishing harbour.“If a disinfectant tunnel is created at Irayumanthurai, local sellers and others coming to the harbour to buy the fish may be asked to walk through it before entering the harbour,” says Sunil Sabariar, a fisherman of Vallavilai. Although an ice-plant at Irayumanthurai has been allowed to function to supply ice bars to the waiting boats, the fishermen say it will not be effective. “Since 35 days have already lapsed, the fish should be sold immediately. Else, it will cause a huge loss to us,” adds Shafi of Irayumanthurai. Fisheries officials say the 20 boats are being allowed to sell the fish daily to avert crowding and tokens have already been given to them. “This mechanism alone will save the fishermen from getting infected.”
08 April 2020||KOVILPATTI,TAMIL NADU||Mills to resume operations||The Thoothukudi district administration has started permitting rice, oil and dhal mills to resume operations, which were suspended in the wake of a nationwide lockdown, Minister for Information and Public Relations ‘Kadambur’ C. Raju has said. Inaugurating a disinfectant operation at Chinthamani Nagar and Rajiv Nagar in Iluppaiyoorani panchayat near Kovilpatti on Monday, Mr. Raju said people could go to other districts in the event of an emergency only after getting permission from the Collector. The application had to be made through ‘Muthu Mavattam’ mobile app.
08 April 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Chaos at vegetable market||It is utter chaos at the Central Vegetable Market at Mattuthavani. Despite the efforts of Madurai Corporation officials and police, personal distancing at wholesale shops, which do business in the night, has gone for a toss as a large number of people continue to flock the place. Though only wholesale vendors are allowed to sell vegetables to retail vendors there in a bid to decongest the market in the wake of COVID-19 outbreak, even a good number of public visit the place to buy fresh vegetables. “People have to follow the advice of medical experts. However, it is chaotic at the market. Even though I try to maintain personal distancing, I come into physical contact with people there. Such is the crowd at the market,” says S. Selvakumar, a retail vendor based near Iyer Bungalow. Another retail vendor, P. Sekar, says that one has to take care of one’s own safety. The orders of the government must be strictly followed, he says. People collect around the shops without any regard for circles and squares drawn to ensure personal distancing. The corporation officials and the police officials say that they have been taking strict action against those who do not followed orders. Also, the vendors and the customers who come to the market have been advised to wear masks and maintain personal distancing, they say. “We have taken strict action against those shops that have not followed the rules. So far seven shops have been sealed at the market for failing to ensure personal distancing was maintained at the shops by the customers”, said a Corporation official. The Corporation and police officials keep at strict vigil on the premises. “We first warn the shops for violation and only then seal the shops for not complying with the order. We also create awareness to the vendors and the customers at the market”, the official says. The police officials on their part make public announcements on the safety procedures to be followed and the importance of maintaining social distancing.
08 April 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Five more people test positive for COVID-19||The number of people who tested positive for COVID-19 here reached 24 with five more cases being confirmed on Tuesday. A 49-year-old man from Anna Nagar, who attended the religious conference in Delhi and returned to Madurai on March 25, tested positive. He did not display any symptoms. Another 49 year-old man in Elumalai, who worked at a milk booth run by a person who had earlier tested positive, too contracted the disease. He started displaying some symptoms, including fever and cough from April 3. The infection spread to three of his family members – his 48-year-old wife, 30-year-old daughter and 11-year-old granddaughter. However, they were asymptomatic. Collector T.G. Vinay said containment plans around the neighbourhoods of the infected persons were already in place.
08 April 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Cases heard via conference call||Putting to use technology in the time of lockdown due to the outbreak of COVID-19, the Madurai District Court on Monday heard 14 bail applications through conference call. Principal District Judge A. Nazeema Banu granted bail in seven of the cases and adjourned the remaining cases till a later date. The orders were passed after the cases were heard through conference call via phone, connecting the applicant’s counsel and the public prosecutor. The court manager, clerk and the stenographer were present at the camp office (residence), where PDJ passed the orders. After the orders were passed in the cases that were heard from 10 a.m. to 11:30 a.m., they were uploaded on the website. The urgent cases were taken up for hearing after the PDJ was notified over e-mail. With entry prohibited in all trial courts, hearing of urgent cases at the district courts will be taken up after the PDJ’s nod.
08 April 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Groom murders youth in Madurai||N. Ramamoorthy, 24, was hacked to death by a gang at Kannan Colony in Avaniyapuram on Monday night. Suspicion that the deceased having alerted the police over a child marriage that was stopped a week back is said to have led to the brutal murder. The police have picked up six persons and are on the lookout for a few more.  Police said while Ramamoorthy was going with his father R. Nallusamy, 42, on a two-wheeler, the gang intercepted and attacked him indiscriminately with lethal weapons after a hot chase. He was killed on the spot. Nallusamy said that K. Vijayakumar a local youth had developed enmity with the deceased after his wedding was stopped as someone had alerted the police that the bride was a minor girl, last week. The police said that Ramamoorthy and Vijayakumar’s family had a quarrel on Sunday over fetching water in public tap. Vijayakumar hatched a conspiracy to murder Ramamoorthy, who was living with a married woman. Vijayakumar sought help of her brother to know about his movement.
08 April 2020||Madurai/Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Police to reward informers on hoarding of essential goods||The Madurai city police have announced rewards for people who tip off the police about hoarding of essential goods in the city. In a statement, the Commissioner of Police, S. Davidson Devasirvatham, said that those who give accurate information on hoarding of essential goods would be suitably rewarded. People can call the City Police special control room on 0452-253-1044 or 253-1045 to also inform the police about traders in the city selling essential commodities at a higher rate. The Commissioner said that if people inform the police control room about non-availability of certain essential goods in their area, the police would take efforts to make those goods available in the local area, the statement said. The special control room has been functioning ever since the lockdown was announced to help people get various essential goods delivered at their doorsteps through select shops in the city. Vigil by Civil Supplies-CID Sleuths of Civil Supplies – Criminal Investigation Department are keeping watch on Virudhunagar district and State borders to check smuggling of essential commodities during the lockdown period. Following instructions from its Director General of Police, Prateep V. Philip, to take steps to prevent hoarding of essential commodities, several teams of CS-CID sleuths led by four Deputy Superintendents of Police were deployed at the district and State borders and toll-plazas. Besides, the sleuths have been instructed to ensure that face masks should be sold only for Rs. 8 a piece (2-ply) and Rs. 10 (3-ply) and 200 ml of sanitizer liquid for Rs. 100. Anyone found to be selling these goods for an exorbitant price would be detained under Black Marketing Act and National Security Act and sent to judicial custody.
08 April 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||One more tests positive in Puducherry||A second COVID-19 case has been reported in Mahe on Tuesday, taking the tally in the Union Territory to five. The patient, in his early 70’s, has been admitted to the Kannur Medical College at Anjarakandy after he tested positive for the virus.
08 April 2020||Pudukottai,TAMIL NADU||Drone engaged to spray disinfectant||A drone was deployed to spray disinfectant in Pudukottai municipal areas on Tuesday as a precautionary measure to control the spread of COVID-19 pandemic. The equipment was engaged to spray 10 litres of disinfectant at a time in various places Collector P. Uma Maheswari inspected the work. An official release said disinfectant was being sprayed in rural and urban areas. In addition to this, disinfectant was also being sprayed deploying vehicles of the Fire and Rescue Services Department. The release further said precautionary measures were being taken on a war footing in the district to check the spread of the viral disease.
08 April 2020||RAMESWARAM,TAMIL NADU||Small fishermen urge govt. to let them fish||Appealing to the government to allow small fishermen in the coastal region to go out fishing, CITU district secretary M. Karunamoorthy has said that it would bring in big relief as thousands of fisherfolk here experienced hardships due to COVID-19 lockdown. There were 130 fishing villages in the district spread across Thangachimadam, Pamban and other surrounding hamlets. Close to 50,000 men and women were directly dependent on the fishing industry. Another 50,000 people benefited through the industry indirectly such as selling the produce, transporting the fish from one end to another and so on. With the curfew in place, the fishermen have been remaining indoors since March 24, he said. Appreciating the governments and the civic authorities on the steps taken to fight the COVID-19 pandemic, Mr. Karunamoorthy, however, pointed out a flaw pertaining to the bc fishing community. When Fisheries Minister D. Jayakumar had announced that like vegetables and milk, fish would also be permitted to be sold in markets, what prompted the officials from not giving permission, he asked and said that under the pretext of social distancing, the fisherfolk have been asked not to venture into the sea. The small and marginal fishermen ventured into the sea less than one nautical mile in their boats. The catch would be sold in local markets,which would help the fishermen community to remain independent economically. “We can strictly follow social distancing both in the sea and off the sea,” he said. By forcibly making the fishermen stay indoors, the issues of running the family has become a big question mark and poverty was at its peak. “Where will the fishermen go to buy essential commodities,” he asked. The government, which gives a paltry sum of Rs. 5000 to the fishermen during the annual ban period to allow production, should consider giving Rs. 10,000 now in the COVID-19 pandemic situation to every individual. He further said that the ban period to facilitate fish production starts during April and goes on till mid-May. With the situation is not very conducive now for the fishermen to venture out of their dwellings, it would be timely for the government to help by giving relief immediately, he suggested. P. Sesu Raja, a mechanised boat fishermen association leader, said that the government can consider reducing the 45-day ban period as fishermen had not ventured into the sea since March 24. Antony, a fisherman in Thangachimadam said that drinking water had become very scarce in the villages. “The government should immediately look into our plight and help pull us out of the economic crisis,” he urged. A senior official in the Fisheries Department in Chennai who spoke to The Hindu over telephone on Tuesday, conveyed that more than allowing the fishermen into the sea, saving their lives from the prevailing pandemic was being accorded top priority. The COVID-19 pandemic was threatening the society in a big way that if fishermen were permitted to go in groups, it would defeat the objective of social distancing. The government would consider their plea to reduce the ban period and examine the modalities as to when to venture into the sea for fishing, he assured.
08 April 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Horticulture Department to begin door delivery of seasonal fruits in Salem||To support farmers cultivating fruits in the region, the Horticulture Department is also planning to start door delivery of kits of seasonal fruits here from Wednesday. The department through its Tamil Nadu Horticulture Development Agency started readying vegetable kits for door delivery. The kits included 14 varieties of vegetables and are sold for Rs. 100 through trucks in various parts of the city. Officials said the vegetables were procured directly from farmers and brought to the Uzhavar Sandhai here. To support fruit farmers in the region, the officials are also planning to include a kit of fruits for door delivery. “Fruit farming here mainly targeted markets in Coimbatore, Bengaluru and Kerala. However, due to lockdown, transportation of fruits has been affected. Hence, a separate fruit kit has been planned,” an official said. The official added that the kit would include fruits like chikko, banana and muskmelon for Rs. 50. “We a did trial run with 100 kg of chikoo. It was taken during door-to-door delivery and the entire stock was sold. We are planning to sell the fruit kits for Rs. 50. This will help farmers to some extent. We have arranged stalls for watermelon sales in markets,” the official said.
08 April 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Salem Railway Division operates third parcel train||The Salem Railway Division operated the special parcel train successfully for third time amid lockdown. The Railway division transported about 468 tonnes of cotton seeds through the special train to meet the demands of cotton farmers in Haryana. The Railway officials here said that they were ensuring that essential goods were transported smoothly by operating the special parcel trains. The officials here said they were the first to do so soon after the Railway Ministry advised them to ensure transportation of essential commodities. The officials said safety measures were taken in loading the goods to the train and COVID-19 safety protocols were followed. A sum of Rs. 27 lakh was earned by the Division by operating the special parcel train to Haryana. Personal distancing was strictly followed among loading personnel here and all loading workers were provided with safety gadgets like hand sanitisers and masks.
08 April 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Three test positive in Thanjavur||Three persons, including two males and a woman, from Thanjavur tested positive for COVID-19 on Tuesday. There were no new positive cases in Tiruvarur and Nagapattinam districts on Tuesday. In all 11 persons in Thanjavur district have tested positive for COVID-19 so far. Twenty residential localities in urban and rural areas in places such as Kumbakonam, Adhiramapattinam, Annalaghraharam, Melthirupoonthuruthi, and others have been declared as containment areas and sealed. Residents of these areas have been brought under surveillance of the Health Department, sources said. A resident of Ooranipuram in Orathanadu block who had travelled from New Delhi to Chennai on March 24, was among those who tested positive for COVID-19 on Monday. The resident of Ooranipuram, an employee of a New Delhi-based web news site, returned to Chennai from New Delhi on a flight in which some of the people who attended the Tablighi Jamaat conference had travelled. Upon reaching his native place, he reported symptoms of COVID-19 virus and subsequently volunteered for a test. Throat swabs taken from him was sent for test and on April 2 he was quarantined in the isolation ward at the Thanjavur Medical College hospital as the result turned positive. His native place has been brought under surveillance, official sources said.
08 April 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Now, health service at your doorstep||The Public Health Department’s efforts to extend health services at the doorsteps of villagers in Thanjavur district has received accolades from the public in view of the restricted access to the public health centres in view of the lockdown. The Public Health Department which is spearheading the COVID-19 virus prevention measures has also kept tabs on people suffering from chronic disorders such as diabetes, hypertension etc and expectant mothers. As patients, most of them senior citizens, were unable to avail themselves of routine check-ups and medicines, it was decided to conduct special camps at the villages covered by the PHCs in the district, official sources said. As part of the exercise, a medical team led by Block Medical Officer V. Soundararajan visited Periyanayakipuram, Thulukkaviduthi, Ottankadu, Thuravikadu, Punavasal, and Avanam in Peravurani block on April 6 and offered medical services to the patients in these villages. Stating that 1,127 patients in Peravurani block suffer from hypertension, diabetes and heart disorders, Dr. Soundararajan said electrocardiogram and other necessary equipment were taken to these villages and patients were checked. Apart from checking their health condition medicines were also distributed, he added.
08 April 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Man murders daughter||Authoor police have arrested a mentally ill man for allegedly beating to death his daughter. Antony, 40, a fisherman of Punnaikaayal, was undergoing treatment for mental illness. His family got him discharged and took him to a church at Puliyampatti, according to police. He was undergoing counselling at a centre, when the nationwide lockdown forced the family to take him to Punnaikaayal again. He reportedly became violent whenever he heard loud noise. On Monday afternoon, his daughter, Antonista, 17, was watching television when Antony shouted at her. She ran out of the house out of fear. When she went inside again and switched on the TV, he allegedly assaulted her with a club, causing grievous injuries. After administration of first aid in a private hospital at Authoor, she was rushed to Thoothukudi Government Medical College Hospital where she died around midnight. Antony was arrested.
08 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Five more localities brought into containment area list||District authorities have brought five more residential localities under the containment area list in the city on Tuesday after a rise in the number of COVID-19 positive cases on Monday. However, there was no addition to the number of positive cases at the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital (MGMGH) in the city on Tuesday. Three patients tested positive in neighbouring Thanjavur on Tuesday. As on Tuesday, 30 patients, who tested positive for COVID-19 virus, were under treatment at MGMCH. Of them, 13 belong to different parts of the city, while remaining 17 were from different parts of the district. On receipt of the first list of eight positive cases a few days ago, the Tiruchi City Corporation declared eight residential localities as containment areas, including parts of Thillai Nagar, Palakarai on Madurai road, Bharathidasan Road, Puthur, Woraiyur and Salai Road. As per the guidelines, the officials put up notice boards, informing the residents of the containment areas and asking them to stay put in their homes. The Corporation declared five more localities in Golden Rock and K. Abishekapuram zones as containment areas on Tuesday. Soon after the declaration, the police, revenue and corporation officials blocked most entry points to E.B. Colony, Khaja Nagar, Mannarpuram, Bheema Nagar, Airport and Thennur. The residents have been asked not to go out of their homes except in case of emergencies. A senior Corporation official told The Hindu that police personnel have been posted at all entry points. Contacts of the positive patients have been traced and were being monitored. Considering the nature of the exponential spread of the virus, the contacts, relatives and family members of the patients have been asked stay indoors. He said that cleansing drive in the newly declared containment areas had been initiated. All streets and lanes in the areas were sprayed with disinfectants. Health of the family members of the positive and suspected patients affected with cold and fever was being monitored on a daily basis. Meanwhile, Collector S. Sivarasu visited various parts of the district, including Manapparai and Thuvarankurichi, to take stock of the situation arising out of the rise in number of positive cases. He also met the residents of those put in home quarantine in Pattabiraman Pillai Street and Puthur in the city and asked them to adhere to the instructions of the authorities so as to contain the spread of the virus.
08 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Ensure safety of orphaned children: NCPCR to State||The State government should take all possible steps to ensure the safety, security and well being of orphaned, abandoned children during the curfew enforced in the wake of spread of COVID-19, R. G. Anand, member of the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR), said here on Tuesday. Speaking to The Hindu after visiting a few tribal settlements at Pachamalai hills, Mr. Anand said that the nationwide curfew had raised serious concern over the safety and security of vulnerable children, who were currently without family or institutional care. While fulfilling the need of food and shelter to them, it was important to ensure physical distancing so as to avoid contracting the COVID-19 virus. The State government had been asked to set up exclusive home quarantine for children in all districts to house the children of persons with symptoms of COVID-19. Home quarantines have been set up in all districts, except six. Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami and his team had responded well in ensuring the safety of abandoned children, he said. Mr. Anand added that a special drive should be carried out to collect details on the whereabouts of runaway children. The Child Welfare Police Officer (CWPO) should monitor if any such children were there in their respective police station’s jurisdiction. The services of Childline could be used to identify such children and bring to the notice of CWPO for further action. Whenever children were found, the CWPO should record the details of each child and the details should be sent to the concerned Child Welfare Committee (CWC). “The spread of COVID-19 virus has thrown up new challenges on safeguarding destitute children. The State government should take adequate steps to protect the children,” Mr. Anand said. He had been visiting various districts to study the status of children, who were quarantined and given institutional protection. The concerned agencies should be sensitised on destitute children in streets. If the children were found alone, they should be produced before the CWC for further action. If they were found to have fever, cold or breathing difficulties, they should be subjected to COVID-19 test immediately. Mr. Anand said that the intuitions that sheltered the destitute should carry out disinfectant drive periodically to prevent the children contracting the virus. Emphasis should be on extending adequate care to children in tribal settlements. Door-to-door enumeration should be conducted to assess the health status of children in tribal settlements.
08 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Special buses for health dept. staff||With prohibitory orders in force resulting in suspension of bus services and restricted movements of vehicles, the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) has come to the aid of field-level health department staff working in government hospitals in Tiruchi and Ariyalur by operating special services exclusively for them. The services were being operated as per the request from the Health Department and on the orders of the District Collector. The special services were being operated daily in the morning and in the evening to transport para-medical staff and health assistants to the Mahatma Gandhi Government Hospital at Tiruchi from various destinations and to take the staff back to the respective places in the evening. The services were being operated from Thuraiyur, Pettavaithalai, Lalgudi and Manapparai in Tiruchi district, Sengipatti in Thanjavur district and Viralimalai in Pudukottai district to the Mahatma Gandhi Government Hospital where isolation wards in the wake of COVID-19 have been established. The exclusive services were being operated for the benefit of nurses, health assistants, lab technicians and administrative staff who come from different places to the Mahatma Gandhi Government Hospital at Tiruchi since there was no other way to reach their work place in the wake of the present lockdown period due to COVID-19 spread, a senior TNSTC official told The Hindu . The buses were also being made use of by some doctors during the lockdown period, the official added. Limited number of drivers of the transport corporation have been engaged, the official further said adding a couple of such special services were being operated in Ariyalur district including one from Sendurai to the Ariyalur Government Hospital. The TNSTC has also been executing the task of spraying disinfectants as a precautionary measure to check the spread of COVID-19 in all its 13 depots functioning in Tiruchi, Perambalur and Ariyalur districts. Disinfectants were being sprayed in the buses before taking the health department staff to their work place and after dropping them when the vehicle comes to the respective depot. The Transport Corporation staff in Tiruchi region have been provided with masks and wash basins have been kept at every depot.
08 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||NCC cadets roped in||NCC cadets of various city colleges have been involved to assist the City Police at public places in ensuring personal distancing and in queue management. A total number of 59 senior division NCC cadets were deployed from Monday. The cadets have been deployed at Gandhi Market, Palakkarai, Cantonment and K. K. Nagar.
08 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Sprayers acquired to sanitise public places||The Tiruchi Corporation has acquired 210 disinfectant sprayers in view of the COVID 19 pandemic. The Corporation has acquired 200 mini sprayers, hand sprayers, battery sprayers, power sprayers, two and four stroke engineers and 10 heavy vehicles which would be deployed for sanitising public places. The sprayers and vehicles have been handed over to the sanitary workers for sanitising various places, including residential areas, markets and other places of public congregation, an official release said. On Tuesday, Corporation Commissioner S. Sivasubramanian inaugurated the spraying of disinfectants using hi-powered sprayers, acquired through donors, in the city.
08 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Nine held for lobbing explosive||The Manikandam Police on Tuesday arrested nine persons, including a DMK Panchayat Union ward councillor, who allegedly lobbed a country-made explosive near a village temple, due to a dispute between two persons over sand mining from a poromboke land. Police sources said the dispute was on for some time between K. Palanisamy, the complaint,and A. Palanisamy, one of the accused, over mining sand from the poromboke land. A gang allegedly engaged by A. Palanisamy came in a car and a couple of two-wheelers and lobbed the explosive substance near a temple at Kumbakurichi village in Manikandam police station limit on Monday night, apparently to instill fear in K. Palanisamy. On hearing the sound, the locals informed the police. Nine persons including A. Palanisamy, Arunachalam, DMK councillor of ward 8 of Manikandam Panchayat Union, and Tamilan, a history-sheeter, were arrested on Tuesday.
08 April 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Former TNCC president slams Centre||Former Tamil Nadu Congress Committee president and Tiruchi MP, Su.Thirunavukkarasar, has criticised the Centre’s decision to suspend the MP Local Area Development (MPLAD) Scheme for two years and termed it “autocratic.” Mr. Thirunavukkarasar, however, welcomed the decision to cut the salaries of the MPs by 30%. In a statement issued here, Mr.Thirunavukkarasar said the MPLAD scheme was meant to provide an opportunity to MPs to fulfil people’s needs and execute projects for their welfare. “The decision to suspend the scheme will reduce MPs role to that of postmen forwarding petitions from the people to the rulers,” Mr.Thirunavukkarasar observed. The move would effectively prevent MPs from fulfilling the poll promises made to the people, he added.
08 April 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||‘Loadman killed’||Following the retrieval of a loadman’s body from a temple in Thennampalayam on Monday, the police confirmed on Tuesday that he was murdered. The deceased, Veera alias Veerakumar (38) from Tirunelveli, was working in Thennampalayam Daily Market for four years. He suffered a cut injury on his left arm and died as he was not hospitalised on time, the police said. Further investigation is on.
08 April 2020||Vellore,TAMIL NADU||34 patients shifted to Vellore hospital||Thirty four patients, who tested positive for COVID-19 from Ranipet and Tirupattur, were shifted to Government Vellore Medical College Hospital in Adukkamparai, on Monday. In Vellore, six cases tested positive and five of them are being treated at GVMCH. The first case in Vellore district was from Katpadi and the patient has been admitted to Christian Medical College Hospital. In Tirupattur district, 10 people tested positive till Sunday. One more tested positive on Monday. In Ranipet, 25 were admitted to the Government Hospital in Walajah. Twenty four of them were shifted to Vellore for better medical care and co-ordination..
08 April 2020||April 08 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Be alert, not anxious||The COVID-19 pandemic is on everyone’s mind right now. A majority of those infected recover from the disease. Twenty per cent of the patients may require hospitalisation, especially when there are complaints of breathlessness. If they have coexisting conditions like chronic renal disease, cardiac disease, respiratory disease, cerebrovascular diseases, uncontrolled diabetes or hypertension, they carry a higher risk of mortality. Mortality in COVID-19 positive cases ranges from 2% to 8% worldwide. When we talk about COVID-19 infections and heart diseases, we face four scenarios — patients with known cardiac disease; cardiac patients developing COVID-19 infection; patients with COVID-19 infection developing cardiac complications and patients waiting for or have already had cardiac transplant  For cardiac patients: The most important thing to remember is to continue taking your medication if you have a known cardiac condition. You must also take the following precautions: Avoid physically visiting the hospital for your routine check-ups. Utilise their online consultation facility, if available. Stay at home to prevent contact with carriers. Practise social distancing in case you have to interact with others. Consciously avoid touching your face. If it’s absolutely necessary, wash your hands with soap and water for at least 20 seconds or use a hand sanitiser containing at least 70% alcohol. Work on optimising your immune system. Getting adequate sleep, staying hydrated, eating a balanced diet and exercising every day are paramount. Keep in touch with friends, colleagues, family and others remotely. Your mental health can affect your physical health, so don’t neglect that! Even if you don't catch the infection, stressing about the situation can worsen your heart condition. So, it's important to be alert and not anxious.  For cardiac patients who develop an infection: Maybe you’ve come to the hospital with chest pain. You may not have COVID-19 but the hospital may have to test you for it. This is for everyone’s safety. If you test positive, you and anyone you have come in recent contact with you should be quarantined for two weeks. There’s some evidence that shows a fever may actually be beneficial to your immune system in fighting the infection. So, for mild infections, fever can be treated with antipyretics. Antibiotics may be prescribed to you to treat secondary bacterial infections, if the symptoms are worse. Remember to consult your physician and do not self-medicate! If you develop breathlessness or other serious respiratory symptoms, you may be admitted to the ICU. Any kind of infection may worsen cardiac failure or cardiac disease. COVID-19 positive patients who develop cardiac complications are conservatively managed. For example, a patient with Triple Vessel Disease who is a candidate for coronary bypass surgery may instead be managed by angioplasty or medically managed with plaque stabilising drugs.  What about end-stage heart failure patients? End-stage heart failure patients are medically managed at present as the pandemic is making the logistics of transplantation difficult. Patients who have already had heart transplantation are at a much higher risk for infection as they are on immunosuppressive drugs. Our strategy is to prevent the infection among such patients by advising them to stay at home, use personal protective devices and maintain physical distancing. It’s normal to get worried about the pandemic. But worrying is not good for your health. Let the healthcare workers do their job and you focus on following the necessary precautions. Remember — stay alert, not anxious.
08 April 2020||April 08 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||One more death, 69 new COVID-19 cases in T.N.||Of the 69 new cases, 63 were linked to the “single source event” (the Delhi conference). This included those who attended the event and their contacts. Of the remaining six persons, the source of infection had been identified for three of a family from Thoothukudi. One person had inter-State travel history, another had contact with an international traveller and for one more person, tracking was under way, she added. Six persons - four women and two males - from Thoothukudi, five persons - two men and three women - from Madurai, three persons - two men and a woman - from Thanjavur, 13 men from Tiruppur, one person from Coimbatore, 39 persons - 22 women and 17 men - from Chennai and two persons from Ranipet have tested positive. A total of 1,630 samples from persons who attended the “single source event” and their contacts were sent for testing. Of this, 636 had tested positive, 961 negative and 33 were under process, she said, adding that more persons were coming in. Overall, a total of 5,305 samples were tested till date in the State, of which 201 were under process. A total of 1,864 persons were admitted to isolation wards in hospitals across the State. Chennai witnessed another surge in the number of cases. With 39 more persons testing positive on Tuesday, the city’s tally of positive cases increased to 149. Coimbatore was second with 60 cases, followed by Dindigul with 45. Tirunelveli had 38 cases and Erode had 32. Containment activities were expanded to 34 districts, covering 15 lakh households and a population of 53 lakh persons. A total of 30,369 field workers were involved. Testing facilities In addition to the 17 existing testing facilities, T.N. got two more laboratories - IRT, Perundurai and a private laboratory, the Health Secretary said. The State had the most number of testing centres and testing kits, she said. On the rapid test kits, she said a video-conference was held with microbiologists and lab technicians in districts. “We are working out a micro plan. We have also involved Anna University and are doing GIS mapping up to the level of house, street and number of buildings,” she said. As on date, a total of 66,430 persons were under home quarantine in the State, and another 253 in government quarantine facilities. A total of 27,416 persons had completed the 28-day home quarantine.
08 April 2020||April 08 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||T.N. to pool MLACDS funds to combat pandemic||The government should have instead said that a majority of the funds should be spent on COVID-19-related expenses within our respective constituencies, he said. The legislator recalled an incident last week, when his request to use his MLACDS funds for disinfectants and personal protective equipment for conservancy workers in his constituency was turned down by the district collector. "Instead of issuing an announcement making it mandatory to use the funds for COVID-19, this announcement by the CM shows how his plan is flawed and how this government is blindly following the PM without a clear plan,” the MLA said. Every MLA is allotted Rs. 3 crore under MLACDS. According to the guidelines issued in June last year for the scheme, the funds are to be spent on tied and untied components. Funds to the tune of Rs. 1.5 crore in the tied components basket are to be spent on infrastructure, anganwadis, kitchens in schools and drinking water supply, among others.
08 April 2020||April 08 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||covid-19 update||As on April 7   Coimbatore  Persons in hospitals: 135 (Male: 122, Female: 13) Government hospitals: 119 Private hospitals: 16 Positive cases: 60  Tiruppur  House quarantined: 881 Released after 28 days of house quarantine: 58 Samples lifted: 82 Results declared: 70 Positive: 20 (13 confirmed on April 7; all admitted to ESI Hospital, Coimbatore) Negative: 50 Discharged from ESI Hospital: 1 Results awaited: 12
08 April 2020||Bagalkot,KARNATAKA||Nine arrested for assault||Some youth reportedly belonging to an upper caste allegedly assaulted people from a Dalit community in Haladur village in Badami taluk on Monday. According to reports, the upper caste youth went in a group to the Dalit locality and assaulted several persons, including women and children.  Speaking to The Hindu , Superintendent of Police Lokesh Jagalasar said that nine people have been arrested in connection with the incident.
08 April 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||A wedding engagement via a video call||It was a virtual celebration for Asha from Sankeshwar in Belagavi and Mahantesh from Bagalkot who were engaged on Tuesday. Unable to travel due to the lockdown, the Patil and Arakeri families from the neighbouring districts decided to opt for a WhatsApp video call engagement. IT engineer Asha from Sankeshwar in Belagavi district and Mahantesh, a lecturer from Bagalkot, were engaged and their relatives blessed them on conference call. Two archaks at both ends were witness to the engagement and they chanted mantras online. Kutumba Yadi or copies of the engagement agreement were exchanged via WhatsApp by the two families. A total of 14 persons attended the ceremony on both sides. Asha’s father P.D. Patil said that his daughter came up with the solution to the lockdown. “We had fixed the ceremony two months ago and booked a hall in Sankeshwar for the purpose. But the lockdown forced us to look for alternatives. She planned the event along with her fiance and that was a big relief for the two families, Mr. Patil said. Asha said that she was happy that not just her family but the whole town would remember her engagement.
08 April 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Tension in Kudchi after residents stage dharna||There was tension in Kudchi village on Tuesday after some residents staged a dharna in front of the police station stating that ASHAs were heckled by the family members of suspected COVID-19 patients. Sangappa Patil, one of the protesters, told the police that some residents had pushed around ASHAs and insulted and abused them, as they were under the wrong impression that they had come to collect NRC documents. Kudchi police have filed two complaints against 11 persons for disrupting government servants from doing their duty, pushing around ASHAs and anganwadi workers, verbally abusing them, snatching their mobile phones and tearing down the documents they were carrying. Charges have been famed under IPC sections of assault, unlawful assembly, rioting, disobedience of government order and under other provisions. However, other residents denied these allegations. They said that there was an altercation between two persons after a resident accused the community of spreading coronavirus in the country. Superintendent of Police Lakshman Nimbaragi, who rushed to the spot, told The Hindu that he would collect information from his officers and hold a peace committee meeting in the village, after following due social distancing protocol. District in-charge Minister Jagadish Shettar said that he would instruct police officials to file a complaint against the accused.
08 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Hunger Helpline overwhelmed: At least 15% gap in demand and delivery of food||The Hunger Helpline (155214) was launched in Bengaluru on March 28 with the promise that food would reach those in need. However, its efficacy has been criticised with many saying that not only is it difficult to get through, but several requests successfully placed are also going unattended. “Even after over a week since its launch, it is not fully functional. Several requests made on the helpline go unattended for days, with helpline staff not knowing how long it will take to fulfil them,” said Vinay Sreenivasa, of Naavu Bharateeyaru, which works with poor and migrant labourers. Those manning the helpline concede that there is a problem of demand and supply. “An overwhelmed helpline is finding it tough to match demand with supply,” said P. Manivannan, secretary, Labour Department, overseeing the helpline efforts. As the situation stands today, there is a gap of at least 15% between the demand for food that the helpline registers and what is being delivered every day, he added. Presently, the helpline is sourcing food from six vendors including Wipro, Art of Living and Admaya Chetana, totalling to at least over 1.5 lakh meals daily, which is apart from several other initiatives also serving the same demography. Demand rises On Monday, the helpline had a supply of 93,000 meals for lunch and 78,500 meals for dinner. “The problem of demand is several times more in its magnitude than we initially estimated,” said Mr. Manivannan. He said the Labour Department is working with unions to map vulnerable labourers. “The unions say there is a need to provide at least two lakh meals, a day. We are working on ramping up our supplies. More people are needed to open up community kitchens and help in the time of need,” he said. The discontinuing of free food at Indira Canteens has only increased demand, said sources at the Hunger Helpline. Around 96,000 meals were being served daily at Indira Canteens before it was stopped. Ironing out glitches The Hunger Helpline is sorting out other glitches. For instance, on an average, it gets over 6,000 calls seeking help each day, and many are still not getting through. “We started with 20 phone lines and ramped it up to 70 lines. But it is still not enough. In a day or two, we will increase it to 120 lines,” Mr. Manivannan said. “One of the major challenges we face is the duplication of needs. For a single group of labourers, multiple people call and place requests for entire groups duplicating demand. By the time we discover the duplication, it may be too late and some others in need may not get food,” he said. To correct this, volunteers from Swiggy have now developed a geotagging feature in the ‘Dasoha’ software the department has been using to match demand and supply. “Since requests for food and later delivery are now geo-tagged, we will be able to solve the issue of duplications to a large extent. It will also help us track demand well,” Mr. Manivannan said.
08 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Villagers blocking officials could hurt their insurance prospects||Villagers across Karnataka deciding to shut out strangers has led to a serious concern among officials who are yet to complete the procedure of estimating crop output and insuring farmers against any eventuality. Many ground-level officials involved in the process in Chitradurga and Ballari districts have reported to their higher-ups that the villages where crop cutting (CC) exercise has to be taken up had been fenced to keep away “outsiders”, including officials, because of the COVID-19 threat. CC is a scientific way to estimate production through ground estimates of samples collected from the gram panchayat level based on seed quality, fertilizer applied, and irrigation method, among other things. The average yield is calculated and insurance companies use this data on yield per acre to settle claims. “The CC exercise cannot be done later if the crop is harvested or damaged,” a source said. Sources in the Directorate of Economics and Statistics said they have been appealing to farmers to let officials conduct CC for their own good. “If crop cutting is not allowed at the gram panchayat level, then the next higher unit will be considered for settling insurance claims, and most often farmers will lose their claim if a higher unit is kept for insurance claim consideration,” a senior official told The Hindu . The official said that if villagers continue to insist on officials not conducting CC, they have been asked to submit a report. According to the official, of the 87,000 mandatory CC exercises across Karnataka for the kharif season, about 32 are yet to be done. The problem, however, is with the rabi crop, where out of 42,216 exercises, over 7,000 are pending. For the summer crop, 10,300 CC exercises are planned. “Unless officials visit the field, check if farmers are insured and compare the ground situation with the Agriculture Department survey, it cannot be validated,” a source said. Because of a goof-up in 2016, when a local official in Haveri, without visiting the spot, randomly marked the CC outcome, 1,300 farmers lost about Rs. 1.3 crore in insurance claim. Officials also fear that in the current scenario, primary-level workers could end up fabricating numbers, which will not only upset the State’s projection but will also hit farmers hard in case of crop failure.
08 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State to activate MGNREGA with revised wage of Rs. 275 a day||The State government is set to vigorously implement the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA) scheme to tackle unemployment in rural areas in the wake of restrictions on account of COVID-19. Announcing this at a press conference here on Tuesday, Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Minister K.S. Eshwarappa said the implementation of MGNREGA scheme in the State had got a boost with the release of Rs. 1,861 crore from the Centre towards its implementation. The Central funds will also be used to clear pending bills to the tune of Rs. 1,039 crore towards the wages of labourers, he said. Even after clearing them, the RDPR Department will be left with Rs. 1,077 crore for implementation of the scheme, he noted. The Centre has also allowed the State to increase wages under the scheme from Rs. 249 to Rs. 275 per person a day. The Minister said this would enthuse people to take up work under the scheme. Precautions to ensure social distancing will be taken while implementing works, he added. Congress criticism This announcement came hours after Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president-designate D.K. Shivakumar accused Mr. Eshwarappa of being an “absent Minister” and “sleeping in the house” in an hour of crisis when rural areas were reeling under the impact of the lockdown. Mr. Shivakumar had demanded that the B.S. Yediyurappa-led government implement the rural job scheme and enable the poor to earn at least Rs. 9,000 a month. Reaching to this, Mr. Eshwarappa said, “We would not have got these Central funds if I was sleeping at home.” He also said task forces have been formed at all the village panchayats to tackle the spread of COVID-19. Drinking water The Minister said the government had released Rs. 1 crore each for 49 drought-hit taluks spread across 18 districts in the State for handling drinking water supply. In addition to this, Rs. 25 lakh each will be released to other taluks facing scarcity of drinking water, he said. Similarly, the State is set to get an allocation of Rs. 2,500 crore from the 15th Finance Commission towards village panchayats for handling drinking water and cleanliness, the Minister said.
08 April 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Alumni association of UAS-B steps in to help grape farmers||The alumni association of the University of Agricultural Sciences, Bengaluru (UAS-B) has stepped in to help grape growers who are in distress because of lack of access to bulk buyers. Grape farmers have left their produce unharvested in the grape cultivation belt of Chickballapur and Devanahalli as it is impossible to ferry and sell tonnes of produce at a time of lockdown. In fact, many growers have started dumping their produce in anguish. Hence, the association, which comprises thousands of farm scientists, has started making arrangements for farmers to bring their produce to Bengaluru, creating a direct marketing facility through its contacts. “To begin with, we brought 1.5 tonnes of premium seedless variety of Sharad seedless grapes from a farmer in Devanahalli and allowed him to sell them to consumers in Sahakara Nagar in Bengaluru on Tuesday,” alumni association chairman K. Narayana Gowda told The Hindu . The association roped in the Sahakara Nagar Residents’ Welfare Association to partner with it on the initiative. “Before the commencement of sales, we created awareness among local consumers through our association members with the help of social media and WhatsApp groups. In less than three hours, the entire produce was sold,” he said. The consumers, too, were happy as they got export-quality produce at just Rs. 55 a kg, as against Rs. 120 in supermarkets. Following the good response, the association has decided to facilitate the sale of farm produce at multiple locations in Bengaluru, including Tatanagar, Shivarama Karanth Layout, Coffee Board Layout and Pampapura, on Wednesday. The quantum of sales, too, is bound to increase. Within the next few days, the association wants to rope in more farmers and increase sales by several tonnes. Interested consumers can contact the manager of the alumni association on 97316 51925.  To begin with, we brought 1.5 tonnes of premium seedless variety of Sharad seedless grapes from a farmer in Devanahalli and allowed him to sell them to consumers in Sahakara Nagar on Tuesday K. Narayana Gowda, chairman, alumni association
08 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BMRCL hopes to begin operations on extended metro lines on time||Commencement of commercial operations of the extended metro line on Kanakpura Road and Mysuru Road will be on time, provided the present situation is under control by April, says the Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Limited (BMRCL). Managing Director of BMRCL Ajay Seth said, “We are hoping that if the situation becomes normal soon, we will be in a position to start the commercial operations within the timeline set. However, we cannot say what challenges we are going to face in the coming days. As and when they come we will deal with them. At this point of time, we are hoping to start operations.” The BMRCL has planned to open the extended Green Line (Yelachenahalli to Anjanapura) from Independence Day (August 15) and the extended Purple Line (Mysuru Road to Kengeri) from November 1 (Karnataka Rajyostava). The BMRCL has already been dealing with challenges for the projects, including acquisition of NICE land. But it has maintained that if acquisition of NICE land gets delayed, existing depots at Peenya on Green Line and Baiyappanahlli on Purple Line will be used for operating trains. Once the extended line gets operational on Kanakpura and Mysuru Road, the Green Line will add 6.29 km more in addition to the existing 24.2 km (from Nagasandra to Yelachenalli), and 6.465 km of metro network will be added to the Purple Line. The existing operational length of the Purple Line from Mysuru Road station to Baiyappanahalli is 18.1 km. Delay in tunnel work Under phase II of the Namma Metro project, the BMRCL has planned to construct a tunnel network from Dairy Circle to Nagawara for 14 km and has already received two tunnel-boring machines. Officials were confident of assembling machines imported from China and starting tunnel work by March, but that did not happen because of the COVID-19 outbreak. The BMRCL has also received some components of two more TBMs imported from China. As a precautionary step to curb the spread of COVID-19, like any other infrastructure projects in the city, construction works of Namma Metro have also been stopped temporarily.  (This concludes the two-part series on impact of the lockdown on infrastructure projects)
08 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Ola, Uber services for non-COVID medical emergencies||With 108 ambulance services attending to COVID-19 cases, the State government has roped in Ola and Uber to provide medical emergency services for patients who are advised non-ambulatory prolonged treatment. Around 200 taxis from both app-based aggregators will ferry patients to and from hospitals. The initiative will help patients, who have medical emergencies and require procedures such as dialysis, chemotherapy, organ transplant, radiation therapy, and ensure that they are not inconvenienced, said Health and Family Welfare Minister B. Sriramulu, who flagged off the service on Tuesday. Vehicles can be booked by calling dedicated numbers 9154153917, 9154153918, or by logging on to the respective apps. “Services provided will include only shifting of patients from home to hospital, and hospital to home, and not for any other medical emergency, including suspected and positive cases of COVID-19,” he added. The cost for this service, which will be operational till April 15, will be minimum, without any extra service charge or additional charge. Patients who use this service can register their grievances against drivers who demand additional charges with the Deputy Director (EMRI) at 9154153917/18/19. Masks mandatory “It is compulsory that the driver and the patient’s attendant wear masks for protection. It is also compulsory for the air conditioning in each of these vehicles to be switched off and the window panes to be rolled down,” said Pankaj Kumar Pandey, Commissioner, Department of Health and Family Welfare, government of Karnataka.
08 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Provide shelter to 2,000 living on footpaths in Majestic area: HC||At least 2,000 migrants and homeless are living on the footpaths in groups in Majestic area without any shelter and toilets or drinking water, the High Court of Karnataka was informed on Tuesday. The Karnataka State Legal Services Authority (KSLSA), which had conducted a random visit to Majestic locality to assess the situation, brought out this aspect along with video footage of those living on footpaths sans shelter despite specific direction from the Centre to provide temporary shelters to migrants and others during the lockdown. The KSLSA submitted this information before a special Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice B.V. Nagarathna during the hearing of PIL petitions on issues cropped up due to enforcement of lockdown to prevent the spread of COVID-19. Advocate B.V. Vidyulatha, appearing for KSLSA, pointed out that these persons, who were mainly working in small eateries in Majestic areas or as security guards before the lockdown, have no shelter nor any toilet facility. However, they were being provided with food to some extent by the government and NGOs. They are living and sleeping in groups contrary to the mandate of social distancing, Ms. Vidyulatha said.  Taking note of this, the Bench directed the government to issue instructions to the Bruhat Bangalore Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) and other urban local authorities to identity such migrant, homeless and stranded persons, and provide them shelters with toilet, food and water facilities. The Bench also asked the government to consider the suggestion made by the KSLSA to provide shelter to such persons in schools and community halls run by the BBMP and other local bodies, or at bus stands or railway stations in the city as these buildings have toilets. Relief camps Meanwhile, the Bench directed the government to provide toilet and drinking water facilities at relief camps while pointing out that mere setting up of relief camps would not suffice. The KSLSA has pointed out in its report that toilet and water was not available at relief camps set up for migrant labourers in Mysuru. The court had earlier asked District Legal Services Authorities to inspect some of the 200 relief camps set up by the government across the State for migrant labourers during the period.
08 April 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||First phase of mass marriage scheme put off||The first phase of Sapthapadi, the simple mass marriage scheme of the State government, which was scheduled on April 26, has now been put off in the wake of restrictions due to COVID-19. According to a statement from Muzrai Minister Kota Srinivas Poojary, the next date for holding the event would be announced after reviewing the situation in the days to come. A decision to put off the event was taken after discussing the issue with Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa in Bengaluru on Tuesday. Now the first phase of the mass marriage scheme would be held along with the second phase that was originally scheduled on May 24. But the new date for the event would be decided later, he said. Under this flagship programme of the government, which would be held in Muzrai temples, more than 4,500 applications had been obtained by beneficiaries from over 100 temples across the State. Of them, about 2,000 applications had been filled up and returned to the temple authorities along with documents. Preparations for holding the event had commenced in 10 districts, the Minister added.
08 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||636 undertrials granted temporary bail in order to decongest prisons||The State government on Tuesday told the High Court of Karnataka that 636 undertrials had been released on temporary bail as on April 5 by securing orders from the jurisdictional courts. This has been done to decongest prisons during the COVID-19 outbreak, as per the directions of the apex court and the guidelines laid down by the high-powered committee headed by the executive chairperson of Karnataka State Legal Services Authority. Of the 636 prisoners, 613 have already left prison, either in police or prison vehicles, to their homes, the government said in its statement. The High Court had directed the authorities to ensure that all released prisoners safely reach their residences when public transport is not available. The government also told the court that 1,379 prisoners have been identified for release on parole and 14 have already left prison. However, 215 of them have declined to go out on parole. A special Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice B.V. Nagarathna considered the statement during a hearing, through videoconferencing, of PIL petitions on issues that have arisen following the imposition of the lockdown. The Bench directed the prison authorities to make available to prisoners the facility of e-filing of pleas for release on bail. Death penalty cases The Bench also asked the Additional Advocate General to consult the Public Prosecutor and the advocates representing convicts facing the death penalty on the possibility of taking up hearing of these cases through videoconferencing. Some of the 10 death penalty cases were scheduled for regular hearing in March and April.
08 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Some bakeries open, while others remain wary||The State government may have permitted bakeries, condiments, confectionery and sweet shops to operate, subject to them following guidelines and standard operating procedures (SOP) issued by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. While some started operating on Tuesday itself, many owners of bakeries and sweet shops are still wary of opening their establishments. U.R. Madhu, who owns L.J. Iyengar Bakery in Kempegowdanagar, T. Dasarahalli, said that he planned on opening his bakery on Wednesday. “The bakery has been closed for nearly 15 days. We first plan on giving it a proper cleaning. We may begin operations on Thursday after buying all the required raw materials,” he said. The owner of Iyengar Bakery in R.R. Nagar had reopened his shop. It was the smell of freshly baked bread that drew his clientèle to the bakery, he said. He claimed to have sold around 150 pounds of wheat bread. “However, there were no takers for the pastries and cakes,” he claimed.
08 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Drones to monitor situation||The police are using drones to monitor neighbourhoods and ensure that residents are not violating lockdown rules for COVID-19 prevention. Barricades on key roads have been put up to deter motorists. “The drones fly around the area at the jurisdictional level and the footage is monitored by senior police officers at the command centre. The idea is to monitor movement of people and the vehicle so that police personnel can be deployed accordingly,” said a senior police officer.
08 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Deem drilling of borewells an essential service: Cong.||The Karnataka Congress on Tuesday demanded that the State government include borewell drilling work in the list of essential services to prevent a drinking water crisis in villages this summer. “Major parts of the State are facing severe drought conditions and shortage of potable water, especially in rural areas. On account of the lockdown, work on drilling borewells has stopped since workers have retreated to their native places,” Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president-designate D.K. Shivakumar said. He demanded that the government take up workon drilling borewells on a war footings. Addressing presspersons at the party office, he urged the government to call a meeting of owners of rigging machines for initiating drilling work. The workers of borewell drillers should be provided benefits under social security schemes, he added. “This work may be temporarily listed as an essential service,” he said. ‘Don’t slash salaries’ The State Congress is also against the reduction of salary of government staff and of any employee of State-run boards and corporations. Mr. Shivakumar told presspersons that the State’s fiscal position has not reached such a condition as to reduce the salaries of government employees. The government has nearly six lakh employees. He said all employees might not be working during the lockdown period, but they all need to feed their family members and likely have other commitments such as repaying loans, paying fee and house rent, amongother things. The Congress leader was responding to a query on the proposed plan to cut the salaries of government employees following the slowdown in revenue collection and shortage of funds during the lockdown period.
08 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Creating content for students||Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar on Tuesday unveiled the government’s plan to ensure that students who are currently on an extended summer break utilise their time wisely. The Education Department will be putting up academic programmes for children on a proposed YouTube channel of the Department of Public Instruction, and has sought inputs from professionals — teachers, software engineers, and those working with NGOs. “It is our wish to broadcast four or five programmes of 10-15 minute duration in one hour. If you have thoughts to spark the creativity in children and if you possess the desire to give back something to society, here is the right platform for you,” the Minister said in a press release. Material can be sent via e-mail to makkalavanissk@gmail.com. Alternatively, call 080-22483040 for more details.
08 April 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||SBI mobile ATMs||State Bank of India (SBI) has started mobile ATMs in the city effective from April 3. It said this initiative has been taken to help public who are not able to visit ATMs due to the lockdown. The mobile ATMs are getting a good response. Other ATM/ recyclers will function as usual.
08 April 2020||DHARWAD,KARNATAKA||Foodgrains distribution resumes in Dharwad||Distribution of foodgrains under the Public Distribution System that was temporarily halted due to COVID-19 scare and lockdown has resumed in Dharwad district. There are 3.80 lakh ration card holders and 234 fair price shops in the district. And, 7,173 tonnes of rice and 852 tonnes of wheat have been received for distribution through PDS. There is adequate supply of LPG cylinders, petrol and diesel. The district has a reserve of 2,900 kilolitres of petrol and 19,500 kilolitres of diesel.
08 April 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Dharwad Police hold peace meets to check hate videos||In the wake of complaints about an increase in the number of communally instigating videos on social media platforms, the Dharwad District Police have issued a strong warning to mischief mongers apart from holding peace meetings in various station limits of the district. Dharwad Superintendent of Police Vartika Katiyar has said in a release that a cyber crime team had been pressed into service to investigate such cases. Strict action would be taken against those involved in sending instigating messages pertaining to one’s caste, community or religion on social media platforms. At a time when the government was trying to fight against a pandemic, no mischief would be tolerated, she said. Already, the police have held peace meetings at all the 10 police stations that come under the Dharwad District Police and they have begun conducting village level meetings now to sensitise residents against circulation of hate videos and messages. On Tuesday, Ms. Vartika Katiyar also held a meeting with farmers in Dharwad to hear about problems they were facing because of the lockdown and how the police could help mitigate their hardship. The Dharwad District Police have also been arranging for food and water for drivers and cleaners of vehicles that transport essential commodities at check-posts, she said.
08 April 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Woman dies on way back to native place||A 27-year-old migrant worker who was said to have spent days without a meal during her return journey from Bengaluru to her native place in Raichur district died at Vijayanagar Institute of Medical Sciences (VIMS) in Ballari on Sunday. According to the kith and kin of the deceased, Gangamma, a resident of Sindhanur in Raichur district, had, along with other workers, left here about a couple of weeks ago and began working as construction labour at Kengeri in Bengaluru. After the country-wide lockdown was imposed on March 25 to curb the spread of COVID-19, the workers did not have any work to do and decided to return to their native place. They hired a tractor and left Bengaluru on March 30. However, they were stopped by the police near Tumakuru and forced to walk maintaining social distancing. As Gangamma, who already had some ailments, had got exhausted without food, she was admitted to VIMS early next morning, where she died after two days. “After she was admitted to VIMS, she was provided with fruits and food. Since she had other serious health ailments, she did not respond to treatment,” Deputy Commissioner of Ballari S.S. Nakul told presspersons on Tuesday. “We cannot say that it was a starvation death. She might not have felt hungry as she had jaundice,” B. Devanand, Director of VIMS, told The Hindu .
08 April 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Cheque given to farmer’s family||Agriculture Minister B.C. Patil on Tuesday met the bereaved family of a farmer who ended his life last week at Lad Chincholi village in Aland taluk of Kalaburagi district and handed over compensation cheque worth Rs. 5 lakh to his family. The farmer, Chandrakant N. Biradar (47), had suffered a huge loss as he could not to transport his agriculture produce to the market due to lockdown. The farmer had eight acres of land and borrowed a loan of Rs. 10 lakh from banks and private moneylenders. The Minister also made a personal contribution of Rs. 1 lakh to the bereaved family.
08 April 2020||Mandya,KARNATAKA||Physically challenged tailor prepares free masks for villagers in K.R. Pet||A physically challenged tailor in K.R. Pet taluk of Mandya district has shown that with a strong will and commitment, everyone can do their bit in helping society prevent the spread of COVID-19. Fondly called by his neighbours as a “real corona warrior”, the 30-year-old N. Manjunath of Bommenahalli has been working day and night for over 10 days now stitching and supplying reusable masks for free. “Preventing community transmission of virus is the need of the hour. Sellers should not exploit people by demanding exorbitant charges for masks,” Mr. Manjunath told The Hindu . The public service-minded tailor was born without his right leg and walks with the help of an artificial limb. He has an old sewing machine and pedals it day and night to prepare masks by using locally available cloth. He has already prepared and gifted several hundreds of masks to people in his vicinity. According to him, while many collect masks for free, some have forcibly paid him money while leaving his tiny house, lauding his social service. “I was just 12 when I learnt tailoring. I know that the face masks I am offering are not on a par with the scientifically prepared ones [N95 and three-layered surgical masks] and personal protection gears. But they prevent droplets reaching others when people cough and sneeze,” he said. He explained that reports of some shopkeepers financially exploiting people while selling masks and the non-availability of masks prompted him to start making them himself. As his father, Nagaraje Gowda, abandoned their home about 25 years ago, Mr. Manjunath takes care of his mother, Sakamma, 58, and grandmother, Boramma, 82. He depends entirely on tailoring to earn a livelihood as he does not have any property. “But the financial constraints have not marred my enthusiasm [in offering free masks to people],” he said. Srinivas Sajjan, a friend of the young tailor, stressed the need for authorities to utilise the services of people like Mr. Manjunath. “He is capable of preparing hundreds of masks a day and interested persons can help him by placing orders. His masks can be used for several days with proper wash,” he said. Mr. Manjunath can be contacted on 96323 61864.
08 April 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Central Market in Mangaluru closed down||Mangaluru City Corporation Commissioner Ajith Kumar Hegde Shanady on Tuesday directed that the retail fruit and vegetable traders in the city compulsorily purchase produces only from the Horticultural Producers Cooperative Marketing and Processing Society (HOPCOMS) at the APMC Yard in Baikampady or from other wholesale traders in the same yard. In an order, the Commissioner said that if the retailers purchased fruits and vegetables from other places, it will be considered as “unauthorised”. During inspection by the corporation officials, the retail traders they should produce the receipts for having purchased the produces only from the APMC Yard. If they failed to do so, the corporation will cancel their trade licence. The retailers should also give the corporation officials details on stocks of vegetables and fruits, he said. The Commissioner said that the retailers should sell the produce at the rate fixed by the government through HOPCOMS, he said. In another public notice, the Commissioner said that the Central Market in the city where wholesale retail and fruit and vegetable businesses were going on has been closed down. “No business will be allowed to continue in that building from now onwards,” he said. The Commissioner said that if the merchants who were doing business in the building wanted to continue their business, they should shift to the APMC Yard in Baikampady.
08 April 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Medical emergencies from Kasaragod to be let into Karnataka, subject to conditions||In compliance with the Supreme Court order on Tuesday to allow medical emergencies from Kasaragod district in Kerala entry through Talapady on NH 66 for treatment in Mangaluru hospitals, the Dakshina Kannada district administration said such cases would be allowed in, subject to certain conditions. Deputy Commissioner Sindhu B. Rupesh said in an order that an emergency meeting of the district-level COVID-19 monitoring committee had been held along with members of Indian Medical Association, Mangaluru branch. Only patients in need of emergency treatment and road accident victims will be allowed entry into Dakshina Kannada, and that too only in Kerala government ambulances. The government medical officer of Kasaragod has to certify that the person is not a COVID-19 patient and that the treatment required is not available in Kasaragod. The ambulance bringing in the patient has to be sanitised in accordance with the guidelines issued by the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. Along with the patient, only one attendant, one paramedic and the driver will be allowed entry. Team at Talapady The administration has deployed a medical team at the Talapady border. The team will check the ambulance, the patient, and the documents before allowing the vehicle entry. A checklist, along with the guidelines, has already been sent to the Kasaragod District Collector, the DC’s order said. The apex court on Tuesday disposed of a batch of petitions on the issue of entry of medical emergency cases from Kerala/Kasaragod to Dakshina Kannada/Mangaluru, after the Union government informed the court that the State governments had arrived at a consensus on the matter. After the Kerala High Court issued an order last week asking the Centre to intervene and remove the road blockade at the inter-State border to facilitate the flow of vehicles carrying essential items and patients in the midst of the COVID-19 outbreak, Karnataka challenged it in the Supreme Court. In its defence, the State said the COVID-19 situation was “really dire” and that opening the blockade would cause a law and order issue within Karnataka as the local population wanted it sealed. Meanwhile, the MP for Kasaragod, K. Rajmohan Unnithan, also approached the SC challenging the blockade.
08 April 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||COVID-19 tests begin at Govt. Wenlock Hospital||With clearance from the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) and the National Institute of Virology (NIV), tests for COVID-19 began at the new virology laboratory at the Government Wenlock Hospital here on Tuesday. As many as 10 throat swabs were taken up for tests in the laboratory on the first day. The laboratory is the 10th government facility for COVID-19 tests operational in the State. A team of specialists from ICMR gave approval to the facilities at the laboratory on Sunday evening and the NIV gave its approval on Monday evening after assessing the capabilities of the personnel, including that of senior specialist Sharath Kumar. The new BSL-3 laboratory has come up within three weeks after Minister for Health and Family Welfare B. Sriramulu made an announcement during his visit here on March 17. Testing reagents for the new laboratory have been sent from the National Virology Laboratory in Pune, sources said.  The new BSL-3 laboratory has come up within three weeks after Minister Sriramulu made an announcement
08 April 2020||RAICHUR,KARNATAKA||Clinics, nursing homes to remain open||Deputy Commissioner R. Venkatesh Kumar has directed private hospitals, nursing homes and clinics to be opened to provide health services to patients. In a release here on Tuesday, Mr. Venkatesh Kumar said that all clinics, medical institutions, pharmacies and shops related to the health sector should remain open to extend health services to the public.
08 April 2020||UDUPI,KARNATAKA||Bommai directs Health Dept. to carry out house survey||Home Minister and Udupi district in-charge Minister Basavaraj Bommai said on Tuesday directed the Health Department to conduct house-to-house survey in the district. Chairing a meeting on the COVID-19 situation in the district through video-conferencing, Mr. Bommai said that the house-to-house survey should also be carried out in the urban areas. The Health Department should take the help of urban local bodies for this purpose. He directed the top officers of the district to ensure that people maintained social distancing compulsorily to prevent the spread of COVID-19. He said that since the number of COVID-19 positive cases had increased in the neighbouring districts of Dakshina Kannada and Uttara Kannada, security should be tightened in the border areas. Other than the vehicles for essential services, none should be allowed in the district. Stern action should be taken against vehicle owners driving around unnecessarily, Mr. Bommai said. Deputy Commissioner G. Jagadeesha said that there were a total of 1,974 persons from the district who had returned from foreign countries and also 16 foreigners in the district. The quarantine period of all these 1,990 persons taken together was completed on April 5. However, these persons had been kept under observation for another two weeks. All the 43 persons who had been in contact with the three COVID-19 positive patients were under quarantine and they had all tested negative for the disease, he said. The administration had taken steps to transport the produce of farmers such as watermelons, pineapples and Mattu Gulla to other districts. The farmers had been provided with necessary help in their agricultural operations, Mr. Jagadeesha said. Superintendent of Police Vishnuvaradhana, Additional Deputy Commissioner Sadashiva Prabhu, District Health and Family Welfare Officer Sudhir Chandra Sooda and District COVID-19 Prevention Nodal Officer Prashanth Bhat were present.
08 April 2020||Vijayapura,KARNATAKA||‘False information on social media has caused huge loss’||Regretting that some people are spreading false news on social media that consuming chicken and watermelon causes coronavirus, Minister for Agriculture B.C. Patil has said that this false information has resulted in a huge loss to the poultry industry and watermelon farmers of the State. “False and unsubstantiated information have badly impacted the poultry farmers. People stopped eating chicken, and many farmers had no choice but to kill the birds as they were no longer in a position to feed them,” he said. Addressing presspersons after a review meeting here on Tuesday, he said that the indirect effect of this was also seen on maize farmers losing profits. He said that maize is the main feed for poultry. With the poultry industry incurring heavy loss, so was the case with maize farmers as their commodity remained unsold. He urged media to spread awareness and dispel such false messages to help farmers. Mr. Patil also asked the people not to believe in any such unscientific information and eat chicken if they wished without hesitation. Stating that the government had not restricted any agricultural activities during the ongoing nation-wide lockdown to prevent the spread of COVID-19, the Minister said that the government has directed the officials not to stop farmers involved in agriculture activities. He said that the government has adequate stock of seeds and fertilizers for the coming kharif season. “We do understand the fact that everyone, including farmers, are facing a great problem due to the lockdown. The government is making every effort to bring relief to farmers during a critical situation. I am not saying that we are addressing every issue of farmers. However, we are trying our best,” Mr. Patil said. To a question, he said that a direction has been given to the district administration to keep the online trading centre for raisins functioning to help grape farmers. He said that the farmers could also use cold storages of the State to keep their commodities. “We have 132 cold storages with 3,650 tonnes of storage capacity in the State. The farmers could use them to preserve their commodities,” he said.
08 April 2020||April 08 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Manipal students win hackathon||Their solution was to build a TeleHealth platform for non-contact monitoring of vital signs such as heart rate, respiratory rate and blood oxygen concentration using just a phone camera or webcam at home. “This cross-platform application avoids reliance on contact-based pulse oximeters,” Ms. Kamath told The Hindu . “This could be further developed into a telemedicine platform, wherein doctors and hospital administrations can remotely identify the progress of the patients. This is useful in prevention of transfer of COVID-19 to healthcare professionals,” said Mohammad Zuber, assistant director (innovations), Manipal Institute of Technology. Over the weekend, the team worked on the proof of concepts, prototypes, and preliminary vision for execution. Throughout the hackathon, several mentors across the U.S. with diverse expertise were available to improve the idea and business proposal. On April 5, the team reconvened to present the work in the form of a three-minute pitch followed by a question-and-answer session with the judges. The event saw 1,500 participants from over 75 countries and over 250 mentors. The team will now have an opportunity to co-develop and implement the solution with the support of partners (firms).
08 April 2020||April 08 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||12 districts in Karnataka remain free from COVID-19 cases||They did not have travel history or contact history. Another person from Kalaburagi, who is the daughter-in-law of the doctor who attended the 73-year-old who succumbed to the illness, tested positive. The total government labs in the State have increased to 11 with ICMR approving one more government lab in KIMS, Hubbali. Besides, another private lab in Sakra World Hospital in Bengaluru has also been approved, Primary and Secondary Education Minister Suresh Kumar told presspersons.    No decision yet  The State government has not taken any decision on extending the lockdown beyond April 14 as of now, said Primary and Secondary Education Minister Suresh Kumar on Tuesday. “While the spread has been noticed in 18 districts, the case load is high in three districts. We are monitoring the situation and discussing with experts. The COVID-19 task force comprising expert doctors such as C N Manjunath and Devi Prasad Shetty is likely to submit a report in two days. We will decide after that,” he said.
08 April 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Nodal officers in Alappuzha district||In a bid to ensure better coordination of COVID-19 prevention measures, the district administration has appointed nodal officers in all Assembly constituencies in the district. District Collector M. Anjana has made the appointments under the Disaster Management Act. According to officials, the nodal officers will keep legislators in the loop about various activities related to COVID-19 in the respective constituency. Further, the officers will take suggestions from legislators and convey it to the district administration and respective government departments for immediate action. No fresh case No fresh case of COVID-19 was reported in the district on Tuesday. However, five people were hospitalised with symptoms of the disease. The number of people under observation at various hospitals stood at 14. At present, the district has one active COVID-19 case. The person is undergoing treatment at Government Medical College Hospital, Alappuzha. Besides, 7,752 people are in home quarantine. Protective gear Shanimol Usman, MLA, has urged the government to provide personal protective equipment to doctors, nurses and other health workers in primary health centres. The police have registered 271 cases and arrested 284 people for violating the restrictions. They have been booked under the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance, 2020. Authorities have seized 181 vehicles. Meanwhile, around 5,000 kg of stale and contaminated fish were seized and destroyed by authorities in different parts of the district on Tuesday.
08 April 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Section 144 extended to three more villages||District Collector has imposed Section 144 of the Code of Criminal Procedure on three more villages in Devikulam taluk in the wake of reports that people who gathered for a festival in Kottakambur had violated the social distancing norms. The villages are Kottakambur, Vattavada and Marayur.
08 April 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Colonial-era log house in Wayanad caves in||A colonia-era log house, a historical monument of the Forest Department, at Valiamala near Pakkom in Wayanad, collapsed in rain on Monday night. The log house, now under the Chethalayath forest range in the South Wayanad forest division, was built by the British rulers in 1886. It had been in a dilapidated state for the past three decades due to lack of maintenance. Though the Forest Department launched a Rs. 3-crore project to renovate the log house in 2013, the Kerala Forest Development Corporation that was tasked with the construction work withdrew from the project terming it unviable. However, the department had renovated the log house at Muthanga a few years ago and it was opened for tourists. “Five such log houses were built in the forests at Begur, Tholpetty, Pakkom, and Muthanga in the district, and at Play Hut, a remote place on the Kerala-Tamil Nadu border. The log house at Valiyamala, near Pakkom, the biggest among them, was the camp centre of the British forest officials during their visits to Wayanad,” T. Sasikumar, forest range officer, Chethalayath range, said. The log houses were two-storey structures built on wooden pillars to ward off wild animals. The second floor of the structure was used for official purposes. They were used as the temporary office of the department to disburse salaries and incentives to officials in Wayanad, he said. Forest Department sources said they would conserve the relics of the log house. The department had chalked out a project to reconstruct the log house as part of the Kuruva tourism circle, the sources said.
08 April 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Rahul allots 13 tonnes of rice for Wayanad||Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, MP, has allotted 13 tonnes of rice for distribution among the community kitchens in Wayanad district. The rice would be equally distributed to all grama panchayats in the district, District Collector Adeela Abdulla said in a release here. Meanwhile, the district administration launched “Donated Drug” campaign on Tuesday. The campaign envisages providing drugs to patients with chronic diseases free of cost through sponsors. Those who needed medicines should contact grama panchayat secretaries, Ms. Abdulla said. As many as 12,647 persons, including three COVID-19 positive cases, are under observation in the district, Ms. Abdulla said.
08 April 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||Woman killed in accident||A 65-year-old patient was killed and four others were injured when the ambulance taking the patient to the Government Medical College Hospital at Kozhikode collided with a lorry near Thalassery on Tuesday morning. The police identified the deceased as Yeshoda, a resident of East Vellayi. She had been undergoing treatment for renal problems at the AKG Hospital in Kannur. The injured, including driver Shijin Mukundan, 28, from Mayyil, were admitted to the Thalassery Cooperative Hospital.
08 April 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||Two more positive cases in Kannur||Two more persons who came from Dubai to Kannur were on Tuesday confirmed to have contracted COVID-19, said District Collector T. V Subhash. A 42-year-old native of Manantheri, who returned from Dubai on March 21 and a 31-year-old from Pattayam Muthiyang who arrived at the Karippur airport on March 22 tested positive for COVID-19. Both are undergoing treatment at the COVID hospital at Anjarakandy. Meanwhile, a resident of Mahe, who had undergone a swab test from Kannur, has also been confirmed as positive for the disease. The 71-year-old was diagnosed with the disease after coming in contact with an affected patient. With this, the number of affected people in the district has reached 55. Of these, 19 have been cured and discharged. There are currently 1,0561 persons under surveillance in the district.
08 April 2020||KASARAGOD,KERALA||Curbs to be tightened in Kasaragod district||With the Union Health Ministry recommending tight regulations in COVID-19 hotspot districts for a month after the lockdown period, the district administration has decided to tighten the police control in Kasaragod district. In the wake of several cases being reported, areas with more patients such as Chengala, Mogral Puthoor, Chemmanadu, Madhur, Uduma, Pallikkara panchayat, and Kasaragod municipality have been declared COVID-19 containment zone. Help at hand Inspector General of Police Vijay Sakhare said the people should not leave their homes. The police were supplying essential items and medicines to houses. The police were strictly controlling the traffic and drone surveillance would be carried out in the areas, he said, adding that seven drones had been deployed by the police to identify violators. He said orders were issued to take stringent action against those leaving their houses and to quarantine them at the corona care centre arranged by the district administration. Maintain distance In order to prevent the spread of COVID-19, the people were requested to stay inside homes and maintain distance, he said.
08 April 2020||KASARGOD,KERALA||Karnataka eases restrictions on ambulances||Kasaragod District Collector D. Sajith Babu has said that the Karnataka government has decided to allow entry of ambulances from Kasaragod to Mangaluru on certain conditions. The Collector said on Tuesday that the Karnataka government had informed that State-owned ambulances would be allowed with critically ill patients who were not COVID-19 affected. Besides, such patients who are not getting specialised treatment for cardiac and neuro ailments, renal tubular acidosis (RTA), and for post-partum complications in Kasaragod would be given permission. A medical officer’s certificate should testify that the patient is not infected with COVID-19 and has not travelled abroad or to any other States and that he or she has no symptoms of the disease. The medical officer should also certify that the patient has no treatment at Kasaragod and cannot be taken to Kannur. Special order The Collector said that medical officers had been appointed by a special order to issue the medical certificates. Travel was only available for medical emergency purposes. The ambulance carrying the patient must be disinfected according to the guidelines of the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. Only a paramedic, a driver, and a helper would be allowed along with the patient. A medical team from Karnataka would be appointed at the Thalapadi check-post to ensure that the instructions are followed. The patient should have a valid identity card, passport, or Aadhaar card. The conditions further require the patient to bear the costs of the personal protection equipment (PPE) kit and the isolation ICU. Wenlock Hospital in Mangaluru had been converted into a COVID-19 hospital and hence no other treatments would be available there, the Collector said. Entry denied An ambulance carrying a patient from Kannur was forced to return from the State border by the Karnataka Police on Tuesday. Mohanan, a resident of Morazha, who took his 13-year-old son Adhithya Govindan in the ambulance arranged by the Kerala Armed Police (KAP) IV Battalion, Mangattuparamba, was denied entry on the State borders. The child had suffered burns a year ago and undergone a surgery at a private hospital in Mangaluru. The patient was supposed to review the condition a week ago. Despite showing all the medical documents, the police denied entry for the ambulance, he added. Meanwhile, till late evening, no vehicles were allowed by the Karnataka Police to cross the State border. The police on duty said that until they got further orders, the restrictions would continue.
08 April 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Comprehensive project for COVID-19 prevention planned||A comprehensive COVID-19 preventive programme will be implemented in the district down to the ward level, District Collector S. Suhas has said. As part of the programme, the first line of treatment centres are being set up with 25 beds. Each panchayat will have an ambulance and a testing centre. The preparations are part of the steps to prevent the possible community spread of COVID-19, according to the Collector. Since the elderly needs special care, tertiary care hospitals will be made available to them. Youths who require isolation could be sent to COVID-19 care centres being set up at the grass-roots level, said the Collector. About 70% to 80% of the people can depend on these primary-level centres. Community halls, schools and other such facilities have been identified for setting up primary-level centres. Such centres have already been set up with the support of local bodies. A Field Response Home Care Team for two panchayats will be deployed to take decisions on the line of treatment for those who are sick. Tertiary care centres, secondary line treatment centres, community-level first line treatment centres, and shortstay homes are among the various treatment facilities planned in the district. At the end of the preparation, there will be as many as 50,000 beds in the district, according to district administration sources. Online medicine As per the Emergency Response Plan, about 10% of the population could get infected, but only 2% to 3% would require tertiary care treatment. Plans have also been drawn up to take care of people with other diseases. Besides, plans are also afoot to start delivery of medicines in the same way food is delivered through online apps.
08 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Now, RPF deploys drone for aerial surveillance||In a first-of-its-kind move, the Railway Protection Force (RPF) on Tuesday deployed a drone for aerial surveillance to ensure round-the-clock security of railway assets in the city during the lockdown. The drone was deployed at the Ernakulam Junction railway station and the marshalling yard at Kathrikadavu. “This is for the first time that a drone is being employed for the security of railway properties anywhere in the State. The RPF has plans to introduce such surveillance drones at other important railway stations shortly,” said S. Ramakrishnan, Commissioner, RPF, Thiruvananthapuram division. “We would be able to monitor unauthorised entry into the marshalling yard and empty rakes using the drone images. Penal action will be taken against trespassers,” said T.S. Gopakumar, Assistant Commissioner, RPF, Ernakulam. A team led by him has been entrusted with monitoring aerial security surveillance.
08 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Prisons dept. for amnesty scheme for aged||With the amnesty scheme for prisoners failing to decongest the three central jails in the State, the Prisons Department has approached the State to extent the scheme to aged inmates and other categories. The department has sought permission for the release of prisoners aged above 60 years as they are highly vulnerable to the COVID-19 threat. It has suggested the release of the prisoners for 50 days without considering the nature of the offences and the punishment awarded to them. The prisoners who have duly returned to the jail after the completion of the emergency paroles allowed earlier and have not got involved in any offences during the parole period shall also be considered for the clemency scheme. There are around 100 persons who could be released under this category. Around 500 prisoners can be released in the three categories together, sources said. Besides the scheme devised by the Supreme Court for decongesting the jails, the department, in consultation with the State government had released prisoners in batches for up to 50 days. The amnesty scheme failed to make an impact on the population of the three jails, which are overcrowded, as only around 150 prisoners benefited from it. While the Poojappura jail houses around 1,200 inmates, which is nearly the double its capacity and there are around 600 inmates in Viyyoor, which can accommodate around 500 persons. However, there are only 835 prisoners in Kannur central jail against its capacity of 1020. Crowding The crowding could be reduced significantly if the prisoners who are being treated as inpatients in some jails too are released under the scheme, said S. Santhosh, DIG (Prisons) Headquarters. Though the Prisons Department had released over 1,500 inmates under the scheme devised by the Supreme Court, it was the inmates of the open jail in Nettukaltheri and Cheemeni that benefited the most. The two open jails have turned fully vacant, probably for the first time since its inception. While the 350 inmates of Nettukaltheri jail walked out to freedom for 50 days, the doors of the Cheemeni jail were opened to 160 persons. These prisoners were otherwise eligible for parole.
08 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||More people in home quarantine||The number of people in home quarantine in Ernakulam district rose to 3,024 on Tuesday. Of this 2,761 were of high-risk category – those who had returned from abroad or other States. On the day, 180 were put in quarantine. Two persons were moved to hospital isolation while two others were discharged from the Government Medical College Hospital (MCH), taking the total number of people in hospital isolation to 33. Of this 18 are at MCH, four at Aluva district hospital, two at Karuvelipady government hospital, and nine at private hospitals. On Tuesday, 43 samples were sent for testing. All the 41 results received on the day were negative for COVID-19. The crew members of the five ships that arrived at the Cochin Port on Monday were examined. None of them had any symptoms of COVID-19.
08 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Rapid test kits for MCH||Hibi Eden, MP, has said that real-time PCR test kits for screening people for Covid-19 infection will reach the Government Medical College Hospital (MCH) at Kalamassery on Wednesday. The test kits were purchased from Pune using Rs. 36 lakh from his MPLADS fund. This test, recognised by the ICMR, would give result in two-and-a-half hours, Mr. Eden said.
08 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Bail for gold heist accused||The Kerala High Court has granted provisional bail to the sixth accused in the Edayar gold heist case.  While granting bail for 30 days to Deepak C., Justice Raja Vijayaraghavan observed that though prima facie the charges appeared to be very grave, it could not be ignored that the country had been on the lockdown and the citizens were advised to practise social distancing.
08 April 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Allegations on free food baseless: govt.||The State government on Tuesday informed a Division Bench of the Kerala High Court that the allegations that the free food being supplied from community kitchens in Kollam is not reaching the needy and only those with access to phones are getting the food are baseless. The State government made the submission when a writ petition filed by Faizal and another Youth Congress leader seeking permission to conduct community kitchens in the district came up for hearing. Complaint The court, however, said the District Collector should address the complaint. The court adjourned the hearing to April 21 to monitor the arrangement being made for the community kitchens.
08 April 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Loan moratorium||The Kerala State Minorities Development Finance Corporation has declared a three-month moratorium on repayment of all loans issued by it. The beneficiaries need not repay the loans for three months starting March this year, said a statement issued K.A. Mohammed Noushad, managing director.
08 April 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Increase in flow of stale fish from other States||It was the vigilant public who alerted authorities about an unfamiliar truck parked on a pocket road at Neendakara. It carried some 4,000 kg of tuna and after the initial denial, the crew of the truck confessed to the police that it was nearly one month old. It was just one of the many consignments seized by the police, Fisheries and Food Safety Departments in the past four days from Kollam, the total quantity over a whopping 20,000 kg. Various departments have intensified vigil, conducting daily inspections under Operation Sagar Rani to check inflow of stale fish. Cashing in on shortage “With majority of fishing boats idling, there has been a severe shortage of fish for the past 10 days and some consider it an opportunity to dispose of old stock. These consignments are mainly from pre-lockdown days and they all reach Kerala from other States by road,” says Circle Inspector S. Sherif. “When the 21-day lockdown came into effect, several trawlers were stranded in the sea, many of them returning after long days with their catch. In order to evade strict regulations, including mandatory quarantine, many boats decided to remain in the sea around 12 nautical miles where the territorial waters end. But since they ventured into the sea some three to four weeks before lockdown, it was not possible to keep the catch for a long time,” says Francis, fisher. At first some boats tried to sell the catch using small carrier boats that ferried the fish to the local harbour. “When Fisheries Department started seizing such boats in Kerala, they went to places such as Muttom in Tamil Nadu to unload the catch. Since there is no restriction to transport fish now, they are bringing it to Kerala by road since our State is their biggest market,” he adds. Boats seized The Fisheries Department has so far seized four boats in Kollam and marine enforcement officials are supervising the activities in harbours to ensure that there are no violations. “One of the boats had quality catch and we helped to market it through Matsyafed. The boats we seized were disinfected with the help of Fire and Safety officials and are currently docked at Neendakara. A total of 54 crew members, including those from other States, have been quarantined in Kollam,” says Fisheries Deputy Director P. Geethakumari.
08 April 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Fish seized||Food Safety officials and the police on Tuesday seized 1,000 kg of stale fish brought from Tamil Nadu for sale in the district. A truck carrying 600 kg of fish was seized during a vehicle check by the police in the town in the morning. A preliminary examination revealed that the fish was not laced with any chemical preservatives. The vehicle was seized and the driver and his assistant were taken into custody. In another incident, 330 kg of rotten prawns were seized from another truck near Pala. Checks In the third incident, the officials inspected fish vending stalls at Changanassery and seized 65 kg of decayed fish. “A huge volume of rotten fish from places such as Thoothukkudy and other fishing harbours appears to be making its way to different markets in Kottayam in the cover of the lockdown,” said Unnikrishnan Nair P., Assistant Commissioner of Food Safety, Kottayam.
08 April 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Two more recover in Kozhikode||Two more persons from Kozhikode have recovered from COVID-19 even as the number of people cured of the infection reached five in the district on Tuesday. Twelve persons from Kozhikode, two from Kasaragod and one from Kannur had been undergoing treatment here. As of Tuesday, only seven from Kozhikode and one each from Kasaragod and Kannur are in hospital. No new SARS-CoV-2 positive cases were reported from the district on the day. According to a release, 21,934 people are under observation, including 26 persons at the Government Medical College Hospital and one at the Government General Hospital. Seventeen people were discharged on Tuesday. Of the 401 body fluid samples sent for lab tests, 352 are negative. The results of 34 samples are awaited. Meanwhile, the district administration has launched a helpline and protective measures for senior citizens as the impact of COVID-19 is reported to be severe among those aged above 60 years and suffering from respiratory problems and other health issues. Departments of Social Justice and Women and Child Development have joined hands with Foundation for Social Service and Bachpan Bachao Andolan. People who are under isolation, family members of those under surveillance, those staying alone and suffering from respiratory problems and other patients among senior citizens may make use of the facility. Food, medicines, shortage of other essential commodities, and mental health issues could be raised. Anganwadi workers will collect information about them separately. The helpline numbers are 8589984900, 9562320077, 8593006207, and 9205585952.
08 April 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Malappuram records another case||One more person tested positive for COVID-19 in the district on Tuesday. A 45-year-old woman from Kannamangalam near Vengara was found to have contracted the disease and was shifted to the Government Medical College Hospital, Manjeri. She had visited Nizamuddin and Mumbai along with her family. However, she had not attended the Nizamuddin religious conference. She went to Delhi along with her husband on February 14. They reached Delhi on February 17 and stayed at Banglawali Masjid at Nizamuddin for three days. They started from Nizamuddin on February 20 by train and reached Mumbai on February 21. They stayed in Mumbai for over a month at a Tablighi masjid and different homes. They returned to Karipur on Air India flight AI 581 at 9.45 a.m. on March 23. They reached home in a taxi and entered into self-quarantine. They reached Taluk Hospital, Tirurangadi, on April 5 and gave throat swabs for testing. The woman was tested positive on Tuesday and was shifted to the Medical College at Manjeri. Her husband, children and grandchildren were also shifted to isolation at the medical college.   Case against woman, son The police slapped a case against a mother her son for jumping the quarantine at Kulukkallur near Cherpulassery in Palakkad on Tuesday. They had gone to Nizamuddin on March 9, and returned home on March 15 after attending a conference there on March 11 and 12. Concealed details Although health workers had visited their homes on March 21 and 25, they did not reveal anything about their trip to Nizamuddin. It was the Federal Bank officials at Kulukkallur who noticed that they had withdrawn money at Nizamuddin, and alerted the district authorities. They were later shifted to an isolation ward at Taluk Hospital, Ottapalam, where they will be under observation.
08 April 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Malappuram preparing for extended restrictions||Malappuram is poised to witness further restrictions even after the national lockdown ends on April 14, with the district having reported 14 confirmed cases. Malappuram district has become one of the hotspots in the country. According to the district administration, the district will have a tough time in restricting the movement of vehicles and people from bordering districts such as Palakkad and Wayanad, both of which are not on the hotspot list. The authorities are planning to enforce two weeks’ quarantine for people coming to stay in Malappuram from other parts of the country, including neighbouring districts. More quarantine centres will be kept ready in Malappuram. However, there may be exemptions for brief visits. “It will definitely be a tough time to enforce the restrictions, especially as we have non-hotspot districts like Wayanad and Palakkad,” said District Police Chief U. Abdul Kareem. Public transport Public transport will be restricted to the minimum. Educational institutions too will remain closed. Working of business establishments will be too under control. All social gatherings, including religious meetings and prayer congregations, will continue to be banned. Minister for Higher Education K.T. Jaleel, who is in charge of Malappuram district, has convened a videoconference at the block level with religious and community leaders on Saturday. District officials said that further decisions would be taken after listening to their views and convincing them of the government’s strategies.
08 April 2020||Palakkad,KERALA||Driver found dead in van||A pickup van driver was found dead inside his van at Panthalampadam near Vadakkanchery on NH 544 on Tuesday. The police identified the man as Saravanan, 38, son of Kuppu Chami from Puliampatti in Erode district of Tamil Nadu. He had come to Ettumanoor with a load of bananas from Satyamangalam, Tamil Nadu. The police said he was returning to Puliampatti after unloading the bananas.
08 April 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Model to check community spread||On March 6, a doctor at the Ranni Taluk Hospital suspected COVID-19 in a couple from Aythala who approached him with fever. Three relatives from Italy were at their home. In an hour they were all shifted to the isolation ward at the Pathanamthitta General Hospital on the instructions of District Collector P.B. Noohu and District Medical Officer (DMO) A.L.Sheeja. On March 7, Health Minister K.K.Shylaja broke the news of them testing positive for COVID-19. The sleepy village of Aythala in Ranni was identified as the epicentre of the pandemic that sent shock waves across the State. A shell-shocked Ranni went into a self-imposed lockdown. Scared of infection, people restricted themselves to homes. Shops downed shutters and vehicles kept off the road. The elderly parents of the Italian residents too tested positive for COVID-19. Health surveillance teams, with the backing of the Health Minister, local MLA, Collector, DMO and National Health Mission coordinator Aby Sushan, identified and quarantined 1,250 primary and secondary contacts of the infected persons in the next 24 hours. A total of eight primary contacts of the three infected persons from Italy and a nurse who took care of their parents tested positive for the disease. How it’s achieved Mr. Noohu said people’s representatives, officials, and volunteers worked with the single agenda of abating the COVID-19 threat at the earliest. “We met every morning and evening to review activities, noted down the hotspots of the disease outside Kerala, identified people coming from those places, and ensured special quarantine for them,” he said. Dr. Sheeja said the department could deploy as many as 10,000 people, including ASHA workers, permanent staff, and those on contract, in a concerted effort to check the community spread of the disease. So far, 15 COVID-19 cases have been reported in Pathanamthitta and eight of them were cured of the disease and returned home last week. Addressing a videoconference, Cabinet Secretary Rajiv Gauba lauded the district authorities for preventing community spread of the pandemic in Pathanamthitta. Local MLA Raju Abraham said the people of Ranni played a key role in preventing the community spread of the disease. “The Pathanamthitta-model campaign has again highlighted the efficiency of the State’s public health system,” Mr Abraham said.
08 April 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||110 test negative in Pathanamthitta||The nasal and throat swabs of 110 quarantined persons in district tested negative for COVID-19 on Tuesday. A total of 17 persons have been quarantined at the isolation wards at various hospitals in the district as on Tuesday evening. Resident Medical Officer Ashish Mohankumar said the health condition of all of them was stable. District Medical Officer A.L. Sheeja said the administration was awaiting clinical examination results of 343 samples from the Virology Laboratory in Alappuzha. District Collector P.B. Noohu said 20 persons who returned from Nizamudeen in Delhi after attending the Tabligh Jama-at meet there in March, had been home quarantined in the district. The throat swab samples of 18 among them tested negative to COVID-19, the Collector said. Presently, 2,575 persons who came from abroad and 4,583 persons who came from other States are in homes quarantine. This is besides 401 primary and secondary contacts of the infected persons in the district. According to the DMO, all of them will have to remain in quarantine for 28 days. 6,077 screened The Health surveillance teams screened 6,077 persons at various border points of the district on Tuesday. However, none showed any symptoms of COVID-19. A total of 709 migrant workers too were screened and none among them showed fever symptoms.
08 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Battered by COVID, industry cries for aid||Public sector undertakings (PSUs) and the traditional industries sector seem to be in need of a substantial financial assistance to emerge from the loss induced by the pandemic outbreak. Out of 40 industrial units under the Industries Department, the Travancore Titanium Products, Kerala Minerals and Metals Limited, Travancore Cochin Chemicals, and Malabar Cements have revived production after a lull with Central nod, but the combined production loss of the sector following the lockdown has been pegged at Rs. 400 crore. Industries Department sources told The Hindu that as per rough estimates, the turnover of the units have slipped from Rs. 1,600 crore to Rs. 1,200 crore. Following the curbs on transportation, the units could neither move their finished products nor source raw materials to revive production. Even the units that have restored production will have to overcome major impediments for restoring normalcy. Extended curbs The current crisis does not offer any clue on lifting the lockdown and the restrictions are likely to be in place for at least a fortnight. All units have incurred a major production loss. The virus spread and the resultant lockdown have also stymied the government’s attempts to revive the PSUs from the red through various bailout packages. The plight of traditional industries workers, mainly coir, cashew, handloom, fisheries and bamboo, artisans and such others, is much more pitiable. The lockdown has expropriated their spending capacity. But for the government support by providing free ration and essentials, a majority of them, especially women, are finding the going tough. Daunting task Regaining the lost market is a daunting task, especially for the coir, cashew, and handloom sectors that have been surviving on government support. A scheme introduced by the government for producing school uniforms came as a major relief for handloom workers who were reeling under a crisis. The government would have to extend a financial assistance of at least Rs. 400 crore to the PSUs in the first quarter of the current financial year to restore normalcy. An income support scheme has also become imperative for the workers in the traditional industries sector. Such issues are likely to be discussed in the weeks ahead, the sources said.
08 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||172 under surveillance in Thiruvananthapuram||The district administration placed 172 people under surveillance as part of the COVID-19 containment measures on Tuesday, taking the total number of those currently quarantined in the district to 8,475. These included 7,865 people who are quarantined at homes. While 96 people are being monitored at various hospitals, 514 people are quarantined in corona care centres in the district. As many as 4,167 people were removed from the quarantine list after completing the mandatory 28-day surveillance period prescribed by the Health Department. Nineteen people were admitted to hospitals with various symptoms while 28 were discharged on the day. Seven patients continue to receive treatment in Thiruvananthapuram for COVID-19 infection. While health workers collected 48 throat swabs for tests, 168 samples have returned negative for COVID-19. The district authorities await the results of 277 samples. 148 booked The Thiruvananthapuram City police booked 148 people, 127 of which were charged under provisions of the Epidemic Diseases Ordinance 2020, for violating the lockdown. The Thiruvananthapuram Rural police have registered 362 cases and arrested 374 people. District Collector K. Gopalakrishnan on Tuesday inspected various parts of the city to review the enforcement of the lockdown guidelines. Taking stock of the situation at Poojappura and Thirumala, he reiterated directions to take stringent steps against those stepping out of homes for trivial purposes. He flagged the failure of the public to maintain social distancing in commercial establishments and other places. The district administration also said that a specialised training programme for doctors of government and private hospitals in the district was nearing completion.
08 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Kudumbashree distributes 1,000 meals||On the opening day of the Kudumbashree’s first Janakeeya restaurant in the city, as many as 1,000 meals were distributed. Tourism Minister Kadakampally Surendran inaugurated the restaurant, located opposite SMV Higher Secondary School, on Tuesday. The meals consisting of rice, Sambar, Thoran, Erissery, and pickle, are being sold at Rs. 20 for those who pick up the parcel from the restaurant. For home delivery, done by the Kudumabshree’s and city Corporation’s volunteers, the cost is Rs. 25. Those needing home delivery should register before 8 p.m. the previous day by calling any of these numbers: 7034001843, 7012285498, 6235740810, 9061917457, 7012827903, 8129016079, 8921663462.  Mayor K. Sreekumar said that an amount of Rs. 3 crore had been allocated for Janakeeya restaurants in the city Corporation’s Budget for 2020-21, as part of the State government’s hunger-free Kerala project. Nine more Janakeeya restaurants will be opened in the city. The restaurants are also aimed at cutting down the number of meal packets from community kitchens, which have become a financial burden for the civic body. In the State Budget earlier this year, Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac had proposed the opening of 1,000 such restaurants across the State by Onam.  Veggie truck  The Kudumbashree’s vegetable truck has begun plying across the city, bringing relief to residents in the time of lockdown. Mr. Sreekumar flagged off the vehicle. The Kudumbashree will bring vegetables as per demand on the doorstep. Contact: 7025332892, 8113008306.  Mask disposal The city Corporation, in association with the Indian Medical Association, has made arrangements for collecting the gloves and masks used by police personnel, for processing. The Corporation has already arranged colour-coded bins, attached to ten of its handwash points for collection of used masks and gloves from the public.
08 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Govt. agencies step in to help banana farmers||Government agencies have stepped in to help farmers growing red banana in the district who are struggling to find markets for their yield due to the COVID-19 lockdown. Both the Kerala State Horticultural Products Development Corporation (Horticorp) and the Vegetable and Fruits Promotion Council Keralam (VFPCK) have included red bananas in their vegetable and fruit kits that are being sold online. Known locally as k appa pazham , the red variety finds takers mostly in Thiruvananthapuram and Kollam districts. However, the COVID-19 epidemic dealt a blow to the farmers this year. The variety is grown in agriculturally rich regions such as Neyyattinkara, Nedumangad and Kattakada in Thiruvananthapuram, a district known for banana cultivation. Horticorp and the VFPCK have procured around three tonnes of the red banana so far in the district. “We are stepping up procurement. We have also included it in the fruit kits supplied in Ernakulam,” said J. Sajeev, Managing Director, Horticorp, adding that Horticorp was planning to step up procurement. The VFPCK had already included the red banana in its assorted fruit kits sold online in Thiruvananthapuram, said Mary Simon, district manager, VFPCK. The kit includes n endran , k appapazham and p alayamkodan /robusta. R. Balachandran Nair, chairman, Sanghamaitri Farmer Producers’ Company, underscored the need for markets. “The cultivation of red bananas is coming down in the district. Large quantities are also coming in from Tamil Nadu,” he said.
08 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||SIAD: monitor health of domestic animals||The State Institute for Animal Diseases (SIAD) under the Animal Husbandry Department has advised close monitoring of domestic animals in view of the COVID-19 infection reported in animals outside the country. The SIAD has issued an advisory to District Animal Husbandry Officers asking them to report uncommon ailments or mortality rate in domestic animals in their jurisdiction. This is especially applicable to animals belonging to households that have reported COVID-19 cases in human beings or where people are under surveillance for the disease. There is no cause for immediate concern as no COVID-19 infection has been reported in animals in the State, R. Jayachandran, Chief Disease Investigation Officer, SIAD, said here on Tuesday. Also, no cases of the disease getting transmitted from animals to humans have been reported anywhere so far, he said. Personal protection Respiratory and gastroenteric disorders in animals should be viewed seriously. Samples should be sent for tests on the basis of detailed examination, epidemiological analysis, and differential diagnosis. Since there is no relevance for a general screening at the moment, sampling may be confined to cases where infection is suspected, the guidelines said. Vets and other staff at clinical institutions have been asked to take adequate personal protection steps while at work. Avoid contact The SIAD has advised the public to avoid close contact with pets. Spaces dedicated to the use of animals should be disinfected frequently. Care should be taken to protect them from diseases during this period. As per an April 5 directive issued by the Principal Scientist (Animal Health), ICAR-Animal Sciences Division, the following institutes have been designated for COVID-19 examinations: National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases, Bhopal; National Research Centre on Equines, Haryana; and Centre for Animal Disease Research and Diagnosis at the Indian Veterinary Research Institute, Uttar Pradesh.
08 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||CM slams suspension of MPLAD scheme||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Tuesday slammed the decision of the Central government to put on hold the MP Local Area Development (MPLAD) scheme till 2022. He said the Centre’s decision to appropriate MPLAD funds to create a separate purse at the national level to fight COVID-19 was an arbitrary act that undermined the spirit of federalism. He made common cause with non-National Democratic Alliance (NDA) parties, including the Congress, the Shiv Sena, the DMK, and the Trinamool, to pressurise the Centre to roll back the decision. He pointed out that local self-government institutions were on the front line of the battle against COVID-19. Panchayat and ward-level interventions were paramount to contain the epidemic and kick-start the economy at the grassroots later. The MPLAD belonged to the electorate and not the Central government. The decision of the Centre to merge the MPLAD outlay with the Consolidated Fund of India to centralise the allocation of resources to fight the epidemic would not be helpful to States. The move would invariably lead to an imbalance in the budgeting of the funds, with some lesser affected regions benefiting more than other deserving localities, the Chief Minister said. Mr. Vijayan said he supported the Centre’s decision to cut the salary of MPs by 30%.
08 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Cong. immature: CPI(M)||CPI(M) State secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan has accused the Congress of conducting in an immature manner and trying to create chinks in the unity of the people in managing the pandemic. Responding to the allegations raised by Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee president Mullappally Ramachandran, Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala and former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy, Mr. Balakrishnan said in a statement on Tuesday that the Congress was upset over the popularity the government earned through its interventions in containing the virus spread. No other government in the country had announced such a comprehensive package covering all sections. While accusing the government of inaction, Mr. Chennithala should have clarified what the Congress governments in other States had done.
08 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Actor Sreenivasan under fire for claims on cure||Actor Sreenivasan stirred up a hornets’ nest on Tuesday with an article making misleading claims on a possible cure for COVID-19 leading to sharp reactions from doctors across the State. Doctors say such unscientific opinions from celebrities can negatively affect the preventive measures being taken at present. The actor had made the claim that some doctors at the Pariyaram Medical College Hospital had suggested that Vitamin C can be used to control the virus. He further claimed that the World Health Organization and the Indian Medical Association were not interested in this cure, as they preferred to sell more medicines. However, it seems the actor might have been misled by a fake message, attributed to a doctor from the Pariyaram hospital, which has been making its rounds in WhatsApp groups. The doctor had also filed a complaint with the cyber cell regarding this last week. IMA’s plea Reacting to the comments, IMA State president Abraham Varghese said that everyone, especially celebrities, should desist from spreading fake messages at such a critical time of spread of the pandemic. “The IMA has made this appeal against fake medical news in all forums,” Dr. Varghese said.
08 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Govt. to ensure supply of essentials||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Tuesday said the government had prioritised the unimpeded movement of essential freight, including cooking gas, into Kerala. Addressing mediapersons here, he expressed concern that the inflow of cargo trucks into Kerala had dwindled marginally compared to the past days. The State has sufficient food stock. But it has to replenish its larder. “The focus is on essentials and cooking gas,” he said.
08 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Yet to get aid, say fishers||Pointing out that the fisheries sector is yet to receive any relief almost two weeks into the lockdown, the National Fishworkers’ Forum (NFF) has demanded that the State government promptly furnish data on the impact of COVID-19 lockdown on the sector to the Centre. In a letter to Fisheries Minister J. Mercykutty Amma on Monday, the NFF pointed out that the Department of Fisheries under the Union Ministry of Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying had issued two letters to States and Union Territories on March 26 and March 30 seeking the data. “As of today, small-scale fishworkers across the value chain are yet to receive financial assistance. Similarly, workers drawing daily wages in the motorised and mechanised sectors are yet to receive support, and many of them are stranded at sea,” NFF chairperson Narendra R. Patil and general secretary T. Peter said.
08 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||It’s blinkered vision: CM||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Tuesday used his daily COVID-19 briefing to berate Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president Mullappally Ramachandran. Mr. Ramachandran appeared to have irked Mr. Vijayan by stating earlier in the day that the government’s outreach to non-resident Keralites (NoRKs) was limited to a conference by video link with affluent business persons. Mr. Vijayan said the government had covered much ground and done proper homework before initiating the videoconference with the NoRKs. It had urged Malayali associations across 22 countries to set up emergency helplines to succour COVID-19-affected Keralites stranded without food and medicine in cramped labour camps. He accused Mr. Ramachandran of having a blinkered vision.
08 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Career guidance during lockdown||With students confined to their homes following the lockdown, the Career Guidance and Adolescent Counselling Cell of the higher secondary wing of the General Education Department is trying to make the best use of the time to make students aware of career opportunities and how to plan for them.  A toll-free number connecting district-level help desks that guide the students has been set up. Students can call 18004252843 from10 a.m. to 4 p.m.
08 April 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Tabligh attendees can seek treatment without fear: CM||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Tuesday said Keralites who had attended the Tabligh conference in Nizamuddin in New Delhi could report to health authorities in the State without any fear of persecution or mistreatment. The government would examine them for COVID-19 and recommend quarantine if necessary. Nobody would stigmatise them. The Centre had told State governments that scores of attendees remained untraced. Many might be in hiding fearing prosecution.
08 April 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Thrissur sets up ‘sanitiser tunnels’||As part of intensifying measures against the spread of COVID-19, ‘sanitiser tunnels’ have been set up at various centres in Thrissur. In the first phase, the tunnels, which will spray disinfectants on people passing through them, have been set up at the Sakthan market and the district hospital. The district administration will set up more tunnels at Chavakkad, Chalakudy and Irinjalakuda taluk hospitals and the Government Medical College Hospital. The tunnel in front of the district hospital was ready on Tuesday. Chief Whip K. Rajan, Mayor Ajitha Jayarajan, District Collector S. Shanavas and elected representatives visited the tunnel on the day.
08 April 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Thrissur Govt. MCH to become special hospital||The Government Medical College Hospital, Thrissur, has been getting ready to become a specialised centre for COVID-19 cases. Arrangements have been made to face the challenge in case of community spread. The district is on the list of hotspots in the country. The authorities have made a comprehensive plan to treat COVID-19 patients and people under observation. In the first phase, an exclusive block of a four-storey building has been readied for COVID-19 treatment, said Government Medical College Principal M.A. Andrews. “It has 40 isolation wards, 36 ICUs, and 26 ventilators. Another four-storeyed building, with the same facilities, will be kept ready if needed. One ward has been specially set up with 36 cubicles for COVID-19 patients. The cubicles will ensure social distancing,” he said. There will be changes in the existing outpatient wing at the Government Medical College Hospital. Separate entrances and passages have been set up for patients and doctors. Special rooms have been arranged for changing clothes and safety equipment.
08 April 2020||April 08 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Each foodgrain counts||
08 April 2020||April 08 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Eerie feeling||
08 April 2020||April 08 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Having a free run||
08 April 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lower temperatures predicted in Seema in the next one week||Temperatures in the Rayalaseema region will remain below 40° Celsius in the next one week and light rainfall is also predicted giving a much needed relief to people in this COVID-19 heat. Temperature in Anantapur district touched 41°C on a single day and hovered around 40° C. But on Tuesday it was cloudy in both Kurnool and Anantapur districts, with a couple of places receiving rainfall with thunderstorms. The Kurnool district administration issued a public warning of the possibility of lightning strikes at least at six places — Uyyalawada, Chagalamarri, Kothapalle, Kowthalam and Adoni. Agriculture Research Station Agrometereologist S. Malleswari Sadhineni told The Hindu that there was a trough / wind discontinuity extending upto 1.5 km above mean sea level from the cyclonic circulation over south Madhya Pradesh and adjoining Vidarbha to interior Tamil Nadu across interior Karnataka. Due to this system, isolated to scattered rain / thundershowers with lightning and gusty winds are very likely over the south peninsular and adjoining east and central India during the next three days covering almost the entire Rayalaseema region surrounding areas. Regarding the temperatures in Anantapur and Kurnool, next three days up to April 10, the maximum temperature is expected to be in the range of 38 and 39° C and minimum temperature 28°C. After that there will be a slight increase in temperature going up to 40° C until April 13/14. The normal maximum temperature of April month in Anantapur is 39.4° C. At Vidapanakal in Anantapur, there were thundershowers and gusty winds on Monday uprooting many trees. Highest temperatures for the month of April for the past five years in Anantapur were: 42.5 in 2015; 44.5 in 2016; 43.7 in 2017; 42.3 in 2018 and 42.9 in 2019 (in degrees Celsius).
08 April 2020||Belagavi,ANDHRA PRADESH||Karnataka MP trolled for tweeting fake news||Shobha Karandlaje, BJP MP and former Minister, was trolled on social media for tweeting a fake news report about COVID-19 patients “misbehaving” in the district hospital in Belagavi. Attaching a video clip, she claimed that three people who attended Tablighi Jamaat conference were spitting and misbehaving with the hospital staff. This was despite the fact that the police had denied the veracity of the video.
08 April 2020||Bengaluru/Thiruvananthapuram/Hyderabad/Chennai,ANDHRA PRADESH||40 fresh cases reported in Telangana||A 45-year old person died in Kurnool district of Andhra Pradesh, becoming the fourth in the State to succumb to COVID-19, while one new case was reported overnight on Tuesday. The total number of novel coronavirus cases in the State touched 314 while active cases remained at 304, a Medical and Health Department bulletin said. The 45-year old person in Kurnool did not have any travel history but was admitted to the government hospital with symptoms of COVID-19 on April 1. He had Type-2 diabetes and died on April 3, State nodal officer Arja Srikanth said. The person, who died tested positive for the coronavirus, the official said. In all, six patients had recovered from the disease and been discharged from hospitals. The fresh case was reported from Guntur district, which now has 33 cases. The latest case was also related to the Tablighi Jamaat event. With 74 cases, Kurnool led other locations in the State followed by SPS Nellore with 42. North coastal districts Srikakulam and Vizianagaram remained unaffected. 40 cases in Telangana Health authorities confirmed 40 fresh COVID-19 cases in Telangana on Monday, taking the total number of active cases in the State to 348, officials said. The state government health bulletin added that 12 people were discharged on Monday and no death was reported. So far, 11 people have died due to the virus and 45 patients were discharged after treatment, it said. Kerala has 9 new cases In Kerala, nine people tested positive for the coronavirus on Tuesday, taking the total number of active cases to 263. The worst-hit Kasaragod reported four cases, Kannur three, Kollam and Malappuram one each, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan told reporters here. Samples of 12 people were returned negative on Tuesday, he said. While four of the nine had returned from abroad, two went to the Jamaat meet in Delhi and others contracted the virus through contact with infected people. The total cases in the State touched 336. Also, 1.40 lakh were under observation, 752 in various hospitals. T.N.’s tally rises to 690 For the fourth consecutive day, Tamil Nadu reported a death due to COVID-19. A 64-year-old woman, who had no travel history but came from one of the “high-risk areas”, died at Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital on Tuesday even as the State’s tally of cases surged to 690 with 69 additions. “The patient from Chennai was in the hospital for 1.5 hours. The woman had co-morbid conditions of diabetes and hypertension. She did not have a travel history but had a contact history. She was from one of the high-risk areas and we are in the process of identifying her contact,” Health Secretary Beela Rajesh told reporters. With this, a total of seven persons, who had tested positive for COVID-19, have died in the State. “We are doing a continuous audit of every death. We have a 10-member expert committee comprising doctors from the government and private sectors,” Dr. Rajesh said.
08 April 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Collector allays fear over community spread||Allaying fears of community spread in Chittoor district, Collector Narayana Bharat Gupta on Tuesday said there was no any need for panic, as all those linked to the Jamaat trip as also the foreign returnees were identified and several of them were under quarantine. “Of the total 17 cases, 14 had attended returned from Tablighi Jamaat event in New Delhi, and two are foreign returnees and two others had contracted the virus during travel,” he said. Addressing a press conference here, he said that samples of 391 COVID-19 symptomatic individuals had been sent to the labs for testing. “While 360 had turned negative, results of others are awaited,” he said. He said that the TTD had released Rs. 19 crore for upgrading facilities at the SVIMS Hospital in Tirupati, which has been declared the COVID hospital in the district.
08 April 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Guntur city declared a red zone area||As the nationwide lockdown entered its third week, a spike in the number of COVID-19 positive cases forced the Guntur district administration to declare the entire city a red zone area. Nine more persons tested positive on Tuesday taking the total number of positive cases to 41. District Collector I. Samuel Ananda Kumar told reporters that a complete lockdown would be implemented in the city and the relaxation of lockdown period was further reduced to three hours (6 a.m. to 9 a.m.) Apart from spike in the number of positive cases in the district, the major factor that forced the district administration to sound high alert is that 30 out of 41 cases are from Guntur and most of the persons tested did not show any symptoms like fever, running nose or dry cough. Stringent restrictions on movement of people in residential areas have been imposed and municipal and police personnel put up permanent barricades. The Collector, along with DIG of Police (Guntur Urban Police District) P.H.D. Ramakrishna and Municipal Commissioner C. Anuradha visited areas in Old Guntur on Tuesday. Appeal to residents ``We appeal to all residents in Guntur to stay at homes as the entire city is now under a complete lockdown. We have also reduced the relaxation period. There will be three entry/exit points into the city, Perecharla Road, Amaravathi Road and Pedakakani Road. Any violations of the lockdown will be dealt with sternly and cases will be booked under Disaster Management Act,’’ said the Collector. Mr. Ramakrishna said that police would tighten vigil and enforce lockdown strictly from Wednesday. The police seized 2,100 vehicles so far. The spread of coronavirus, beginning with a 52-year-old man testing positive after returning from Tablighi Jamaat gathering in Delhi, continues. The man now in treatment at Covid Hospital in Vijayawada is a resident of Mangaldas Nagar, but the contacts of other Delhi returnees spread across Old Guntur. As many as 30 cases are reported from areas under Old Guntur and Lalapet police station limits.  Situation reviewed The Collector, after reviewing the situation, declared that areas in Lalapet police station limits, on Ponnur Road beginning with Lanchester Road, Dargah Manyam (road leading from Kanyaka Parameswari Temple to Nallacheruvu), and under Old Guntur police station limits including Mangaldas Nagar, Kummari Bazaar, LB Nagar, Anandapet, as the cluster containment zone. In Guntur West, areas in Srinivasa Rao Peta, Nallacheruvu, Koretipadu have been declared as cluster containment zones. The entry points at Kankaragunta Road-under-Bridge have been blocked and access to railway level-crossing at Syamala Nagar has also been blocked. These areas have been permanently barricaded and access to residents was completely denied. There would be only entry/exit points which would be used by revenue, police and municipal staff. All essential commodities would be supplied to these areas in trucks, the Collector said.
08 April 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Guntur gets mobile disinfection chamber||The city, which has been witnessing rapid spread of coronavirus for the last two weeks, got its first mobile disinfection chamber, sponsored by ITC-ABD, Guntur. The chamber was inaugurated at the NTR Municipal Stadium by Collector I. Samuel Ananda Kumar, Joint Collector A.S. Dinesh Kumar and ITC CEO Sanjeev Rangrass. The mobile disinfection chamber is usually installed at the entry gate and all the visitors would have to pass through the chamber fitted with pipes spraying sodium hypochlorite solution. Disinfection chambers have been extensively used in China during the pandemic spread and States like Tamil Nadu also used them in public places. The Collector said that more such chambers would be installed at BR Stadium and markets in the coming days and thanked the ITC-Agricultural Business Division for sponsoring the chambers. Guntur district has recorded 33 positive cases so far but what has been alarming is the rapid spread of the virus in the rural areas. New areas in Mangalagiri and Sattenapalli have been declared the COVID-19 clusters and red zones.
08 April 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||2 hospitals designated to treat COVID-19 cases||NRI General Hospital at Chinakakani and Katuri Medical College, Chinakondrapudu on the National Highway have been designated to treat COVID-19 cases in the district. As many as 500 people have used the quarantine facilities provided at the hospitals. District Collector I. Samuel Ananda Kumar said that since these two hospitals were named COVID hospitals, general treatment would not be made available.
08 April 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID duties for forest staff||In an unprecedented move, the Andhra Pradesh Forest Department on Tuesday issued orders deputing all of its uniformed personnel to the COVID-19 containment, prevention and relief measures. Head of Forest Force, Principal Chief Conservator of Forest, N. Prateep Kumar, said a GO Ms. No. 239 was issued on Tuesday placing the services of the entire uniformed personnel for the COVID-19 duties. The personnel in the ranks of Assistant Beat Officer, Forest Beat Officer, Forest Section Officer, Deputy Range Officer, Forest Range Officer, Divisional Forest Officer and Sub Divisional Forest Officer would be placed at the disposal of the respective district Collectors, the GO said. The decision comes amid a growing concern of forest fires raging in the hills of Tirupati, Srisailam and Anantapur. Every summer, the department grapples with forest fires, and the means to contain them.
08 April 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two more containment zones||Two more residential areas -- Koretipadu and Chaitanyapuri Colony -- have been declared containment zones taking the total number of containment zones to 10. The areas have been barricaded and restrictions are in place. Municipal Commissioner C. Anuradha said since these areas were cluster containment zones, essential provisions would be sent to homes by civic staff and asked people not to go out.
08 April 2020||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Commemorating the coronavirus||Corona Kumar and Corona Kumari are hale and healthy. Yes, you heard it right! The bizarre-sounding names are of two babies born at Dr. S.E. Basha Clinic at Vemula in the Pulivendula constituency of Kadapa district on Tuesday. Even as the dreaded novel coronavirus is rocking the world, the parents wanted the birth of their babies to become memorable and hence named them after the virus. Sasikala from Tallapalli was on March 23 taken the clinic at Vempalle . After a minor surgery, she gave birth to a girl child, who was named as ‘Corona Kumari’. Similarly, Rama Devi, from Allireddypalli, who was also rushed to the clinic in an emergency situation, delivered a boy on April 5. ‘With a message’ Recalling the previous instance, Dr. Basha promptly came up with a similar name: ‘Corona Kumar.’ “In both the cases, the parents came forward with the names in order to send a message out to the public on staying healthy, apart from making the birth memorable,” Dr. Basha told the media. He explained that he had to take up the surgery as no other hospitals were open due to the lockdown.
08 April 2020||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||It’s not the time to play politics: Minister||Minister for Medical and Health Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas has requested the Opposition parties not to make an issue out of the COVID-19 control and relief measures and instead come out with constructive solutions to support the government. Mr. Srinivas, who reviewed the situation along with Deputy Chief Minister S.B. Amzath Basha and Cabinet colleagues Buggana Rajendranath Reddy (Finance) and Adimulapu Suresh (Education) here on Tuesday, said 304 out of 3930 samples tested positive and the rest turned out to be negative. “Even the positive tested negative in subsequent rounds and some were discharged too,” he observed. It is not proper for the parties to play politics at this crucial hour. The Minister observed that only 27 had tested positive out of the 402 patients who had undergone investigation in Kadapa district. All the coronavirus cases in the district have their roots in the Delhi Tablighi Jamaat event, he pointed out. Collector Ch. Hari Kiran explained that the district machinery had quickly isolated the Jamaat returnees.
08 April 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Procure shrimp to full storage capacity, Minister to agencies||Fisheries Minister Mopidevi Venkata Ramana on Tuesday made it mandatory for export and processing firms to procure shrimp to their full storage capacity. In a review meeting with exporters, traders, processing companies, and farmers here, he has reiterated that non-cooperation by key stakeholders in the aqua industry would result in a great loss to the State apart from driving farmers to unprecedented distress. “The State government will not excuse any further reason for failing to procure shrimp by traders and processing agencies from farmers. Of the nearly 12,000 metric tonnes of estimated production under cultivation in East Godavari district, over half of it has been harvested and the rest is ready to be harvested in days to come,” said Mr. Venkata Ramana. East Godavari District Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy said that the officials from the revenue and fisheries departments would directly monitor the shrimp trade by registering the crop and trade details from Wednesday. ‘No middlemen’ He has said, “The farmer should register the crop details, quantity and extent of the pond with the designated official teams, which will later guarantee the procurement by the respective firms without any involvement of the middlemen in the trade.” “Until the lockdown is lifted, no involvement of the middlemen will be tolerated. The special cell will also be set up in each trading and processing firm to monitor the procurement exercise,” he said. The Collector has appealed to the shrimp farmers not to resort to the distress sale. “The district administration will register cases against the firms if they found entertaining middlemen till the lockdown is lifted,” said Mr. Muralidhar.
08 April 2020||Kochi,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pandemic puts the brakes on a dream trip to Tokyo||Locked up inside a skill development institute at Lembucherra, some 10 km from Agartala in Tripura, three youngsters who had set out on a once-in-a-lifetime journey have a lot to reflect on now that their dream remains shattered. Cliffin Francis, Dona Jacob, and Haseeb Ahsan from different parts of Kerala but united by the passion of exploring the world had their sights set on Tokyo Olympics when they started biking from Kochi on December 15. They had planned everything, from a detailed route map to the distance to be covered on every single day, to reach Tokyo a day ahead of the Olympics on July 24. Only, they had not foreseen a pandemic outbreak, which poured cold water over their entire plan. “Having entered Thailand from Myanmar, we should have been pedalling our way to Laos now. Instead, here we are stuck in Tripura for more than a fortnight,” said Cliffin. From Laos they were to pedal to Shanghai and reach Tokyo by cruise. Things were more or less going according to the plan, except for some time lost in securing visa for China, till they entered Bangladesh last month where no case was reported till then. Then cases started emerging and the youngsters, anticipating a potential lockdown trapping them in a foreign country, crossed back across the border in a hurry. Quarantine in Agartala “We were advised to undergo a 14-day quarantine in Agartala and were taken in an ambulance to the Indira Gandhi Memorial Hospital where we completed the quarantine period on April 2. Since then we have been staying at the skill development institute run by a priest known to Dona and helping him with mask making,” said Cliffin. With Olympics postponed for a year, the youngsters have called off their journey and are now thinking only about getting back home. Pedalling the way back is ruled out since that means going through successive quarantines along the way. The idea is to fly back although there is not yet any clarity on how and when the lockdown will be lifted. “We would love to get back on the road again next year. But a lot of factors would have to be taken care of, from money to convincing families, all over again,” said Cliffin.
08 April 2020||Kozhikode,ANDHRA PRADESH||Palakkad IIT pitches in to fight COVID-19||At a time when discussions are on whether technology will destroy the art of medicine, the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT), Palakkad, is tweaking its brains to make an impact on clinical care in the State. After scanning the database of 60,000 COVID-19 patients in Italy, an IIT team led by Vinod A. Prasad, Professor, Electrical Engineering, and Dean, Industry Collaboration and Sponsored Research, is working on an automated analysis of ultrasound lung scans using machine learning techniques. Clinical trials in collaboration with the Sree Chitra Institute of Medical Sciences and Technology (SCTIMST) will be conducted soon. “At present, X-Ray and CT scans that are hazardous, costly, and impractical in ICU wards are the commonly used diagnostic modalities for evaluating the lung condition of COVID-19 patients in India. But doctors in Italy have demonstrated the usefulness of lung ultrasound scans for monitoring patients on a daily basis for timely medical intervention to reduce mortality,” Prof. Prasad said. Based on the data of COVID-19 patients shared by the University of Trento, Italy, Prof. Prasad said the IIT was developing an automated analysis for the Italian ultrasound lung images and would validate it in Indian hospitals in clinical collaboration with the SCTIMST. The technique could also be applied to monitor other lung diseases, he said. He said the IIT had multiple projects on hand such as portable low-cost emergency ventilator for COVID-19 patients, low-cost pulse plethysmograph for ICUs, low-cost test kit for fast screening of COVID-19, and realtime tracking of crowd and quarantined people using cellular network data. CSR funding His team, which included Afzaal Ahmed, Mahesh R. Panicker, V. Sreenath, Shanmugaraju Sankarasekaran, and Lakshmi Narasimhan, is working on the projects with the corporate social responsibility fund of Federal Bank. An agreement has been signed with the Kanjikode Industries Forum for developing a prototype of easy-to-operate portable low-cost emergency ventilator for COVID-19 patients.
08 April 2020||KURNOOL / ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Delhi returnees’ contact tracing begins in Kurnool||The Kurnool district administration began a massive task of identifying the first and second contacts of all the 74 COVID-19 positive persons and on Tuesday night, District Collector G. Veerapandian appealed to the religious heads of the community to provide them with the information so that they also could be screened. The community leaders also assured the officials of all the cooperation. During the last two days out of total the number of 74 positive cases, 19 were from Kurnool, 18 Nandyal, 4 Atmakur, Nandikotkur and Kodumur 3 each, 5 in Nandyal Rural, 4 each in Panyam and Banaganapalli. Meanwhile, no new positive cases were reported in Kurnool or Anantapur districts on Tuesday. Results of another 149 samples sent from Anantapur district are yet to be announced.
08 April 2020||Mangaluru,ANDHRA PRADESH||Mangaluru police pull down posters barring Muslim traders||The Mangaluru police have pulled down three posters which stated that Muslim traders are not allowed into two areas near Ullal and at Alape in the city until the situation eases. The posters were found hanging on poles at Krishanagara in Thokkottu and at Kaneerthota in Kolya under the Ullal police limits, and at Alape under the Kankanady police limits in the city on Sunday and Monday. The posters were attributed to “Hindu baandhavaru” (Hindu fraternity). U.T. Khader, MLA, Mangaluru, told The Hindu that the posters had been removed and the police had formed a special team to find out who was responsible for writing and hanging them. “In one case, the police have identified the suspects,” he said. The Dakshina Kannada district administration is acting swiftly against attempts to communalise COVID-19 issues, he said. “Locals are being involved to curb such attempts and mischief mongers are being dealt with in a stern way,” he added. Police Commissioner P.S. Harsha told The Hindu : “We are registering cases wherever a case is made out or complainant has come forward. We will investigate and initiate appropriate legal measures.”
08 April 2020||MANIPAL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three Manipal students win MIT’s COVID-19 hackathon||A team of three students from Manipal Institute of Technology that linked up with three professionals won the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) COVID-19 Challenge event. The team was declared winner of its track – ‘Who to test and when’ under ‘How to protect vulnerable populations from the effects of COVID-19?’ There were a total of 10 tracks. ‘Beat the Pandemic’ was a 48-hour virtual event to help tackle the most critical needs caused by the COVID-19 outbreak. The hackathon started at 3.30 a.m. on April 4, where participants formed teams to shortlist the problems and generate solutions. The students Akshatha Kamath (third year CSE), Shubham Rateria (CCE batch of 2019), and Adri Rajaraman (ECE Batch of 2019) pitched their idea at the event. They teamed up with Melia Watson, Washington DC (respiratory therapist, MBA); Hsiang Wei Hu, Taiwan (co-founder of Acusense Biomed); and Mariane Melo, U.K. (MD). They narrowed down to the problem of overcrowded hospitals with inappropriate admissions, whereas less than 5% of the average population under 50 years of age requires hospitalisation. Their solution was to build a TeleHealth platform for non-contact monitoring of vital signs such as heart rate, respiratory rate and blood oxygen concentration using just a phone camera or webcam at home. “This cross-platform application avoids reliance on contact-based pulse oximeters,” Ms. Kamath told The Hindu . “This could be further developed into a telemedicine platform, wherein doctors and hospital administrations can remotely identify the progress of the patients. This is useful in prevention of transfer of COVID-19 to healthcare professionals,” said Mohammad Zuber, assistant director (innovations), Manipal Institute of Technology. Over the weekend, the team worked on the proof of concepts, prototypes, and preliminary vision for execution. Throughout the hackathon, several mentors across the U.S. with diverse expertise were available to improve the idea and business proposal. On April 5, the team reconvened to present the work in the form of a three-minute pitch followed by a question-and-answer session with the judges. The event saw 1,500 participants from over 75 countries and over 250 mentors. The team will now have an opportunity to co-develop and implement the solution with the support of partners (firms). “Our team looks forward to improving the accuracy of solution and making it more robust to target a larger audience,” said Ms. Kamath.
08 April 2020||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Expressing gratitude through art||An artist in Nellore chose a creative way to express his gratitude and salute the medical staff that is on the frontline in the battle against COVID-19. M. Sanath Kumar made a beautiful sand art at the Eluru beach near Chillakur in SPSR Nellore to applaud health professionals for their relentless services during the crisis and also to mark the World Health Day. “We have to recognise the contributions made by doctors, nurses and paramedics and be grateful to them for putting themselves at risk to protect and save us,” he said while giving finishing touches to the art work.
08 April 2020||NELLORE / ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Irrigation Minister tests negative after self-quarantine||Irrigation Minister P. Anil Kumar, who had come in contact with a doctor who tested positive for coronavirus, heaved a sigh of relief on Tuesday as his swab test proved negative for the disease. Dr. Kumar had gone into self-quarantine after a test report confirmed that the doctor he met had contracted the disease. The Minister was back on his feet overseeing implementation of the containment action plan in the red zone of the Janardhana Reddy Colony, where two persons tested positive for the disease. The government was taking all steps to contain the spread of the disease, said Dr. Kumar, a dentist, and offered himself to provide emergency medical service. He took objection to TDP president N. Chandrababu Naidu criticising the government by camping in Hyderabad and without visiting the affected people at the grassroots level. No new cases Meanwhile, the doctor who suffered from comorbidity condition was shifted to a private hospital in Chennai for advanced treatment. Much to the relief of the Nellore district administration, the number of infected persons remained unchanged at 42, the second highest in the State after Kurnool. Except for one person from Italy who was treated at the isolation ward and discharged subsequently on recovery, other infected persons had contracted the disease during their visit to New Delhi to attend a religious congregation there. In Prakasam district, 493 persons, including those who came in close contact with the infected persons from Delhi, tested negative for the disease so far, district Collector P. Bhaskar said. All high-risk persons were identified and subjected to testing, the Minister told reporters after taking stock of the health situation in Ongole, Chirala, Karamchedu, Kandukur, K.K. Mitla and Chimakurthy. The number of persons who tested positive for the disease stood unchanged at 24 in Prakasam district.
08 April 2020||Rajulapudi Srinivas,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rare discipline on display in tribal belt||“We will strictly follow the diktat of our community elders. All men and women are following the social distancing norm at shops, borewells, ration shops and while procuring essentials in our hamlets,” said a tribal woman Sajja Veeramma. Following the directions of the tribal elders, shandies were closed to avoid gatherings and ration was being distributed at the doorstep of the beneficiaries, the Tribal Welfare Department officials said. In the Agency areas in West Godavari, Vizianagaram, Visakhapatnam and East Godavari districts, tribal people arranged fences to prevent entry of outsiders during the lockdown period. They were guarding the borders round the clock. There are no CCTVs and and not much police patrolling, but lockdown and home isolation were being followed much better than in towns and cities. “All weekly shandies were closed in Chintoor and neighbouring villages. We will sell vegetables, tamarind, groceries, dry fish, meat, boka kakarakaya (spiny gourd) and other forest produce,”said Ramulu. Officials of the Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA), Girijan Cooperative Corporation (GCC), Tribal Welfare, Revenue, Civil Supplies, Medical and Health, Grama Volunteers and other employees were distributing ration by making door-to-door visits. Doorstep delivery “Some Konda Reddy, Gotti Koya, Santhal and other tribes are staying in hilly and inaccessible areas. We are supplying ration, vegetables, medicines and other essentials at their respective habitations,” an ITDA official said. Mudivi Rambabu of Moddulagudem in the Agency area went to work in a brick kiln at Nellore. After work was suspended, he came back, but the villagers stopped him at the entry point and insisted that he undergo medical tests first. “The villagers are following the lockdown strictly and refused to allow Rambabu into Muddulagudem as per the diktat. He was provided shelter in a quarantine home and is undergoing medical tests,” the officer said. Barricades were seen at all entry points of into the State from Odisha, Telangana, Chhattisgarh and other neighbouring States. Locals barricaded the entry points with plastic drums, tree branches and sticks and were helping the police prevent entry of migrant workers.
08 April 2020||Ramesh Susarla,ANDHRA PRADESH||Price fall, decay bring tears to onion growers in Kurnool||COVID-19 has struck a big blow to the onion farmers in Kurnool district with lots of produce coming home at the fag end of the rabi crop. With literally no cold storage facility for onions as seen around Nasik or Pune in Maharashtra, shelf life of the produce in the district gets limited to two weeks at the best. Harvesting is almost coming to a close and at Sudireddypalli and the courtyard of Venkatalakshmamma and Ballary Srinivas is filled with 30 bright red bags of onions ready for delivery to any prospective buyer. But the onion market closed on April 1. A small partially wet lot is out under a semi shade to dry so that it could also be packed. From buying seeds to paying the farm hands at every stage in three months in a three-acre land in the Pasupula panchayat close to Kurnool city, the couple spent Rs. 1.10 lakh and had almost struck a deal to sell the produce at Rs. 800 a quintal, but now with the market close getting even Rs. 500 a quintal was looking difficult. Onions are grown in 1,912 hectares in the district and about 42,000 quintals had arrived at the market so far before closure, Horticulture Assistant Director B. Raghunath Reddy told The Hindu . Efforts were on to enter into a tie-up with buyers and external markets by the Marketing Department to bailout the farmers, he added. While District Collector G. Veerapandian said the administration was sending several trucks everyday to several districts and other States, there were many such growers looking for immediate help. A week before the lockdown was imposed price ruled at Rs. 2,800 a quintal and many traders and wholesalers stocked good quantities in the initial days, showing reluctance now to take in more stocks at this juncture. Currently, the onions were available at Rs. 25 a kg in the rythu bazaar in Kurnool and Rs. 30 a kg in vegetable kiosks in Anantapur.  A grower and trader Mulla Mohiddin Saheb, however, says even now there is a demand and stocks are being sent to Gudem, Srikakulam, Chennai in Tamil Nadu, Bengaluru and some places in Telangana with the support of the Marketing Department and was able to realise Rs. 800 to Rs. 1,000 per quintal from Saturday to Monday. Chemical fertilizers Due to the application of chemical fertilizers by Kurnool growers, the demand was lower and the quality of Nasik and Pune onions was much better with a dry outer skin commanding better price, he observed.
08 April 2020||SRIKAKULAM / VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Srikakulam, Vizianagaram off the coronavirus radar||Even as the entire State is worried over the rapid rise in the number of COVID-19 cases with each passing day, the districts of Srikakulam and Vizianagaram, which are considered most backward, face no threat as there have not reported any positive case so far. Lab reports awaited Of the 109 persons who had arrived in Vizianagaram district from various States and countries, 23 have tested negative for the disease. The lab reports of the remaining 43 persons are awaited. In Srikakulam district, of the 1,445 foreign returnees identified, 1,370 have successfully completed the 14-day quarantine period. The remaining 75 persons are kept in isolation. Adherence to norms Of the 269 samples gathered from those who had shown symptoms, 111 tested negative for the disease. The medical reports of the remaining 158 persons, which have been sent to the Visakhapatnam and Kakinada testing facilities, are yet to come. “I hope the remaining results too will be negative and the district figures in the ‘zero positive cases’ list,” Srikakulam Collector J. Nivas has said. Meanwhile, the efforts of the district administration in adhering to the lockdown norms, maintaining social distancing and ensuring supply of food for the stranded labourers have come in for praise by all sections of society. On its part, the Praja Chaitanya Vedika has put up flexes highlighting the steps initiated by the district administration to prevent the spread of the disease. “The administration has ensured availability of essential goods at reasonable prices at the rythu bazaars,” vedika founder K. Appala Naidu told the media. FCI’s State Board member B. Umamaheswara Rao said disbursement of essential goods and Rs. 1,000 financial aid per family, and the door-to-door survey to identify COVID-19 cases helped the poor overcome the lockdown blues. “No poor family has been left out in the distribution of rice, pulses, sugar and other commodities. The FCI’s initiative to ensure adequate supply of food grains has been utilised to the optimum level in Srikakulam district,” said Mr. Umamaheswara Rao.
08 April 2020||Staff Reporter,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rape case registered against pastor||The Inaguduru police on Tuesday registered a case against a pastor for allegedly raping a 24-year-old woman on Sunday. The victim had lodged a complaint on Monday night. Bandar Deputy Superintendent of Police Mehaboob Basha told The Hindu, “The victim has complained that Joel Rachal had raped her in her residence by threatening to release her photographs which were taken with him earlier. A case under the IPC Section 377 has been registered against Joyal and investigation is on.”
08 April 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kerala expert panel against full repeal of lockdown||The time is not yet ripe for the full withdrawal of the lockdown on April 14 and the withdrawal strategy should be gradual, phased and calibrated to ensure that the case load is kept below the capacity of the healthcare system to deal with it, an expert committee appointed by the Kerala government has said. “Continuing to restrict large-scale movement of people across international and State boundaries is critical and should not be considered unless and until the situation is under control in every State,” the committee, comprising 17 eminent persons and headed by K.M. Abraham, said in its report to the government. The panel was specifically asked to look into the strategy to ease the lockdown restrictions. However, it said it is cognizant that a prolonged and stringent lockdown will lead to economic hardships, famine, and law and order issues, which may undermine both the lockdown and health management objectives. The committee said a phased approach should be operationlised at the revenue district level while easing the restrictions. The State should continue to ramp up preparatory work for the possible rapid rise of COVID-19 cases. As the cases may exceed the local capacity in some cities, a protocol for assistance should be prepared to avoid unnecessary divisions at the height of the crisis. The panel also said that the effort to ramp up production and procurement of test kits, ventilators, PPEs for healthcare personnel and masks should not be relaxed. There should be a national effort and the Centre should release funds and create a mechanism to distribute them on a need basis. Mutual assistance As States are expected to pass through the peak infection at different timings, a national coordination mechanism is suggested so that the States could support one another with experience, expertise, equipment and finances. The Centre should ensure effective coordination between the States as well as logistics operators. Supporting the agricultural sector, in production, marketing, storage and transport is essential for the country to tide over the crisis. The COVID-19 crisis is taking the country into the online world at a rapid pace. Innovations and practices which would have needed years to achieve are being introduced in weeks in education, judiciary, local business and telemedicine, among others. “It should be ensured that such modern technological leaps are not lost after the lockdown as there are huge economic and efficiency gains,” it added.
08 April 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Vasanthotsavam’ concludes in Tirumala||The three-day annual ‘Vasanthotsavsm’ concluded at the temple of Lord Venkateswara here on Tuesday. On the occasion, the priests ceremoniously carried out the ‘Snapana Thirumanjanam’ to the idols of Malayappa Swamy, Lord Rama and Lord Krishna along with their divine consorts. The ceremony was conducted inside the main temple complex in ‘ekantham’ in view of the lockdown restrictions.
08 April 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD reaches out to stray dogs||While Good Samaritans turn up in large numbers to feed the shelterless, stranded, destitute people, why not the stray animals, which have always depended on the kind-hearted for their survival. After meeting the needs of the stranded pilgrims and migrant workers, the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) management has now reached out to stray animals through its ‘Community dog feeding programme’. Joint Executive Officer P. Basant Kumar has ordered supply of 500 packets of food twice a day for feeding stray dogs in Tirupati, which is being executed by ‘Animal Careland’, a voluntary organisation working in the areas of animal care and sterilisation. “Many stray dogs, which depend on eateries and restaurants for their daily quota of food, may eventually die due to non-availability of food during lockdown. Thanks to the TTD, the animals get sufficient food,” said N.V. Sreekanth Babu, founder of Animal Careland. Local animal enthusiasts have also joined hands in the initiative to transport and distribute the food packets across the city to feed the stray animals. The move benefits 450 to 500 dogs every day.
08 April 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Entry points to Seshachalam sealed||With a tiger at the Bronx Zoological Park in New York testing positive for COVID-19, the Union Ministry of Environment and Forests has decided to seal all entry points into the Seshachalam forest to protect the animals. Sri Venkateswara Wildlife Sanctuary is spread over 52,597 hectares in Chittoor and Kadapa districts, out of which the Sri Venkateswara National Park (SVNP) is spread over 35,363 hectares. The concentric protected areas are home to rare and endangered flora and fauna. Following directions from the Union Joint Director (Wildlife) and the State Government’s Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (Wildlife) and Chief Wildlife Warden, the Tirupati Wildlife Management Circle has taken several steps to prevent the spread of COVID-19 from humans to wild animals. The Community-Based Eco Tourism (CBET) parks at Talakona, Mamandur, Papavinasanam, 7th Mile Museum (Tirumala ghat), Nagaravanam and Jungle Book have already been closed to the public after the lockdown was announced. Though trespass of humans into the wildlife sanctuary and national park area has been prohibited, it will now be implemented stringently, officials said. “People from fringe villages will not be allowed to enter even the abutting reserve forest,” Divisional Forest Officer Nagarjuna Reddy said.
08 April 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Organisations distribute essentials to workers||Several charitable institutions continued to donate essential commodities to the downtrodden and workers, who have lost livelihood due to the clamping of lockdown. Kasturba Gandhi Kendra Trust (KGKT) president P.C. Rayulu distributed grocery kits to the public at a programme organised by Tirupati Press Club. MLA Bhumana Karunakar Reddy and MLC Y. Srinivasulu Reddy, who formally handed the kits over to 400 beneficiaries, called it a timely help. Officials led by Renigunta Railway Station Manager Seshagiri Natha Reddy distributed groceries worth Rs. 1,500 and Rs. 500 in cash to the 20 porters. Ramakrishna Mission Ashrama in Tirupati distributed food, provisions, face masks to the migrant labourers.
08 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Better air quality an unexpected spin-off||There seems to be a positive side to the nationwide lockdown in the State, which has just entered the third week, with air quality improving perceptibly. The pollution levels are “dropping dramatically”and consequently, the State has slipped into the first category of Air Quality Index (AQI) — good. In all, there are four Continuous Ambient Air Quality Stations (CAAQMSs) in the State in Vijayawada, Visakhapatnam, Tirumala and Rajahmundry. According to information, of the 24 records, eight fell under the good category and the rest under the satisfactory category. In Vijayawada, the air quality is recorded at 52 on April 4 and it came down to 39 on April 6. Visakhapatnam, a highly industrialised city, registered 45 on April 6 against 76 on April 1. Except pharmaceuticals, no other industry in Visakhapatnam is functioning. It has also contributed to the drop in air pollution. Similarly, at Tirumala the air quality has been less than 50, which is good. Rajahmundry also recorded less than 50 during the last two days. In comparison, of the total four stations covered for calculation of AQI during March, 55 records fell under the good category, 62 under the satisfactory category and seven under the moderate category. Eight pollutants “Our data (A.P. Pollution Control Board) shows that air pollution has significantly come down,” says a senior functionary of the board, who did not want to be quoted. AQI is a tool for effective presentation of air quality status to the people and decision makers. It transforms complex air quality data of various pollutants into a single number (Index Value), nomenclature and colour. The AQI is calculated taking eight pollutants — nitrogen oxide, sulphur dioxide, PM 2.5, PM 10, ozone, carbon monoxide, ammonia and lead content — in into account. The index scale has 0-50, 51-100, 101-200, 201-300, 301-400, 401-500. Now, records are moving towards the good category. The first category, ‘good,’ has ‘minimal impact’ on people, but, it is “temporary relief ” only. The last two weeks has seen lakhs of people staying indoors, and consequently normal life, including movement of vehicles, has come down dramatically. The pollution levels will increase change once the lockdown is lifted, the official says.
08 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘State is at forefront in the fight against coronavirus’||The State government is fully geared up with medical, paramedical support staff, equipment and infrastructure besides mapping suspected COVID-19 cases in a ratio higher than the national level, according to I&PR Minister Perni Venkataramaiah (Nani). Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy held a review meeting COVID-19 on Tuesday. Disclosing the details, Mr. Nani and Special Chief Secretary Medical and Health K.S. Jawahar Reddy said of the 304 detected cases in the State, 280 were related to those who attended the event at Markaz. Symptomatic survey Mr. Jawahar Reddy said symptomatic survey was being conducted on people above 60 years, health workers, and high-risk patients. Medical officers have suggested conducting tests on 1,800 to 2,000 among them and that would be conducted on Wednesday. Moreover, 6,170 members identified in the fever survey conducted across the State have been kept in home isolation and treated. Containment strategy was being implemented at clusters where positive cases were reported. About 1,000 samples were collected from these clusters and there were chances some samples testing positive, he said. On the lockdown, he said the State and the Centre would take a decision at an appropriate time. To check the infection level, the Health Department was conducting rapid tests. Order had been placed for 3 lakh rapid testing kits and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) was also likely to provide a few kits. In a major relief, the ICMR approved the use of TruNat machines for COVID-19 tests. There are about 240 TruNat centres in the State which can conduct 3,000 tests per day. As of now, seven labs are functional and the number of tests per day has been increased from 90 in February to 1,170 tests per day. Frontline workers have been given prophylactic dose to secure them from infection. About 20 lakh hydroxychloroquine tablets and 14 lakh Azithromycin tablets are available in the State.
08 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||NDRF distributes dignity kits among the needy||Officials of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) 10th Battalion paid tributes to the victims who died from COVID-19 and distributed dignity kits to people in various districts of Andhra Pradesh. The team led by commandant Zahid Khan, second-in-commandant Love Kumar and quarter master Kuldeep Singh paid tributes to all those who succumbed to the virus, and asked everyone to take the requisite measures to prevent the spread of the virus. “NDRF has distributed dignity kits in Nellore, Krishna and Guntur districts. Nearly 3,000 kits have been handed over to the respective District Collectors and the officials,” the commandant said. The dignity kits include clothes, toothpaste, tooth brush, bathing and washing soaps, towel, sanitary pads, antiseptic cream among other materials, said NDRF chief medical officer B.V. Rao. The kits will be of much help to the stranded migrant workers and everyone who is staying at the rehabilitation centres, said the commandant. Besides, the force is conducting awareness programmes among people on the symptoms of the disease, how to prevent the spread of the infection, how to sanitize the colonies and red zone areas. Expressing concern over the ballooning number of positive cases and deaths, the NDRF personnel have appealed to public to cooperate with the government, maintain social distancing and remain indoors during the lockdown period.
08 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||New weapon in field workers’ hands||The government has developed an app called COVID-19 to identify, isolate and effectively treat people infected by the virus, said Commissioner, Health and Family Welfare, Katamneni Bhaskar. Mr. Bhaskar said the smartphones of the village and ward volunteers had been equipped with the app and from here, a detailed information of cases related to corona would be sent to the medical officials, Asha workers and ANMs. He said village and municipal-level volunteers and Asha workers would collect information of people showing symptoms of the virus affliction or those likely to be affected by it at the field level. The app would not only help strengthen the medical testing process but also give COVID-19 updates and that the testing would commence immediately.
08 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Dialysis free at 15 private hospitals in the district’||Krishna District Collector A. Md. Imtiaz on Tuesday announced that 19 hospitals, including four government hospitals in the district, would offer free dialysis for chronic kidney ailment patients hereafter. After noting that many patients who need to undergo dialysis at regular intervals were facing a lot of troubles due to lockdown, Mr. Imtiaz ensured that private hospitals provided free dialysis for the needy. The private hospitals that would offer free dialysis are in and around the city are Aayush Hospital, three Andhra Hospitals branches in the city in Governorpet and Bhavanipuram, Capital Hospitals, Kamineni Hospitals, LifeLine Trimurty Hospital, Nagarjuna Hospital, Sentini Hospital, Anu Hospitals, Sri Swarupa Super Speciality Hospital, Time Hospital, Vijaya Super Speciality Hospital. In Gudivada Annapurna Multi Speciality Hospital and Andhra Hospital in Machilipatnam will also offer the service. Among government hospitals, dialysis would be provided at District Hospital, Machilipatnam; Area Hospital, Nuzvid; CHC, Jaggaiapeta, and Government General Hospital, Vijayawada.
08 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||DD Saptagiri to telecast Class X lessons from today||Public broadcaster Doordarshan’s Saptagiri TV channel will telecast two hours of videos of Class X lessons from Wednesday (April 8). In response to a request made by Col. V. Ramulu, the Secretary of Andhra Pradesh Social Welfare Residental Educational Institutions Society (APSWREIS), who approached DD Saptagiri a few days ago seeking telecast of classroom lessons in dedicated slots, authorities have agreed to telecast the same from 10 a.m. to 11 a.m. and from 4 p.m. to 5 p.m. This telecast on DD Saptagiri is intended to leverage the wide access and high presence of televisions in rural households. The other Welfare Boards Residential Educational Institutions have also come forward to pool in their resources and support this initiative as the intended audience is common. The Society authorities have sent SMSes to parents about the initiative, in order to ensure that students utilise this opportunity to prepare well for their exams. There will be an exclusive live session on the first day of the week to enable students to get their doubts cleared by their teachers. Col. Ramulu said that the State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT) had been supporting the initiative in terms of planning key topics and by ensuring quality content management. DD Saptagiri, meanwhile, is widely publicising about the initiative to ensure attendance of maximum number of students.
08 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Congress asks CM to seek aid from Centre||Each district in Andhra Pradesh requires at least Rs. 1,000 crore to tackle the COVID-19 crisis and Chief Minister Y S Jagan Mohan Reddy should seek the same as assistance from the Centre, said Andhra Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) president Sake Sailajanath said on Tuesday. In a video statement, Dr. Sailajanath said the Congress was going to seek an assistance of Rs. 25,000 crore for the State. The Congress leader said that he was “imploring” the CM not to downplay the seriousness of the pandemic. In a separate statement, PCC working president N. Tulasi Reddy said horticulture farmers were in dire straits and said each farmer should be given a compensation of Rs. 75,000 per acre.
08 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Plea filed in HC against deferment of salary, pension||Advocate Jandhyala Ravi Shankar has filed a petition in the High Court of Andhra Pradesh against G.O. 26 (relating to deferment of salaries and pensions) that was issued by the State Government on March 31. The petition came up for hearing on Tuesday and was conducted via video-conference. Chief Justice Jitendra Kumar Maheswari granted one week’s time to the Advocate General to respond. Mr. Ravi Shankar contended that the Government of Andhra Pradesh has no jurisdiction to issue the executive instructions for deferment of pension. “There is no provision in the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, or the Disaster Mangement Act, 2005 or regulations framed under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897 which empowers the government to curtail the rights of the pensioners to receive full pension or as a matter of fact defer salaries. Therefore, the impugned G.O. is liable to struck down,” Mr. Ravi Shankar said in his petition. “I earnestly request the honourable court of the Chief Justice to consider the issue and if satisfied, may consider taking up the matter as a suo motu Public Interest Litigation so as to protect the life and liberties guaranteed to the government pensioners under the Constitution of India,” he said.
08 April 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Team leaves for Gujarat to help 5,000 stranded fishermen||The State government has initiated measures to rescue the fishermen stranded at Veraval in Gujarat. The government, on April 4, had sent a six-member team to Veraval. The team is expected to reach Veraval on Wednesday. The team has been given an advance of Rs. 10 lakh. The government has asked the team to provide the stranded persons suitable accommodation and set up a kitchen to serve them proper food. The team is also mandated to provide the fishermen clean drinking water and personal hygiene items such as soaps, brushes, toothpaste, buckets, towels and blankets to ensure their comfortable stay.  In the interim, an amount of Rs. 2 lakh has been transferred to a representative’s account to help the team attend to the urgent needs of the stranded persons. In all, 5,000 fishermen hailing from the districts of Srikakulam, Vizianagaram and Visakhapatnam were stranded at Veraval. Upon receiving a distress call from them, the Srikakulam district administration brought the issue to the notice of the Gir Somnath administration and the shipping associations to arrange for their stay and food. However, taking into consideration the large number of distressed persons, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has directed that a special team be deputed.
08 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Isolation facility plan at Haritha hotel draws flak||The decision of the government to covert the Haritha Hotel belonging to Andhra Pradesh Tourism near Lumbini Park into an isolation facility for COVID-19 patients has received a stiff opposition from the fishermen community in the locality. “How can they (the authorities) set up an isolation facility in a hotel located in a densely populated area?” asked Perla Masen, a resident, citing that fishermen use the area opposite the hotel for repairing their nets. Karri Rama Rao, another fisherman, said the residents were apprehensive that the proposed isolation facility nearby would make them vulnerable to infection. Visakha East MLA Velagapudi Ramakrishna Babu on Tuesday met Collector V. Vinay Chand and discussed the issue. Joint Collector L. Shiva Shankar recently wrote a letter to Andhra Pradesh Tourism Development Corporation (APTDC), directing the officials concerned to hand over 40 rooms in the Haritha hotel which has been identified as an isolation facility for COVID-19 patients. According to sources, the government is also planning to take over 50 rooms at the Haritha Beach Resorts at Rushikonda. This proposal may not face any resistance as there are no residential colonies in the vicinity. A senior official of APTDC said they would abide by the directions of the government.
08 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Avoid insensitive remarks: Minister||The Central and State governments are sparing no effort to contain the spread of COVID-19, Tourism Minister M. Srinivasa Rao has said, and advised the Opposition leader not to make any comment that demoralises the doctors and other frontline health and sanitary workers. Addressing the media here on Tuesday, Mr. Srinivasa Rao said the government was ready with medicines and required number of masks and PPEs. Refuting the allegations made by Sudhakara Rao, an anaesthetist of the Narsipatnam Area Hospital, the Minister said it was unfortunate that a medical doctor was making “wild allegations.” He explained that the COVID-19 testing centre at KGH was ready to conduct around 100 tests per day from Wednesday. “There is no shortage of essential commodities supplied through the FP shops. If needed, more stocks of red gram and rice will be procured, and there is no cause for worry,” he said. Admitting that there could be lapses here and there, he asked the media and the people to bring them to the notice of the district administration for remedial action. Home quarantine Replying to the queries on foreign returnees, district Collector V. Vinay Chand said that those who had no symptoms were sent to home quarantine for mandatory 14 days. Those diagnosed with fever during thermal scanning were sent to hospital quarantine. He said that 221 junior resident doctors of Andhra Medical College were entrusted with the task of regular follow-up of those in home quarantine. “The four symptoms are fever, sore throat, dry cough and breathlessness. Only when a person has two of the four symptoms, he/she should be tested in accordance with the guidelines. But, people are being tested even when they show any one of the symptoms,” he added.
08 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lockdown hits jaggery trade at Anakapalle market hard||Jaggery farmers have been severely affected due to transactions at the NTR Market Yard at Anakapalle coming to a sudden halt due to the lockdown. The jaggery season peaks between January and April at the yard. Farmers from neighbouring areas bring around 15,000 lumps every day during this period. The lockdown up to April 14 will result in at least three lakh lumps not arriving at the market. “As a result, business worth Rs. 15 crore is not being transacted during this period,” said senior trader Korukonda Butchiraju. This not only deprives farmers of hard cash during the peak season, but also affects future prospects. The delay in harvesting the standing sugarcane will have an impact on quality as sucrose will come down. Quantity will also be hit, he said. As a result, when the market resumes business, the quantity arriving will be much less. On the other hand, farmers have to continue watering the standing crop. The Anakapalle yard is one of the major markets for jaggery with a turnover of Rs. 100 crore. The decline in trade is also taking a toll on the transport sector, staff working with traders and a good number of daily wage workers in loading and unloading. Around 250 people are affected by the lack of business at the market. The labourers are the worst hit as they are paid on the basis of their work. Demand picks up However, with no arrival of fresh stock, traders are offloading cold storage inventory to meet the demand. Generally, cold storage stock is traded during the off season from June. With jaggery transport being allowed, demand from Odisha has picked up in the last one week, Mr. Butchiraju said.
08 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Allegations over shortage of PPEs baseless’||Refuting the allegations made by an anaesthetist of Narsipatnam Area Hospital over the shortage of masks and personal protective equipment (PPEs) for doctors, Andhra Medical College principal P.V. Sudhakar and District Coordinator of Health Services B.K. Naik have said that of the 12,624 PPE kits available in the district, only 86 have been used in the last 24 hours. Anaesthetist Sudhakar Rao recently alleged on a social media platform that lack of masks and PPEs was “proving costly for doctors”. He also claimed that signatures of doctors were being taken when they was given a mask, saying that “it was ridiculous”. ‘No dearth of PPEs’ “More than 12,000 PPEs are available in the district. These are being supplied to doctors as per the protocol issued by the Government of India. Apart from these, around 12,000 N95 masks, over 4 lakh gloves and more than 2 lakh surgical masks are also available,” said Dr. Naik. He also termed the claims made by the anaesthetist as “baseless wild allegations”. Signing register “Any government employee has to sign in the register while receiving the stock. Despite working in the government hospital for so long, the anaesthetist seems to be oblivious to this fact. Maintenance of stock position is essential not only to ensure accountability, but also to use the available stock where it is actually needed,” said Dr. Naik. He explained that N95 masks were meant for only those doctors who treated COVID-19 patients. These masks were reusable and could be used any number of times after washing. “I appeal to all doctors not to baseless allegations in such testing times. We must check the facts instead of circulating such videos that do the rounds on various social media platforms,” said Dr. P.V. Sudhakar. District Medical and Health Officer S. Tirupathi Rao and ENT Hospital Superintendent Raghunadha Babu were present.
08 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Delay in declaring ‘force majeure’ irks port users||An inordinate delay on the part of major ports in declaring force majeure is causing resentment among cargo handling agents, Public Private Partnership (PPP) investors and other stakeholders. “We are not in a position to fulfil our obligations due to the lockdown. Private ports have already declared force majeure,” National Association for Container Freight Stations G. Sambasiva Rao said. Force majeure is a clause that absolves firms from meeting their contractual commitments for reasons beyond their control. “It is not possible to practice social distancing in cargo handling . Hence, we had requested all port managements to permit only mechanical handling of cargo where deployment of labour is minimal,” K.V. Krishna Kumar, president, Federation of Associations of Stevedores, said in a letter to Shipping Secretary Gopal Krishna. “Declaring force majeure would protect manual labour as they need not work and it would protect all exporters and importers from unaffordable demurrage charges ,” Mr. Kumar wrote. Reiterating the demand, A.V. Monish Row, former president of Vizagapatam Chamber of Commerce and Industry, said while giving essential service status, authorities should consider that they were not in a position to handle cargo due to curbs on movement of vehicles and workers.
08 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Zoo workers follow strict sanitation protocol||A day after a tiger was tested positive for COVID-19 at the Bronx Zoo in New York, Indira Gandhi Zoological Park (IGZP) in the city has initiated preventive measures to prevent animals from contracting infection. “We are taking all care. The animal keepers are using masks, gloves, boots and head cover while working in the enclosure. They are also following the sanitation protocol before feeding the animals,” said zoo curator Yesoda Bai. At present, the city zoo has two Asiatic lions, six white tigers, two leopards, more than 40 wild dogs, 35 other canids, five lesser cats, 223 herbivores including elephants, reptiles, birds and others. Meanwhile there are four lions and two tigers at the Animal Rescue Centre (ARC), apart a tigress in quarantine. Ms. Yesoda Bai said the IGZP was taking all measures including regular prophylactic course at the enclosures (night and day kraal) and de-worming procedures for all herbivores and carnivores. “All the workers are being checked for illness before they enter the zoo premises. Only healthy staff below 50 years of age are working. They have been instructed to go for proper hand wash before they start the day. We are monitoring the enclosures through CCTVs,” she said. Spraying operations The zoo is also taking steps such as spraying of sodium hypochlorite in the night kraal every three days, placing foot baths at the entrance of day and night kraals, providing vitamin supplements to animals, she added.
08 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Relief for migrant workers sought||The State Government should take immediate steps to provide relief to 7,000 migrant workers of Special Economic Zones (SEZs) and other industrial units in Visakhapatnam district following the lockdown, CPI(M) State secretary P. Madhu said. In a letter to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, Mr. Madhu said that workers including those of the SEZ at Achyutapuram, the pharma city at Parawada, and Naval Alternative Operational Base at Rambilli, be rehabilitated. Other units located at Kunavanipalem, Janguluru, Pudimadaka, Achyutapuram, Lankelapalem and about 500 construction workers and others from Tanam, Parawada, Tadi villages were also affected, Mr. Madhu wrote. Though some arrangements were made for their food, no full-time measures were taken. Unions had taken the issue to the notice of officials concerned but the efforts have been in vain, he said.
08 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Anxiety a cause for worry during lockdown: doctors||The crucial role played by frontline health workers including doctors and nurses in the fight against COVID-19 was evident as the pandemic spread across the globe. Notwithstanding the shortage of safety masks, Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) and occasional hostile reactions from the public, the health workers performed their duty with dedication. Reshma Mohan Das, a 32-year-old nurse from Kerala, who took care of an elderly couple for over 10 days and ensured their recovery, herself tested positive for the virus. It goes well with the theme of the World Health Day 2020--to support nurses and midwives-- which was celebrated on Tusday. On the occasion, doctors said apart from taking precautions to check COVId-19, physical activity due to the lockdown was also a cause for concern, especially among those with lifestyle disorders such as diabetes and hypertension. The lockdown is also resulting in mental health problems due to stress. “Insufficient physical activity is one of the key factors for non-communicable diseases such as cardiovascular diseases, cancer and diabetes. Physical activity has significant health benefits. Activities such as walking, running, playing outdoor games will make a person more active,” said V. Ravi Kanna Babu, consultant internal medicine, KIMS ICON Hospital. “The lockdown has helped check the spread of the virus. Even after the lockdown is lifted, self-isolation, social distancing, hand washing and other measures should be observed,” said Kovvali Balasubrahmanyam, a specialist in cognitive behavioural psychotherapy and counselling.
08 April 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man held for ‘selling’ liquor illegally||The officials of City Task Force (CTF) arrested a man on charge of selling liquor without any valid licence during the lockdown period, in Appughar area under MVP Police Station limits on Monday. Acting on a credible information on the illegal sale of liquor, the CTF team, under supervision of Assistant Commissioner of Police (CTF) A. Trinad Rao, conducted a raid and arrested B. Ganesh when he was selling liquor. The CTF officials also seized six liquor bottles and Rs. 1,700 from the possession of the accused. Meanwhile, the CTF personnel arrested four persons on charge of betting on playing cards near Sri Ram Colony. The police seized Rs. 4,880 in cash.
08 April 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Essentials will be distributed from April 15, says Botcha||Municipal Administration and Urban Development Minister Botcha Satyanarayana on Tuesday assured that the government would distribute rice and other essentials from April 15 as part of second-phase of relief operations. Along with Vizianagaram Collector M.Hari Jawaharlal, he reviewed the COVID-19 preparedness and relief measures for the people who could not move from homes due to lockdown up to April 14. Later speaking to the media, he said that the government had already distributed rice and other essentials to 65,000 families in the district. Mr. Satyanarayana assured to provide vegetables with mobile vehicles. He said that 20 rythu bazaars were established in the district to ensure supply of vegetables.
08 April 2020||April 08 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ensure no breach of ban on religious meets: HC||The High Court of Karnataka on Tuesday said that government should show “zero tolerance” and law enforcing authorities across the State should come down with a heavy hand on any breach of lockdown conditions imposed by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) banning all kinds of religious congregations and closure of all places of worship for the public. Observing that the objective of a lockdown and imposition of Section 144 is to stop mass congregation to prevent spread of novel corona virus by maintaining social distancing, the bench directed the government to scrupulously implement and enforce the MHA’s guidelines related to religious and other congregations/functions. A special division bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice B.V. Nagarathna issued the directions after the State government clarified that the Bengaluru City Police have not granted any permission for religious congregation for the Karaga festival on the night of April 8. Terming as “incorrect” a report published in a newspaper indicating that grant of permission for Karaga congregation by the Chief Minister may result in devotees descending on the Sri Dharmarayaswamy temple in large numbers, Additional Advocate General Dhyan Chinnappa made it clear the the city police have not granted permission for the Karaga congregation. Earlier, the bench, which was hearing PIL petitions through video conferencing on the issues arises due to imposition of lockdown to prevent spread of COVID-19, had sought response from the government when the newspaper report related to Karaga was brought to its notice. During the hearing, an advocate contended that there will be a large congregation of people at the time of Karaga as already hundreds of people have entered the city to participate in the annual festival. Besides the MHA’s March 24 order banning religious congregations, and closure of places of worship for the public, the bench also took note of the circulars issued by the State Minority Welfare Department banning public participation for namaz, including jumma prayers, in mosques across the State in view of the lockdown. The bench also pointed out that the MHA’s order also bars social, political, sports, entertainment, academic, cultural or religious functions or gatherings.
08 April 2020||April 08 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Poor man, big heart||
08 April 2020||April 08 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Daily struggle||
08 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||40 more test positive for COVID-19 in TS||The spike in the number of COVID-19 positive cases in the State is continuing with 40 more people testing positive for the virus on Tuesday. The total number of active positive cases has risen to 348 from 308 on Monday. A major chunk of 150 COVID cases are from Hyderabad which saw an increase of 17 cases as compared to Monday while Nizamabad too reported 39 cases against 29 reported during the same period. Warangal Urban with 23 cases, Jogulamba Gadwal with 22 cases and Medchal with 15 cases were among the districts which reported increase in COVID cases. In all, 21 patients in Hyderabad and 11 patients in Karimnagar were among the 45 discharged during the day. No COVID-related death was reported during the day and the number of casualties remained at 11. According to Public Health and Family Welfare director G. Srinivas Rao, there was no evidence of community transmission in the State till date. Six diagnostic labs were functional round-the-clock to meet the demand. The government took steps to ensure that travellers and their contacts of Delhi- returnees were being tracked, tested and treated for coronavirus. Another 10 COVID positive cases were recorded in Nizamabad district on Tuesday, taking the total of positive cases to 39 and most of them were participants of Tablighi Jamaat event in Delhi and their first contacts, said Minister for Roads and Buildings V. Prashanth Reddy. The Minister said that 15 clusters, four each in Nizamabad and Bodhan, two in Bheemal and one each in the rest of hotspot areas were formed. One primary contact of a Jamaat returnee in Adilabad town tested positive for COVID on Tuesday raising the total number of positive cases in the district to 11. There are a total of 76 Jamaat returnees of whom 10 were found positive so far and 62 tested negative while report of the remaining suspects is awaited. As many as 104 primary contacts of the 10 positive cases have been traced and samples of 88 were sent for test to Hyderabad. Barring the lone positive case, all others tested negative, said an official press release. (With inputs from our correspondents in Nizamabad and Adilabad)
08 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Farm to Home — vegetables at your doorstep||Last week, Tadisina Laya and Dushyanth Reddy, a farmer couple from a village near Siddipet, about 100 km from here, have come across the idea of supplying vegetables at the doorstep of households during this time of lockdown. They thought about this possibility while travelling in their car to their farm when they have learnt the prices of vegetables have plunged so sharply that the big retail chains like Reliance and Big Basket to which they were supplying their produce hitherto have offered a price of just Rs. 20 a kg for some vegetables for which the price was ruling at Rs. 50 a kg just a few days ago. "At Rs. 20 a kg, we can’t even meet the production cost. So, we thought why can’t we collect vegetables from farmers of nearby villages and deliver them to households in Hyderabad. This way, both farmers and the consumers will be benefited". Ms Laya Reddy told The Hindu, explaining the reasons for their "Farm to Home" initiative which they commenced two days ago. The couple, who are growing vegetables on an extent of 14 acres out of their 30-acre agricultural land, wasted no time in putting their idea into practice. They contacted some other farmers who are producing different types of vegetables and made Siddipet the collection point from where they could transport the produce to the city. They have also come up with a combo pack that is estimated to be sufficient for a small family for one week. The pack contains 1 kg of onions, 500 gms potato, 1 kg tamato, 1 kg ladies finger, 500 gms ivy gourd, 250 gms broad beans, 500 gms ridge gourd, 500 gms carrot, 500 gms bitter gourd, 500 gms cucumber, 500 gms green chilli, six small bundles of spinach, two bundles of coriander, two bundles of mint leaves, one bottle gourd and two drumsticks. Each combo pack is priced at Rs. 300. Minor alterations will be done in the combo depending on the availability of vegetables. However, the minimum order to be placed should be 40 packets. Order can be placed over phone, through SMS or WhatsApp. After working out the combo pack, Ms Laya Reddy said messages in this regard were sent to three of their cousins over WhatsApp. "The same day we received 10,000 messages". Two days ago, the first day of the vegetables delivery, “We have received orders for 800 packets but have been able to supply only 600 packs for want of sufficient vegetables,” she said. The couple had also faced initial hiccups. There had been a delay in supply. “We also could not supply all the items mentioned in the list as some vegetables are not sufficiently available,” Ms Laya Reddy said. Now the couple is working on the negative and positive feedback it got and trying to remove the bottlenecks. They decided to supply vegetables again to the same customers free of cost. "They can pay only if they are satisfied with the vegetables supplied, if not, no,” she averred. If the customers are happy, they want to continue the supply of vegetables even after the lockdown. Keeping this in mind, they are trying to rope in more farmers. At present, they have been working with 20-25 farmers. The vegetables are being delivered by two mini trucks, each having the capacity to carry 200-220 packets.
08 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Government departments told to reveal bank balance details||The State government has asked all departments to furnish the details of deposits they are holding in different banks. In a note circulated to the departments, the government has asked the administrative departments of the Secretariat to instruct their heads of departments/unit offices/corporations/societies/institutions under their purview to furnish the details of the deposits with them. The departments had been asked to specify details relating to the type of deposits savings, current or fixed available with them.  Funds available The departments had been asked to submit the details by Tuesday evening, according to the note circulated. Senior officials said that the exercise was aimed at ascertaining the quantum of funds available with the departments in the backdrop of the impact of the lockdown imposed due to coronavirus (COVID-19) across the State. The development assumes significance as the departments are authorised to ensure that their deposits, including those relating to the scheme funds, are maintained in the PD accounts which would be operated by designated administrators with the permission of the Treasury. Standing instructions Some of the departments are learnt to have preferred depositing these amounts in fixed deposits in spite of standing instructions issued from time-to-time and the provisions prescribed under the State Finance Code. “There are standing instructions against depositing the scheme funds in fixed deposits as they should be operated through the PD accounts. But some of the State-owned corporations and training institutions prefer depositing these amounts in fixed deposits as it yields interests,” the official said. The quantum of funds available with the government will not be known until the details of these deposits are ascertained.
08 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||COVID blood bank mulled||The concept of convalescent plasma therapy for COVID-19 has made its way into Telangana. It is expected that the plasma collected from recovered patients will contain antibodies which neutralises the virus, and that would be infused into active patients. The mortality rate could be brought down when the plasma filled with neutralising antibodies are infused into critically ill patients. Given that there are no vaccines to prevent the disease or an antiviral to treat it, convalescent plasma therapy is being considered an option. Its effectiveness as a treatment option, however, is yet to be proved. Virologists have called for research into various aspects of the treatment, which has been taken up in different parts of the world. If successful, it will help improve chances of survival of critically-ill patients. Municipal Administration and Urban Development Minister K.T. Rama Rao tweeted that Biocon Limited executive chairperson Kiran Mazumdar Shaw has suggested setting up a ‘COVID blood bank’ in Telangana, where antibody-rich plasma from people who have recovered from the infectious disease is collected. He has directed Health officials to explore it further. Special Chief Secretary of Health department A. Santhi Kumari said they will not leave any stone unturned in this respect. Dates back to 1918 This is not the first time the therapy will be used against an infectious disease. Convalescent plasma as a treatment option dates back to 1918 when it was used in treatment of H1N1 influenza. While plasma is the liquid portion of blood collected before clotting, serum is the fluid part collected after clotting. Virologists have said that both contains antibodies. Sunit K. Singh, professor of Molecular Immunology and Virology, Institute of Medical Sciences, Banaras Hindu University, said that the first task is to find virus neutralising antibodies. “Then plasma or serum containing the neutralising antibodies have to be given to critically-ill patients. Premise of the theory is that the infused antibodies acts against the virus in active patients (receiver). But we need to know how long the neutralising effect of antibodies will last; whether it will be for a week, a month or more. Research into this is required and also to find the effectiveness of the treatment,” Dr Singh said. The next task is to select a donor which depends on the ‘titer’ amount. Titer is number of antibodies present in a given amount of plasma or serum. The higher the better. “We need to find out at which stage of the infection the antibodies have to be infused; whether at 14 days of contracting the virus or other time,” he said. Secretary (Medical Virology) of Indian Virological Society, Shailendra K. Saxena said that care needs to be taken to ensure plasma does not contain any copies of coronavirus. “There is scope for a lot of research. Plasma collected from the people who have recovered from COVID-19 can be stored and studied which will help us to know the therapeutic use of convalescent plasma. This has to be explored,” Prof Saxena said. He added that another option is to isolate the antibodies and enhance their numbers which can be infused into patients. Virologists have also stressed the need to ensure that plasma from donors does not contain any pathogen.
08 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Businessmen, traders dig into pockets to fight hunger||Businessmen, traders and youngsters are digging deep into their pockets to ensure that nobody goes hungry on the streets of Hyderabad. Hot food, dry ration, biscuit packets, buttermilk packets, water packets and other needs of daily use are being distributed throughout the city by legions of anonymous Good Samaritans as a fortnight-long lockdown to fight COVID-19 pandemic has immobilised lakhs of citizens and rendered them jobless. “We are doing this for the sake of humanity. We wouldn’t want people to go hungry,” says a businessman from Masab Tank who wished to remain anonymous. As dozens queue up under the Toli Chowki Flyover, a lone constable ensures that people keep their distance from each other as the businessman’s family members ladle food on a plate and pass it on. “We are trying to have variety. Today it is bagara khana , a vegetarian curry and boiled egg,” says the businessman who has brought a cargo auto to haul the big vessels filled with the seasoned rice and curry. On the road beyond Toli Chowki, four young men on a couple of two-wheelers distribute biscuit packets to the fruit vendors, hawkers and anyone they see on the road. The street in front of Maitrivanam is completely deserted and two gentleman drive on a scooter and stop people loitering on the Ameerpet main road to ask if they need food. “I have a food business and this is the least we can do for our society in times of crisis like this,” says Nagaraju, carrying 80 food packets. Yards away, at the Annapurna Canteen, the supervisor says distribution of food by Good Samaritans has not affected them. “We are feeding about 500 people during lunch time and 300 people for dinner,” he informs. “I have realised that many workers like these security guards and fruit vendors have no food available at this time due to the lockdown. I am distributing 200 food packets in this area,” says Kamaleshwar Rao, a builder, who has turned his van into a food cart for distribution in the southern part of the city. Problem of plenty In some areas, however, it is a problem of plenty as multiple agencies and individuals are distributing cooked food. The results can be seen near Nampally station, Road No.10 Banjara Hills and Tejaswi Nagar near PVNR Expressway. The streets swept and scrubbed clean by Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation workers are littered with half-eaten food packets, discarded food plates and unopened food bags by 3 p.m. “Around 100 people live here. Over the past few days, 10 to 12 groups are coming to distribute food. We don’t want to miss good food so everyone rushes whenever it is distributed,” says Mallesh who lives with his family of minstrels now rendered immobile.
08 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||COVID-19 impact hits floriculture market||Tonnes of marigold, chrysanthemums, lily, jasmine, and other locally grown flowers that were transported to wholesale markets in the city just before Ugadi mostly lay dumped as there were no buyers. With the dumped flowers, the hopes of floriculture farmers looking forward to a good season beginning with the spring and decent returns on their investment lay dashed. The lockdown imposed to curb the transmission of the coronavirus pandemic made people confined to their homes while many non-essential businesses shut shop, leaving thousands of small and marginal farmers hapless as their nine-month preparation and planning to raise a variety of flowers came to a naught. Sources said floriculture farmers plan variety of flower gardens depending on the number of events and orders from close to 4,000 to 5,000 function halls. Typically in a year, 80 to 110 days are good days for seasonal flower business. About 10,000 small and marginal farmers mostly in Medchal, Vikarabad, Rangareddy, Bhongir Yadadri, Suryapet and to some extent in Siddipet and Medak depend on floriculture and they grow variety of flowers in about 8,500 acres. Many farmers, following the end of agricultural season for paddy and other foodgrains, turn to horticulture crops — fruits, vegetables and flowers . The investment for raising flower gardens is anywhere between Rs. 50,000 and Rs. 1 lakh per acre in open cultivation and those who raise flowers in about 1,200 poly houses , invest anywhere between Rs. 3 lakh and Rs. 4 lakh to raise orchids, carnations and roses. Moved by the plight of floriculture farmers, former Chevella MP Konda Vishweshar Reddy tweeted his concern. "Sad for the floriculture farmers in Chevella. Writing to the PM and CM on supporting them among others." Speaking to The Hindu , Mr.Reddy said that many farmers eked out a living and provided work to labour by growing flowers in Chevella, Moinabad, Shankarpalli, Shabad, Nawabpet , and other mandals in and around State capital that is a huge market place. With social and religious gatherings out, people are not going to temples and events are put off or cancelled. Central and State governments should give relief first to the farmers with standing crops, flowers and fruits whatever may be the scheme, he urged. "This is the picking season that will last three months, ensuring them daily earnings and keep them occupied. But now things look gloomy as they have to dump the flowers with no demand and sales”. The floriculture farmers have been going through a rough phase as the State government which promised subsidy for growing flowers in poly houses did not release the dues of Rs. 30 crore to Rs. 40 crore over the last two years. They had been going round government offices for dues when coronavirus dealt even a bigger blow, some farmers said. The State government was kind to announce subsistence to the poor, and MSP at their doorstep for paddy and maize farmers. "What about us" is the despair of thousands of small and marginal floriculture farmers who lost their investment.
08 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||For a safe pregnancy during pandemic||At a time when the spread of COVID-19 has become a cause of concern for everyone, it is more worrisome for pregnant women. Apart from the fear of acquiring the infection and transmission to the foetus and its sequel among the mothers-to-be and their family members, worries that generally arise among the pregnant women include – “Will this infection affect the process of delivery? Will the baby be safe? Can I breastfeed the newborn?” “The expectant mothers should neither panic nor be casual as the pregnancy period is a relatively immuno-compromised situation,” says senior obstetrician and gynaecologist L. Fahmida Banu. “In nature, this is to accept and adopt the foetus of different genetic composition, nurture it and safeguard it in the womb. There is also increased workload on the cardiovascular system of the mother due to increased blood volume [during pregnancy],” she adds. The respiratory system is also strained through the growing foetus and upward pushed diaphragm. In addition, if there are other co-morbid conditions such as gross obesity, higher age of the pregnant women, gestational diabetes, respiratory or cardiovascular diseases or other infections, the pregnant women are more prone to infections and same applies to the COVID-19 infection too. However, safe precautions such as frequent handwashing with soap and water, using sanitisers and disposing of tissues properly, taking balanced and protein-rich diet of fresh fruits, avoiding going out except for medical consultation, talking to the doctor, maintaining social contact (with social distance) and hobbies to feel well would largely help in safe pregnancy and peripartum period (the period shortly before, during and immediately after giving birth), she says. On possibility of spread of infection to foetus and the newborn, the senior gynaecologist says the spread of infection to the baby (foetus) from the mother when it is in the uterus is called vertical transmission. However, there are no scientific studies supporting this so far. “There are two scientific studies reported from China, wherein the babies of nine pregnant women delivered were found to be negative after the babies’ amniotic fluid samples, blood samples and throat swabs were analysed,” the doctor explains, adding that the babies were separated from mothers till the mothers recovered.
08 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||AI flight evacuates US citizens||GMR-led Hyderabad International Airport handled yet another special passenger chartered Air India flight to evacuate 98 US nationals from Hyderabad on Tuesday. The flight, AI 1617(arrival)/AI 1618 (departure), an airbus A 320 aircraft, landed at 3.12 p.m. from Mumbai and departed at 4.15 p.m. for Mumbai. The flight was purely domestic and operated from the main passenger terminal building and as per the flight itinerary, the passengers were to be further connected with Delta Airlines from Mumbai to their final destination in the US. The flight was taken up in coordination with the US Consulate and the Telangana government and it also had one infant on board. The passengers arrived at the airport around 1 p.m. from various parts and they were serviced through the fully-sanitised main terminal building. A select group of personnel from GHIAL Terminal Operations, Airside Operations, Airport Operations & Control Center, Air Traffic Control, IT Team, Central Industrial Security Force and others were available to ensure safe and seamless departure, said an official spokesman. Special screening and safety measures were in place during the flight’s handling to protect against the COVID-19 threat, including thermal screening prior to terminal entry and mandatory social distancing enforced through special queuing arrangements at all passenger processing points. The airport had already handed evacuation of 38 Germans by another special AI flight and an IndiGo which had to drop a few crew members and ferry others to Chennai. The RGIA’s cargo terminal was fully operational to keep the vital link of essential supplies alive and working round the clock transporting medicines, pharma and other key goods, he added.
08 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Power bill for this month to be based on past bills||Electricity consumers of all low-tension (LT) supply categories in the State who get consumer charges bills every month would not get physical bills this month as the energy meter readers won’t visit their premises to collect energy consumption data. Bills would be raised based on their past consumption and intimated over WhatsApp, SMS or website for payment. Relaxation to the effect was given to the two distribution licensees (discoms) by the Telangana State Electricity Regulatory Commission (TSERC) through its interim order placed on its website on Tuesday, in the wake of COVID-19 lockdown restrictions. According to the order, the discoms have been allowed to suspend all non-essential services which require public interface till April 14, till when the lockdown is in force as of now. The Commission agreed that services such as meter reading, bills distribution, bill collection at manual bill payment counters, release of new service connection, extension of additional loads, reduction of load, transfer of ownership, conversion of services, shifting of meters or service lines, redressal of meter and billing complaints as non-essential services during the lockdown period. The discoms are not required to pay any compensation to consumers for the delay in attending to such services during the lockdown.  Last year bill As per the Commission’s relaxation given to the discoms due to absence of meter reading, the billing for April 2020 (for energy consumed in March), the consumers of LT-I Domestic, LT-VI (A) Street Lighting and LT-VI (B) Protected Water Supply Schemes categories the demand shall be raised equivalent to the consumer charges bill amount for April 2019 for all connections existing in the month of March 2019. For the connections released after April 1, 2019 to February 29, 2020 in the three LT categories, the demand shall be raised equivalent to the bill amount for the month of March 2020 and for the connections released during March 2020 in the three categories, minimum demand shall be raised. Similarly, for all other LT categories except LT-V Agriculture, the demand shall be raised as equivalent to 50% of the bill amount for April 2019 for consumers existing in March 2019 and for connections released after April 1, 2019 to February 2, 2020 the demand shall be raised for equivalent to 50% of the bill amount for March 2020. For the connections released during March 2020, minimum demand shall be raised.  Payment moratorium The TSERC order also passed on the relief approved by the Ministry of Power to the Discoms due to the COVID-19 lockdown for moratorium of three months to make payments to generating and transmission licensees and not to levy penal rates of late payment surcharge. In case of open access to intra-State transmission and distribution networks, the Commission has deferred processing of new applications and existing applications for enhancement of capacity till the restoration of normalcy.
08 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Summer vacation cancelled for HC, all courts in State||Telangana High Court on Tuesday has resolved to cancel summer vacations for all the courts in the State. As a result, the HC along with all district and subordinate courts in the State would function throughout May month and till June 5. The ongoing system of HC and all district courts hearing only urgent matters, which was started on March 27, will continue till April 30. The Telangana High Court, as announced earlier, will hear only extreme urgent matters like bail applications, fresh admissions such as PIL cases. The district courts would also hear only urgent pleas like applications relating to bail, remand, extension of remand and interim injunctions. This arrangement would be reviewed on April 25. The High Court had been working only three days a week since March 17 following outbreak of COVID-19. As the cases started going up and the government announced lockdown, the HC decided to hear only urgent matters through video-conferencing or Skype. Initially, the regular judicial and administration work was suspended in all courts from March 27 to April 14. Reviewing the situation amidst reports that lockdown needs to be further extended in all parts of the country, the Full Court meeting was held on Tuesday. Director of Institute of Preventive Medicine K. Shankar, who also participated in the meeting, had explained about the current situation of COVID-19 in the State. There is a likelihood of congregation of people in the premises of courts in the backdrop of the proposal to lift the lockdown in phased manner and making courts 100% operational, it was deduced.
08 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Control room for paddy procurement issues||The Agriculture Department has set up a control room in the office of the Commissioner of Agriculture here to attend to problems faced at the field-level in the procurement of maize and paddy this season. The control room will function from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day. Chairman of Rythu Bandhu Samithi Palla Rajeshwar Reddy stated on Tuesday that the problems brought to the notice of the officials manning the control room would take the matter to the notice of the officials concerned and pursue for their resolve. Farmers and field level officials facing problems in disposal and procurement of the produce could contact the control room on mobile number 7288894807 and 7288876545. Speaking after holding a meeting with the officials manning the control room, from Agriculture, Marketing and Civil Supplies Departments and agencies such as Markfed and Rythu Bandhu Samithi, Mr. Reddy said the task of the control room would also include district-wise details of procurement centres, quantity of grain procured, extent of harvesting going on every day and pass it on to the State government. The farming community could contact the control room on issues such as opening of procurement centres, need of harvesters and others. Gunny bags Meanwhile, chairman of the Telangana State Civil Supplies Corporation Mareddy Srinivas Reddy reviewed the paddy procurement exercise on Tuesday and discussed on the steps to arrange gunny bags required for the purpose. He stated that about 20 crore gunny bags would be required to procure the paddy this season but there were problems in getting gunny bag supplies from West Bengal due to the COVID-19 lockdown.  Local procurement Stating that there was no possibility of getting supplies from West Bengal soon, Mr. Reddy asked the officials to arrange for procurement of the bags locally, particularly from rice mills, ration (fair price) shop dealers and others. He also announced increase of price of the bags to be procured from ration dealers from Rs. 16 to Rs. 18 per bag. About 60 lakh gunny bags would be available with the ration dealers as 12 kg of rice per head was supplied for the month of April.
08 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Uttam felicitates sanitation staff||Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee (TPCC) president and MP from Nalgonda N. Uttam Kumar Reddy felicitated the sanitation staff of Miryaguda Municipality on Tuesday by shovering flowers petals and washing their feet. Congress leaders also provided them with cash incentives, masks, food items and other equipment. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Reddy applauded the sanitation staff, medical professionals and police personnel for the services they have been rendering across the Telangana State. He said they were serving the people round-the-clock by taking risk to their health and lives to protect the general public. He demanded that the State government must take care of all needs of the sanitation staff, medical professionals and police personnel in order to recognise their services. He expressed shock over learning the sanitation staff of Miryalguda Municipality were not paid salaries for two months and immediately spoke to the Municipal Commissioner and urged him to release the pending salaries.
08 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Helpline for disabled gets calls for pension, schemes||Majority of the calls received by the helpline launched for the benefit of disabled in the State during lockdown have been for enrolment into various government schemes. Of the 142 calls to the helpline (1800-572-8980) since April 5, when it was launched, 54 were made seeking benefits from the government such as pensions, and enrolment into schemes. Several of the callers requested for pensions, and sought details of SADAREM (Software for Assessment of Disabled for Access, Rehabilitation and Empowerment) screening camps where disability certificates would be issued. A few others enquired about loans to set up businesses. The helpline has been launched to offer assistance to the disabled persons stranded and facing difficulties during the lockdown. There were considerable number of calls seeking transportation and essential commodities too, officials informed. About 23 calls were for grocery items, which were organised by the district welfare officers (DWOs) either through district administration or through donors. Close to 20 calls were for transportation. “We also received occasional distress calls. A girl staying in hostel called from Mehdipatnam, saying she was suffering from kidney ailment and needed transport to her home town, Mancherial. We enquired with her doctor and found that it was a genuine request. With help from the police department, we issued her a pass, organised transport and sent her to Mancherial,” an official shared. A social media group has been created with all officials concerned to coordinate the efforts. The Disabled and Senior Citizens Welfare department officers at the headquarters have been assigned five to six districts each to monitor. From the helpline managed through an NGO supported by Tata Trusts, every time a ticket is raised, the information is passed on to the group and the DWO concerned. “We try to understand the requirements through the initial calls, and based on the data, define the processes for each type of need,” the official said. Senior citizens call in Requests are also being received from senior citizens at an already existing toll free number (14567). Since March 25, the helpline has received 175 calls, of which 30% were for medicines, and 26% for groceries while 15% callers requested for both medicines and groceries. Food delivery requests constituted 9% of the calls, while an equal amount of requests came for medical assistance. A recent request from an 80-year-old patient on dialysis for transport on alternate days to reach the hospital was fulfilled.  We also received occasional distress calls. An official
08 April 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||CM flayed for deriding political parties, media||Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Bhatti Vikramarka took strong objection to the language being used by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao in his media meets against the Opposition leaders and th media, and said they too can use similar language against him but were refraining in view of his position and age. At a press conference here, he said wishing that media personnel should suffer with corona for exposing the shortcomings in the government’s initiatives reflects his attitude and it was sad that the Chief Minister of a State was using such language. Unfortunately, it has become a habit for the Chief Minister to target people who question him, he said. Mr. Bhatti said he had tried to explain the seriousness of the virus in the Assembly but CM brushed it off. “Aren’t you responsible for the growing cases now,” he asked.
08 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Jr. docs request funds for PPE, N95 masks, sanitisers||Telangana Junior Doctors Association (TJUDA) members have appealed to the people to donate funds to buy N95 masks, sanitisers, Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) for doctors, nurses and paramedical staff on duty at government hospitals. Though the State government is taking substantial efforts to provide safety gears, the junior doctors said that there are a few gaps which needs to be filled. “At ground level, there are issues in accessing basic equipment, including but not limited to, hand sanitisers, N95 masks, and eyewear or face shields. We are in dire need of safety gear as we are at greatest risk of contracting COVID-19,” TJUDA members said, adding that it would be a nightmare for health sector in these crisis situation if doctors are under quarantine. The TJUDAs president Dr K.U.N. Vishnu, vice-presidents Dr G Laxmi Priya, Dr S Ravishankar Raj and others stated in the appeal that they have set up a fund to overcome procedural lapses and to ensure speedy supply, have a reserve of equipment, in case of emergencies. The bank account to donate funds is Account number 38777292566, State Bank of India, Osmania Medical College, Koti. Name: P Giri Raja & KUN Vishnu. IFSC Code: SBIN0021110. They said that procurement and distribution will be updated in social media to maintain transparency. Till date, doctors have donated funds.
08 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Stay home on Shab-e-Baraat, say clerics||With Shab-e-Baraat, popularly known as Jaagne ki Raat, scheduled to be observed on Wednesday night, Muslim clerics have urged the public to stay indoors in view of COVID-19. Shab-e-Baraat entails Muslims visiting graveyards where their loved ones are buried and praying for their souls to be at peace. Speaking to the The Hindu , Mufti Omar Abedeen, deputy director of the Islamic seminary Al Mahad ul Aali al Islami said, “Prayers and supplications are accepted on Shab-e-Baraat. This is why Muslims consider this an important night. A large number of people go to graveyards and pray. But given the coronavirus issue, lockdown and social distancing, the public should stay at home and pray for mankind.” He urged the public to cooperate with the State government, obey all directives being issued by the Department of Health and not be careless. “This is the time to take all precautions. Islam mandates that human life be protected, and endangering lives of others is prohibited. Therefore, it is in accordance with the law of the land and sharia to stay at home,” he said.
08 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Lockdown video goes viral||As the city goes into a suspended animation due to the lockdown, a video commissioned by the State government became viral on Tuesday. The 2.20-minute video shows eerily deserted wide roads juxtaposed with iconic buildings of Hyderabad with a message at the end: “In the midst of corona the beauty of the city lives on. Hyderabad can wait for you”. “The Information and Public Relations department commissioned the project and we shot it in three days. It is totally unscripted and shows the calmness and symbolism of the city,” says Dulam Satyanarayana, a documentary filmmaker whose team shot the video. Other cities including Los Angeles, Las Vegas, Wuhan, and Mumbai have created similar videos to show the glory of the cities with a message to stay at home.
08 April 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Briefs||The India Met Department has forecast three more days of thunderstorm and gusty winds, accompanied sometimes by hailstorm at a few places over the State owing to the formation of a cyclonic storm. Several parts of Hyderabad and elsewhere across the State witnessed light to heavy showers on Tuesday. Hailstorm occurred in Vikarabad, Rangareddy and Nagarkurnool districts. There is little likelihood of major changes in day or night temperatures.
08 April 2020||KARIMNAGAR,TELANGANA||Prices of vegetables drop in Karimnagar||Contrary to the expectations of steep hike in the vegetable prices following the lockdown, the prices of vegetables have come down drastically following the arrival of huge stocks and there being no takers for the veggies in Karimnagar town. Thanks to the bountiful availability of irrigation sources through the Kaleshwaram lift irrigation project in various parts of the district, farmers cultivated vegetables extensively and were expected to reap the riches during summer when the prices of vegetables would usually soar owing to fall in production. During the initial stages of lockdown after the ‘Janata curfew’, vegetable prices soared following panic buying by customers. Following the complaints of hoarding of stocks and increase of prices, the district authorities intervened and ensured that the traders sell at the rates fixed by the horticulture authorities. In the wake of spurt in the COVID-19 cases in the town, the district authorities shifted the main vegetable market from Tower circle area to the spacious RTC bus station complex to ensure that people followed the social distancing norm to check the spread of the virus. Besides, the municipal authorities opened 12 mini-vegetable markets in various localities to avoid crowding of the main market. The authorities also ensured that the same rates were followed at all the mini-markets throughout the town. Following the restricted relaxation period during the lockdown from 6 am to 12 noon, the traders and farmers were resorting to distress sale by afternoon. The tomatoes which are sold at Rs 10 per kg in the morning hours are sold at Rs 10 for two kg in the afternoon. Similarly, all the vegetable prices were sold below what was fixed by horticulture authorities. Nagabushanam, a trader at the RTC bus station complex, said he was forced to resort to distress sale of vegetables as he had to go back to his house before noon to avoid police wrath during the lockdown. He attributed the decline in the vegetable prices to huge arrivals and less consumption. “If there had been no lockdown, customers would not have secured vegetables at such cheap rates. Because they used to get bulk orders for supply of vegetables from hostels, hotels and marriage functions. Now with the closure of hotels and no marriage functions, the demand for consumption of vegetables hass declined,” he said.
08 April 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Khammam gets its own disinfectant tunnel||The Khammam Municipal Corporation (KMC) authorities have scaled up preventive measures to ward off coronavirus by installing a “disinfectant tunnel” at the makeshift vegetable market abutting the Sardar Patel Stadium here. The small arch-like enclosure resembling door-frame metal detector has been installed at the entrance of the temporary vegetable market to spray disinfectant solution on vegetable vendors, including farmers, and the consumers as part of public health safety measures. The authorities have set up temporary vegetable markets in various divisions of the KMC in adherence to a decentralised approach to avoid mass gathering of consumers as part of strict enforcement of lockdown regulations. The improvised disinfectant tunnel has been fitted with micro-foggers mainly used for controlling humidity inside the prefabricated greenhouses and other drip irrigation systems. It has been designed to continuously spray disinfectant mist on those passing through the small chamber like tunnel, sources said. Plans are afoot to set up nine more disinfectant tunnels at other makeshift vegetable markets in the KMC limits in a few days, KMC Divisional Engineer Dharani Kumar said. One such enclosure has already been made operational at the temporary market adjoining the SP Stadium and it is being operated continuously from 7 a.m. to 12 noon daily during the stipulated timings for the consumers to visit the market as per the lockdown norms, he added.
08 April 2020||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||When elected representatives violated social distance norm||Nalgonda MLA Kancharla Bhupal Reddy along with town officials violated social distancing norms at an event they were part of, to distribute ‘safety kit’ to workers of Sanitation and Water departments here on Tuesday. The event was organised by Lions Club International at N.G. College grounds and witnessed a congregation of at least 100 people. According to an invite to media, the meeting was to distribute breakfast, protective equipment such as gloves, masks, disinfectant soaps, all worth Rs. 1 lakh, to about 800 workers at the hands of Mr. Bhupal Reddy. Along with Nalgonda Municipal Commissioner B. Dev Singh and municipality chairman M. Saidi Reddy and others, Mr. Bhupal Reddy first arrived at the place to inaugurate a disinfection tunnel, spoke to the gathering from a small tent and gave away the packages. The N.G. College grounds, at a stone’s throw from the SP bungalow, soon saw the workers rushing for their packages disrupting social distance norm. According to Nethi Raghupathi, State Secretary Lions Club, the gathering was not more than 50 people and hence police permission was not required. “The idea was to distribute the stock to 16 jawans, who would hand them over to area workers. Along with the MLA and his men, Commissioner, Chairman, DSP, a few of our members were also present,” he said. In Miryalaguda, TPCC president and Nalgonda MP N. Uttam Kumar Reddy was the chief violator of social distance norm. Nearly 500 people, including 350 sanitation workers, were part of the gathering in his address at the mini Ravindra Bharati grounds. According to party workers, the meeting was to felicitate the sanitation workers. A photograph of the event that went viral later showed Mr. Uttam Kumar Reddy posing with party activists and hundreds of workers in blue T-shirts behind him. In both events, there were no ‘social distance boxes or circles’.
08 April 2020||NETNUR (KUMRAM BHEEM ASIFABAD DISTRICT),TELANGANA||A mahua tree reflects impact of weather change||While the COVID-19 scare has changed the daily routine in human habitations, the forests in former composite Adilabad district are responding to changes in weather taking place since the last few months by altering the timing of seasons. The tribal people who have co-existed with the local vegetation for centuries are surprised over many species experiencing delayed spring attributing the factor to the unusually long continued spells of rainfall. The flowering season in ippa or mahua species (Madhuca indica) one of the most important species of the dry deciduous here, which usually occurs between mid-March and mid-April has been delayed by 15 to 30 days. The most significant change according to the Adivasis, however, is the shedding of flowers by an ippa tree strangely around noon though it invariably takes place before dawn. The tree is located in the remote Netnur village of Sirpur (U) mandal in Kumram Bheem Asifabad district and is the only tree among the hundreds scattered within an area with a wide radius. The yield is also less than the usual from the tree which is estimated to be at least a century old. “We have neither seen such changes in weather nor the tree deviating from its routine of shedding flowers before dawn,” asserted Khati tribe elder Madavi Bapu Rao who owns the tree. “It is perhaps not getting the required warmth in the small hours of the day,” he hazarded a guess. “Yes, the ippa tree needs sufficient warmth in the night to shed its flowers. But only one tree experiencing the phenomenon is certainly an unusual occurrence,” observed associate professor at the Department of Botany in Satavahana University, Karimnagar. “The phenomenon seems to be vernalisation, which is speeding up the process of flowering in a plant by exposing it to prolonged cold of winter, or artificially by introducing the vernalin hormone. Nevertheless, there is need for deep study into it to arrive at a conclusion,” he added. “We are not worried about the change in the aspect of flowering in this tree. We are more worried if there is something more severe that can happen to the changes in weather,” wondered Jugnak Tarabai, another Khati tribal living close to the mahua tree in question.
08 April 2020||WARANGAL URBAN DISTRICT,TELANGANA||Minister urges farmers not to panic||As many as 834 paddy procurement centres were set up across the six districts of erstwhile Warangal district to procure more than 10 lakh tonnes, said Panchayat Raj Minister Errabelli Dayakar Rao. The farmers need not panic about their produce as the State government has clarified on this issue. “Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has said every grain will be procured and farmers will get their money directly to their bank account,” the Minister reminded. Mr. Dayakar Rao launched paddy procurement centres in Singarajupalle, Visnuru, Chennuru and Kodakandla in Palakurthy Assembly constituency in Jangaon district on Tuesday. He asked the village-level public representatives to coordinate the procurement of paddy and maize and regulate the farmers.
08 April 2020||GURUGRAM,||Criminal cases drop by 57% in Gurugram||The number of criminal cases registered in Gurugram has dwindled by 57% in the first week of lockdown. However, the drop is mostly due to decrease in traditional crime cases and there is no let up in cyber crime cases. The analysis of crime cases registered from March 25-31 this year has revealed that the number of such cases has dropped to 171 from 396 for the corresponding period last year. Gurugram Police spokesperson Subhash Boken said that most of the cases registered during the said period are for violation of lockdown provisions under Section 188 of the IPC and for declaration of proclaimed offenders by the court in cheque bounce cases under Section 174 of the IPC, and the actual fall in the crime cases could be around 80%. Only two cases of theft were reported on Monday compared to 40-50 cases per day earlier, Mr. Boken said. Gurugram Police Commissioner Muhammad Akil had also referred to the drop in crime cases in a press conference the previous month saying that the number of cases registered had dropped to almost 10-15% since the lockdown. Though the number of crime cases under all heads has gone down considerably, the steepest fall has been witnessed in cases registered under the Special and Local Laws, including Protection of Children from Sexual Offences, Arms Act, Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act and the Gambling Act. Steep fall Compared to the corresponding period last year, the number of crime cases under these various laws has gone down from 111 to just five, a decline of around 95%. Similarly, only four cases of crime against women have been registered during the first week of lockdown compared to 17 for the corresponding period last year. Only one case has been registered under the Crime Against Property category, including snatching, robbery, burglary, whereas 17 cases were registered the previous year for the corresponding period. Cases of murder, causing hurt and suicide, broadly categorised as Crimes Again Persons, have also gone down from 38 to 14. The cases of vehicle theft, which account for a huge share in the total crime cases, have registered a drop of 91%. While 85 cases of vehicle theft were reported from March 25-31 last year, only four have been reported this year during the period.
08 April 2020||New Delhi,||City reports two more deaths, 51 new cases||Two deaths and 51 new COVID-19 cases were reported in the Capital on Tuesday. The toll now stands at nine with the total number of cases reaching 576. Of the 51 new cases, four are people from a centre run by the Tablighi Jamaat in Nizamuddin.A total of 333 people from the centre have tested positive for COVID-19 so far in Delhi. Out of the total 576 cases, 20 people have been discharged. A total of 3,120 people are lodged in quarantine facilities and around 18,500 people are home quarantined, said the government. About 9,041 samples have been tested in the city for COVID-19 so far.  Meanwhile, the New Delhi Municipal Council (NDMC) on Tuesday said that it will engage seven Delhi Transport Corporation (DTC) buses on a trial basis to help its employees engaged in essential services reach their workplace. “The NDMC is hiring seven low-floor non-AC buses for transportation of municipal employees from designated places near their residence up to their place of work. On a trial basis, these buses will run on April 8-9 as per specified schedule and route. If the trial is fruitful then it will be operated on a regular basis during the lockdown period,” an official statement read.
08 April 2020||New Delhi,||Staff unable to reach, 150 mohalla clinics shut in Delhi||At least 150 of about 480 mohalla clinics in the city were shut on Tuesday primarily because the staff was not able to reach the government-run facilities, said officials. Notably, the Chief Minister on March 26 had said: “There is a rumour going on that all the mohalla clinics in Delhi will be closed. This is completely wrong information. We will ensure that every mohalla clinic will be fully functional during this tough time.” Thousands of people, mainly from lower-middle income groups, rely on the clinics for medical care every day. “On Tuesday, about 300 mohalla clinics were open. On Monday, the number was less,” a Delhi government official told The Hindu.  In the last week of March, the Delhi government had directed heads of all hospitals and institutions under the Department of Health and Family Welfare to hire private vehicles for officials to reach their place of duty as many were “unable to do so due to the lockdown”. But this facility is not available for mohalla clinic staff as they are not permanent employees, said officials. “Initially the staff were finding it difficult to reach the clinics as they did not have ID cards. Now, they have been issued special ID cards so that they can reach the clinics,” the official said. The staff needs to be dependent on DTC buses or their own vehicles to reach the clinic “but not everyone is able to do so”, the official added. Clinics see footfall The clinics, which were open, saw a footfall of 100-150 on an average. But more mohalla clinics are open compared to the last week of March, when about 250 clinics were shut.
08 April 2020||New Delhi,||Firm ‘terminates’ 50 employees, now claims letters ‘revoked’||The All India Central Council of Trade Unions (AICCTU) has sought the intervention of the Delhi government over the alleged termination of 50 employees by Capital Trust Ltd. in Sultanpur during the lockdown. Stating that the alleged terminations during the COVID-19 pandemic were in “gross violation of law”, the AICCTU said: “It violates labour laws and deals a blow to employees during the virus outbreak.” Employees who were laid off claimed that the contracts of both permanent and contractual staff were “terminated illegally”. Devendra Singh, one of the employees, told The Hindu , “Initially, when the lockdown started, we were asked to work from home, which all of us agreed to and were doing.” Suddenly on Sunday, many employees got mails from the company stating that their “services were no longer required” and a probation clause was referred to. “But the people who are not under probation have also received similar mails and no explanation is being given,” Mr. Singh claimed. “The salaries of all staff was released on Tuesday but the ones who got the termination letter did not get salaries. We are at a loss. We stay on rent and now the landlords are asking for money. How do we pay them?” Company version When The Hindu reached out to Capital Trust by email on Tuesday, Vinod Raina, Chief Financial Officer (CFO) of the company, responded on email, saying: “Further to your mail, we would like to submit the following. As a business practice under routine performance reviews HR department issued a letter to some employees of the company. However, under the present circumstances, the company subsequently revoked all such letters. Salary has been already been processed in all such cases.” AICCTU secretary Surya Prakash said, “I tried contacting the nodal officer in the Labour Department but I was told to lodge a complaint on the helpline number. Every officer I am calling is asking me to contact someone else. We have not been able to find any solution yet. Employees of other firms have also started contacting us with similar complaints of retrenchment.” In a letter to Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, the council stated: “The governments have asked employers to refrain from terminating services of staff. Any employer who resorts to such retrenchments is contributing to the already chaotic situation... we request you [the CM] to take necessary action and order th firm to reinstate all employees.”
08 April 2020||New Delhi,||‘Centre succumbed to Trump’s threat’||AAP senior leader Sanjay Singh on Tuesday said U.S. President Donald Trump’s statement was an “attack against the people of India”. Mr. Singh, also the Rajya Sabha MP, said the Central government has succumbed to the threat by Mr. Trump and lifted a ban on hydroxychloroquine on Tuesday. “Mr. Trump had said there would be retaliation if India does not supply the said drug, which is a direct threat to India. In India many people are dying, many are hungry and at that time, such threat is an attack against Indians. I expected a befitting reply from the Centre and Prime Minister Narendra Modi to the U.S.,” he said. “It seems that the BJP government lacks the vision and mission to fight against COVID-19. Many State governments like Bihar are asking for various medical aids from the Centre and the doctors of AIIMS and other hospitals also need more Personal Protective Equipment kits. Hence, the Centre should first fulfil these needs within India. The AAP believes that such an unprecedented threat from Mr. Trump is completely unacceptable and Mr. Modi should give a befitting reply to the U.S. for such threat,” Mr. Singh added.
08 April 2020||New Delhi,||NFIW writes to Shah to stop ‘harassment by Delhi Police’||Citing harassment by police of volunteers distributing food and ration in certain areas, the National Federation of Indian Women (NFIW) on Tuesday wrote to Home Minister Amit Shah seeking intervention. “The problem is that the role of some of the personnel in some areas is negative and inhuman. Instead of facilitating the food distribution, they threaten our members of dire consequence like arrest for distributing food. At Kirti Nagar, we had to bring the food back,” read the letter. The NFIW added that women were also facing harassment at ration shops. NFIW General Secretary Annie Raja said, “We request you to direct the Delhi Police which is under you, to stop harassing the people and the organisations that help the needy people.” The NFIW added that while both Centre and Delhi governments had announced relief measures, the same had not reached a “scale it should have”.
08 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Govt. is not well-prepared to fight virus: Cong. chief||The Delhi Congress head Ch. Anil Kumar on Tuesday said Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal was talking about its strategy to contain a possible COVID-19 outbreak in the city but does not have the capacity to test people showing symptoms or protect the doctors. “Personal Protective Equipment [PPE] kits are running out here while cases have grown to the third-highest number in the country. Patients at LNJP hospital are only increasing,” Mr. Kumar said, adding that the government was not well-prepared. “Today is World Health Day and the Delhi State Cancer Institute had to be closed because 18 medical staff working there have tested positive for COgVID-19. This has happened this is because the government is not providing PPE kits,” he added.
08 April 2020||Bhopal,||Indore surpasses Delhi, Mumbai in death rate||With deaths due to COVID-19 spiralling in Indore, the case fatality rate in the country’s cleanest city touched 8.6% on Tuesday, arguably the highest for any city in the country, even ahead of the rates in Mumbai and New Delhi which had recorded more than three times the number of cases than Indore. Experts suggest the deaths of 15 patients in Indore until April 7 can be attributed to delayed diagnosis, late admission to hospitals in an unfair general condition, comorbidities, old age, acute respiratory distress syndrome and a high viral load. So far, Indore, the largest and the most populous city of Madhya Pradesh, has recorded 173 cases. Between March 22, when Indore recorded its first COVID-19 case, and April 7, Mumbai recorded 618 cases and 39 deaths and New Delhi 524 and eight deaths. The case fatality rate is a measure of disease severity which records the proportion of those who die from a disease among all those diagnosed with it over a certain period of time. For Mumbai it stands at 6.3%, and for New Delhi 1.5%. A higher rate reflects a poor outcome. No travel history A typical COVID-19 patient would have a contact and travel history, be diagnosed, admitted after which he/she may die or survive. But none of the cases in Indore had an international travel history, explained Salil Bhargava, Head of the Department, Respiratory Medicine, Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Medical College, Indore. “Most of the patients who died had bilateral pneumonia, which caused acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS), eventually causing death,” said Dr. Bhargava. “Their presentation at the hospital has been late, which is one issue, and they are being presented in bad shape and having severe respiratory distress. Once the ARDS settles in, it’s almost impossible to save the patient.” Furthermore, almost all the deceased had co-morbidities (suffered from another illness that made them vulnerable), he said. “A good number of them had hypertension, diabetes, hypothyroidism and even morbid obesity. It’s not just the lungs which are failing due to COVID-19, but these other illness were causing multiorgan failures and shock” The recent go-ahead by the ICMR to begin rapid antibody testing may help step up diagnosis. “Even during swine flu, the fatality rate was quite high for indore, as some areas in the city are crowded and there is an interplay of factors in each case. With more number of diagnostic tools, including the rapid antibody testing, testing will be stronger,” said Dr. Bhargava. So far, no patient with a “general condition fair” has had a “general condition unfair” later or admitted to the ICU or died, said Dr.Salil Sakalle, Professor, Community Medicine Department at the college. “Those who died had a highly unfair GC, when the respiratory distress was almost uncontrollable.” Primary contacts of such patients, however, showed no such severe respiratory conditions, so they were responding well, he explained. “For around 30-40% of those who died the COVID-19 positive report came later. They were so serious. There needs to be research around why such patients’ condition has a disposition for COVID-19 reacting so severely in them,” he said. Dr. Sakalle noted some probable causes of the high fatality rate: “They may have a cough and cold for a long duration before they finally approached a health facility. Moreover, from wherever they caught the infection, the viral load could be very high. ”
08 April 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha telemedicine helpline starts working from today||The Odisha government will make a special telemedicine helpline operational from Wednesday to provide free services to citizens showing possible COVID-19 symptoms. More than 300 doctors willing to provide their services voluntarily had already registered with the Helpline 14410 responding to an appeal issued by Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik on Monday. The helpline being set up in association with a Delhi-based firm will provide platform for people seeking advice from their homes, said Krishan Kumar, State Works Secretary. Dr. Kumar heads the 104 helpline dealing with queries regarding the COVID-19 pandemic. In case someone is unable to get through the special telemedicine helpline, he will be directed to the 104 helpline, which is receiving 12,000 to 14,000 calls per day, said Dr. Kumar. Meanwhile, Odisha reported its first COVID-19 death that took place at AIIMS Bhubaneswar. The 72-year-old patient, a resident of Bhubaneswar, was admitted to AIIMS on April 4 with complaint of respiratory distress and expired on April 6. He tested positive for COVID-19. Contact tracing and containment is going on, according to the State Health Department. The number of positive cases in Odisha increased to 42 on Tuesday following detection of a case in Madhusudan Nagar area of the capital city. The State government has again appealed to the remaining Tablighi Jamaat returnees to come forward for testing. Apart from 28 persons traced earlier, 42 others had come forward for testing after the Chief Minister issued an appeal on Saturday.
08 April 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Farmers want crop to be lifted from fields in Punjab, Haryana||With wheat harvesting round the corner in the key grain producing States of Punjab and Haryana, farmers have urged the State governments to procure the grain from their fields amid the rising spread of COVID-19. Bhartiya Kisan Union (Lakhowal) general secretary Harinder Singh on Tuesday said the government should directly lift the produce from their field or stores. “The Punjab government is proposing to increase the number of ‘mandis’ but it would not solve the problem. In view of the labour shortage, it will be a herculean task to swiftly lift the grain from these ‘mandis’ when the arrival picks up,” Mr. Singh told The Hindu . Mr. Singh said managing crowds (social distancing) would also not be an easy task there. “Direct procurement will help the farmer and the government agencies in this hour of crises. The government should, however, pay the farmers an additional Rs. 100 per quintal for purchase between May 1 and 31 and another Rs. 100 per quintal for the wheat purchased between June 1 and 30 on account of storage, labour charges. These payments would be over and above the Minimum Support Price (MSP) of Rs. 1,925 per quintal,” he said. He said to address the problem of shortage of labour, the work related to procurement of wheat should be included in the MGNREGA, which would to some extent help ease the process of procurement. Jagjit Singh, State president of the BKU (Sidhupur), said storing the produce at home would mean additional burden on farmers. “Also, keeping harvested produce for long would mean guarding it from weather vagaries. Fire incidents during the harvesting season usually go up,” he said. The government purchase of wheat — the main rabi crop — usually starts in the first week of April in Punjab and Haryana. This year, the Haryana government has announced that procurement will commence from April 20, while Punjab has decided to start it from April 15. Kewal Singh, a farmer in Punjab’s Mansa who has sown wheat in 20 acres, said the restrictions during the lockdown have increased his worries about harvesting and sale of the crop. “The government is going for staggered procurement but this will only increase the risk and cost for me, putting additional financial burden. We should be adequately compensated.” Wheat procurement in Punjab will be arranged in about 5,000 purchase centres, by appointment for every farmer on given days. The centres will be provided with all arrangements required to prevent the spread of the pandemic, with full facilities for food, water, shelter and healthcare. To ensure timely payment to the farmers, it has been decided that payments shall be made to the Arhtiyas (commission agents) within 48 hours and they will, in turn, pay the farmers within the next 48 hours.  Staggered procurement Haryana has also decided to go for staggered procurement. Chief Minister Manohar Lal Khattar said the number of purchase centres had been increased to 2,000 from 477 earlier. Rattan Mann, president of the Haryana Bharatiya Kisan Union (Tikait), has also supported the mechanism of direct procurement of wheat from fields.
08 April 2020||GUWAHATI,||‘Voice warriors’ help Assam in its fight against COVID-19||It took the police and healthcare workers in Assam less than a week to track and test the samples of some 650 of the 861 people who had returned from Delhi’s Tablighi Jamaat event in March. Barring one, all 27 of those who had tested COVID-19 positive till Tuesday had a link with the religious congregation. The information that helped the frontline staff locate these people invariably came from a building in Guwahati’s Bamunimaidam locality. This building is where the Sarathi 104 helpline service operates from. Bamunimaidam is one of Guwahati’s busiest spots because of a popular multiplex and an expansive market of perishables. The buzz in the helpline office is in sharp contrast to the locked-down city beyond its walls — with hardly a soul on the streets and only an occasional passing vehicle, usually of the police or healthcare personnel or those delivering essentials to specific areas. Here, 90 men and women — 30 to a shift of eight hours with each member seated in a cubicle and wearing headphones — log calls on their desktops. Meals and toilet breaks apart, they stick to a routine: attend calls as soon as the phone rings, and input the information received on their desktops. “The team has been handling 9,000 calls, 3,000 more than normal capacity every day since the day the government came to know many people had returned from the Nizamuddin event, probably unaware that they could be infected,” said Pomi Baruah, Deputy Secretary in the Health Department, who was made the nodal officer of the 104 service a fortnight ago. “The helpline was set up some time ago for health-related issues, but was converted into the COVID-19 helpline. Things were quite normal until the upsurge a week ago with the relatives, friends and neighbours of those who attended the Nizamuddin event calling up for guidance and the addresses of the people for the frontline staff to locate,” she told The Hindu . With the focus of the fight against COVID-19 on the frontline staff, Health Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma acknowledged the role of the “voice warriors” in the efforts to beat the COVID-19. “It boosted our morale,” a team leader at the helpline facility said. According to Paresh Parasnis, the CEO of Piramal Foundation which has partnered with the State government and the National Health Mission in providing the 104 service, the helpline recorded a 250% jump in calls post-lockdown. “Through Sarathi 104, we have provided validated information as per the guidelines of WHO and the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare to 1,35,727 beneficiaries in Assam in March,” Mr. Parasnis said. “This has helped in bringing down the anxiety and fear caused due to the virus.” Other helplines have chipped in too. The phones of the 1077 service provided by the Kamrup district administration have seldom stopped ringing. “People initially called for information on safety measures and to guide us to people who had travelled,” said information officer Ratan Soud.
08 April 2020||JAIPUR,||Women’s groups assist vulnerable households in Udaipur||With local panchayat functionaries busy grappling with the consequences of the nationwide lockdown, a cluster of women’s groups in Udaipur district’s Salumbar block have started an initiative to help the most vulnerable households and to fight fake news and misinformation about the COVID-19. They have also gathered authentic information about the government’s various welfare schemes. Ujala Samoohs, working as women’s solidarity groups, have come together in 15 village panchayats of the tribal-dominated Salumbar block to help manage the pandemic and ensure that vulnerable families, which may have been left out of the schemes, receive their benefits during the present crisis. Besides, they have spread awareness about methods to stay safe and prevent infection. Udaipur-based Ajeevika Bureau, working among the communities dependent on migration and labour, has supported the initiative to enable the women in the region to assert their citizenship rights. “The lockdown has shattered migrant labourers’ lives,” Preema Dhurve, in-charge of Workers’ Support and Resource Centre in Salumbar, told The Hindu on Tuesday. “The villagers, waiting for the government’s assistance, fear that they may catch infection any time,” she added. Through a number of activities, including connecting with Sarpanches on social media groups, the Ujala Samooh members have gathered information on the availability of assistance and benefits under the government’s schemes to keep everyone informed in the villages. As the groups have been active in the block for the last nine years, their network in about 160 villages has helped them reach out to the vulnerable families. Ujala Samooh leader Narni Bai prepared a list of vulnerable households, including those comprising the landless poor and those headed by single women, because the panchayat had missed her hamlet when listing out households for free rations. She gathered information about the government’s relief package and held the panchayat secretary accountable. Hudi Bai, a ward panch, pushed for free rations for all families in her area. Similarly, a tribal hamlet in Banoda panchayat was included in the official survey carried out to estimate the number of most vulnerable families after persistent efforts of Ujala Samooh member Narayani Bai and her husband Shanti Lal.
08 April 2020||Kolkata,||Imams urge people to observe Shab-e-Barat from homes||The Imams of West Bengal have urged people of the State to observe Shab-e-Barat from their homes and not to venture out. During Shab-e-Barat, members of the Muslim community visit the burial grounds and mosques at night to pray for the deceased of their families. Observing that Muslims usually participate in a rally and visit the graves of relatives, a press statement by Bengal Imams’ Association urged the people to observe the lockdown and not to come out of their homes. “There is an emotional attachment to the event, but considering the situation, we appeal to you to observe lockdown. This is for our good. Remember them (the relatives) from your homes,” the press statement by Imams’ Association chairman Mohammad Yahya said. Members of the Mohameddan Burial Board that maintains four burial grounds in the city have urged the Kolkata Municipal Corporation to close these grounds on the occasion of Shab-e-Barat. Kolkata Mayor’s appeal Responding to the appeal, Kolkata Municipal Corporation Mayor Firhad Hakim also urged the people to stay inside their homes. “It is very essential that we maintain physical distancing and social distancing during this period. If we do not observe this, the disease will take our localities and families in its grasp,” Mr. Hakim said. He urged the people to observe Shab-e-Barat from their homes and said that he has directed the KMC to close the burial grounds. He also thanked the Imams for keeping the mosques closed. For the past couple of weeks, the Friday prayers at the mosques are not being held. The Imams’ Association also added that after Shab-e-barat, it will be Friday and Azaan (prayers) in the mosques will continue. “The Imams will continue the prayers with four to five people. Please do not crowd the mosques and offer prayers at your homes,” the statement added.
08 April 2020||LUCKNOW,||U.P. official alleges assault by BJP MP, supporters||A government official in Kannauj on Tuesday alleged that BJP Lok Sabha MP Subrat Pathak and his supporters barged into his residence and assaulted him for not distributing ration to people listed by him. Sadar tehsildar Arvind Kumar said the MP was accompanied by 20-25 people who also allegedly thrashed him. Talking to reporters after the incident, Mr. Kumar said he had first received a phone call from Mr. Pathak who allegedly asked him why people featuring on a list sent by him two days ago were yet to receive ration. Mr. Kumar said he informed the MP that the naib (deputy tehsildar) concerned was tasked with identifying the beneficiaries and distributing ration to them. Mr. Kumar said he told Mr. Pathak that he would check the status with the naib and inform him in 10 minutes, and get ration distributed to those who were yet to avail it. ‘Abused, threatened’ However, Mr. Kumar said the MP started abusing and threatening him. Later, Mr. Pathak turned up at his residence with around 20-25 supporters, said the official. “They started beating the door due to which my daughter and wife started crying. I got scared thinking they could barge in and misbehave with my wife and daughter or hit them, so I opened the door and came out,” Mr. Kumar said. Upon coming out, Mr. Kumar said he found the MP sitting on his chair and after a short exchange of words, he alleged Mr. Pathak snatched his mobile phone and started hitting him. “He started slapping me and the 20-25 people with him also beat me... gira gira ke marne lage (they beat me to the ground),” said the tehsildar. A lekhpal who came to his rescue was also allegedly beaten up. Senior officials reached the spot after the incident. Mr. Pathak, who in the 2019 Lok Sabha election defeated Samajwadi Party president’s wife Dimple Yadav, is yet to comment on the allegations.
08 April 2020||LONDON,||British PM moved to intensive care||British Prime Minister Boris Johnson was taken into intensive care on Tuesday with COVID-19, while Japan’s leader declared a month-long state of emergency for Tokyo and six other regions to keep the virus from ravaging the world’s oldest population. Mr. Johnson,55, the first major world leader confirmed to have COVID-19, was in stable condition and conscious at a London hospital, where he was receiving oxygen but was not on a ventilator, said his spokesman James Slack. Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab has taken over many of Mr. Johnson’s duties temporarily while he is being treated. Britain has no official post of deputy Prime Minister. “We’re desperately hoping that Boris can make the speediest possible recovery,” said Cabinet minister Michael Gove, who is among scores of British officials in self-isolation. Mr. Johnson’s fiancee is recovering from coronavirus symptoms. Japan’s Prime Minister made the emergency declaration after a spike in infections in Tokyo, but it was a stay-at-home request — not an order — and violators will not be penalised. Despite having relatively few infections and deaths, Japan is a worrying target for a virus that has been killing the elderly at much higher rates than other age groups. Caution ahead of Easter Italy’s commissioner for fighting COVID-19 appealed to Italians ahead of Easter weekend not to lower their guard and to abide by a lockdown now in its fifth week. Citing data that shows that pressure on Italian intensive care wards is easing, Domenico Arcuri , Italy’s commissioner for the coronavirus emergency, said “the cruel reality is stronger that algorithms.” “Don’t ever forget even for an instant that this invisible, strong and unknown virus has taken 16,523 lives through yesterday,” Mr. Arucuri said, reciting the figure repeatedly. “I beg you, in the next hours and days, do not cancel this number from your memory.” Sense of normalcy U.S. Surgeon General Jerome Adams said that if Americans continue to practice social distancing for the rest of April, “we will be able to get back to some sense of normalcy.” “I want the American people to know there is a light at the end of this tunnel, and we feel confident that if we keep doing the right thing for the rest of this month, that we can start to slowly reopen in some places,” he said. Worldwide, more than 1.3 million people have been confirmed infected and over 76,000 have died, according to Johns Hopkins University. The true numbers are almost certainly much higher, because of limited testing, different rules for counting the dead and deliberate underreporting by some governments.
08 April 2020||Washington,||U.S. death toll crosses 11,000||Americans were put on notice on Monday not to let up in the fight against COVID-19, as a grim milestone of 11,000 deaths cast a pall over the first signs of optimism about the outbreak’s trajectory. The U.S. has emerged as one of the world’s worst-hit nations, with a steadily mounting number of fatalities and millions facing the possibility of economic ruin. Authorities began the week by telling frightened communities to brace for one of the worst periods yet in an outbreak that has not yet reached its peak. Johns Hopkins University, which has been keeping a running tally of coronavirus numbers, said more than 3,69,000 U.S. cases had been confirmed, with 10,986 deaths by late Monday. New York State has recorded its highest number of COVID-19 deaths in 24 hours, Governor Andrew Cuomo said on Tuesday, adding though that hospitalizations appeared to be “plateauing.” Mr. Cuomo said 731 people succumbed to the new coronavirus on Monday, bringing the State's total death toll to 5,489. The previous single-day record was 630, set on Friday.  He said New York appeared be nearing the peak of its pandemic, with a three-day average of hospitalizations down. “If the curve is turning, it’s because the rate of infection is going down. If the rate of infection is going down, it’s because physical distancing is working.” Authorities have warned that between 1,00,000 and 2,40,000 people could die in the U.S., even in a best-case scenario. Nine States — all controlled by Republican governors — have still not yet ordered total lockdowns, much to the frustration of public health experts. SC nod for voting The Wisconsin Supreme Court blocked a last-minute attempt by the Governor there to postpone the next day’s Democratic presidential primary and other elections because of the epidemic and ruled that the vote should go ahead. In a 4-2 decision, the top State court overturned an executive order from the Democratic Governor Tony Evers, who had sought to delay the election until June due to the outbreak.
08 April 2020||WASHINGTON,||White House pushes unproven drug||President Donald Trump and his administration are promoting an anti-malaria drug not officially approved for fighting the new coronavirus, even though scientists say more testing is needed before it’s proven safe and effective against COVID-19. Mr. Trump’s Trade Adviser Peter Navarro championed hydroxychloroquine in television interviews Monday, a day after the President publicly put his faith in the medication to lessen the toll of the coronavirus pandemic. “What do I know, I’m not a doctor,” Mr. Trump said on Sunday. “But I have common sense.” In promoting the drug’s possibilities, the President has often stated, “What have you got to lose?” Mr. Trump held out promise for the drug as he grasps for ways to sound hopeful in the face of a mounting death toll and with the worst weeks yet to come for the U.S. The virus has killed more than 10,000 in the U.S., and measures meant to contain its spread have taken a painful economic toll and all but frozen life in large swaths of the country. But medical officials warn that it’s dangerous to be hawking unproven remedies, and even Trump’s own experts have cautioned against it. Severe side effects The American Medical Association’s president, Dr. Patrice Harris, said she personally would not prescribe the drug for a coronavirus patient, saying the risks of severe side effects were “great and too significant to downplay” without large studies showing the drug is safe and effective for such use. “People have their health to lose,” she said. “Your heart could stop.” In a heated Situation Room meeting of the White House’s coronavirus task force on Saturday, Mr. Navarro challenged the top U.S. infectious disease expert, Dr. Anthony Fauci, over his concerns about recommending the drug based only on unscientific anecdotal evidence. Mr. Navarro, who has no formal medical training, erupted at Mr. Fauci, raising his voice and claiming the reports of studies he had collected were enough to recommend the drug widely, according to a person familiar with the exchange who spoke on the condition of anonymity to describe the blow-up. Mr. Fauci has repeatedly said current studies provide only anecdotal findings that the drug works. In response, Mr. Navarro told CNN on Monday, “I would have two words for you- ‘second opinion.’” Off-label prescribing Doctors are already prescribing the malaria drug to patients with COVID-19, a practice known as off-label prescribing. Research studies are now beginning to test if the drugs truly help COVID-19 patients, and the Food and Drug Administration has allowed the medication into the national stockpile as an option for doctors to consider for patients who cannot get into one of the studies.
08 April 2020||COLOMBO,||‘Stay at home for the country’||For people who have braved a war for 30 years, living in camps and amid fear, staying at home in the wake of pandemic cannot be difficult, Sri Lankan Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa said, urging citizens to stay at home for the country’s sake. Speaking at a televised address on Tuesday night, Mr. Rajapaksa outlined the initiatives being taken by the government led by President Gotabaya Rajapaksa, his younger brother, to combat COVID-19 that has so far affected 185 persons, of whom six have died. Underscoring the pandemic’s impact on the global economy, and on Sri Lanka’s garment exports and revenue from foreign remittances, PM Rajapaksa sought the country’s cooperation to take on the “enemy” [virus], in order to put the country back on track. Even as calls from the political opposition to reconvene Parliament grow louder, Mr. Rajapaksa said: “When we tried to pass an interim budget before dissolution of Parliament [on March 2], the Parliament did not support us,” asking “what use” reconvening Parliament could be now. The opposition has maintained that reconvening Parliament would be in democratic spirit, and allow for grievances from all parts of the country to be heard better. Apparently responding to requests from former Muslim parliamentarians and civil society members, seeking burial rights for Muslim victims — authorities cremated the body of a Muslim victim sparking concern — Mr. Rajapaksa said: “This is not the time to fulfil special religious or ritual rights... this is the time to think about the country.” Leaders thank India Earlier, Both Gotabaya Rajapaksa and Mahinda Rajapaksa tweeted thanking India for a special consignment of essential medicines that arrived in Sri Lanka via a special Air India charter flight. The 10-tonne consignment of “life-saving” medicines were requested by the Government of Sri Lanka, a press release from the Indian High Commission in Colombo said. “This is yet another manifestation of India’s unwavering commitment to stand with Sri Lanka, in rain and in shine,” the statement said.
08 April 2020||London,||Prince Harry and Meghan to start non-profit in U.S.||Prince Harry and his wife Meghan Markle are planning to launch a wide-ranging non-profit organisation named Archewell, reports on Tuesday said. The Duke and Duchess of Sussex told the Daily Telegraph newspaper they were establishing the organisation in the U.S., where they are now based. The charitable organisation will include emotional support groups, a multimedia educational empire and a well-being website among other things. They said they wanted “to do something of meaning, to do something that matters”. The couple filed paperwork for their new venture in the U.S. last month, the Telegraph said. They have delayed releasing full details about it because of the COVID-19 pandemic and will make an announcement “when the time is right”, they told the paper. Their proposals are for “a vast and ambitious array of projects” under the name Archewell to replace their previous “Sussex Royal” brand, it added. The new name is reportedly derived from the Greek word Arche, meaning “source of action”, and was the inspiration behind the name of their son, Archie Mountbatten-Windsor.
08 April 2020||Paris,||U.K. set for 66,000 deaths, highest in Europe: study||Britain could see as many as 66,000 COVID-19 deaths during the first wave of the current pandemic, a study showed on Tuesday, making the outbreak there by far the deadliest in Europe. Modelling conducted by the Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation (IHME) at the University of Washington’s School of Medicine showed that approximately 1,51,680 people were likely to die from the virus across the continent. More than 5,000 people have died from COVID-19 in Britain, fewer than in Spain, Italy and France. But Britain’s epidemic lags behind the rest of the continent by several days. The study found that Britain could experience 66,000 COVID-19 deaths by July, far more than Italy, the next most severely impacted, with around 20,000. Spain and France were next, with 19,000 and 15,000 predicted deaths.
08 April 2020||DAKAR,||Chad’s former dictator under house arrest||Former Chadian dictator Hissene Habre has been granted 60 days of home arrest by Senegal’s Justice Ministry because of the threat of COVID-19 in the prison where he is serving a life sentence. “Habre was not released. Hissene Habre is still in prison, it is simply the place of detention that has changed,” Justice Minister Malick Sall said in the announcement late Monday. “Habre is an international political prisoner who has been entrusted to us by the international community his security is the responsibility of the state of Senegal.”
08 April 2020||Madrid,||Spain’s toll rises to 743 after drop||Spain’s death toll from COVID-19 increased to 743 on Tuesday after falling for four straight days, lifting the total to 13,798, the Health Ministry said. However, it emphasised that the rise was due to weekend deaths being tallied and that the overall “downward trend” is continuing. The new figure represents a 5.7% increase over Monday’s 637 deaths.
08 April 2020||Paris,||Daytime jogging banned in Paris||Paris officials said on Tuesday they would ban daytime jogging as people continue to flout anti-coronavirus lockdown rules, after France recorded its highest daily death toll of 833 in just 24 hours. Under nationwide confinement rules that came into force on March 17, people can leave their homes only for essential purposes, which had included a solo walk or run within one km of their homes.
08 April 2020||Karachi,||Abandoned pets die in Pakistan||The carcasses of hundreds of caged cats, dogs and rabbits have been found inside Pakistan’s pet markets, which were hurriedly shuttered when the country plunged into a lockdown. In Karachi, animals still alive in the corner of the sprawling Empress Market were rescued only after intervention by activists. The carcasses of about 20 dogs were found dumped in a sewer near Tollinton market in the city.
08 April 2020||London,||London, April 6, 2020 (AFP) -||Honor Blackman, one of the most memorable co-stars of the early James Bond films, has died at the age of 94. The actress shot to fame in her late 30s after playing legendary Bond girl Pussy Galore in the 1964 movie Goldfinger . Ms. Blackman also became well-known for her role as Cathy Gale in 1960s TV spy series The Avengers .AFP
08 April 2020||Kabul,||Kabul, April 7, 2020 (AFP) -||The Taliban said it will no longer participate in “fruitless” discussions with the Afghan government over a prisoner swap that had formed a key part of a deal with the U.S. The group’s spokesman Suhail Shaheen blamed the Afghanistan government for delaying the prisoner release.AFP
08 April 2020||April 08 2020 00:00 IST,||A script of action, responsibility and compassion||As I write this piece, the novel coronavirus has infected nearly 5,200 people in our country and 165 people have died from the disease. More than 400 patients have recovered, thanks to the relentless efforts of our medical practitioners and administrative machinery. As Albert Einstein once said, in the midst of every crisis, lies great opportunity. This is the time to start improving our health-care management, formulating a cooperative Centre-State relationship to build a health-care network, and ensuring that equipment and personal protective equipment (PPE) is available to all practitioners. Rajasthan, for instance, had pathology laboratories during the Swine flu outbreak in the year 2009-10 in each division. These laboratories were augmented without any loss of time this time. Rajasthan fights back The Corona Containment Programme in Rajasthan has been the most intense and proactive. As early as February 2020, I chaired multiple meetings and video conferences and also the sensitisation programmes of all cadres of health professionals and administrators. The Jaipur SMS Medical College was chosen as the nodal centre for the containment programme; it now has 1,200 beds with adequate distancing and adequate supplies of PPE. There are 500 ventilator beds, now being increased to 3,000 beds. The results have been very encouraging. Of 7,000 cases tested, 200 have been found positive, with four unfortunate deaths. The rest have either recovered or are in the process of recovery. The treatment protocol followed by our experts at the SMS hospital had cured three Italian patients and many more with a track record of no mortality so far solely due to COVID-19 infection. Rapid response teams have been monitoring all the hotspots, tracing contacts and working to isolate cluster zones. Door-to-door screening has been the hallmark of our COVID Containment programme. Bhilwara: Once the epicentre of COVID-19 infections, Bhilwara has now become a case study in containing the spread of the novel coronavirus. This was one of the very first challenges as we were unaware of the nature and scope of the spread of this virus. Moreover, in most cases where doctors have been a source or carriers of infection, the number of cases had spiralled, making it difficult to contain the spread. Thus, an uncompromising and firm approach towards lockdown of the district along with a specific structural standard operating procedure was worked out. The Triple-T method, i.e. ‘Tracing, Testing and Treatment’ was made mandatory. Strict adherence to quarantine norms and meticulous screening of more than 32 lakh people, resulted in the curbing of a number of COVID-19 infections in Bhilwara. This very procedure is being followed now for the entire State where more than five crore people have been screened till now. Ruthless containment was the key. Bhilwara to Ramgunj: Ramgunj is another case in point which is located in the walled city of Jaipur. A congested, dense locality, it makes observance of social distancing very difficult. Hundreds of people from the area have been sent to isolation facilities after the importance of living separately was explained to them in detail. The State has imposed curfew in 38 urban towns and cities, including Ramganj. I am proud of the fact that our mottos, “Rajasthan Satark hai” (Rajasthan stays alert) and “Koi Bhuka nahi Soega” (No one shall sleep hungry) have become the war cry in our administration. A “Unity of Command and Unity in Communication” system, which is very useful in dealing with crises, has been implemented. An emergency war-room, with deployment of senior Indian Administrative Service officers and officials from multiple departments, has been activated at the State-level for round-the-clock monitoring. Every district has a similar system. Rajasthan has identified one lakh beds for quarantine if the need arises. Medical staff due for superannuation has been given extension of services till September 2020. A call centre has received over 18,000 calls regarding lockdown-related grievances; these were resolved in no time. Three additional help lines have been created to deal with medical grievances. Better planning, synchronised Centre-State action and inter-State coordination could have helped in avoiding migrant workers being put to difficulty. But Rajasthan rose to the challenge and made all arrangements for their food, stay and screening. Cooked food packets for daily wagers, street vendors and needy people who are not covered under the National Food Security Act (NFSA), are being provided free of cost. Two lakh packets of cooked food were served on April 3, 2020 in Jaipur alone. Social security measures A relief package of Rs. 2,500 crore for the weaker sections and sustenance grants of Rs. 2,500, for 31 lakh construction workers, factory workers and street vendors, and destitutes have been disbursed. More than 78 lakh social security pensioners have been given two months pension directly into their accounts. A survey of destitutes is being carried out to ensure that they do not suffer from a lack of essential rations. Essential ration supply has been sent to every gram panchayat, so that the patwari/gram sewak may give it to the people in need. Home delivery of essential commodities is being facilitated. Pregnant and lactating women are being tracked to ensure institutional delivery, immunisation and essential food and nutrition. We have created a helpline to ensure food and fodder for stray animals and birds and our teams are working in close coordination with non-governmental organisations and Gaushalas. Distribution of free food grains to all beneficiaries of the NFSA is being done in the State. Fifteen lakh small and marginal farmers and the Scheduled Tribe farmers would be given free hybrid seeds (maize and bajra) for the coming kharif crop. Farmers are being provided tractor and farm equipment for harvesting, threshing and other agriculture-related activities free of cost or on very nominal rent. Interest-free crop loan of Rs. 8,000 crore will be disbursed in Kharif 2020, which will benefit 20 lakh farmers. Fixed charges in the electricity bills of establishments are being deferred. The State government has also given relief given to the hotel and tourism industry by giving them reimbursement of State Goods and Service Tax for three months up to June 2020 and relaxation in excise fees. Empowering States The Prime Minister’s package of Rs. 1.7-lakh crore is a welcome step. Although additional funds need to be pumped in, preferably prioritising them in proportion to the population and number of COVID cases in respective States, others can be given aid in equitable proportions. This can be executed with the active participation and consultation of the States and also with the Goods and Services Tax Council or on the standards formulated by the Inter-State Council. The government of India should establish standard protocol to ensure transportation of essential commodities so that the supply chain of essential items is maintained during the lockdown. A one-stop-shop solution should be made available by the government of India to States for the procurement of medical equipment such as ventilators and PPE kits instead of having each State Government running from pillar to post in search of manufacturers and suppliers. The government of India needs to facilitate sufficient health infrastructure and PPE kits for doctors and medical staff. The Central Health Ministry needs to make it easier to procure them by issuing suitable standardisation and pricing. Looking ahead I would like to believe that the world would be a very different place once this pandemic is over. I hope we ‘recognise’ that the people in the forefront of this fight do not discriminate while saving lives, lending help, and restoring harmony. Their commitment towards their duty and society is the greatest investment in nation-building today. And, therefore, there cannot be a more fitting example than these testing times to realise the importance of compassion and humanity. We are a country with one of the richest examples of heritage, culture, ethnicity and demography. We thrive on our diversity. So let us not make the mistake of rising out of the COVID-19 crisis and then succumb to divisive politics. May this pandemic teach us to be better human beings. Ashok Gehlot is the Chief Minister of Rajasthan
08 April 2020||April 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Ten questions posed by the virus||The COVID-19 pandemic is reopening several questions that were considered resolved by the end of the last century. It is upending our familiar world that was built over the last century, challenging certitudes that held our sanity. Our life after the pandemic will be defined by at least 10 questions on the prevailing organising principles of humankind. Utilitarian question First, the virus has resurrected the classic utilitarian question in an immediate life and death situation: whether or not, how many, and whose deaths will be acceptable for a greater common good. “I’m sorry, some people will die… that’s life,” declared Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro. “You can’t stop a car factory because of traffic deaths,” he said. That an ageing population is an economic burden on society has long become our common sense. There is indeed an incentive in their dying — social Darwinism, the survival of the fittest principle has never been tested this close to the bone. Data will be harvested to debate the relative net utility of different responses to the virus. Was Kerala rational in saving the lives of a nonagenarian couple? What is the balance between economic and social goals? Second, what is national power? “We need to have more ‘germ games’ like we have war games,” Bill Gates said some years ago. The U.S. is the pre-eminent military and economic superpower. The diminishing potency of military hardware has been constantly demonstrated since 26/11, but that has not reduced the global appetite for weaponry. Strategies for expanding national power involve extracting and transferring public wealth to global corporations while the accompanying politics deludes the masses into a faux sense of power. The paradox of power is global. India is in a particularly pitiful situation. Hindutva nationalism’s celebration of militarism has correspondingly reduced the attention on social infrastructure. Its middle class speaks about India’s dubious military prowess but an unwanted encounter with the country’s healthcare infrastructure may have disrupted their fantasy. Will there be a new understanding of power and security? Third, whither globalisation? All countries have tried to enforce border controls to stop the virus, which ironically also demonstrated their futility. Global cooperation and multinational governance can be jettisoned only at the world’s peril as we know now. A more serious threat to humanity, climate change, has always appeared distant, but this one is urgent. Hence, the question is not whether we have more or less globalisation but about its character. It is now a profiteering expedition of soulless greed.  Can there be a new globalisation where humanity and environment take precedence? Fourth, how much more power will the state accumulate? The 9/11 security horror, followed by the 2008 economic crisis, had ushered in the steady comeback of the state. This pandemic could ascribe divine powers to the state. Their dread now hysterical, the citizenry seeks benevolence and control from the state. We see ingenious uses of technology for surveillance. Fifth, will this expanding state be increasingly democratic or progressively authoritarian? China and Singapore showed that authoritarian measures work; Germany showed that democratic and inclusive methods work too. But Italy and the U.S. showed that individualism and markets can impede collective goals. India, which has deployed a hybrid of democratic and authoritarian measures, remains an open test case. Sixth, what will happen to the neoliberal wisdom that unbridled competition of all against all improves efficiency and brings progress? “This is not the way to do it. I’m competing with other States, I’m bidding up prices,” New York Governor Andrew Coumo lamented. It is not that competition is universal — the poorer undercut one another while the richer cartelize in a neoliberal world. Cuba, considered inefficient, has sent healthcare professionals to many countries. The virus tells us that competition is risky; cooperation could be redeeming. What is the alternative? Chinese President Xi Jinping, in his speech at the 19th Communist Party Congress in 2017, and Prime Minister Narendra Modi, in his speech to capitalist moguls in Davos in 2018, outlined alternatives to liberal orthodoxies. Collectivisation has a new life. Italy has nationalised Alitalia; Spain has nationalised all hospitals. History may not have ended. Seventh, what will happen to populism? Populists have shown remarkable resilience in the face of crises, not necessarily by resolving them, but usually by blaming other countries, communities and political opponents. All populists around the world will have a virus-mutated version; they will use the new context to advance their pre-existing agendas. Which of them will tighten their grip over their countries? Will anyone face public wrath triggered by the pandemic and wilt? Eighth, the inhuman exploitation of labour under globalisation, labelled ‘efficiency’ and ‘competitiveness’, has been concealed by the glitz of globalisation and consumerist seduction. Reports on sweatshops in the developing world have occasionally explored the exploitation of labour, but the virus has brought the lives of labourers out into the spotlight, in a parade of shame — working 16-hour days but unable to get paid leave or healthcare in the U.S; migrant labourers in India walking several days to go home; and the wretched labour camps in West Asia. The ninth question is whether we need to travel as much as we do. At the end of 2019, when the virus was just about launching its global tour, some were travelling for no better reason than keeping their frequent flier status. In October, a report commissioned by the U.K.’s Committee on Climate Change had called for “a ban on air miles and frequent flier loyalty schemes that incentivize excessive flying.” An emergent no-fly movement still struggles to get attention but now it might. “May be we can save a few business trips now that we know that these digital tools work well,” Ola Källenius, CEO of Daimler/Mercedes-Benz, told BBC. The travel of the privileged has a parallel parody too: the large-scale forced relocation of people.   Idea of community The tenth is how our idea of community and boundaries has changed. The COVID-19 crisis has let loose contradictory forces. On the one hand everyone is confined within the tiniest spaces, but on the other, the crisis has also urged us to community action. Neoliberalism had made all human interactions transactional, and each transaction standalone. Such short-termism delinked the current quarter from the next; the current generation from the future — the prevailing approach to climate change being instructive. A sustainable organising principle of humanity will require a conception of self-interest that is not immediate in terms of time or geography. The risks and rewards need to be spread over a longer period of time and larger expanse of space. And that is the most consequential challenge thrown up by the pandemic. varghese.g@thehindu.co.in
08 April 2020||April 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Taking a long view of the pandemic fight||A month ago, few in our country would have thought that in a month’s time we would be confined to our homes for weeks on end, and with all the disruptions that we are facing now. Today we are in the midst of an unprecedented and concerted attack on an infection, mobilising the resources and ingenuity of the entire world to control (and not even annihilate) a single virus. The new strain of the coronavirus, named SARS-CoV-2, has been ravaging the world, with nearly a million-and-a-half infected and more than 75,000 confirmed deaths. And the end is nowhere in sight. How did we get to this situation? About 12,000 years ago, our ancestors decided to settle down in various places, mostly large river deltas, and began agriculture and the domestication of cattle. This is deemed the birth of civilisation, as once the need to constantly gather or hunt for food was removed it gave mankind the time and the opportunity to develop art, music, language and science. During the period of hunting and gathering, many died of injuries from encounters with predators or rivals, and starvation and disease. But those who did survive were strong and healthy. This changed once they stayed in one place and shared their settlements with animals. This also allowed microorganisms to mutate and jump from animals to humans. It is estimated that 60-70% of human infections may have been acquired this way, and the new coronavirus is one of them. Health-care ripple effect Our public health system has done a tremendous job of eradicating two other viruses from the world: smallpox and polio. The objective this time is not to eradicate SARS-CoV-2. Considering the ease with which it spreads and its ability to produce asymptomatic carriers, that would be almost impossible. On the other hand, it may be possible to slow the spread of the virus to give the health-care system time to cope with it; meaning that eventually, hundreds of millions or billions of people will be infected once the lockdowns and travel restrictions are eased. However, it is not all doom and gloom. The current measures in India may have slowed down the spread of SARS-CoV-2. But it also probably would have prevented thousands, and potentially millions, from being infected by other respiratory infections too. Tuberculosis is still the world’s single most lethal infectious disease, killing 1.5 million worldwide in 2018, 220,000 of whom were in India. Further, 27% of tuberculosis cases in India is drug resistant. The present steps being taken in the containment of the novel coronavirus are equally effective in preventing the spread of tuberculosis. However, if we are to take full advantage of the present scenario, we should piggyback a tuberculosis control programme on the existing CoV-2 programme — which would be simple sputum testing for tuberculosis bacilli (which could be one hundredth the cost of testing for the coronavirus), chest X-rays if required, and complete treatment of identified cases. With the current steps, tuberculosis is not the only infection that we can prevent from spreading. Other common respiratory infections killing thousands in India every year are Influenza, Respiratory Syncytial Virus, Pneumococcal Pneumoniae and Haemophilus influenzae. Some of the beneficial effects of the lockdown and other measures may be long standing. Hopefully the culture of personal hygiene which includes taking showers, practising hand washing, and avoiding spitting in public places will stay even after the threat of SARS-CoV-2 has receded. Moreover, there may be a more widespread awareness of how infections spread and the difference between infectious and non-infectious diseases. Among the temporary benefits are fewer road traffic accidents and reduction of respiratory deaths due to cleaner air. We can take heart in the remarkably decisive way in which our country has reacted. It is obvious that: our government can make quick and well-informed decisions; our administration can put in place effective steps despite the size and diversity of our country, and our scientists and doctors can lead the world in providing useful and timely solutions and information. A new concern Finally, it may seem a bit illogical to be terrified of COVID-19 but not worried about other diseases. Today, a person above 65 years of age in India is still far more likely to die of a heart attack, stroke or even tuberculosis than of COVID-19. Somehow we seem to believe that these diseases only affect “others” and continue to smoke, eat and drink in excess. A dose of terror here may do some good. Moreover, there is an air of familiarity with these diseases. Our minds have adjusted to live with them. But it would be prudent to remember that about 20,000 people die every day in our country, about 5,000 due to heart disease and another 2,000 due to strokes. Even if there is a 10% increase in these numbers caused by delays or denied access to health care in the current scenario, it could translate into thousands of additional deaths every day. But COVID-19 is a new threat. Many things about it are still unknown. And every one of us feels the possibility of becoming its next victim. In this latest crisis, no country can expect to come away unscathed. But we would have surely learnt a lot. And only time will tell if we used the lessons well and it was all worthwhile. Dr. Raj B. Singh is Consultant Respiratory Physician, Apollo Hospital, Chennai
08 April 2020||April 08 2020 00:00 IST,||A different economic approach||As it fights COVID-19 with its meagre healthcare resources, India has chosen to bring the economy to a near halt with no clear idea of how many lives can be saved in this manner. What is going to be the cost of this decision? The 21-day lockdown will reduce the gross value added (GVA) during this period to near zero. More than half the GVA is contributed by the unorganised sector. A disproportionate burden of the economic cost has fallen on this large segment. The suffering of the stranded migrant labourers has set off a debate: is the disruption and the economic pain justified? Is it worth sacrificing the economy to save lives? And at the core of such questions is a policy dilemma: should public health matter more than economic health? In time, a vaccine will become available. But the economy cannot remain shut until that happens. A prolonged lockdown will extract a huge economic cost. Therefore, the policy objective must be to find ways of ensuring that the lockdown ends early without compromising on public health. Aggressive testing and isolation The economic cost of combating COVID-19 can be reduced by combining aggressive testing and isolation, a strategy proposed by economist Paul Romer for the U.S. For it to work, people must be tested in large numbers. Those who test positive must be isolated. This will make it unnecessary for the rest of the population to stay home and it will allow the economy to restart. After ending the lockdown too, testing of randomly selected people must go on in large numbers, so that those found infected can be isolated. The success of this will depend on eliminating the fears associated with isolation. Such fears can be reduced only if isolation facilities are good. Hotels, restaurants and caterers have come forward to re-purpose their businesses temporarily for hosting health professionals closer to hospitals. District administrations are taking up unsold flats and apartments in the suburbs of Delhi for hosting migrant labourers. The government should fully subsidise these costs. The second precondition is the substantial ramping up of manufacturing capacities for medical grade masks, gloves, gowns, ventilators, testing labs, etc. This ought to be on a scale large enough for domestic use and, if possible, for exports for costs to be low. All this is easier said than done. The strategy calls for fully operational hospitals to be constructed in every district of the country in a matter of weeks. Problem-solving of an unprecedented order will be required. Recently, garment manufacturers in Coimbatore were asked to explore the possibility of re-purposing production lines to make masks. There’s been no progress on this front, as the special-grade fabric required is difficult to source. What about the funding? In normal times, governments wrestle with dilemmas such as whether to allocate the limited available tax money to education, health, public transport or a sop that could change the outcome of the next election in their favour. But during a public health crisis, all resources must be used to ramp up healthcare capacities. The way forward Since the state of the lockdown is not a normal condition, the usual policy levers become ineffective. Loan moratoriums and cash transfers can fend off bankruptcy and defaults for a few months and buy time on non-performing assets in banks. But they cannot make good the GDP lost due to the economic shutdown because liquidity and cash released by monetary and fiscal policies cannot get transmitted to the real sector during an economic shutdown unless they are funneled into the sector that is still active, which is healthcare. If the public health sector can be the economy’s main engine for six months, the public health versus economic health trade-off can be resolved. The spread of COVID-19 will slow down. The economic pain of combating the virus will reduce. There will be jobs, including for low-skilled construction labourers. If planned and executed smartly, the severe health infrastructure deficit will get addressed. Sadly, India’s economic policies for fighting COVID-19 are the opposite of what’s needed. In a crisis, the first instinct of policymakers is to slap controls. Just about everything from masks to kits has been placed under price controls. This has removed the incentive for private labs to ramp up capacities. Instead, the government should fully subsidise testing. At zero MRP, more people with symptoms will come forward to get tested. Private labs will quickly ramp up capacities if they don’t have to worry about losses. The number of suppliers will increase. Costs will reduce. Private enterprise and technological innovations will come up with cheaper tests that produce results quicker.  Puja Mehra is a Delhi-based journalist and author of The Lost Decade (2008-18)
08 April 2020||April 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Why healthcare workers above 60 should be ‘benched’||COVID-19 has posed an unprecedented global health challenge. World over, including in high-income countries, the pandemic has exposed the non-resilience of health systems. Some countries that already have a part of their elderly population in the workforce are considering increasing the retirement age further, while some others are asking retired healthcare workers to rejoin to meet the looming health crisis. But is this a wise decision? A recent study in The Lancet Infectious Diseases shows a steep age gradient in deaths from COVID-19. The case fatality rates are nearly four times higher for those over 60 years of age. They are 12 times higher for those above 70 years. With this evidence in hand, and no exceptions being reported, governments across the world have advised isolation for all those aged 60 and above. An unwise decision Healthcare workers — be it doctors, nurses, paramedical staff, or community health workers — are clearly at an increased risk of contracting COVID-19. In Italy, 20% of healthcare workers have been infected with COVID-19, and hospitals have been the focus for infection. Health workers go back to their homes too. With these facts in mind, it is unwise to engage any health worker above the age of 60 years unless there is no other option. There is a global crisis of medical-grade personal protective equipment (PPE) and so health workers are at an even higher risk. If the PPE crises is not solved, the proportion of health workers affected might be even higher than what has been experienced previously in other countries (which could import supplies from other countries, but that is impossible today). Elderly healthcare workers are more likely to face serious consequences. Having a colleague succumb very early in the pandemic will hamper the morale of not only the health workforce but also the community. It is evident now that the COVID-19 battle will last for months and not a few weeks as was initially envisaged. All elderly healthcare workers above 60 years should be ‘benched’ in phase 2 of the transmission and even in early phase 3 and sent home, much like what has been advised to the general public. Shortage of resources However, the shortage of human resources for health is a reality that needs to be pragmatically overcome. The elderly health workforce should not be engaged at all in the initial phase, and the focus should rather be on upskilling students, trainees, and younger health workers up the professional ladder. As the crises deepens and when there is a need, the upskilled younger health workers can take up high-risk positions in emergencies, intensive care units, and in areas with community COVID-19 transmission. In contrast, elderly health workers, irrespective of their skill set, can take up low-risk positions. A time to be humane When this happens, the priority allocation of medical-grade PPE should be for elderly health workers. When ventilators run out it would mean that elderly people will not be provided one. Elderly healthcare workers should mandatorily be given preference over younger non-health workers. Governments across the world need to declare and enforce these policies and guidelines. This is a moral imperative for the society to protect those who have already done their part all their lives. Whatever way COVID-19 pans out, humans will survive. What we do now would determine if humanity will. Soumyadeep Bhaumik is a medical doctor and international public health specialist working in the injury division and on policy impact at The George Institute for Global Health, New Delhi, and Giridhara R. Babu is Professor and Head, Lifecourse Epidemiology, Public Health Foundation of India, Bengaluru
08 April 2020||April 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Sanctions and pandemic||America’s refusal to ease sanctions on Iran even when the West Asian country is struggling hard to contain the novel coronavirus spread with limited resources shows its total disregard for the humanitarian situation in the Islamic Republic. Iran, the hardest hit by the pandemic in West Asia, has already seen 3,739 deaths and 62,589 infections. To be sure, Iran failed on multiple fronts in the battle. The government was initially reluctant to enforce drastic restrictions on businesses, religious establishments and people. As infections began spreading at an exponential pace, it was more than what Iran’s health-care system could handle. And during the crisis, the cash-strapped, isolated regime struggled to meet people’s needs. But what accentuated these failures are the American sanctions. Last year, the sanctions, reimposed by President Trump after he unilaterally pulled the U.S. out of the Iran nuclear deal in 2018, shrank the country’s economy by 8.7%. The fall in oil prices and the pandemic have multiplied Iran’s woes. The sanctions have also debilitated its ability to import even humanitarian goods. The U.S. rejected calls for easing sanctions, saying exports of these goods to Iran are already exempted. But it is not that easy. Most global banks, fearing U.S. retaliation and legal consequences, stay away from doing business with Iran, which makes it difficult for the Islamic Republic to find a functional payment mechanism. With the economy in dire straits, it also lacks the resources to make purchases. The U.S., which has the most number of COVID-19 infections, should be in a better position to understand Iran’s woes than any other country. America has already seen about 11,000 deaths from 368,533 infections. Despite the U.S. being the world’s largest economy, and home to a gigantic health-care industry, authorities there appear clueless on quick containment. Learning from its own tragedy, Washington should have suspended or at least eased the sanctions on Iran, allowing the country to import food, medicines and other humanitarian goods without restrictions. Such a decision would also have provided an opportunity to both countries — on the brink of a military conflict early this year — to resume diplomatic engagement. It is still not too late for Mr. Trump to take a humanitarian decision and turn it into a diplomatic opening. The Iranian leadership should realise that this is not the time for America-bashing. This is an hour of crisis, globally. Tehran’s focus should be on getting maximum help from abroad and beefing up its fight at home to save lives. Supreme Leader Ayatollah Khamenei’s recent comment that Iran “has the capability to overcome any kind of crisis and challenges” is far removed from reality. Iranians need help and the U.S. should reconsider its policy of punishing them, at least in this time of a pandemic.
08 April 2020||April 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Preparing for exit||As the world watches, India must plan its strategy for a calibrated exit, possibly in a week, from the most aggressive lockdown anywhere to contain the novel coronavirus. The government faces the challenge of normalising some level of daily life and oiling the wheels of the economy, without causing a surge in cases that could follow wrong steps. It is wholly welcome that Prime Minister Narendra Modi has sought the views of the States on the way forward beyond the 21-day lockdown, and mandated his Ministers to come up with a set of priority actions under a business continuity plan. The strategy will have to take into account the exodus of migrant labour from cities to their home towns or to camps set up along inter-State corridors. Given that this is harvest season, cessation of activity due to labour issues can trigger food deficits and high prices. On the medical front, States are monitoring those under isolation or in quarantine and straining to trace the contacts of those who attended the Nizamuddin congregation, many of whom are now found in distinct clusters in some districts. The States must also scale up testing, as part of the latest ICMR advisory for clusters and migration centres, and going forward, as part of the exit strategy. Against this complex background, the States are cautious, and Telangana and Chhattisgarh have voiced doubts about an exit without a clear plan. Reducing the risk of withdrawal from lockdown will depend on prioritised actions. The experience of China, South Korea and Singapore, who are ahead of the curve thus far, provides pointers to opening up of activity after a phase of movement curbs. These countries opted for enhanced testing, isolation of the infected, tracing of patient contacts and strict quarantine. After three weeks or more of lockdown, India, where 284 districts have so far been affected, should institute a system of testing that includes not just indicative cases but surveillance samples to determine the extent of spread. This will enable targeting and containment to specific areas. With high emphasis on social distancing, universal mask use and hand washing, it should be possible to open up some activity and release the pressures building up under the lockdown. Needless to say, free and widely available testing, and support systems for those infected, will encourage universal adoption. The identification of hotspots, where a virtual lockdown could be in force even if the nationwide curbs are relaxed, would require planned, humane measures to ensure availability of food, other essentials and medicines. Mass gatherings, long-distance travel and leisure activity would have to wait. Urban mobility for workers in the absence of public transport could be made possible by encouraging bicycle use where feasible, avoiding congestion.
08 April 2020||April 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Body to study beating up of M.Ps.||The Lok Sabha to-day (April 7) decided to refer to the Privileges Committee the beating by the police of some members of Parliament yesterday and their being prevented from proceeding to the Lok Sabha even while it was in session. The motion for referring the matter to the Committee was made by the Leader of the Opposition Dr. Ram Subhag Singh, and supported by Mr. R. D. Bhandare (Ruling Congress). The Speaker held the motion to be in order. When the Law Minister rose to say something after the Speaker had given his consent to move the motion Opposition members shouted him down and said that unless he had some objection to the reference, he need not rise. The Speaker said he did not think there was any objection and asked Dr. Singh to move the motion. The Speaker said he had received notices of identical motions from 10 members including Dr. Ram Subhag Singh. He also received from Mr. K. L. Gupta (Jan Sangh) notice of another motion which, he said, related to a different matter.
08 April 2020||AHMEDABAD,||Total invests Rs. 3,707 crore in Adani JV||Gujarat-based Adani Green Energy Ltd. (AGEL), a part of the diversified Adani Group, had formed an equal joint venture with French energy giant Total SA. Total SA has invested Rs. 3,707 crore in the JV that includes 2.148 GW of solar projects operating across 11 States in India. The deal portfolio also includes Restricted Group 1 and 2 projects, that had recently raised $862.5 million from international bond markets. Restricted Group 2 was the first investment grade rated issuance by a renewable business in India and was widely recognised by global capital markets and international publications, the Adani Group said in a release. “The transaction underlines the partners’ commitment to contribute to addressing India’s sustainable development goals. Through the establishment of the joint venture, both partners aim to adhere to highest standards of governance and strengthen the foundation of the partnership between the two groups,” Adani Group stated in the release. The closing of the transaction in the current environment reinforces the strength of the relationship between two partners and underscores the robust joint climate commitment of both, it said. AGEL has set an ambitious target of achieving 25 GW solar power capacity by 2025, which is aimed at becoming the largest solar player in the world by 2025 and the largest renewable player in the world by 2030. Moreover, to support the group’s renewable energy vision, the group has committed to invest over 70% of its budgeted capital expenditure into clean energy and energy-efficient systems in the country. SECO tender Recently, AGEL participated, as successful bidder in Solar Energy Corporation of India (SECO) tender of manufacturing linked development project for a capacity of 8 GW and is awaiting its award. This is second deal between the Adani Group and Total SA in the energy sector. Earlier, Adani Gas and Total SA formed a JV for gas distribution and retailing of petroleum products in India.  Adani is to invest 70% of capex in clean energy and energy-efficient systems
08 April 2020||MUMBAI,||Developers sitting on Rs. 3.7 lakh cr. in unsold inventory||The COVID-19 spread in India has added to the woes of the real estate sector, which is saddled with huge unsold inventory. The January-March quarter of 2020 has witnessed an increase in unsold inventory as launches outpaced sales by a significant margin. Unsold inventory increased from 4,42,228 units in the last quarter of 2019 to 4,55,351 units in the first quarter of 2020, according to a report by JLL. In this period, Mumbai surpassed Delhi NCR to become the market with the maximum quantum as well as value of unsold inventory, the real estate consulting firm said. “Across the top seven cities, developers are sitting on an unsold inventory worth Rs. 3.7 lakh crore at the end of March 2020,” JLL said. “An assessment of years to sell (YTS) reveals that the expected time to liquidate this stock has increased marginally from 3.2 years in the last quarter of 2019 to 3.3 years in Q1 2020. With anticipated slower sales in the coming quarters, the time to sell is likely to increase,” it said. “Having said this, the RBI’s intervention to provide a 3-month moratorium on all term loans by financial institutions will alleviate short-term liquidity concerns and help developers survive in these uncertain times,” it added. Despite the concerns of the outbreak of COVID-19 in many countries, the January to March quarter saw a 3% increase in new launches of residential units compared to the same period last year. Out of total new launches of 40,574 units in the top seven markets, Mumbai and Bengaluru accounted for nearly 60% of the overall launches during the quarter. JLL said a rebound in India’s residential property market will be influenced by the intensity, spread and duration of the COVID-19 pandemic. It said homebuyers deferred their purchase decisions due to the evolving situation around COVID-19, which led to sales declining by nearly 30% in the January-March quarter year-on-year. “The impact of the ongoing pandemic on business activities has become more prominent since the beginning of March 2020,” the report added. The situation is likely to aggravate the liquidity challenges faced by developers and restrict new launches for some time after normal business conditions are restored, it added.
08 April 2020||Mumbai,||Economy to contract 4.5% in fourth quarter, says ICRA||The Indian economy is likely to witness a sharp contraction of 4.5% during Q4FY20 and is expected to recover gradually to post a GDP growth of just 2% in FY21, rating agency ICRA said. ICRA said it reduced the growth forecast due to the nationwide lockdown imposed in the backdrop of the COVID-19 pandemic. “Concerns have morphed from the impact of imports from China on domestic supply chains into domestic and external demand shock, with social distancing and lockdowns leading to production shutdowns and job losses in some sectors,” ICRA said. Sectors that will be impacted the most are aviation, hotels, restaurants and tourism, auto dealerships, ceramic tiles, gems and jewellery, retail, shipping, ports and port services, seafood and poultry and microfinance institutions. The impact on sectors such as automobiles, auto components, building materials, construction, chemicals, residential real estate, consumer goods, pharmaceuticals, logistics, banking, mining, paper, consulting, ferrous metals, footwear, glass, plastics, power and trading are going to be moderate. “The low impact sectors will be education, dairy products, fertilisers and seeds, FMCG, healthcare, food and food products, insurance, telecom, utilities, sugar, tea, coffee and agricultural produce,” ICRA said. The rating agency said extended demand disruptions are likely to lead to elongated payment cycles. “Since an entity’s liquidity position is of paramount importance to support its credit profile, it is expected that several entities would seek to conserve cash, either by invoking force majeure clauses to revoke payments or by deferring payments to the extent possible,” it said, adding this could result in many entities facing working capital blockage as their receivables get stretched and inventory not reducing simultaneously.
08 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Virus to cull 80,000 retail jobs: RAI survey||About 80,000 jobs are expected to be cut by retailers due to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, according to a survey by industry body RAI. Retailers Association of India (RAI) had conducted a survey of 768 retailers, which employ 3,92,963 people across India, to gauge their view on the impact of COVID-19 on their business and manpower. “Small retailers are expecting to lay off 30% of their manpower going forward, this number falls to 12% for medium (sized) retailers and 5% for large retailers. On the whole, retailers who were surveyed expect lay-offs of about 20% of their manpower,” RAI said. The expectation of retrenchment of 20% amounts to 78,592 people. According to the industry body, small retailers featured in the survey employ less than 100 persons and accounted for 65% of the respondents. Medium retailers have 100—1,000 employees making up for 24% of respondents, while large retailers employ over 1,000 people and accounted for 11% of the respondents. Ever since the lockdown was imposed on March 25, more than 95% of non-food retailers have closed their outlets and are looking at practically no revenues during the period and expect to earn only about 40% of last year’s revenue in the next six months, the survey said. As for food retailers, in the next six months they expect to earn 56% as compared to last year’s revenues. With most of food retailers also selling non-essential goods in the same or different stores, the non-food business in the stores has come to a standstill during the lockdown, leading to revenue loss, it added. On the business outlook, 70% of the retailers expect business recovery to happen in more than six months, while 20% expect it to take more than a year. On expectations from the government, RAI said two out of three retailers employing substantial workforce want employee salary and rent support to manage their fixed costs and limit manpower downsizing.  RAI further said two out of five retailers want concessions and relief on GST, taxes and loans.
08 April 2020||MUMBAI,||Virus forces corporates to rethink on hygiene||The growing sense of personal hygiene, social distancing and safety following the COVID-19 pandemic outbreak has made people staying in paying guest (PG) accommodations and private hostels to move to facilities run by co-living companies that provide better living conditions, albeit at a slightly higher cost. Last week, Tech Mahindra moved its staff numbering about 100 living in PG accommodation and elsewhere to a co-living facility run by Guesture at Electronics City, Bengaluru. More corporates are considering similar arrangements to protect their employees as the work-from-home culture is likely to continue. Analysts said following the virus outbreak, the unorganised housing sector (PGs and private hostels) is facing major issues because of the health, hygiene, cleanliness, infrastructure, density and maintenance of the space during this hour of crisis. These places, according to them, are not best suited to adjust to work from home. Sriram Chitturi, founder of Guesture and founding president of the Rental Housing Association of India said, “The transition from the unorganised to the organised sector has gained momentum. A lot of requests are coming from people and companies asking if we could accommodate them.” “This mega trend is playing out in this industry. Earlier, when we cautioned them [corporates] about such living conditions, they were not that receptive. Today, COVID-19 has changed that attitude,” he added. He said companies themselves would realise that there should be emphasis towards hygiene, cleanliness and standardisation. “The unorganised players will be losing out substantially because governments have started enforcing rules on the number of people that can be accommodated in a particular space,” he said. Besides, corporates have now realised that for their business continuity issues, their people must live and work from a place which does not lead to productivity loss.
08 April 2020||MUMBAI,||Markets surge on hopes of virus peaking||Indian equity benchmarks registered their biggest single-day gain in absolute terms on Tuesday as global markets rose on hopes that the COVID-19 pandemic may be hitting its peak and the rising curve would flatten soon. The 30-share Sensex gained almost 9%, or 2,476.26 points, to close above the psychological 30,000-mark at 30,067.21. The Sensex pack saw stocks such as IndusInd Bank, Axis Bank, ICICI Bank, M&M, Hindustan Unilever, Maruti Suzuki India, Nestle, and Reliance Industries, all gaining over 10% on Tuesday. The broader Nifty gained 708.40 points, or 8.76%, to close at 8,792.20. The India VIX, meanwhile, dipped almost 6% on Tuesday — the first trading session after an extended holiday. “The rally in the market was driven by positive news with regard to data from New York and Spain on the rate of corona infections,” said Abhimanyu Sofat, head, research, IIFL Securities. “The flattening of the curve would help a risk-on trade in the market. However, for Nifty to go above the 9,000 levels, one would need some additional positive news on the domestic front with regard to corona,” added Mr. Sofat. As per reports, the state of New Jersey, which has the second-highest number of COVID-19 cases and deaths, saw a 12% increase in the number of cases on Monday — a sharp fall compared with the 24% rise registered on March 30. In India, however, the total number of cases is nearing the 4,500-mark with a few State governments suggesting extending the 21-day lockdown. On the BSE, more than 1,800 stocks rose compared with the less than 550 that declined. Further, more than 400 stocks hit their upper circuit on Tuesday. Foreign portfolio investors (FPIs) were net buyers at almost Rs. 742 crore while their domestic counterparts bought shares worth Rs. 422 crore. Among leading Asian indices, both Hang Seng and Nikkei gained over 2% each while the benchmarks of South Korea, Taiwan, China, Malaysia, Singapore and Philippines all ended with significant gains on Tuesday.  Indices see biggest 1-day gain; more than 1,800 BSE stocks rose, while less than 550 fell
08 April 2020||MUMBAI,||Tata Power unit bags 300 MW deal for Rs. 1,730 crore||Tata Power Solar, a wholly owned subsidiary of Tata Power, has received approval to build a 300 MW CPSU-II for NTPC post the reverse auction held on February 21, at a price of Rs. 1,730.16 crore. The commercial operation date (COD) for this grid-connected solar photovoltaic project is set for September 2021. With this order, the order book of Tata Power Solar stands at approximately Rs. 8,541 crore, including external and internal orders. Ashish Khanna, MD & CEO, Tata Power Solar, and president, Tata Power (Renewables), said, “This being a DCR project, we will be building the project with our own cells and modules.” In September 2019, post reverse auction, Tata Power Solar had received a Letter of Award to develop a 105 MW Floating Solar Project worth about Rs. 343 crore, including three years of operations and maintenance. This venture is executed on the reservoir of NTPC Kayamkulam district in Alappuzha, Kerala, and is to be commissioned within 21 months.
08 April 2020||Mumbai,||Indusind Bank shares surge 22.6%||Shares of private sector lender Indusind Bank shot up 22.6% to Rs. 384.05 apiece on Tuesday after the lender reported healthy business growth for the fourth quarter. In a filing with the exchanges, the lender said its advances grew 13% for FY20 to Rs. 2.1 lakh crore while deposits rose 4% to Rs. 2.02 lakh crore. Retail deposits and deposits of small business customers were up 34% year-on-year, the bank said. Liquidity coverage ratio stood at 112.2% for the quarter ended March 31, 2020. The share of low cost deposits to total deposits fell to 40.5% in March end from 42.4% three months ago.
08 April 2020||Mumbai,||SBI cuts MCLR by 35 bps||State Bank of India, the country’s largest lender, has reduced the marginal cost of fund-based lending rate (MCLR) by 35 basis points (bps) across all loan tenures. The new rate will come into effect from April 10. With this cut, the one-year MCLR of SBI will be 7.4%. “EMIs on eligible home loan accounts (linked to MCLR) will get cheaper by around Rs. 24 per Rs. 1 lakh on a 30-year loan,” SBI said. The move comes after the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) reduced the repo rate by 75 bps in the last week of March. The lender has also reduced the savings account deposits rate, the second such cut in a month and third cut since November 2019. “In view of adequate liquidity in the system, SBI realigns its interest rates on savings bank deposits, with effect from April 15, 2020,” SBI said. The new rate will be 2.75% for both savings account balance of less than Rs. 1 lakh and above Rs. 1 lakh.
08 April 2020||Mumbai,||RBI eases overdraft rules for States||In order to provide greater flexibility to the State governments to tide over their cash flow mismatches due to the lockdown, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has decided to increase the number of days for which a State or a union territory can be in overdraft continuously to 21 working days from the current stipulation of 14 working days. The RBI has also increased the number of days for which a State / UT can be in overdraft in a quarter to 50 working days from the current stipulation of 36 working days. “This arrangement will come into force with immediate effect and will remain valid till September 30, 2020,” the RBI said.
08 April 2020||Bengaluru,||‘Football the last thing on my mind’||In these tough times, with lockdown in effect and long days passing ever so slowly, one might feel an emotional emptiness deep inside. To best avoid this slippery slope, this downtime should be used to exercise the mind in order to keep spirits high, India and Bengaluru FC (BFC) football star Sunil Chhetri believes. “It is important that everyone exercises their minds. These are unprecedented times; it’s easy to get bogged down. The key is to stay calm, take care of your physical health and, more importantly, your mental health. “Find things to keep yourself busy, hoping that these days will pass soon,” Chhetri told The Hindu . The striker appealed to everyone to stay indoors in the fight against the coronavirus outbreak, while offering some advice on how to spend time wisely. “Now is a great time to read that book you’ve been putting off, finally getting down to cooking something you’ve been wanting to put together, learning a language, taking a short course online — the options are plenty. “And if you can squeeze in a little basic workout at home, that would be ideal. Most importantly, whatever it is you choose to do, make sure you’re exercising your mind,” he said. Raising funds Chhetri led the effort to raise funds from current and former Indian footballers to donate an undisclosed amount to the PM-CARES Fund. “All the national team boys came together and decided we needed to help. It didn’t take any forcing or coaxing. Everyone came forward willingly, and that was heartening. Even some of the former players, when they heard of this, jumped right in with their contributions,” Chhetri said. He is not concerned about the lack of football action, as there are far bigger concerns to tackle. Fortunate “Football is the last thing on my mind. It’s easy for us sitting in homes to talk about what we miss doing. We’re fortunate. There are so many out there who are struggling to get meals, and don’t have a roof over their heads. “When things get back to normal, football will happen again. But you have to think about the battle faced by people who will be beginning from scratch. “You have to be grateful,” he said.  You have to think about the battle faced by people who will be beginning from scratch. You have to be grateful   Now is a great time to read that book you’ve been putting off, finally getting down to cooking something you’ve been wanting, learning a language — the options are plenty
08 April 2020||April 08 2020 00:00 IST,||As with so many recent questions, no one knows the answer to the fate of the IPL||The American novelist and short story writer John Cheever said it best, although others too have said something similar: “I can’t write without a reader.” It is the reader who makes the writer; the audience which makes the performer. Can you conceive of a concert, for example, in an empty hall, or a cricket match with no one in the stands? A few months ago this would have sounded absurd. Now we are forced to consider it in our virus-induced world of isolation and inactivity. The UEFA Champions League, Serie A in Italy, the English Premier League, Mexico’s football league were only some of the events that experimented with matches in empty stadiums before lockdowns and travel restrictions became the norm. There is something weird about playing in empty stadiums — especially since we call popular sports ‘spectator sports’. Cricket has sometimes been played in empty stadiums — but that was because no one turned up to watch. The expression “two men and a dog” was used so often to describe the turnout at some county matches in England that it has evolved into a sporting cliché. In India in recent years, Ranji Trophy matches would sometimes count as well attended if two men and a dog actually sat in the stands. Immoral feel There is something almost immoral about sport sans spectators. True, at the top level, it is not the paying spectator at the stadium who keeps the sport alive, but those munching on chips and nuts on their sofas back home lounging before a television set. Cricket has long ceased to be only a game played over 22 yards and become one played on the 22 inches (and more) of the television screen. I suspect it is possible, thanks to CGI, to put cheering crowds into the background when a game is in reality being played in empty stadiums, and maybe that is where we are headed. I don’t know if technology is advanced enough for us to be shown Don Bradman facing up to Jasprit Bumrah or C.K. Nayudu taking on Shane Warne. However, that is a discussion for another day. Meanwhile, the IPL. It hasn’t been formally called off yet nor have fresh dates been announced. That’s understandable. It certainly can’t take place this month nor does it seem likely it can in the near future. As with so many issues relating to the current situation, no one knows. Can India squeeze in a small window for a truncated tournament in September? No one knows. By when should a call be taken? No one knows. Contact-tracing and curve-flattening enter the discussion — two terms few had heard of till recently. Already the World T20 in Australia in October-November is looking shaky, while the World Test championship is stuck in limbo and the ODI league (scheduled to begin next month) might have to be cancelled. ‘Has the weight’ Not surprisingly, players and those involved with the tournament are hoping the IPL is held this year. England’s Jos Buttler told ESPNcricinfo that the IPL “has the weight” to force changes in the calendar. Sanjay Manjrekar thinks it will kick start the economy. These are positive thoughts even if built on nothing more substantial than hope. The International Cricket Council meeting May 8 -10 might provide some answers, or at least a set of alternatives. Star India acquired the rights for IPL for five years in 2018 for Rs. 16,347.50 crore while franchises have paid a king’s ransom for some of the players. You can see their dilemma. It is crass to speak of such huge figures at a time when the country, and especially its poor are in dire straits. Not playing a tournament for one year is hardly in the same league as lives lost and livelihoods deprived in recent weeks. If there is a school of thought which believes that playing a truncated IPL — whenever that might be — at empty stadiums would salvage something from the wreckage of the coronavirus, that is understandable too. But this is not like transporting the whole tournament lock, stock and barrel to South Africa as the second edition was. There was no treacherous virus then, no travel restrictions, no danger in crowds and no need for social distancing. The 13th edition faces something sport hasn’t had to deal with in such numbers and with such intensity. If Cheever were to return to our midst, he might be surprised to hear a fan has ‘heard’ all his short stories. ‘Readers’, in the classic sense may not be necessary in the age of audio books. Perhaps spectators may not be necessary in the age of television and live streaming. Still, the human cost of even a curtailed tournament might be too high.
08 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||A ploy to limit ways of getting out: Smith||His unorthodox batting stance has left many befuddled, but Steve Smith says though it depends on a number of factors, he generally positions himself outside the off-stump to limit ways in which he can be dismissed. Smith, the World’s No. 1 Test batsman, has amassed 7227 runs in 73 Tests and 4162 runs in ODIs with an unconventional technique, which many have failed to decode. During a podcast organised by his IPL team Rajasthan Royals, Smith opened up about the unusual technique to New Zealand spinner Ish Sodhi. The Royals’ skipper said: “It depends on who’s bowling, how is the wicket playing, how I gonna score and stuff like that or how people are trying to get me out, probably that determines how open I am or otherwise how closed I am. Visual judgement “But my general stance where my back foot is going to almost off stump, or may be even outside at stages, I know that anything outside my eyeline isn’t hitting the stumps,” he said. “For me, you shouldn’t get out if the ball is not hitting the stumps, so that is just a trick from me when I first started doing it, just limiting the ways I get out,” he explained. The 30-year-old said his off-stump stance helps him to leave the ball which are outside his line of sight. “Sometimes, I get trapped in front but I’m okay with that at stages, knowing that if it is outside my eyeline, I don’t need to try and play the ball, I can just leave that,” he said.
08 April 2020||CHENNAI,||Aman Balgu makes a difference in these tough times||Former India paddler and reigning Telangana No. 1 Aman Balgu is doing his bit during the time of COVID-19. With the help of a few friends, the 31-year-old, an Income Tax Inspector in Hyderabad, has been distributing sanitizers and face masks to police stations in the Nampally, Punjagutta and Banjara Hills areas. Balgu has also distributed food packets to migrant labourers and an orphanage. “We distributed 1,000 sanitizers and around 500 masks to a few police stations. We went to the police area heads and they handed over them to others,” Balgu said. “It is because of my friend Aloysious D’Souza, Managing Director, Optimus Manufacturing Ltd., that we are able to do this.” He also distributed food packets to non-local labourers. “They are from Bihar and Uttar Pradesh, have no ration cards and are not eligible for any Government schemes. We distributed packets to 100 such families in Banjara Hills, all with the help of policemen,” Balgu, who was India No. 3 in 2008, said. He also gave away 80 packets of shampoo and soaps, among other things, to an orphanage in Secunderabad. “No motivation is required to help the needy. I will continue to do it,” Balgu, who was part of the Telangana men’s team which won the bronze in the last senior National in Hyderabad and the Indian team in the Commonwealth Games, Asian championships and SAF Games, said.
08 April 2020||Kolkata,||Spanish contingent waiting to go home||A group of players and coaches from Spain are eagerly waiting for the lockdown to end so that they can go back home. For Mohun Bagan head coach Kibu Vicuna, the charm of winning the I-League title, with a record four rounds to spare, turned a bit sour as he and his compatriots in the team had to stay back for the tournament to get over. It is the same situation for East Bengal’s Spanish coach Mario Rivera and compatriots, who are now holed up in their respective apartments, arranged by the club. Protracted season With 23 matches still to be played and all the positions, except for the top spot remaining undecided, the I-League will see a protracted season depending on the decision AIFF takes on completing the tournament. A lot will depend on the steps the Indian government plans after the 21-day lockdown. Till then the Spanish contingent will have to wait. Vicuna and Rivera have shared video messages with the media conveying the well being of the players to their families back home. While the situation is fine in their current location, what worries them is the spread of the virus in Spain. Much like the way India’s under-17 women’s coach Thomas Dennerby and fitness coach Per Karlsson flew back home from Goa in a chartered flight arranged by the Swedish government (on April 1), the Spaniards in Kolkata also had an offer from their government. But Vicuna, Rivera and the others preferred to stay back to be with their respective clubs. The clubs have assured they would book tickets for them to go back once the fate of I-League is decided.
08 April 2020||Melbourne,||Aussies went soft on Kohli and India: Clarke||The Australian cricketers were so keen on protecting their lucrative IPL deals that they felt “scared” of sledging India captain Virat Kohli and his teammates during a particular period, former skipper Michael Clarke has claimed. “Everybody knows how powerful India are as regards the financial part of the game, internationally or domestically with the IPL,” Clarke told Big Sports Breakfast.  “I feel that Australian cricket and probably every other team over a little period were too scared to sledge Kohli or the other Indian players because they had to play with them in April,” the World Cup-winning Australian skipper said, dropping a bombshell. Compromised Clarke believes that some of Australia’s ruthless on-field character got compromised because the top-10 draws at the IPL auctions gave an impression that they would never sledge Kohli. “Name a list of ten players and they are bidding for these Australian players to get into their IPL team,” he said. “The players were like: ‘I’m not going to sledge Kohli, I want him to pick me for Bangalore so I can make my USD1 million for my six weeks’ “I feel like that’s where Australia went through that little phase where our cricket became a little bit softer or not as hard as we’re accustomed to seeing,” Clarke said about the time after the ball-tampering scandal when terms like “Elite honesty” were propagated. India and Australia have always had a fiery on-field chemistry.
08 April 2020||HYDERABAD,||Bir Bahadur in coma, family in dire straits||He was the cynosure of all eyes when he was at his best on the football field in the ’60s. Now, at 75, former India footballer Bir Bahadur is in a coma. In this lockdown time, the family of Bir Bahadur, who was considered one of the best players to emerge from EME Centre (Secunderabad), is struggling to make ends meet. Pension too meagre For, the pension from the army is too meagre to take care of his wife Devika and two sons (Rohit and Vikram — one unemployed and the other working in a private firm for a paltry salary). He had got his only daughter, Vijayalakshmi, married, and ran into debts after that. Not long ago, when he was active, Bir Bahadur earned a livelihood through his mobile chat bandar in the Bolarum downtown locality, as not many were aware that in their midst was one of India’s football stars. When former India captain Victor Amalraj made a visit to his home on Monday evening, he was shocked. “Honestly, I was expecting him to be in a position to talk. But, I felt really sad when I saw him in coma and the family helpless,” Amalraj told The Hindu . “His wife says they badly need some assistance to take care of at least the medical expenses.”
08 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Real Kashmir signs Siddiqi||I-League team Real Kashmir FC has officially signed former Arsenal youth and Northampton Town player Kashif Siddiqi on loan from Oxford United. The club also announced an official partnership with Oxford United Football Club, a collaboration that will present a number of football, philanthropic and commercial opportunities. British citizen Siddiqi, who can operate at full-back or in midfield, was due to join the snow leopards at the start of the season but suffered an Achilles tendon rupture whilst training with his parent Oxford United FC. “This opportunity means a lot to me and I’d like to thank everyone at Real Kashmir FC and Oxford FC, I have been out of the game due to injury, during which I have been really focused on getting fit but also community work, but that is a prelude to a really exciting new adventure for me in Kashmir with a major team in India,” said Siddiqi.
08 April 2020||PARIS,||Phelps urges athletes to find positives in the delay||US Olympic great Michael Phelps says it’s “hard to comprehend” what today’s athletes are going through with the Tokyo Games postponed in the face of the coronavirus pandemic. “It’s our life,” Phelps said in a TV interview on Monday. “I’ve tried to replay what I would be going through emotionally at this very time if I was still competing. It’s hard to really kind of comprehend it.” The International Olympic Committee took the decision to postpone the Games as Olympic hopefuls found it harder and harder to train with sports and facilities shut down by the pandemic. Phelps, who retired after the 2016 Rio Olympics with a record 28 medals — 23 of them gold — said athletes must try to find positives in the delay. “You go through something for four years. We kind of know exactly when it’s going to come, and our bodies are ready for it, and then we have to wait,” he said. Opportunity “The biggest thing now is everybody to look at this as an opportunity, an opportunity for another year, fine-tuning some small things that are going to help you make a big difference.”  Phelps, who has detailed his own battles with anxiety and depression, had already voiced concern that the stress of postponement could take a toll on the mental health of athletes. “If you are in a spot where you need help, to reach out and ask for help,” Phelps said of the advice he is offering. “It was something that was very difficult for me to do.”
08 April 2020||TIRUCHI:,||Ahamed bowls Campion to victory||B. Ahamed took five for 35 as Campion scripted a 76-run win over Pudukottai RC in the Tiruchi DCA third division league.  The scores:   III div.: Campion 259/7 in 42 overs (A. Praveen Kumar 59, H. Mohamed Zubair Iman 53, S. Jacob 47, T.R. Rajesh Kumaran 36, S.P. Elango 3/59) bt Pudukottai RC 183 in 41.5 overs (Percival Rozario 61, Prasanth 40, B. Ahamed 5/35).  V div.: Lehar 103 in 25.2 overs (A. Periyasamy 28, R. Vijay 4/30, R. Karthi 3/16) lost to Desert Rose 106/7 in 21.3 overs. Rainbow 110 in 29 overs (R. Devakumaran 32, Franklin 3/21) lost to Radiant-A 111/8 in 21.4 overs (Alex Antony Raj 47, B. Karthikeyan 25 n.o., C. Sathish 4/25).         Karaikudi Town edged out Aptech WBC by six runs in the Sivaganga DCA second division league.  The scores:  Karaikudi Town 113/8 in 17 overs (Dilipkumar 46, Rajesh 33, Abdul Azees 3/18) bt Aptech WBC 107/9 in 17 overs (Ashwin 60, Rajesh 4/29, Senthil 3/14). Knights 178/4 in 20 overs (Manimaran 59, Sivashankar 49 n.o., Ramesh 42) bt Smashers 169/7 in 20 over (Sridhar 75, Samuvelraj 28, Adhitya 3/2). Sunlight 129 in 19.4 overs (Arun 3/15, Tamil 3/26) bt Gangai Brothers 96 in 17.4 overs (Vasanthakumar 3/9, Maruthamuthu 3/19).
08 April 2020||LONDON,||World Athletics suspends Olympic qualification period until December||World Athletics on Tuesday suspended the qualification period for the Tokyo Olympics until December 2020. “Qualification for the Tokyo 2020 Olympic Games is suspended effective from 6 April 2020 until 30 November 2020 included,” World Athletics said in a statement. “Subject to the global situation returning to normal, the qualification period will resume on 1 December 2020 and continue to the new qualification deadline in 2021 set by the International Olympic Committee.”PTI
08 April 2020||April 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Brief but meaningful||A discourse can run to several days, but the essence can also be summed up in just a sentence or two, said Kidambi Narayanan in a discourse. When Vibhishana arrived at Rama’s camp, Sugriva suspected his intentions. Sugriva was justified in worrying about Rama, for had not Rama sought his help? Rama was a Saranagatha — One who protected those who surrendered to Him. Should not this rule apply equally to Sugriva? Did he not also have a duty to care about the safety of Rama who had asked for his help? This entire episode can be summed in one line — a Saranagatha wanted to save a Saranagatha. Ramanuja went to Melkote when there was a threat to his life. He was very attached to the utsava icon in the Melkote temple. The utsava icon is called Selva Pillai in Tamil. When the time came for Ramanuja to leave Melkote, he asked the people of Melkote to take care of Selva Pillai as they would their children. Lord Ranganatha was like a father anxious to take Ramanuja back to Srirangam. Ramanuja was like a father to Selva Pillai. We can sum up all this in one line — a father was anxious about his son, and this applies equally to Ranganatha and Ramanuja. In Azhvar Thirunagari, the deity Adipiran is waiting for samsaris to come and worship Him. When Rama crosses the Ganga, He tells Sumantra to go back and inform Kaikeyi that Rama has entered the forest. But Sumantra stays on. He thinks that Sita will be unable to bear the difficulties of life in a forest. In which case Rama will bring her to Sumantra asking him to escort Her back to Ayodhya. So here we have a samsari (Sumantra) waiting for the Supreme One. So, while in one case Adipiran (God) waits for samsaris, in the Ramayana a samsari namely, Sumantra, waits for God (Rama).
08 April 2020||April 08 2020 08:10 IST,||Sudoku - April 8, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
08 April 2020||April 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Doing it for the kids||For a streaming service that boasted a diverse library, progressive technology and high-end productions, Netflix’s parental control features were lax at best, and many parent-members the world over were not happy. However, last night, the streaming giant globally updated these features with tighter protocols. In a Google Meet interview with Netflix’s Michelle Parsons, Manager of Kids & Family Product Innovation, and Cameron Johnson, Director of TV Product Innovation, it is clear that there is some sense to the timing for the launch of such a feature amid the ongoing COVID-19 lockdowns around the world, but not intentionally so. So, for context, what did the platform have prior to the update? The typical Netflix gate (landing page) has the member profiles displayed, with the master profiles (the password holders) included. Netflix, as a default, has a customisable Children’s profile which curates content according to the back-end settings done in the ‘Profiles and Parental Controls’ section in Account Settings. Another existing feature is the title-specific filtration, such as Barbie: Life In The Dollhouse or Minecraft: Story Mode.  Tighter protocols “This profile hub is the first update we are making which includes a one-stop shop for all the settings for each individual on the account,” says Michelle. “Parents will be able to modify viewing restrictions here on a per-profile basis. Given you will be making these modifications in a child’s profile, you can only go as far up to what is deemed appropriate for kids.” Once you set a profile’s permissions according to age group, content which does not fall within the allowed margins is filtered out. As a viewer, the child will not see any box art or trailers for the filtered-out content either. Michelle continues, “We have the ability for members to customise the viewing restrictions both at maturity rating and at an individual title level, now on a per-profile basis. So each profile on a single account can have slightly different settings and customisations based on the individual’s needs.” Additionally, parent profiles — which mostly have no restrictions on content — have a lock with a four-digit PIN, unique to each profile. These PINs are also used for the profiles’ modifications. To create a new profile with all-access content, the master PIN is once again required. Parents can also control playback settings, i.e enabling or disabling auto-play within a series, which can be helpful in preventing binge-watching and screen-time overload. “The new tools will offer a lot of flexibility to parents to create an experience that suits their families’ unique needs whether they have small kids or older kids in their households, or varying needs dependent on cultural context,” Michelle concludes. On a user interface level, she adds that there will be no major design change as the intention is to not disrupt the viewing experience.  The new tools have been designed to offer flexibility to parents to create an experience that suits their families’ unique needs Michelle Parsons Manager of Kids & Family Product Innovation, Netflix   What do we still need?  Controlling screen time is one of the most worrisome aspects of child-rearing. But Netflix says this, as a potential feature, might not be in the books for them. Michelle explains, “When you try to modify timers at the app level, there are ways for kids to circumvent the timers. Using device-level timers is one option parents have. We want to provide parents the tools and information they need to customise the experience without undermining how long a piece of content might be.”  The aforementioned title restriction feature could use some development though. At the moment, it only filters out title-specific content, so if a child does not like content related to cars or anime content, you cannot filter out according to keywords. Michelle assures that Netflix is working on this feature though social media will say this has been a long-time demand of members.   The new tools have been designed to offer flexibility to parents to create an experience that suits their families’ unique needs
08 April 2020||April 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Ather amps up the performance||Ather Energy is a shining example of a start-up that has shown the world that it is possible to make an electric scooter with reasonably good performance and range without compromising on design or build quality. After launching the successful Ather 450, the company isn’t resting on its laurels, and has spawned an evolution of the 450, the Ather 450X. It promises improved performance, battery range and other features. The question is, does the ‘X’ multiply the Ather electric experience? How does it look? The Ather 450 has always stood out for its futuristic design, and it is the same case with the 450X, as both e-scooters share the same bodywork. The only elements that distinguish the X from the 450, then, are the ‘X’ badge and three new colour options — grey, white and mint green. Sit behind the bar and you will notice a brand-new touchscreen instrument panel that packs in more features. The Android-based system (plain Linux in the 450) includes Bluetooth and Wi-Fi connectivity, allowing users to pair their phone to get incoming call alerts or listen to music on the go, via the Ather app. One can simply tap the screen to change music tracks or answer calls. If you dislike the idea of taking your hands off the bars, the toggle switch can be used to carry out the same function. The 450X is considerably lighter than the 450. Most of the weight-savings are at the front end, achieved by installing a lighter instrument cluster, removing the on-board charger and installing a conventional tubular handlebar. What’s the performance like? In order to improve performance and efficiency, Ather has developed a new and bigger lithium-ion battery, an efficient battery management system and re-tuned the motor to develop higher peak power. The installed battery capacity is 2.9kWh (up from 2.71kWh in the 450) and that translates to an improved battery range, from 75km to 85km in Eco mode. It takes about 5hr 45min to charge the battery to 100 percent using a standard home-charging point. The motor, on the other hand, develops a peak output of 6kW (up from 5.4kW). More importantly, the peak torque has gone up from 20.5Nm to 26Nm! The new e-scooter offers the three riding modes seen on the 450: ‘Eco’, ‘Ride’ and ‘Sport’. Each provides more performance and, consequently, quicker acceleration. However, the icing on this performance cake is the new Warp mode of the 450X that turns everything up to 11. I have never felt an electric scooter surge ahead with such alacrity — and that is saying something. 0-40kph comes up in 3.3sec, while the sprint from standstill to 60kph is dispatched in 6.5sec. That is almost 1sec quicker than the fastest petrol-powered 125cc scooters. Its top speed remains capped at 80kph, but that is only one side of the story. It is the roll-on acceleration, especially between 20-50kph, that makes this e-scooter super responsive, and I think that should make it easy to keep up with, or even zip past, big-city traffic. As entertaining as it may be, though, here is the caveat. All of this brisk performance comes at the cost of a subscription plan that will set you back by Rs. 1,999 — every month. Dubbed the ‘Pro’ package, it gets you the best possible acceleration and range (85km) along with access to fast charging at 1.5km/min. Customers can also choose the Plus plan, at Rs. 1699, that drops the motor’s peak output to 5.4kW and 22Nm of torque. The battery’s range also falls by 10km (to 75km) in ‘Eco’, whilst usable capacity (which is always lesser than installed capacity) sees a reduction to 2.4kWh (it’s 2.7kWh in the Pro plan). Think of it as a cell-phone data plan where you would pay more for faster browsing and buffering speeds. The 450X can also be purchased without the subscription plan for Rs. 1.49 lakh (for the Plus) and Rs. 1.59 lakh for the Pro. This does not include the cost of the Ather connect pack, which is needed for OTA updates. Buying upfront doesn’t give you access to the free fast-charging Ather Grid network either. Subscription guarantees OTA updates, the fast-charging network and an unlimited battery warranty (three years without subscription). We are happy to report that Ather has not tinkered too much with the setup and the 450X’s performance is genuinely entertaining; but it’s of no use if the chassis isn’t up to the task. How does it ride? The steel-aluminium hybrid chassis is identical to the 450’s, and so are the brakes, suspension units and the 12-inch wheels. The only difference is that the telescopic forks have been stiffened for added firmness. Upon riding the 450 and 450X back to back, it was apparent that the X felt lighter and quicker to steer. The scooter was also notably more flickable. The firm setup at the front made it thud over potholes, which wasn’t the case with the 450’s relatively plush setup. The rear monoshock remains the same; however, it could do away with the pogo-stick-like effect that occurs at low speeds over a series of undulations. That said, the handling is pretty confidence-inspiring, as long as you stay within limits. But for those who want to push the handling envelope even further, Ather will also sell a set of TVS tyres that are wider; both at the front (100/80-12) and rear (110/80-12). Verdict That electric scooters are here to stay is an understatement. The fact that not only start-ups like Ather, but also mainstream manufacturers like Bajaj and TVS, want a slice of this delicious pie, has created quite a buzz in the electric two-wheeler space. What works in Ather’s favour with the 450X is its unique styling, finish levels and technology. Above all though, it has a sense of desirability that one just cannot ignore. I, for one, cannot believe an electric scooter can be a lot of fun; and as much as I love petrol-powered scooters, the Ather 450X has made me pause and think. They may not make complete sense yet, but they are definitely starting to look more tempting.  Specifications    (All prices, ex-showroom Bengaluru)  PriceRs. 1.49 lakh/Rs. 1.59 lakh (Pro)   Max Power3.3kW/6kW (Pro)   Max Torque26Nm   Battery capacity2.9kWh   Weight108kg   Ground Clearance160mm   Front Brake TypeDisc   Front Brake Size200mm   Rear Brake TypeDisc   Rear Brake Size190mm   Front SuspensionTelescopic fork   Rear SuspensionMonoshock   Overall Range75km/85km (Pro)
08 April 2020||April 08 2020 00:00 IST,||A virtual platform for début directors||Lohith H made his début with Kannada film Mummy (2016) featuring Priyanka Upendra in the lead. The horror film, written and directed by him, went on to be a hit and also won the Karnataka State Award in the best editing category. His second film, Devaki, again a thriller with Priyanka and her daughter Aishwarya Upendra, won both audience and critical acclaim. The film was also released in Telugu as Chinnari produced under KRK Productions and Lakshmi Venkateswara Movies. Ajaneesh Loknath composed the music and lyrics were by Yogaraj Bhat. When he looks back, Lohith recalls that finding a producer for Mummy was a herculean task. “Just finding a producer took me about a year-and-a-half. I must have met at least 50 to 60 producers,” reveals the 26-year-old. “That is why Kishor Narasimha and I created an online platform called Friday Films, to showcase films by début directors.” The aim, explains Lohith, is to help passionate filmmakers find a footing in the industry. Friday Films Production House was started two months ago and the team has launched an online filmmaking contest. “We are looking for five-minute horror films in any language,” says Lohith. Friday Films, will soon produce its first film, a remake of Malayalam film Helen . “The film will take off as soon as the lockdown is lifted. It will be directed by a début director, who has already been chosen.” Lohith adds that he has been approached by a huge production house for a film, which will be launched officially soon. The online contest, Lohith says, is because of the lockdown, aspiring directors have been texting for job opportunities. “As I have trod the same path, I know it will be tough to take a complete newcomer to work with a trained unit. I feel, when they send their films, it will be clear as to what they think and how they portray characters on screen. Even when I met Priyanka and Upendra for Mummy , they both loved the story, but I was 24 years old and they were apprehensive how I would tell the story on screen. When they saw my teaser shots, they were convinced and gave me the go ahead.” When most filmmakers choose comedy or a romance to mark their débuts, Lohith chose horror. Was he worried how the film would turn out and how the audience would react? “Horror is not my genre at all. I came into the industry at the age of 19 and wanted to make a gangster film. No one took me seriously, perhaps because of my age and also because I had no backing. Then I decided to make a heroine-centric film, in the horror genre and zeroed in on Priyanka.”  Check points  The film has to be in the horror genre.  Should be shot within your home on any camera or mobile with original music.  Last date to send in your entry is April 15.  Films can be mailed to fridayfilmsproductionhouse @gmail.com
08 April 2020||April 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Vegetables not locked-down||Vegetables are the new gold. Whoever thought one would dream of roasted potato and carrot raita ? These are strange times. After we venture out to buy them, mask and gloves on, we (hopefully) return triumphant, our bags bulging with carrots, beans, and tomatoes. As there is a limit to how much we can stock up on vegetables, it is inevitable that grocery stores have a steady stream of customers every day, as people balance keeping their families fed and following social distancing rules. Fortunately, despite the panic buying, shelves are kept reasonably well-stocked thanks to our farmers, supplying freshly-harvested fruits and vegetables every day. They are among the heroes of this pandemic. “Agriculture is not something we can stall temporarily. No matter what happens to the world, it has to go on,” says R Jaganathan, founder of Nallakeerai, which specialises in local, seasonal greens and networks with organic farmers across India. He says that he has farmers calling him every day, speaking dejectedly about produce facing the risk of going waste. But he prefers to look at the lockdown in a positive light. “There is an increase in demand for supplies and we are all sending a silent thank you to our farmers when we come home with fresh vegetables after our grocery runs,” he says. The main challenge now is in getting these precious goods to the consumer before they wilt. “The issue that has to be looked into is logistics,” states Jaganathan. “Now is the ideal time for the Government to step in and link farmers directly with consumers.” He says an authorised farm-to-door delivery service will benefit farmers as well as customers. “These vehicles can travel to all our interior villages,” he says, adding that he is taking greens from his farm on his vehicle to customers in the city. In Ooty, the Horticulture Department, is already taking first steps. Cloth bags packed with a variety of seasonal vegetables procured from the local Uzhavar Sandhai (farmer’s market) are being sold for Rs. 150 a bag, from trucks that traverse villages in Coonoor and Kotagiri. This kind of a system is the need of the hour. “We now have to give importance to local markets, where the farmer does not have to travel long distances to sell his produce. This will be a win-win situation for both the farmer and the buyer,” says Ananthoo, co-founder of Restore, a volunteer-run, non-profit chain of organic retail stores in Chennai. Ananthoo says that at present, since they source organic fruits and vegetables from all over Tamil Nadu, they have zero supply. “Farmers are unable to transport produce and are running from pillar to post to get permission from local heads. And even if they get the necessary permission, they are unable to find vans/carriers as drivers want to stay safe or have gone back to their villages,” he adds. “This is also the harvesting season for crops such as paddy, but farmers can neither hire the harvesting machines nor are there any labourers available.” In Pandeshwaram village near Chennai, however, the lockdown has resulted in reduced food miles. According to VM Parthasarathy, a Chennai farmer who grows paddy in the village, people are now buying local produce. For instance, a farmer who harvests melons there, simply packs them in a truck and rides around the village, and is sold out within hours. “Earlier, the melons would have changed two middlemen’s hands, be taken to Koyambedu, and would finally arrive here and be sold at a much higher rate,” he explains. Now, what they grow, they sell to their neighbours. Partha agrees that the large scale farmers, who have several acres of paddy or oil seeds waiting to be harvested in the coming weeks, are in deep trouble. “There will be loss of grains,” he sighs. “The Coronavirus situation has definitely complicated agriculture for the big farmers. Thankfully on our farm, we are not due for harvest in the next three weeks or so. But if the situation prevails, we will be in a sticky situation.” Meanwhile in Pandeshwaram, locked-down locals simply have to step out of their homes to buy fresh-off-the-farm brinjal and ladies’ finger. “Farmers spread them on the roads every day after harvest,” he explains. This is probably the best thing that happened to people there: in pre-Corona times, this would not have been possible.
08 April 2020||April 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Been there, seen that||For many people in their 20s, 30s and 40s, the last few days have perhaps been the most eventful phase of their lives, as we collectively witness the world battling COVID-19. But what about those of the Silent Generation (1925 to 1942) and the Baby Boomers (1943 to 1964)? Most of them were alive when India got its independence — many, despite being too young to make sense of it then, have fairly vivid recollections of the time now. There were other subsequent episodes of social drama, many of them threatening their livelihoods and lives, that they witnessed. We ask them for their stories:
08 April 2020||April 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Tirumoolar for troubled times||Ancient Tamil poets show us the way to cope with the situation we find ourselves in with Covid-19 and the lockdown, says Coimbatore-based Bharatanatyam dancer Karunasagari V. The founder-director of Bhakti Natya Niketan (BNN) quotes mystic philosopher Tirumoolar to show how one can move from “being a self-centred consumer to an active contributor”: If not anything else just offer but a blade of leaf to the Lord/If not anything else, just hand a tuft of hay to a hungry cow/If not anything else, share a morsel when you eat/If not anything else, just have a nice word to say to the others. Karuna calls this period “a recalibration of sorts. We now slowly understand how normal life can be something different from what we’re used to. Also how ‘our normal’ is a luxury for so many others.” Our health and well-being are interdependent, she says. A poem by Vanparanar in the Purananuru , which she recently used in an article, makes a forceful point about giving. “An old poet in tattered clothes is resting against a tree on a hot day. A warrior walks up to him with a deer across his shoulders. He cooks the meat, serves the poet, and asks him to take the rest home. Then he chides himself, ‘How stupid of me not to carry anything.’ He gives the poet a pearl string and bracelet and leaves without identifying himself. Later he finds that his benefactor was King Nalli.” Karuna says that many of these kings of Sangam poetry were either chieftains of villages or tribal heads. “But no one is too small to give. We are kings the moment we give. No contribution is too small.” Another aspect she brings up is poverty of the mind. “This is not the time to trivialise what’s happening by making it about oneself,” she says forcefully. “It’s important to be aware of what’s going on yet not get bogged down by the daily depressing news.” Getting creative Speaking of family brings us to her baby: BNN. When asked if her dance classes have gone online, Karuna says she would prefer to call it “blended learning”. This involves creating online resources for students apart from having interactive sessions with the teachers. “Dance is a very physical art and I did not want the students to stop dancing for two or three months. So we decided to maintain the number of hours of dancing per week.” Along with Sandhya V, BNN’s principal teacher, Karuna worked out a plan which involves a pre-recorded practice session, which will then be monitored on a group video call by teachers and finally an interactive online session. Sandhya and she have created over 20 instruction videos and over 40 dance demos apart from around 140 audio recordings. Asked how her students reacted, she laughs, “Most parents were relieved that we had a plan to keep their children active and out of their hair for those three to four hours a week.” Addressing other uncertainties regarding Internet speed and the availability of gadgets at home, she says, “Since, in most homes, work from home is the new normal, not everyone has a laptop for him/herself. So they need to share their screen time. But we’ve rolled it out and hope the process will be seamless.” Karuna is devoting what free time she has in memorising Arunagirinathar’s Seerpaada Vaguppu , a long poem with 16 parts, each of which has four lines. “It allows me to revisit old recordings of my grandmother and guru Swarna Somasundaram. Of course I listen to my musical favourites: TM Krishna, Kishori Amonkar, Abida Parveen and others too.” Finally she finishes our conversation with her belief that to get through the current period, “we have to trust in our ability to stay strong as a giant family.”  Cultural marker The word Sangam is the Tamil version of the Sanskrit word ‘Sangha’ which means a college or assembly. The Sangam epoch is said to have lasted for about a thousand years, roughly from 500 BC to 500 AD.
08 April 2020||April 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Chasing the farthest flying paper plane||In 2012, John Collins’ paper plane ‘Suzanne’ was thrown by football player Joe Ayoob. The plane flew a distance of 226 feet and 10 inches, which led to John being declared a Guinness World Record Holder for designing and folding the farthest flying paper plane. Recently, high school students got an opportunity to attend a free workshop by him, presented by Atria University, Bengaluru. During a Zoom interview, John shows us his studio, and all his paper planes. “This plane can circle back in either direction, and that plane looks like it is flapping its wings! That is amazing, right? How does it do that?” We have the same question: How does he go about the design process? “A lot of times, I design a plane with a specific goal or plan.” John holds up one of his creations: the super canard and says: “This has an intentional design idea. The little wing in front helps the plane stall resistance. Sometimes you see a plane do something interesting and then you have to start investigating the aerodynamics of how the plane can do that. And then you start a little science experiment with that. You start a hypothesis on how that thing is going to work, devise an experiment, analyse results, rethink your hypothesis. It becomes this little science lab. My process of inventing planes is a lot like that. I decide what I want the plane to do, so you can measure success. Did you do what you want or did you do something so interesting that you have to rewind and figure out more? John, who has spent decades mastering the art of origami and aerodynamics, says that designing ‘Suzanne’ was intentional. “That was a three-year process. It was an idea never been done before. It turned out that at The National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) they were working on a similar air flow idea (like the one used for ‘Suzanne’) for entirely different reasons. When I met them, years after I had broken the record, they said ‘we would like to use your model’. I explained my paper plane theory to a NASA guy! It might seem like a childlike question, how paper planes fly, but it is not. It is an interesting, scientific question.” John has also published books on how to make paper planes and sees them as an educational tool that helps one study aerodynamics and geometry. “I am hoping the students get interested in the broad brushstrokes of how and why things fly but more importantly get them to understand that science is not difficult. We are going to look at different kinds of designs and just do some crazy things. I am making all this happen by turning my living room into a studio because all of the public events that I was signed up to do had to be rethought.” Speaking about his interest in paper planes, John says, “Like most people, my interest in paper planes started when I was young. It is just that I never got over it. I spent the next 50 years or so folding and making paper planes,” he says with a laugh.  The online workshop’s video is up on Atria University’s website   I explained my paper plane theory to a NASA guy! It might seem like a childlike question, how paper planes fly, but it is not. It is an interesting, scientific question.
08 April 2020||April 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Maintaining your car during the lockdown||The COVID-19 virus has everyone house-bound, and that means your car is too. While they will be fine over these three weeks, here are a few things that you can do to make sure they stay in better shape during the lockdown. Before you read any further, remember social distancing overrules everything else. Your car will not reduce itself to junk over 21 days. Your safety comes first, and so attend to your car only if you can do so in a safe manner without exposing yourself to others. Preserve the battery The electrical systems in modern cars are very reliable, and if you have not faced any electrical trouble, like for example slow cranking, you can easily leave your car parked for a few days without worry. Starting it once a week and leaving it running for a few minutes will be more than sufficient to keep your battery charged. If your car starts easily, let it run for a few minutes; or if you can, just drive it around the compound and then shut it down. However, if you face any starting trouble, then once started, leave it switched on for a longer period of time (up to 15 minutes even) and rev the engine, now and then. As mentioned earlier, if you can, drive it around the compound too, and start it again in two-three days. Give it a workout Unlike us, our cars can sit around for a few days and not worry about physical fitness; however, it is a mechanical device and so it’s a good idea to run all its systems, now and then. During the 21-day lockdown, driving it twice or thrice will be good enough, even if it’s around the parking lot. And remember to use the AC too. Using your car will keep all the mechanical parts and other systems running, thus preventing some of them from getting jammed or tight, for instance, the brakes. If your tyres are correctly inflated and in good shape, there is little chance of them flat spotting (or, as is commonly said, going out of round). However, moving your car a few times during these 21 days can help keep them in better shape. Do not use the parking brake Avoid using the handbrake and leave your car in gear; or in an automatic, leave the selector in ‘park’. This is because over a few days, left engaged, the brake mechanism tends to get stuck. If your car’s brakes are stuck, driving it around a little and dabbing the brake pedal can help free them. In some cars, the parking brake uses the wheel brakes itself, however, in others, they use a separate brake. In this case, if you still feel like the parking brake is stuck, try engaging and releasing the hand brake lever rapidly and drive it around a little. Leave it clean Pretty common sense this one, do not leave junk like water bottles, food items and even stuff like wet wipes in the car. Over time, these will degrade and could release foul smells, especially if your car is parked out in the sun. Protect the exterior If you don’t have a covered parking area, try and find a shaded spot to park your car; or, if possible, use a car cover. If you can’t do any of this, do not fret, your car’s exterior will certainly survive this; but try and give it a wash if you see too much dirt accumulating. If you see bird droppings, wipe these away with a damp cloth, as bird droppings left sfor long can stain or ruin certain surfaces.
08 April 2020||April 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Currently on shuffle||Lean On Me by Bill Withers Bill Withers is one of my biggest inspirations and he recently passed away. So I have been listening to him over the last few days. This song gives me hope for humanity.  Smile Meditation by Vulfpeck Vulfpeck is one of my favourite artistes and this song brings me much-needed peace.  Blood of the Past by Comet Is Coming It has spoken word by Kate Tempest who speaks about the world collapsing and shrinking because of our greed for money and unwillingness to be kind to others — very relevant. The post-apocalyptic vibe and the combination of the distorted sax and spoken word gives me chills.  6:30 AM by Yung Raj He is someone you listen to when you want to zone out and not realise the time pass you by.  Wave by Antonio Carlos Jobim I can listen to Bossa Nova at anytime, no matter the circumstances. The richness in the music and harmony brings me so much joy and satisfaction.    Movie by Tom Misch More than the lyrics of this song, it’s the emotion he creates through his music which reminds me of all the things I miss, home included.  Yahaan by Saby Singh Saby is a great indie artiste I met a few years back. His voice reflects pain.  Cold Little Heart by Michael Kiwanuka This modern-day Bill Withers hits you right in the soul. ‘Cold Little Heart’ is one my favourite songs by him, especially the live version where half the song is just the guitar solo intro.  River by Leon Bridges The first time I heard this song was on the NPR Tiny Desk series, and I instantly fell in love with it.  She’s Leaving Home by The Beatles No words for this classic. The lyrics and the arrangement with the strings will take you to a place of solace.    Love is the Message by Yussef Dayes This instrumental track creates a headspace that keeps you thinking and grooving at the same time.  Dang! by Mac Miller (feat Anderson Paak) If you don’t groove to this, you’re not human!  Suede by Anderson Paak This guy is a whole vibe by himself. He is his music.  Tadow by FKJ (feat Masego) Most of FKJ’s songs are chill, this one has Masego adding his vocals and sax.  It Runs Through Me by Tom Misch Another artiste who defines what chill is.    The Raven That Refused To Sing by Steven Wilson This song is about an old man at the end of his life, thinking about all he’s done and his relationship with his sister who used to sing to him. Steven Wilson is a dark writer and I love that about him, he talks about morality in this song.  Vasanam by Kurangan Kaber Vasuki has a way with words. This is a song about how we need to stop pretending and face the truth.  Ponnira Maalai by Siennor Another great poet in the making; this song talks about the relationship between humans and life itself.  Grandma’s Hands by Bill Withers A beautiful story about how his grandmother used to care for him; Bill Withers was a raw soulful poet.  Romeo & Juliet by Mark Knopfler My biggest inspiration to pick up the guitar was Mark Knopfler. Like the name suggests, he talks about a love story between Romeo and Juliet in his own beautiful way. We would love to know how you are keeping busy at home. Tell us what you are listening to, at metro@thehindu.co.in
08 April 2020||New Delhi,||Nizamuddin residents fight ‘virus hotspot’ tag||On an ordinary day, the ‘langar’ (communal kitchen) at Delhi’s Hazrat Nizamuddin Dargah would produce food for about 5,000 needy people who throng the shrine of Khwaja Nizamuddin Aulia. The area has been in lockdown since March 24, but under especially strict surveillance by police and paramilitary personnel since the outbreak of COVID-19 was detected at the Tablighi Jamaat Markaz (centre) not far from the area. Tainted by one building Now, says Syed Aziz Nizami, whose family has been the caretakers of the shrine for hundreds of years, the kitchen can only cater to about 100-200 people a day, and volunteers deliver the food outside of the area, as no one is allowed in. More than anything, says Mr. Nizami, he is saddened by how the entire area, named after the famous 13th century Sufi saint, has been “tainted” by one building, belonging to the Tablighi Jamaat, as a “COVID-19 hotspot”. “ Badnamgi toh hui hai [Our name has been spoilt],” he says, explaining that he himself had never been inside in the Tablighi Jamaat headquarters, a lesser-known Islamic organisation espousing rigorous religious practices. “We had no idea there were so many people, so many foreigners inside. The dargah’s door is open to all faiths, unlike theirs,” he adds. Significantly, despite the entire Nizamuddin area being referred to as a “hotspot”, cases of the novel COVID-19 have only come from the Tablighi Jamaat building, where hundreds of foreign nationals from Indonesia, Malaysia, Saudi Arabia, UAE and Thailand attended a conference in mid-March, leading to the largest spike in confirmed cases in the country. Over the last week, health and municipal workers have conducted door-to-door sanitation programmes, and testing of the residents in about 2,000 homes surrounding the building, but “no case of COVID-19 has been reported in the immediate neighbourhood of the centre”, an official told The Hindu . ‘Blind panic’ Area municipal councillor Yasmeen Kidwai says that the coverage of the case in the media, and a lack of officially verified information has spread “blind panic” amongst residents. “I wish there had been protocols followed to calm people’s unfounded fears that the whole area has been contaminated,” she told The Hindu , calling for a report on best practices to be followed at “COVID-19 hotspots” to be adopted by the government. The area’s reputation has hurt in more ways, say residents. It is hard to access vegetables and regular supplies as many vendors stay away. Noor Jehan, 28, says she goes out of the house only once every three days, to try and find provisions for her family that includes her two-year old son and seven-year old daughter. As the manager for a ladies cooperative kebab delivery outlet called ‘Zaika e Nizamuddin’, Ms. Jehan says she has been doubly hit during the lockdown. Despite the government permitting food outlets to run deliveries, the 11 women who run the cooperative felt it would be safer to shut down operations until restrictions are lifted, and have lost out on a steady source of income as a result. In fact, they could have done brisk business, given that delivery companies like Swiggy and Zomato have suspended all operations to the Nizamuddin area, including the crowded Nizamuddin Basti where the Tablighi Manzil is, and the more upmarket Nizamuddin East and Nizamuddin West colonies nearby. Hospital refused to help What’s worse is that two days ago, says the local Residents’ Welfare Association (RWA), a renowned Delhi hospital nearby even refused to send an ambulance when an aged, diabetic resident of the area, whose sugar levels had dropped, needed to be rushed to the hospital. Another hospital sent an ambulance in the nick of time, says president of the Nizamuddin East Colony Association Rajive Chaudhury. “Fear is bringing out the worst in so many people,” he told The Hindu . “It seems it isn’t just a battle against the disease, but pitting people against each other.”  (The writer is a resident of Nizamuddin)
08 April 2020||New Delhi,||Elderly in old-age homes at higher risk||One undiagnosed COVID-19 case can chain-infect up to 16,000 people in 14 days if not quarantined, and the elderly are most vulnerable, says Dr. Prasun Chatterjee, Associate Professor, Department of Geriatric Medicine, AIIMS, and Consultant WHO SEARO, in an interview with  The Hindu  . As the number of COVID-19 cases are increasing in the country, the elderly are surely at risk. What are the symptoms that one should look for? What are the atypical symptoms? The elderly, especially who are 80+, not vaccinated against flu or pneumonia, who are residing in old-age homes or long-term care facilities are at high risk of developing severe diseases due to COVID-19. Cardinal symptoms for COVID-19 are fever, cough (dry and persistent) and shortness of breath. The other atypical symptoms could be headache, sore throat, nausea, diarrhoea, etc. Approximately 90% of patients present more than one symptom, and 15% of patients present fever, cough, and laboured breathing. Anyone above 65 with disproportionate respiratory symptoms should contact a doctor. Why is COVID-19 more dangerous than other group of corona viruses? It is similar to viruses like flu or SARS and MERS, but this is much more contagious than a usual flu. Someone who is carrying COVID-19 can infect 2-3 persons and the chain will increase exponentially without interruption if most of them are asymptomatic and, as per calculation, one undiagnosed COVID-19 case can infect up to 16,000 cases in 14 days if not quarantined. However, mortality is not that high at 2%-3%. Around 10%-15% may suffer severe symptoms and may require ICU care.   Why should we self quarantine for 10-14 days? As per data, 97%-98% of people who develop symptoms of COVID-19 do so within 12 days of getting infected. The incubation period varies from 2 to 14 days, that means someone who has contact with a case may develop the symptoms up to 14 days after infection. Similarly, he or she can spread the virus to others. The government’s decision to impose a lockdown will definitely help cut the infection chain. Who needs to take extra precautions? Long-term care centres or old-age homes should not allow visitorsOld-age homes should be well-ventilated. Anyone who has cough with fever should use a three-layered mask and self quarantine. This is also flu season, what should one with fever, cold and cough do? Should the person go for testing? Initially, if an elderly person is suffering from fever, dry cough, throat congestion without any contact history, they should only take rest, stay at home, maintain cough etiquette (coughing and sneezing into a tissue), sanitise their hand frequently by 60% alcohol containing sanitiser, they should call the helpline provided by the Central or State government. No need to panic. However, if they have signs related to organ failure like shortness of breath, decreased urine, chest discomfort, diarrhoea with fever they should immediately visit a hospital.
08 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Offer Shab-e-Barat prayers from home’||Jamiat Ulama-i-Hind general secretary Maulana Mahmood Madani on Tuesday appealed to members of the Muslim community to observe Shab-e-Barat at home and maintain social distancing. He said that prayers on Shab-e-Barat or ‘blessed night’ can be performed at home due to the lockdown, and visiting graveyards as per the tradition can be avoided. “Even in normal times, getting out of the house, making noise and creating chaos on the road late at night, wandering on vehicles in hordes are not only against the teachings of Islam but also a violation of law,” Mr. Madani said. He exhorted the community to stay away from non-Islamic practices and abide by all the guidelines given in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. Help the needy He instructed imams, local influential persons and local office-bearers of Jamiat Ulama-i-Hind units to persuade youth to stay indoors and not roam on the roads. “Do Sadaqah [charity] on this occasion and special consideration should be given to help the poor in this hour of crisis. Do offer Tahajjud prayer [night time prayer] and pray that our country gets rid of this deadly virus,” Mr. Madani added in his appeal.
08 April 2020||New Delhi,||Volunteers face hurdles in mission to help||Even as calls for help continue to rise in the city, various NGOs and volunteer groups, engaged in distributing food and rations to people in need during the nationwide lockdown, said that they faced some challenges in providing help to people. Volunteers said logistical problems, issues of possible hoarding and soaring prices of goods are a few to name. With calls coming in everyday, there is no way to meet the demand for food that is there on the ground, said Mujeeb who coordinates efforts for Swaraj Abhiyan. The group switched from distributing cooked food to dry rations as they were likely to be of help for a longer period, he said. People engaged in relief work said that they were trying to provide rations for a period of at least a week to 10 days. Reduced number of calls Amandeep Singh, coordinating efforts for a group of volunteers in Gurugram and Delhi, said the number of calls for help had reduced in the last few days, likely because people had stocked up to an extent now. However, once rations run out, it was likely that there would be a sudden rise in demand, he added. Mujeeb said that when volunteers would go to distribute rations in particular areas, they would be advised by the callers to wait at a distance so that neighbours could not pounce on the goods. Volunteers at different organisations informed that once help was provided in a particular area, the calls from that area got compounded. Sumati P.K., a resident of Munirka, who had reached out to the riot-effected northeast Delhi residents and to the Bengali migrant labourers, said that she was getting calls throughout the day. These, she redirects to various organisations. Individuals stocking up Groups are also concerned about individuals stocking up on rations through such voluntary efforts. Citing a few instances, Amandeep said that some individuals who had received rations were claiming to not have got them but when cross-verified, would backtrack. Volunteers, however, agreed that the work they were doing was not sustainable, “How long can we possibly keep giving food to people,” said Ashish Khanna, a volunteer from Gurugram.
08 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Give free ration to all using indelible ink marker’||Anita Tiwari is used to paying for her food with her own earnings: Rs. 8,000 per month from the domestic work she does in three homes, along with the Rs. 5,000 per month her husband earns as a security guard. However, the COVID-19 lockdown has left her struggling to feed her family. “We don’t have any ration card because our landlord is not willing to let us use that address,” says the 50-year old resident of Savitri Nagar, a low-income area in Sheikh Sarai. Her problem is common to many people renting homes in Delhi’s bastis and unauthorised colonies, resulting in lakhs of people deprived of a ration card. “One of my employers says she will pay me half month’s rent, but I can’t even go and get it because of this lockdown. The others won’t pay because I’m not working. How will we eat?” On Tuesday, right to food activists wrote to Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal to reiterate their demand that provide free rations for all, telling him that the Delhi government’s system to provide food for those without ration cards are too “unwieldy and impractical” for many like Ms. Tiwari. Complicated process “The system requires those without ration cards to apply for an e-coupon using a website to register themselves for accessing rations. They need to have the ability to access the Internet, have a mobile phone to generate an OTP, upload a photo of their Aadhaar card and a photo of their family, and finally, download the e-coupon. At a time when mobility is restricted, it cannot be assumed that everyone will manage to reach civil society or government volunteers who can help them fill the forms,” said the letter, signed by activists of the Delhi Rozi Roti Adhikar Abhiyan. They added that another complication is that foodgrain for those without ration cards are being distributed at government schools rather than the Fair Price Shops which are better equipped to do it. They asked the government to instead give free rations to everyone who demands it, using a simple mechanism such as marking a designated nail with indelible ink, as in elections, to ensure that people do not take rations multiple times from different shops. Call for transparency In an earlier letter, the activists also demanded better transparency and accountability from the Public Distribution System (PDS), noting that almost a third of ration shops checked in the first week of April were shut, with several claiming they do not have stock. Parmila, a mother of four who lives in Motilal Nehru Camp, a basti near Munirka, has been turned away from her ration shop several times this week. “I have recieved the wheat ration promised by the Delhi government, but the shopkeeper says he has not yet recieved my rice or sugar ration,” she says. However, an online search shows that rice and sugar due to her were delivered at the ration shop on March 23 and 24. She has also not received the extra free ration promised by the Centre. According to a Delhi government order dated March 26, ration stock for two months was to be delivered to all shops by March 29. Government data shows ration has been distributed to only 60% of cardholders even while many shops are claiming they have run out of stock. “This raises serious concerns about the possibility of diversion of grains,” said the letter to the CM from the activists.  In the current emergency situation, an elaborate system which people would find difficult even during ordinary times, will make rations inaccessible to the poorest and most marginalised who need it the most Delhi Rozi Roti Adhikar Abhiyan activists
08 April 2020||NEW DELHI,||Inform officials if you visited Nizamuddin centre: police||The Delhi Police on Tuesday said that legal action will be taken against those who do not inform the police and health department if they visited the Tablighi Jamaat centre in Nizamuddin after March 1. Delhi Police Public Relations Officer M.S. Randhawa said, “If anyone visited the Nizamuddin centre after March 1, inform the police station and health department concerned or call on the helpline number to inform officials. If people do not do this, it will be considered concealment of facts and action will be taken against the person.” Private hospitals and nursing homes have also been asked to inform government hospitals and the police in case a person with COVID-19 symptoms visits them. If they do not do so, it will be considered concealment of facts, the officer added.
