08 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Restore April status along LAC: India||India has firmly conveyed its demand to China for restoring the status quo as existed in April along the border during the senior military commander talks on Saturday, sources said. The Ministry of External Affairs (MEA) said the talks were held in a “cordial and positive” atmosphere, and both sides will continue the military and diplomatic engagements to “resolve the situation”. Back to governments Sources said the talks, which went on for several hours, remained inconclusive, but each side put across their issues, which would be conveyed to the respective governments and taken up in subsequent meetings. While India was firm on restoring the status quo of April and pull back of Chinese troops and equipment from inside Indian territory and along the LAC, the Chinese side raised objections to India’s infrastructure development. It was conveyed that infrastructure development would go on in Indian territory and that China had already developed infrastructure on its side, sources said. Senior defence sources had told The Hindu earlier that infrastructure development would continue along the LAC despite the ongoing tensions. China’s actions violate the existing boundary agreement meant to preserve peace and tranquillity on the border and this was also communicated, it has been learnt. “A meeting was held between the Corps Commander based in Leh and the Chinese Commander on June 6, 2020, in the Chushul-Moldo region,” the MEA said in a statement.
08 June 2020||HYDERABAD,||14 deaths in a day! 154 cases||The rapid increase in the number of COVID-19 fatalities in Telangana continued as 14 more deaths were recorded on Sunday. This is the highest number of deaths in a single day till date in the State. The second highest number of 10 deaths was recorded on Saturday. Now the toll stands at 137. Case fatality rate in the State is 3.7%. The total cases too continues to rise as 154 more cases tested positive from Saturday evening to Sunday evening. Of them, 132 are from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation, 12 from Rangareddy, three from Medchal, two from Yadadri, one each from Siddipet, Mahabubabad, Sangareddy, Nagarkurnool and Karimnagar. Of the total 3,650 cases in the State, 1,771 are active cases, 1,742 were discharged, and 137 died. After several days, the number of active cases exceeded the total number of people discharged. In the past seven days (June 1 to 7), 952 cases were detected-which is 26% of total cases and 55 deaths were reported — 40.1% of 137 deaths. It has been eight days that the State Health department did not provide data on the number of samples tested. On May 30, officials said that a little over 30000 tests for coronavirus were conducted. Home isolation A family of three people who were under home isolation in Jiyaguda, were bothered by residents of their colony. Unable to bear the inconvenience, they shifted to a hospital. The Ministry of Health and Family Welfare has permitted home isolation if patients have mild symptoms or pre-symptomatic. State Health Minister Eatala Rajender requested people to cooperate in this regard. He said that objecting to home isolation of patients adds to burden on hospitals.
08 June 2020||CHENNAI,||Assured of water, farmers now seek Kuruvai package||Even as agriculturists of the Cauvery delta are awaiting eagerly the release of water from the Mettur dam for irrigation, a demand has come from the farming community that the State government come out with a package of assistance for this year’s Kuruvai cultivation season as it did on many occasions in the past, Originally conceived in 2012 as a direction to the Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco) for 12-hour three-phase power supply to agriculturists in the delta, the scheme of assistance had developed over the years, providing subsidy to farmers for a variety of reasons. For example, agriculturists got 100% subsidy to purchase high-density polyethylene pipes for optimal use of water and Rs. 4,000 per acre for using mechanical paddy transplanters. The cost of Kuruvai package varied between Rs. 18 crore in 2013 and Rs. 115.672 crore in 2018. The rationale behind the package was that farmers required support as the Mettur dam could not be opened on the normal date. Water release Though the water release did not begin last year on the scheduled date of June 12, the government did not announce any package. Even in the absence of the package, the coverage was around 2.9 lakh acres, which was as good as in the previous years. This time too, the government has not given any indication of providing the package, but water is going to be released on the customary date. P.R. Pandian, an agriculturist based in Mannargudi of Tiruvarur district and president of the Tamil Nadu Federation of All Farmers’ Associations, says the availability of water per se will not obviate the need for assistance that the agriculturists got under the package. Calling upon the government to announce the package even now, he says it will be “highly beneficial” to the farmers. K.M. Rama Goundar, president of the Tamizhaga Vivasayigal Sangam and a farmer who hails from Karugur near Krishnagiri, says agriculturists have been “affected badly” by the lockdown, which has been in force since late March. Farmers may get water this time on time but they do not have the “economic strength to do farming fully.” This is why the package becomes imperative this year, Mr. Goundar explains. C. Ramasamy, former Vice-Chancellor of the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University, says farmers are now in need of support in one form or the other for their working capital. In addition to the existing schemes of support, banks should devise a special arrangement this year in the light of adverse effect of the lockdown. A senior official of the Agriculture department says that even though there is no explicit package, there are certain components of the government assistance which are still available to farmers. For example, seeds are being given at subsidised rates and the Agricultural Engineering department will provide machinery such as tractors and drillers at nominal rates of rent. Tangedco has been asked by the government to ensure uninterrupted power supply to farmers, who can take advantage of various schemes of the Central and State governments, the official adds.
08 June 2020||Thrissur/Thiruvananthapuram,||State registers one more death, toll 16||An 87-year-old man from Engandiyur, who was under treatment for breathlessness, died of COVID-19 in Thrissur on Sunday. The man, who was undergoing treatment at a private hospital, was shifted to the Thrissur Medical College Hospital as his condition deteriorated. However, he died soon after reaching the hospital. Forty persons, including doctors of the private hospital, would be kept under observation. This is the second death in the district and 16th in the State. Meanwhile, the case graph climbed above hundred for the third consecutive day, with 107 persons testing positive on Sunday. As has been the trend in the past one month, a chunk of the new cases — 99 out of the 107 new cases — are imported cases of infection detected in persons who have come into Kerala from abroad or from other States. The remaining eight cases are a result of local transmission acquired through contact with known or unknown source of infection. With 41 patients who were undergoing treatment leaving hospitals after recovery, the number of active cases stand at 1,095. The cumulative case burden of the State is 1,914, Kerala had six more regions in Wayanad, Palakkad and Kannur listed as hotspots on Sunday, taking the total number of hotspots to 144. Antibody test With the need for testing more persons in the community becoming more evident, Kerala is launching extensive antibody testing across districts on Monday for disease surveillance in the community and to determine if silent disease transmission is happening. The State is expecting to conduct at least 1,500 tests a week, using the rapid antibody test kits procured from HLL Lifecare Ltd.
08 June 2020||Bengaluru,||Karnataka govt. lays down guidelines to prevent big congregations||With places of worship set to open on Monday, the State government has asked mosques to have staggered timings for Friday prayers and to disinfect mosques daily, even as the religious places have been asked to complete prayers in the minimum time possible. Churches have been allowed to hold Mass on weekdays if the number of people are more for the Sunday Mass while restrictions have been placed on the Holy Communion. The guidelines were issued by the Department of Minority Welfare, Haj and Waqf for the Muslim, Christian, Sikh, Jain, Buddhist and Zoroastrian communities. The guidelines for reopening temples had been announced earlier. The places of worship have been prohibited from hosting large congregations, and social distancing, staggered entry of visitors, and wearing masks have been made mandatory. These places will have thermal screening. The directions to mosques include, disinfecting mosques daily and to avoid common prayer mats. Devotees have to carry their own namaaz carpets and will have to perform ‘Wazu’ (abulation) at their homes. The mosque managements have been asked to disinfect the mosques after the ‘Isha Namaaz’. The guidelines have directed imams to restrain long ‘Zikr’ (dua) and complete Friday prayers in 15 minutes. Mosques have to fix timings to finish the ‘Farz Salath’. Mosques have been allowed to open for all five daily prayers and dargahs will be open between 10 a.m. and 4 p.m. Besides the directions on public Mass, churches have been prohibited from the use of liturgical booklets and hymnals. The Holy Communion will have to be received strictly on hand or through other alternative methods prescribed by the bishop for the time being.
08 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||State reports two more COVID deaths and 199 new cases||The spread of COVID-19 continues unabated in the State. In the last 24 hours ending Sunday morning, 199 new cases were detected, and 130 of them were local residents. Two more deaths were reported during the period in Krishna and Kurnool districts, where the toll reached 23 and 28 respectively. The overall toll stood at 75. With the new cases, the tally in the State went up to 4,659. The number of recoveries too surged to 2,660 following the discharge of 59 patients during the period. The number of active cases increased to 1,924. While there were no new cases among foreign returnees, 69 cases pertained to people from other States. Nellore district reported a whopping 31 new cases. Krishna and Visakhapatnam districts reported 25 and 17 new cases respectively. They were followed by Anantapur and Kadapa (14 each); Kurnool (10), West Godavari and Vizianagaram (6 each); East Godavari (3), Guntur (2), Chittoor (1) and Srikakulam (1). For the first time, the State tested 17, 695 samples in 24 hours, indicating a marked increase in the testing capacity from 12,000 clocked recently. The district-wise tally is as follows: Kurnool (772); Guntur (558); Krishna (526); Nellore (335); Chittoor (299); Anantapur (288); East Godavari (275); West Godavari (188); Kadapa (164); Visakhapatnam (128); Prakasam (85); Vizianagaram (43) and Srikakulam (32).
08 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Southwest monsoon enters parts of Rayalaseema||The Southwest monsoon advanced into some parts of the Rayalaseema region in the State on Sunday. It is likely to foray into the coastal Andhra region in next couple of days and cover the entire State thereafter. Low pressure area Meanwhile, the cyclonic circulation over the east-central Bay of Bengal and adjoining north Andaman Sea is likely to develop into a low-pressure area during the next three days. As a result, a few places in the Rayalaseema region and many places in the coastal Andhra districts are likely to experience light to moderate rain, or thundershowers, during the next four days, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecast. Thunderstorms and lightning may occur in both the regions during the period. Rising mercury Meanwhile, mercury continued to hover over 40° Celsius across the State. Many places experienced above normal temperatures. With 41.6° Celsius, Jangamaheswarapuram in Guntur district recorded the highest temperature. It was followed by Machilipatnam (41.5° Celsius) and Kavali in Nellore district (41.2° Celsius). Also, Nellore city and Bapatla recorded 40.6° Celsius. They temperature in other areas was as follows: Nandigama (40.3° C); Vijayawada, Kadapa and Amaravati (40° C); Ongole (39.9° C); Tirupati (39.8° C); Narsapuram (39° C); Kurnool (37.5° C); Kakinada (37.3° C); Anantapur (36.9° C); Tuni (36.8° C); Arogyavaram in Chittoor (34° C); Visakhapatnam (32.6° C) and Kalingapatnam (32.5° C).
08 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||800 monuments with places of worship set to open today||More than 800 monuments across the country that double up as places of worship will be opened to the public starting Monday, after being closed since March due to the COVID-19 pandemic and the lockdown. Union Culture Minister Prahlad Singh Patel said in a tweet that the Ministry, under which the Archaeological Survey of India functions, had decided to open certain monuments and that safety procedures announced by the Union Health and Family Welfare and Home Ministries would apply. In directions to the ASI, the Ministry on Sunday wrote that the Centrally protected monuments “under worship” would be opened to the public. The Central government had decided last week to open all places of worship from Monday. Taj to remain shut The remaining monuments of the ASI’s total 3,691 protected sites, including the Taj Mahal in Agra, will remain closed to visitors for now.
08 June 2020||HYDERABAD,||Mecca Masjid to stay off limits for public||The historic Mecca Masjid will be off-limits for the public in general, and congregational prayers will be performed with only around 25 of its staff. The clarification came from District Minorities Welfare Officer Mohammed Khasim on Sunday who said that he wrote to the Minorities Welfare Department seeking clarity on the permissible number of congregants. He is yet to receive a response. “We have decided to continue the standard operating procedure during lockdown. There are about 20 staff members and three or four religious persons at the mosque and we will continue prayers with them. Apart from them, no outsider will be allowed till there is more clarity. We have informed the locals of the same,” he said. The DMWO is also mulling seeking for proof of identity — such as Aadhaar cards — of those who enter the mosque, when permitted. Further, police presence has been requested to disperse large gatherings, if any. The Shahi Masjid in Public Public Gardens will permit a congregation of not more than 50 persons, provided they bring their own prayer mats. “No person without a face mask and janamaaz ( prayer mat) will be allowed. Toilets and wazugah (ablution spaces) are closed. Only those who are residents of places nearby will be allowed. No senior citizen will be allowed and people will be screened at the entrance. We have removed prayer carpets,” Khateeb of the mosque Maulana Ahsan al Hamoomi said, underscoring the advisory that given the pandemic it is safer to pray at home. With large numbers expected to converge on Fridays, All India Muslim Personal Law Board office bearer Maulana Khalid Saifullah Rahmani issued guidelines upholding the permissibility having more than one congregation so as to maintain social distancing and staggered entry into the masjid. The guidelines also urged removal of prayer carpets in mosques, bringing one’s own prayer mats, offering non-obligatory prayers at home, practicing social distancing during congregational prayers, increasing distance between saff (ranks) and leaving the masjid soon after prayers. The Jamiat Ahle Hadees issued a set of instructions which stated that mosques would be open five minutes before congregational prayers and would close five minutes after prayers, and directed congregants to maintain social distancing and follow other directives of the government. Several mosques announced that they would be closed for the public. The Jubilee Hills Mosque and Islamic Centre’s said that only three employees, practicing social distancing, would congregate. A short Friday sermon would be permitted. The Mahmood Habib Masjid and Islamic Centre in Banjara Hills too would be closed. Several mosques in the custody of the Awqaf Committee HEH The Nizam, including the Masjid-e-Falaknuma and Spanish Masjid in Begumpet, too will remain closed. “The opening of masjids has been deferred, given the fact that the number of (COVID-19) cases are increasing. We have to protect the namazis and all others. We will meet tomorrow and take a decision,” committee trustee Faiz Khan said.
08 June 2020||LUCKNOW,||Sikh student alleges assault, communal slur by IPS officer||A Sikh student has alleged that an IPS officer assaulted him and hurt his religious sentiments by pulling his hair, the symbol of his faith, in Agra on Saturday. Gursimar Setia, who identified himself as a law student of The West Bengal National University of Juridical Sciences, Kolkata, shared his ordeal on Twitter. He said that around 7.40 p.m., he was stopped by police officers at Sanjay Place, where he had gone with a friend in a car to withdraw money. Mr. Setia said an officer, who could be identified from his badge as Additional Superintendent of Police Saurabh Dixit, started abusing him, noticing that he had tied his long hair in a bun. Mr. Setia said the officer asked him for his identity card and upon discovering that he was a Sikh, he used communal slur and “proceeded to physically assault me and pulled my hair”. ‘Friend also assaulted’ His friend, who rushed out of the car to help him, was also beaten up, alleged Mr. Setia, who shared photos of his head and some strands of his hair allegedly pulled out by the officer. After screenshots of Mr. Setia’s Twitter post were widely circulated on social media, the Agra police said a senior police officer was inquiring into the alleged incident. “Will act accordingly,” the police said. While a formal statement from the police is still awaited, Mr. Setia said on Sunday that he received an apology from the officer and he has accepted it. “I accepted his apology because he was willing to introspect, never to repeat such an instance of unprovoked police brutality again,” he said in a statement. “...I believe that he will genuinely learn from his mistake.” He said that when the incident happened, he was angry and had made up his mind to hold the officer accountable. “Today it was me, but most often this happens to people who have no voice in society,” he said. He would not pursue the matter further, but he would not delete the tweets either, Mr. Setia said. “I genuinely hope that the public will respect my family’s privacy.”
08 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Kashmiri woman in NIA custody tests positive||A Kashmiri woman arrested by the Delhi police earlier this year for allegedly inciting protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act and for promoting Islamic State’s ideology in the national capital has tested positive for COVID-19 while in the custody of the National Investigation Agency (NIA). A senior NIA officer confirmed that the agency had taken custody of the woman, Hina Bashir Beg, 39, and her husband Jahanzaib Sami, 36, on May 29. Earlier, the couple was lodged in Tihar jail since their arrest on March 8. The duo came under the scanner after their “suspicious activities” on cyberspace were noticed by intelligence agencies. Admitted to hospital “When the couple was taken into custody, they were tested for COVID-19 and their reports were negative. Their custody was to end on June 8. Before handing over the couple to the Tihar authorities, they reconducted COVID-19 test and this time the wife [Hina] tested positive and her husband’s report was negative,” said the officer. Hina has been shifted to the Lok Nayak Hospital where she is undergoing treatment, while the entire NIA team probing her has been quarantined. The officer said that after Hina tested positive, they conducted an internal probe to identify more persons who came in contact with her. Two NIA staff members who were on control room duty had tested positive. The control room is located right in front of the lock-up, therefore, there are high chances that Hina contracted the infection from one of them. The lock-up area and the entire floor has been sanitised. Hina’s lawyer M.S. Khan said he has moved a plea seeking two-month interim bail for his client. “The condition of government hospitals in Delhi is very bad. During the bail period she can go to the best private hospital for treatment. Even jail is also not safe, cases of COVID-19 have been reported from there too,” said Mr. Khan. At the time of the couple’s arrest, the Delhi police had claimed that they had moved to Delhi from Srinagar in August 2019. The husband was working with a private company, while the wife stayed at home. The police had allegedly recovered incriminating material from their rented flat in Jamia Nagar.
08 June 2020||June 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Contract workforce bears the brunt as industries struggle||Industries continue to stare at a bleak future a month after reopening, and the first victims appear to be the contract workforce. Industry estimates say that nearly 70% of the six lakh-strong contract workforce across the State is jobless today. The phenomenon is not restricted to the private sector alone. Thousands of those working on a contract basis have neither been called back to work nor been paid their salaries in several public sector undertakings (PSUs) in the city. Industry bodies put this down to the lack of new orders, and existing orders being deferred, disrupting supply chains leading to a severe crunch in working capital. The “collateral-free automatic loans” to micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs), promised by the Union government, too has been hard to come by, they allege. “Unless banks free their purse strings, it will be difficult to tide over this crisis,” said C.R. Janardhana, president, Federation of Karnataka Chamber of Commerce and Industry. The banks are still wary of lending, industry bodies allege and they are presently meeting banks to sort out the issues. Meanwhile, multiple industry bodies have been lobbying with the State government to declare a three-year holiday to all labour laws, which they argue is a key reform to tide over the crisis. While the government is undecided, trade unions have unanimously opposed any such move. Any such move will only lead to unprecedented job losses, they say.
08 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Delhi’s hospitals only for its ‘residents’: CM||As complaints mounted on social media of poor treatment at Delhi’s hospitals, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal announced on Sunday that all government and private hospitals in the city would only treat Delhi residents till the rising COVID-19 cases are contained. While informing people of this first-of-its-kind decision in the country to “reserve” hospitals even as cases mushroomed in the national capital, Mr. Kejriwal said there were several Central government hospitals in the city that would continue to treat all patients. Residents will be identified by voter IDs, bank passbooks, ration cards, driving licences, phone and electricity bills in addition to Aadhaar cards issued before June 7, among other documents bearing a residential address from the city. The Delhi government also decided to open the borders of the city from June 8; the closure was implemented more in the breach, as people moved in and out of the city with ease. Mismanagement: Cong. Launching a sharp attack on the Kejriwal government, Delhi Congress leader Ajay Maken claimed that 33 of the 38 government hospitals were not treating COVID-19 patients. He also said Delhi was not prepared for the opening of malls, restaurants and places of worship from Monday. Addressing an online press conference, Mr. Kejriwal said there was a need to maintain a balance in Delhi as the State government hospitals have around 10,000 beds and the Central government hospitals have another 10,000 beds. “For now, we have decided that the 10,000 beds under the Delhi government will be kept for residents. The beds under the Central government can be used by all,” he said.
08 June 2020||Bhopal,||Hospital ties man to bed for not paying bills||The Shajapur administration in Madhya Pradesh on Sunday served notice on a private hospital in the district for tying an 80-year-old man to a bed for reportedly failing to pay the bills. In a video that has gone viral on social media, Laxmi Narayan from Khilchipur tehsil in Rajgarh district, who was admitted to the hospital after complaining of stomach ache, is seen lying with his feet tied together and fastened to the hospital bed Taking cognisance of the incident on Saturday, Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan had tweeted: “A matter relating to the cruelest behaviour with an elderly citizen at a hospital in Shajapur has come to my notice. The accused won’t be spared, strictest action will be taken.” A team comprising the Sub-Divisional Magistrate, a medical specialist and the District Health Officer visited the hospital, but the elderly man and his family had already left, District Chief Medical and Health Officer Prakash Vishnu Phulambrikar said. Given 48 hours time “A tahsildar has been sent to the man’s village to record his statement,” said Dr. Phulambrikar. “The hospital has been asked to respond within 48 hours. If found unsatisfactory, further action will be taken against it.” “We are tracing the hospital’s owner who had gone to another city,” said Additional District Magistrate Manjusha Vikrant Rai. The case sheet of the patient, added Dr. Phulambrikar, revealed that he was suffering from seizures. The hospital has asserted that it had to strap him to the bed owing to convulsions. “Still this is not the way,” said Dr. Phulambrikar. “During convulsions, we use bandages available at hospitals if required, but not ropes.” Meanwhile, the patient’s daughter said they had first deposited Rs. 6,000 as fee, and later another Rs. 5,000.
08 June 2020||CHENNAI,||T.N. caps testing fee in private sector at Rs. 3,000||The State government, which fixed the cost of hospitalisation at private facilities for COVID-19 infection, has slashed the cost of testing to Rs. 3,000. The Tamil Nadu Health Systems Project has determined that “an amount of Rs. 3,000 is fixed as the cost of RT-PCR testing for general public and Rs. 500 has to be paid as additional cost towards home visit”. The new rates were announced through a Government Order on Friday. Earlier, a person had to pay Rs. 4,500 for a test in the private sector. Patients whose results return positive in the first round will have to be tested two more times before being declared free of the infection. This means a patient might end up paying at least Rs. 13,500 for three tests. The government has also introduced quality check measurement for laboratory tests for COVID-19 infection by RT-PCR machines, based on the Indian Council of Medical Research guidelines. Random samples Every fortnight, 10 samples at random will be lifted from government and private laboratories that fall under the ambit of the Directorate of Medical Education. The laboratories will have to pick five each of positive and negative samples (throat/nasal swabs), code them and send them to King Institute of Preventive Medicine. Health Secretary Beela Rajesh said Tamil Nadu is probably the first State to come out with such guidelines. “We need to have a quality check mechanism in place. So far, the quality control check had been completed for 17 government laboratories,” she said. The reports of the quality control checks would be conveyed to the laboratories. The government has prescribed that the samples with CT value of 25 to 35 for ‘e’ gene screening assay must be chosen. Director of Medical Education R. Narayana Babu said the test results from the laboratories should correlate with the results obtained in government labs. One of the aspects is to check the CT of lungs to assess their involvement in the infection. The values are chosen so that it would provide accurate results of a patient who is symptomatic. A person with values lower than 25 would be asymptomatic and one with over 35 would be seriously ill.
08 June 2020||June 08 2020 00:00 IST,||COVID-19 cases rise by 10,844||India on Sunday recorded a spike of more than 10,000 new COVID-19 cases for the second consecutive day. With 10,844 cases, the tally surged to 2,57,364, which includes 1,26,523 active cases. The death toll rose by 260 to 7,201. The Indian Council of Medical Research said 1,42,069 tests were conducted on Sunday, up from 1,37,938 on June 6.
08 June 2020||June 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Ready to roll||
08 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Legislature session likely from June 16||The sessions of the Legislative Assembly and Legislative Council are likely to be organised from June 16. The main agenda is to pass the full-fledged budget for 2020-21 tentatively on June 18. Finance Minister Buggana Rajendranath Reddy will table the budget. The government moved the vote-on-account in March. The Cabinet is expected to discuss the business that needs to be transacted at its meeting scheduled to be organised on June 11.
08 June 2020||June 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Five Hizb militants killed in J&K||Five Hizbul Mujahideen militants, including a top commander, were on Sunday killed in an encounter with security forces in Shopian district of J&K. On a specific input, the security forces launched a cordon and search operation in the Reban area of south Kashmir district, a police spokesperson said, adding that the militants opened fire at the search party, which was retaliated leading to the encounter. The bodies of the militants were retrieved from the site of the encounter, the spokesperson said. They belonged to the Hizbul Mujahideen terror outfit and one among them is believed to be a top commander, the police said.
08 June 2020||New Delhi,||No means in Cong. to share ideas: Jha||It is a “false” claim that Congress has a robust internal mechanism to listen to its members, party spokesperson Sanjay Jha has said, publicly questioning the party’s leadership during the pandemic. In a newspaper opinion piece on Sunday, Mr. Jha said at a time when the Narendra Modi government “seemed clueless about basic governance, the Congress should have presented an alternative white paper on governance”. Playing down Mr Jha’s charge, senior Congress party leader Ajay Maken said, “Whenever I wanted to put across my point of view, I have been able to do that.”
08 June 2020||June 08 2020 00:00 IST,||State records 1,497 new cases||Tamil Nadu recorded 1,497 COVID-19 positive cases on Sunday taking the tally to 31,667. Chennai alone saw 1,155 persons testing positive for the infection. The other districts added 342 cases. The number of active cases in Chennai stands at 10,982.
08 June 2020||Bengaluru,||Two deaths, 239 new cases reported in State||Two more COVID-19 deaths and 239 new cases were reported in the State on Sunday. With this, the death toll rose to 61, while the total number of cases is 5,452.
08 June 2020||Bengaluru,||Markets, malls, hotels, ‘unlock’ today||Bengalureans will be able to shop at malls and markets, dine at their favourite hotels from Monday as most such establishments are set to “unlock” themselves.
08 June 2020||Jaipur,||‘Anti-Muslim chat’ among hospital staff goes viral||The owner of a private hospital at Sardarshahar in Rajasthan’s Churu district has tendered an unconditional apology after screenshots of some online chats among its staff members, which allegedly disparaged Muslim patients, went viral on the social media. The police have launched a probe.
08 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Special corona fee’ on liquor withdrawn||Liquor in the Capital is set to become cheaper as the Delhi Cabinet on Sunday withdrew the ‘special corona fee’ levied at 70% of the Maximum Retail Price with effect from June 10. However, it increased the rate of VAT from 20% to 25% on all categories on liquor sold in Delhi.
08 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Capital records 1,282 fresh COVID-19 cases||The Capital recorded 1,282 new COVID-19 cases on Sunday, taking the total to 28,936. Of these, 17,125 are active cases. A heath bulletin released by the Delhi government said no death has been reported in the last 24 hours but the toll has been revised to 812. The bulletin added that 335 people have recovered, taking the total recoveries to 10,999.
08 June 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,||Stranded Indians from Maldives return||The Indian Navy Ship - Jalashwa - repatriated 700 Indian nationals from Maldives to the VOC Port here on Sunday.
08 June 2020||Chennai,||HCQ to be distributed to civic workers||With the number of cases rising, the Greater Chennai Corporation is set to distribute hydroxychloro- quine (HCQ) to civic workers and asymptomatic contacts.
08 June 2020||Shivamogga,||‘Differences in BJP will be sorted out through talks’||The differences in the State unit of the BJP on the candidature for Rajya Sabha election and on Ministerial positions would be resolved through talks, Minister for Rural Development and Panchayat Raj K.S. Eshwarappa has said.
08 June 2020||KALABURAGI,||‘Fatality rate much less than national figure’||Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar has said that both the fatality rate and the growth rate of coronavirus infection in the State is much less than the national figure. Providing data here on Sunday, he said that the State had recorded 5,213 confirmed cases, of which 3,184 are active. As many as 1,968 have recovered.
08 June 2020||CHENNAI,||T.N. has highest number of recovered patients: CM||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palansiwami said Tamil Nadu had the highest number of recovered patients from COVID-19 and the lowest death rate in the world.
08 June 2020||Chennai,||China ratchets up media blitz on LAC||For the second time in one week, China’s State media outlets have showcased military exercises tailored to high-altitude regions, linking the drills to the ongoing tensions with India along the Line of Actual Control (LAC). On Sunday, the Communist Party-run Global Times reported that the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) “organised a large-scale manoeuvre operation featuring thousands of paratroopers plus armoured vehicles to the country’s high-altitude northwestern region over a long distance from central China’s Hubei province amid border tensions between China and India”. The Global Times , a newspaper that plays a key role in external propaganda, said of the latest drill that “the entire process was completed in just a few hours, demonstrating China’s capability of quickly reinforcing border defences when necessary”. China has in the past used official media outlets to showcase military drills amid territorial disputes, an approach that the Chinese military has described as a “struggle for public opinion”. Manoeuvres aimed at Taiwan are frequently shown on television, particularly when political tensions are high. On occasion, videos of earlier drills have been used for broadcast during times of tensions. During the 72-day border stand-off with India at Doklam in 2017, state media broadcast regular images showcasing China’s military capabilities, aimed at both the domestic and overseas audience. The official PLA Daily in an August 2017 article described the strategy as aimed “to fully integrate the publicity forces of public opinion, radio, TV, newspapers and social media, and carry out a multi-wave and high-density centralised publicity in a fixed period of time to form favourable public opinion situation to allow for a final victory”. The PLA’s Western Theatre Command said in a 2017 analysis of the Doklam media strategy that “seizing the initiative was key in the struggle for public opinion.” Lessons for future It said the aim was “to make India succumb without a confrontation between the two armies,” adding that the approach served lessons “for future struggles”. The latest drills were also broadcast on the official broadcaster China Central Television (CCTV), which reported “using civilian airlines, logistical transportation channels and railways, several thousand paratroopers under a PLA Air Force airborne brigade recently manoeuvred from Hubei to an undisclosed location on the plateaus of northwestern China, thousands of kilometers away”. Major Colonel Mao Lei, head of the training department at the airborne brigade, told CCTV: “This manoeuvre mission saw significant breakthroughs not only in the scale of mobilised troops but also means of transportation. [Using civilian transportation] substantially expanded our means of transporting forces and increased efficiency in manoeuvring an entire organisation of troops.” On June 3, China’s official media reported that another drill was held on the Tibetan plateau, which it described as “night-time high-altitude infiltration exercises behind enemy lines”. Reports indicated the drills were held in the Tanggula Mountains, not close to the border with India but on the far side of the Tibetan plateau in the east, near the border of Tibet and Qinghai province. A report in the Global Times said the PLA Tibet Military Command recently sent troops to a high-altitude region at night for “infiltration exercises behind enemy lines and tested their combat capability.”
08 June 2020||PATNA,||Shah sounds bugle for Bihar election||BJP leader Amit Shah on Sunday said the National Democratic Alliance (NDA) would get a two-thirds majority in the Bihar Assembly election. While addressing a virtual rally, Bihar - Jansamvad , which Mr. Shah claimed was not an “election rally”, he concluded his 45-minute speech listing the achievements of the Narendra Modi government in its first term and the present and its contribution to the development of Bihar. “This virtual rally has nothing to do with upcoming elections in Bihar. The BJP believed in democracy … this is to encourage everyone and reassure the confidence in corona warriors … here I want to salute those crores of corona warriors battling against the virus by risking their lives ... I want to acknowledge their contribution,” the Union Home Minister said. Slams RJD Mr. Shah took a jibe at the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) for clanging plates and bowls ahead of his virtual rally. “I am glad that they finally followed Mr. Modi’s appeal to show gratitude to those fighting against coronavirus,” he said. Earlier in the day, RJD leaders had observed Garib Adhikar Diwas by clanging plates and bowls to protest against Mr. Shah’s rally. Mr. Shah spoke about politics and slammed the Opposition parties for doing “nothing for the development of Bihar”. “The Modi government has given Rs. 20 lakh crore following corona pandemic for the development of the country and Bihar too will be benefited with this,” he said. “Earlier when the Modi government had allocated Rs. 1.25 lakh crore for Bihar’s development, Opposition party leaders had made a mockery of it, but here I will cite to you the facts where the money was spent,” said Mr. Shah and dwelt upon the details. “Bihar has been the land where the first Republic was formed and where great leaders were born … the people of Bihar had voted Modiji to power first in 2014 and then in the second term too…,” Mr. Shah said. He also mentioned the removal of Articles 370 and 35 A, abolition of triple talaq, surgical strikes, construction of the Ram temple, Ayushman Bharat, and the availability of LED bulbs and cooking gas to crores of households as achievements of the Modi government. “It is because of Prime Minister Modi that India’s position in world today has been recognised,” he added. He also mentioned the success of Mr. Modi’s appeal for Janata curfew. “Janata curfew will be listed in the country’s golden history for following a leader's appeal. After former Prime Minister Lal Bahadur Shastri I have not seen any leader other than Prime Minister Narendra Modi on whose appeal the whole country got united,” he said. Concluding his speech, Mr. Shah thanked Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar and BJP leader and Deputy Chief Minister Sushil Kumar Modi for taking every step to battle the pandemic. “The Bihar government spent Rs. 8,538 crore in fighting against coronavirus and took every step for taking care of migrants and workers returning to the State,” he said, adding “Under Nitish Kumar’s leadership, the NDA will come to power with two-thirds majority in the coming elections in Bihar.” Meanwhile, Nitish Kumar too set off his “digital” interaction with party leaders and workers on Sunday.
08 June 2020||Hyderabad,||Fatalities spike in Telangana||In its highest single-day toll, Telangana reported 14 deaths from COVID-19 on Sunday. Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka reported two deaths each, while an elderly patient died of the disease in Kerala. Andhra Pradesh also had 199 new cases, of whom 130 were local residents. The two deaths were in Krishna and Kurnool districts. The overall toll rose to 75. With the new cases, the State tally went up to 4,659, and the number of recoveries to 2,660 following the discharge of 59 more patients. Active cases rose to 1,924. While there were no new cases among foreign returnees, 69 people from other States tested positive. Nellore district reported 31 new cases. Krishna and Visakhapatnam districts reported 25 and 17 new cases respectively, followed by Anantapur and Kadapa (14 each); Kurnool (10), West Godavari and Vizianagaram (6 each); East Godavari (3), Guntur (2), Chittoor (1) and Srikakulam (1). The 14 deaths recorded on Sunday in Telangana raised the toll to 137. The total cases too continued to rise as 154 more tested positive. Of these, 132 were from Greater Hyderabad, 12 from Rangareddy, three from Medchal, two from Yadadri, one each from Siddipet, Mahabubabad, Sangareddy, Nagarkurnool and Karimnagar. Of the total 3,650 cases in the State, 1,771 were active cases, 1,742 were discharged, and 137 were fatal. Besides two deaths, 239 new cases were reported in Karnataka. With this, the toll rose to 61, apart from two non-COVID-19 deaths, while positive cases were 5,452 in total. Both patients who succumbed to the infection were from Bengaluru and had co-morbidities. One of them, a 61-year-old with Severe Acute Respiratory Illness was on a ventilator died on Saturday, while the second patient, a 57-year-old man with filariasis and chronic myeloid leukemia, died on Sunday. Maharashtra returnees were testing positive in large numbers, and 177 of the 239 new cases had a travel history to that State. Sunday’s cases also included 10 patients with Influenza-Like Illness, two with SARI, 22 primary contacts of previous positive patients, and 10 whose contact tracing was still on. While Kalaburagi and Yadgir, with 39 cases each, recorded the highest number on Sunday, Belagavi followed with 38. Bengaluru Urban saw 23 cases while Dakshina Kannada and Davangere had 17 cases each. Udupi reported 13. While Shivamogga reported 12 cases, Vijayapura and Bidar saw nine each, Hassan reported five cases. Bengaluru Rural recorded five cases — all returnees from Kuwait. In Kerala, an 87-year-old man from Engandiyur died of COVID-19 in Thrissur. Also, 107 persons tested positive on Sunday. With the need for testing in the community becoming more evident, Kerala would launch antibody testing across districts on Monday.  (With inputs from Vijayawada, Bengaluru and Thiruvananthapuram bureaus)
08 June 2020||June 08 2020 00:00 IST,||‘China’s internal pressures are driving Xi’s tough stance on border’||Facing pressure from the trade war with the U.S. and an economy hit by the pandemic, China’s leadership appears to be taking a tougher line on issues related to sovereignty from Taiwan to the India border, says Jayadeva Ranade , a former Additional Secretary, Cabinet Secretariat, Government of India, and President, Centre for China Analysis and Strategy, who has been tracking China for three decades. Beijing is unlikely to change course and pull back, as doing so would hurt the credibility of the leadership which is already under pressure, he said.  How unusual is the current situation on the Line of Actual Control (LAC), given the number and scale of stand-offs since last month? The situation is certainly different. Firstly, these have occurred at multiple points along the LAC, from Ladakh to Naku La in Sikkim. I also associate the activation of a new diplomatic front by Nepal against us as a part of this. It is a new kind of activity that the Chinese have created on our northern borders. Since Xi Jinping has taken over, the nature and kind of intrusions that we have been seeing have altered. They have become more firm, and appear to have been premeditated and planned. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh has attributed the tensions to differing perceptions of the Line of Actual Control. Do you share that view? I would disagree with that, for the simple reason that in quite a few of these places, there have been no such intrusions and there has been no instance of a difference in perception of the LAC. Galwan Valley, which is one of the main points of confrontation, has not witnessed an intrusion for the last 15 to 20 years. Why is China is opening a new front in Galwan? The construction of the Darbuk-Shyok-Daulet Beg Oldi road certainly would have been one of the factors together with the upgrading of our defence logistics infrastructure. These are points of concern for the Chinese. In addition to that, what has occurred in the recent past is growing Chinese stakes in the region, particularly with the China Pakistan Economic Corridor. After the revocation of Articles 370 and 5(A) of our Constitution, the Chinese got more apprehensive. Of course, the Pakistanis would have egged them on, which is why we have seen the Chinese taking the Kashmir issue to the UN Security Council on four occasions so far. With their close ties with the Pakistanis, they may have decided that they need to safeguard their interests in these areas. How do you see the current situation being resolved? If we show not only our determination to hold ground but also maybe apply pressure in some areas on China, it could cause a rethinking in Beijing to come to some kind of an understanding with us. But that is unlikely in my point of view. As far as the talks are concerned, they’re not going to give in easily. Our position is we want status quo ante so that means everyone goes back to their earlier position. Which begs the question, why did the Chinese do this in the first place? Given the domestic political situation inside China, can Xi Jinping afford to go back or to disengage or to withdraw, now, once again, having done that earlier in Doklam [in 2017], and not find people who are critical of his action? How do you assess President Xi’s position internally after the pandemic? There are two factors that are causing concern. The first is the economic situation. The way the U.S.-China trade war is developing is aggravating that. Unless Mr. Xi is able to tackle that, domestic criticism will continue. Second, the sources of voiced discontent, the intellectuals, the academics and the students, I don't think they are reconciled to the situation. Neither are those Communist Party cadres, serving or retired, who don’t want to return to one man rule. A lot depends on the level of discontent within the Communist Party, particularly its middle and higher echelons, and I don’t know how much of that has really been sorted out. Look at the fact that he has created a new central small group under Guo Shengkun, who is Secretary to the Central Political and Legal Affairs Commission, his right hand man, to look at the political stability and political situation in China. These indicate that President Xi Jinping himself knows that there are problems ahead, and that his own position is not 100% secure. Do these internal challenges influence China’s external postures, whether on Taiwan or with India? I have no doubt that this tougher line has come about because of the perception domestically that the two centenary goals as they call it — the China Dream and catching up, if not surpassing, the U.S. by 2049, are slipping out of the grasp of the leadership. I think the perception among the Chinese people that the leadership didn't have a firm grip of the situation is one of the real key factors why Mr. Xi has opted for a much tougher line. The U.S.-China factor is another. So it has happened that with Hong Kong he has taken a tough line. With Taiwan, he is applying pressure. In the South China Sea, he has started sending PLA Navy warships there. I think what we are seeing on the borders with India is similar. So that does bring us to the question, can he afford to pull back and face criticism from within China, if he is doing this to shore up his credibility?  The nature and kind of intrusions have become more firm, and appear to have been premeditated and planned
08 June 2020||new delhi,||Leadership issue returns to centre stage in Congress||The Congress party on Sunday played down allegations from the party spokeperson Sanjay Jha that the party lacked an internal mechanism for an open and frank exchange of ideas. Senior Congress party leader Ajay Maken said, “I don't think there is any dearth of internal decision making or discussion mechanism in our party...Whenever I wanted to put across my point of view, I have been able to do that.” “The kind of discussion Rahulji is holding with the best experts in the world, talking about India, what India should be doing is an example in itself,” Mr. Maken at an online press conference, responding to Mr. Jha’s opinion piece in a leading newspaper. The Congress may have officially played down the unexpected opinion piece, but Mr. Jha’s observations not only have many takers within the party, but it has brought the focus back to the crucial leadership question of who can revive the party and how. Speaking to The Hindu about Congress’ COVID-19 strategy, Mr. Jha said the principal opposition party should have followed a Westminster-like model of shadow cabinet system. “We have been reacting in an episodic manner,” he said, adding, “Let’s say on the issue of giving money to the poor, we could have said: ‘This is the budget and this is the money we need to spend. This is how much we will monetise the debt, borrow and raise tax revenues.’ The ideas need to be compelling for the government to follow.” On the lack of internal mechanism to air divergent opinions, Mr. Jha said, “Can you tell me one forum where Congress members are regularly invited to have a free exchange of ideas and opinions?” Endorsing Mr. Jha's comments, former Lok Sabha member Sandeep Dikshit said only those party members speak out who don’t want any rewards except a revival of the Congress. “Most of the people who are speaking out have the good of the nation and the party much more [at heart] than those who are in the party establishment,” Mr. Dikshit, son of late former Delhi chief minister Sheila Dikshit, told The Hindu .
08 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Airfare hike a shock for expatriates||Hundreds of stranded Indians in West Asia have been hit hard by the hike in airfare for repatriation flights to be operated by the national carrier Air India in phase three of Vande Bharat Mission set to take off from June 10. The one-way airfare in the economy class from the key three airports at Riyadh, Dammam and Jeddah in Saudi Arabia to the four airports in Kerala has gone up from Rs. 18,760 (950 Riyals) to Rs. 33,635 (1,703 Riyals) when the airline opened its booking for phase III. The one-way airfare in the national carrier from Jeddah to Cochin and Thiruvananthapuram had gone up from 1,000 Riyals to 1,700 Riyals. In the Business class, the fare has touched 2,470 Riyals. From Dammam, one has to pay 1,170 Riyals to Kochi and 1,773 to Kannur. Compared to the hike in the airfare in the Saudi Arabia-Kerala sector, there is only marginal increase in the airfare in the Qatar-Kerala sector. The one-way airfare has gone up only from 766 Riyals to 780 Riyals. Air India Express, the low-cost arm of the national carrier Air India (AI), that is gearing up to operate 107 flights from West Asia and South East Asian countries in the phase III, has not gone down well with Air India. “Fares had gone up six to seven AED [United Arab Emirates Dirham],” airline sources said. AI officials were not available for comment on the hike. Bolt from the blue For many in Saudi Arabia who had been awaiting eagerly to return to the home soil, the hike in the airfare was a bolt from the blue as they came to know only after reaching the airline offices. Testing times “The flyers had no other option other than to borrow money and book the seats as bulk of the flights are handled by Air India from Saudi Arabia and uncertainty prevails over the commencement of the commercial flights,” said Feroz Khan, a social worker from Riyadh. “There was marginal increase in airfares during Phase II. We were told that everything is decided at Delhi. But, now the Union government has taken the non-resident Indians for a ride at these testing times,” Mr. Khan said. The Vande Bharat Mission was kicked off by the Centre on May 7 to bring back stranded Indians on a payment basis amid the COVID-19-induced lockdown. It also permitted foreign nationals and valid visa holders to book seats on these flights.
08 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Centre can’t pay train fare, but BJP splurges on phones’||The Centre cannot pay for the migrant workers’ train fare but the BJP can spend crores on distributing phones for Amit Shah’s digital rally in Bihar ahead of the Assembly elections later this year, the Congress alleged on Sunday. At a virtual press conference, former Union Minister and Rajya Sabha member Akhilesh Prasad Singh said the BJP had been distributing phones for the past several days to listen to Mr. Shah’s virtual rally. He said crores had been spent on the digital rally when the State is fighting a grim COVID-19 battle. “Whether the money comes from PM CARES or the BJP’s coffers, what is clear is that whenever there is a BJP rally, they use money power to get people. The Centre doesn’t have money to ferry workers but the BJP has so much money ... Possibly one lakh phones have been distributed across districts,” he alleged. “At a time the country is fighting COVID-19, the BJP is holding such political rallies. They are trying to lure the people of Bihar with their money power,” he said. Congress spokesperson Jaiveer Shergill said the voters are going to punish the ruling BJP-JD(U) alliance. “During ‘online’ Bihar rally, the BJP should have explained why till date the ‘offline’ promise of special package has not been fulfilled, why sons/daughters were made to wait in lines for over 60 days to return to their home,” Mr. Shergill said.
08 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||TNAI extends support to AIIMS nurses for reduced duty hours||The Trained Nurses’ Association of India (TNAI) on Sunday extended its support to nurses at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences, Delhi, who have been posted in COVID-19 wards and are demanding reduced duty hours. TNAI, with over 3 lakh members including clinical nurses, educators and researchers among others, has written to the AIIMS administration stating that the grievances of nurses taken up by the AIIMS Nurses Union remain unattended despite regular, periodic representations and meetings with the institute authorities. “This is very unfortunate and deplorable,” TNAI noted. It added that asking nurses to serve extra hours for COVID-19 duty in day hours, besides 12 hours night shift without any necessary facilities for rest, transport and food/water is not only against the norms but also fraught with serious health implications. “ ... it will definitely lead to more nurses falling ill, leading to shortage of nurses for patient care in the time of increasing number of COVID-19 cases in the country,” TNAI said. The appeal to the institute comes at a time when over 500 AIIMS staff and their family members have tested positive for COVID-19 since March this year. Testing ramped up Meanwhile, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on Sunday said it had further ramped up the testing capacity for detecting the novel coronavirus. “The number of government labs has been increased to 531 and private labs to 228 [total 759]. About 1,42,069 samples were tested in the last 24 hours. The total number of samples tested thus far is 46,66,386,” a release said. The Health Ministry on Sunday noted that symptomatic COVID-19 patients who have severe pneumonia with respiratory rate of 30 breath per minute should be considered for shifting to ICU, according to a clinical management protocol for adult patients.
08 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Nepal may host PLA medical team||Nepal is expected to host a large delegation of personnel from the medical unit of China’s People’s Liberation Army to deal with the threat of the COVID-19 pandemic, a source familiar with the discussion inside the Nepal Communist Party has said. The decision is influenced by the leading role played by the PLA’s medical teams in containing the pandemic in Wuhan and nearby areas which were the epicentre of the crisis in China .   The Hindu has learnt that Prime Minister K.P. Sharma Oli has discussed the possibility of hosting the medical delegation from China during a recent video call with the head of the international liaison department of the Chinese Communist Party, Song Tao. “Nepal needs to stop the spread of the COVID-19 and an extensive operation to test and contain the virus is urgently required. It is not yet clear what will be the total number of personnel that Nepal will ultimately get as the testing will have to be done across the country. As per current estimate such an operation will require at least a few thousands of workers,” said a source familiar with the internal discussions in the Nepal Communist Party which maintains fraternal ties with its Chinese counterpart. Nepal at present has 3,348 COVID-19 cases with 13 recorded deaths. Kathmandu is worried about the further spread of the pandemic as the government has begun repatriation of all Nepalese expat workers on humanitarian grounds. Nepal is likely to receive around two lakh citizens from India alone in the next few weeks apart from several others from other parts of the world. “The Chinese team is likely to be stationed here for a week or so and carry out an extensive and fast operation of the kind carried out in the affected parts of China,” said the source. The deliberations in Kathmandu are significant, reflecting China’s growing COVID-19 diplomacy. Bangladesh is set to receive a major delegation of medical personnel from Beijing on Monday. The delegation, drawn from the National Health Commission of China, will travel to all the COVID-19 affected areas of the country. Beijing’s global health diplomacy has covered Sri Lanka, Myanmar and the major COVID-19 affected countries in the west.
08 June 2020||KOCHI,||Many churches in Kerala against reopening for worship||Various Christian denominations have decided against reopening churches for worship immediately in the wake of the Kerala government deciding to permit places of worship to open with some restrictions from June 9. The decision has been taken in view of the danger still posed by the COVID-19 pandemic and possible spread of the virus. The Latin archdiocese of Varapuzha has told parishes to take their own decisions on reopening churches. An official statement from the archdiocese said on Sunday that some of the parishes had advised caution and that there was no need for hurry in reopening churches. Therefore, it will be up to the parishes to decide on reopening. The Jacobite group of the Malankara church has asked the vicars of parishes to reopen only if they are able to conform to the conditions laid down by the government. A circular from Catholicos Baselios Thomas I said the believers should take care and should follow the guidelines laid down by the government and asked people, who have come from other countries or from other States, to ensure that they stayed in isolation and did not come to the church. The Catholicos asked volunteers to ensure that the instructions were followed strictly. A circular from the headquarters of Ernakulam-Angamaly Archdiocese of the Syro-Malabar church said churches under its jurisdiction would remain closed till June 30 in view of the danger posed by the pandemic. The circular said the decision was taken in consultation with the parish vicars and others. The churches will remain open to individuals, who want to offer prayers. All have been advised to follow the restrictions imposed by the government.
08 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||COVID-19 delays delivery of India’s first VVIP planes||The wait for the country’s first-ever VVIP planes has become slightly longer due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Aerospace manufacturer Boeing has sought an extension of two months from Air India to finish renovating two of the airline’s B 777-300 ER planes for use by the President, the Vice-President and the Prime Minister. The two brand new planes joined the Air India fleet in early 2018 and returned to Boeing’s headquarters in Dallas Fort-Worth in the U.S. six months later so that the passenger aircraft could be completely overhauled. The first of these two planes was scheduled to return to India by June 30 and the other by July 30. But they will now return on August 30 and September 30 respectively. “The retrofitment on the two planes is over but regulatory clearances from the U.S. aviation watchdog, Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), are pending. The State of Texas requires mandatory quarantine of 14 days for all incoming passengers, which has delayed these approvals. There have also been some manpower problems and that is why Boeing has requested for an extension of two months .... There will also be three or four test flights conducted before the plane is delivered,” said a government official familiar with these discussions. The revamped aircraft will include a press conference room, a conference room for VVIPs, a suite comprising a bedroom and a bathroom. In order to protect the country’s topmost dignitaries from aerial attacks, the aircraft will also be equipped with missile warning sensors and counter measures dispensing defence system, which are part of the large aircraft infrared countermeasures (LAIRCM) self-protection suites (SPS) provided by the U.S. government for $190 million. This will be the first time the top leadership of the country will have planes for their exclusive use. So far, the government borrowed Air India’s Boeing 747 planes for foreign trips of these three dignitaries. Over the past three years, the government has paid Rs. 4,632 crore towards these planes and bought them from Air India. Last week, a photograph of one of the two planes in its new livery went viral on social media. The photograph, attributed to Andy Egloff, showed the main body or fuselage of the Boeing 777-300 aircraft painted white and its undercarriage or belly painted grey. Once these planes land in India, Air India will de-register them and hand them over to the Indian Air Force. The planes will then be entered into the IAF’s registry and get a K-series registration number given to military aircraft.
08 June 2020||Chennai,||The Hindu Group’s COVID-19 campaign wins global award||The Hindu Group has won two awards at the International News Media Association (INMA) Global Media Awards 2020. This year, the competition received 922 entries for 16 categories from 262 news brands in 44 countries. Awards were given under Group 1 representing regional/local brands and Group 2 representing global/national brands. The INMA reopened the competition in April this year to add the pandemic response category to highlight the structured initiatives by media companies to instil hope, inspire trust, bring communities together and encourage interactivity and engagement during the COVID-19 pandemic. The winners, chosen from 12 finalists across over 95 countries, were announced in a global broadcast recently. In Group 2, The Hindu secured the first place for its campaign ‘Cadbury Sweet Kondattam’ for Client Mondelez India for ‘Best Idea to Acquire or Retain Advertising Clients’. The Hindu Group secured the second place for its ‘Stay home. Stay vigilant.’ campaign for ‘Best Initiative in Response to COVID-19’. Celebrating its 90th anniversary, the International News Media Association (INMA) is a global community of market-leading news media companies reinventing how they engage audiences and grow revenue in a multi-platform environment. The INMA community consists of more than 12,000 members at 800+ news media companies in 70 countries.
08 June 2020||HYDERABAD,||63 doctors tested positive in Telangana||With the spread of COVID-19 continuing unabated, the general advice for citizens is to restrict movement outside of home. But for frontline workers, especially healthcare professionals in government hospitals, it is a luxury they cannot afford. The risks that they expose themselves to every day, attending COVID-19 patients, can make one’s hair stand on end. But what is even unnerving is that they come across many asymptomatic patients, without either of them knowing about the latter’s infection status. It is only a matter of time, say junior and senior doctors, resigned to the fact that they too might contract COVID-19 sooner or later. What worries them most is the fear of exposing their family members and other patients to the virus. “It is a question of when, more than how,” avers a house surgeon (MBBS intern), summing up the state of mind of medical staff on COVID duty. Hospitals are among the high-risk areas, visited by people with various forms of diseases and infections. “There is no way that medical services will be stopped. So hospitals will continue to be high-risk zones,” the house surgeon says. Adding to the panic is the rising number of cases among healthcare professionals in unexpected facilities. Of at least 63 positive cases among doctors in the State till June 6, only four have been reported from Gandhi Hospital, the largest COVID isolation centre in in Telangana. The remaining 59 are from non-COVID government hospitals! A senior gynaecologist who attends COVID-19 patients says that she has been staying away from her diabetic husband as well as other family members to avoid spreading the virus if she too in case she contracts it. “We know we will also get infected at some point of time. And I am not going to stop serving patients. Sometimes, I wonder if I already got COVID-19 and recovered from it, being asymptomatic all along. We can’t avoid thinking about all these possibilities,” adds the gynaecologist. This opinion is not isolated to a few doctors. Many post-graduate students, house surgeons, senior resident doctors and other senior doctors are also mentally prepared for any eventuality. “A few weeks into the pandemic made us realise that we will get infected at some point. We are thankful that we have not been infected till now and are able to still serve patients,” says the house surgeon who works at the Modern Government Maternity Hospital (MGMH), Petlaburj, and tested negative in recently-conducted tests. On tenterhooks ‘Quit and come home’. This is the plea of family members and relatives of house surgeons. After testing negative in recently conducted tests, several MBBS students pursuing internship have been asked to return home. “Not just my family, my friends’ parents have also asked them to discontinue the internship and go home. But I stayed back as I might have contracted the infection on the day I was tested. Three of my friends tested positive. Besides, my conscience will not allow me to stay at home during this pandemic,” a house surgeon says. A man whose daughter works at Osmania General Hospital said that most of their family members want her to quit the internship and prepare for other opportunities. “Her grandmothers had assured to pay for her post graduate management seat though she got one by merit. They have asked her to discontinue the internship and prepare for United State Medical Licensing Examination. If my daughter is asked for work for six hours, she always puts in more hours. So she attends more patients. Given the current situation, isn’t life more important than career,” he questions.
08 June 2020||AHMEDABAD,||Resort booked as Cong. MLAs check in||The Gujarat police on Sunday booked the manager of a resort in Rajkot where the Congress has lodged some of its MLAs to protect them from poaching by the ruling BJP ahead of the June 19 Rajya Sabha election. After the resignation of its three MLAs, the Opposition party has taken its MLAs to different places. So far, eight MLAs of the party have resigned amid allegations of use of money and horse-trading in the run-up to the election to four seats. The Congress’s strength has now come down to 65 in the 182-member Assembly. Many shifted The party on June 7 shifted 21 of its MLAs to a resort on Abu Road in Rajasthan. After the resignation of three MLAs, the party had shifted its legislators to three resorts in Rajkot, Ambaji in Banaskantha district and Anand to thwart any attempt at “poaching” by the BJP, which has fielded three candidates, though it lacks the number to ensure their victory. In Rajkot, a police complaint was filed against the resort on Sunday for alleged violation of lockdown norms as hotels and resorts are shut due to the COVID-19 epidemic. “We have lodged the First Information Report against the owner and manager of Neelcity Resort where Congress MLAs are staying. They have been booked for flouting the lockdown notification by opening the resort,” said University Road Police Station Inspector R.S. Thakar. According to a party leader, 21 Congress MLAs are camping at a resort in Abu Road where a few more will go from north Gujarat on Monday. Abu Road is in Sirohi district of Rajasthan, which shares its border with Banaskantha in Gujarat. Gujarat Congress president Amit Chavda said that instead of fighting the pandemic, the BJP government was busy using its machinery to poach the MLAs of other parties.
08 June 2020||Hyderabad,||KCR may favour cancelling SSC exams||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has called for a meeting of senior officials on Monday to discuss the possibility of promoting all the 10th class students to higher classes with the coronavirus spreading exponentially thus reducing the chances of conducting the postponed exams. Though officials are unsure of Chief Minister’s views on this they believe cancelling the exams altogether for this year and promoting them based on some assessment is a big possibility. Going by the High Court’s poser to the government whether it would be able to conduct the SSC exams without even a single student getting affected with the virus there seem to be lesser chances of conducting the exam, an official said seeking anonymity. Ground situation on the pandemic is getting grimmer and there is no way the government can guarantee that the rigmarole of exams — from conducting to evaluation to declaration of results will be done smoothly. Moreover, the numbers are massive as more than 5 lakh students have to be taken care of. “But a huge decision of cancelling the exams has to be taken by the CM himself,” he said. Legal issues Can the students be promoted without landing in further legal battles? Teachers say it is not a big issue as the internal assessment marks for 20% of the total marks is already done, approved by the schools, accepted by the students and uploaded to the government website. So Summative Assessment-I and Summative Assessment-II marks can be calculated for 100% to grade the students. Moreover, it can avoid legal issues in future. The Punjab government has already promoted its 10th class students based on their 9th Class performance. The same method can be adopted here but some parents may challenge this as some students might not have performed well or rather taken those exams seriously. But SA-I and SA-II are more recent assessments of students with all the knowledge that they play a key role in the final grades. There is another argument of teachers on considering the pre-final marks for final grades but private schools might misuse to secure better grades as the marks are not yet passed onto the government. Credible option The only marks available with the government of all students are the SA-1 and SA-II scores and are tamper-proof as of now.
08 June 2020||June 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Delhi’s hospitals only for its ‘residents’: CM||“Private hospitals covering special treatments and surgeries will be open for all. This will make a balance for both the residents of Delhi and the people from all over the country,” he said. Last week, Mr. Kejriwal had asked people of the city for suggestions on whether hospital beds should be reserved for residents. Expert panel The Chief Minister also said that a five-member expert committee, headed by Vice-Chancellor of Guru Gobind Singh Indraprastha University Mahesh Verma had studied the situation in light of the increasing number of cases and in its report said that by the end of June, Delhi will need nearly 15,000 beds for COVID-19 patients. “They have suggested reserving the Delhi hospitals for the people of Delhi because if we open the hospitals for all then the COVID beds we have will be filled within three days,” said Mr. Kejriwal. Responding to the order, All India Institute of Medical Science director Dr. Randeep Guleria said living with COVID-19 is the new normal. “Every individual should take the responsibility to protect oneself and family and arrest the spread of virus,” Dr Guleria said.
08 June 2020||June 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Five Hizb militants killed in J&K: police||The bodies of the militants were retrieved from the site of the encounter, the spokesperson said. They belonged to the Hizbul Mujahideen terror outfit and one among them is believed to be a top commander, the police said. The spokesperson said in case any family claims the killed militants to be their kith or kin, they can come forward for their identification. Incriminating material, including arms and ammunition, were recovered from the site of encounter, he said.
08 June 2020||June 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Restore April status along LAC, says India||The Indian delegation was led by Lt. Gen. Harinder Singh, 14 Corps commander and the Chinese side was led by Maj. Gen. Liu Lin, Commander of South Xinjiang military region. Both sides agreed to peacefully resolve the situation in the border areas in accordance with various bilateral agreements and keeping in view the agreement between the leaders that peace and tranquillity in the India-China border regions is essential for the overall development of bilateral relations, the MEA stated. Communications open In a release indicating that the government is still hopeful of a resolution of the standoff that has lasted weeks, the MEA said both sides have “maintained communications” through diplomatic and military channels in recent weeks, and called for an “early resolution” to the situation at the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh. The senior military commander level talks are at the highest level so far in the series of military and diplomatic communications that the two sides have held to address the standoff. Tensions between the two sides have continued for more than a month, and serious skirmishes were reported between the Indian Army and PLA soldiers at several points of the Line of Actual Control in Ladakh and Sikkim since May 5, where China is understood to have made significant incursions, and the Indian Army has also bolstered its positions. In its release, the MEA said the two sides will continue diplomatic and military engagements to resolve the “situation”, without elaborating on developments on the ground. Talks at highest levels Communications between senior military commanders will ensure that tensions don’t flare up on the ground as talks continue at the highest levels to find a way to resolve the issue, an officer, who had served in the area in the past, said on condition of anonymity. “Like we saw in Doklam and other standoffs in the past, troops on the ground will remain dug up till the issue is resolved at the diplomatic or political level,” the officer said, adding that it could be a long haul. “Both sides also noted that this year marked the 70th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between the two countries and agreed that an early resolution would contribute to the further development of the relationship,” the MEA statement added.
08 June 2020||June 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Hospital ties man to bed for not paying bills||“We told the hospital we can’t pay any further and asked them to remove the catheter so that we can take him home,” she said. In order to secure his discharge, and get the case file, she was told another Rs. 11,270 would have to be paid. “They didn’t give us the file, so when we started leaving the hospital, and father was coming behind me, they grabbed him, took him inside and strapped him to the bed,” she said. Describing the act “inhuman” and “barbaric”, former Chief Minister Kamal Nath tweeted, “During this corona pandemic, inhuman behaviour, fleecing and arbitrariness is continuing in several private hospitals of the State. There is no one to listen to the public. The government should take strict action over the incident.”
08 June 2020||June 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Monuments with places of worship to open||According to a list of 821 monuments released by the Ministry, 114 were in the north region, 155 in central, 170 in west, 279 in south and 103 in east. While the Taj Mahal itself will continue to remain shut, the Fatehpuri Masjid on the south-west corner of its entrance, the mosque inside its premises and the Kali masjid near it will be opened. In Delhi, Friday prayers would be allowed in the Qutub archaeological area and at Afsah-wala-ki Masjid outside the west gate of Humayun’s Tomb, the list said. The Sankaracharya temple in Srinagar, the gurdwara in Bhatinda Fort in Punjab, the Buddhist monastery in Lamayuru, Leh and St. Mary’s Church in Fort St. George in Chennai will also be opened.
08 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||CPWD employee dies of COVID-19||An employee of the Central Public Works Department at its headquarters at Nirman Bhawan here died of COVID-19 on June 3, according to an official note sent to all staff on June 4. An assistant section officer, Patrick Tirkey, had been posted at the Director-General’s office and had last been present in the office on May 21, the note said. Last month, two officials in the office of the ADG (HR) had tested positive for COVID-19, after which their offices were sanitised, an official said.
08 June 2020||Bengaluru,||Deve Gowda ready to contest RS elections||H.D. Deve Gowda, former Prime Minister and Janata Dal (Secular) supremo, who has been urged by party colleagues to contest the Rajya Sabha polls, has indicated his willingness to contest, party sources have said. Though no word has come out officially from the party as to who the candidate would be to contest the polls, party sources said that Mr. Gowda has indicated his approval to contest. On Friday, the JDLP had moved an one line resolution stating that Mr. Gowda should be the party’s candidate even as former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy had said that Mr. Gowda was yet to decide. June 19 Polls to four Rajya Sabha seats will be held on June 19 and the last day for filing nominations is Tuesday. In case the BJP decides to field only two candidates, then the elections will be unanimous. The four Rajya Sabha members retiring on June 25, include JD(S) member Kupendra Reddy. If Mr. Gowda is elected, this will be the second time in his six-decade political career that he would have entered Rajya Sabha. His last entry to the Upper House was in 1996 when he became the Prime Minister.  Mallikarjun Kharge to file papers today Meanwhile, senior Congress leader M. Mallikarjuna Kharge is scheduled to file his nomination papers on Monday. Before accompanying Mr. Kharge to Vidhana Soudha for filing nominations, the Leader of Opposition Siddaramaiah convened a meeting of all MLAs, MLCs, Lok Sabha and Rajya Sabha members at the party office. Anticipating a crowd of supporters of the veteran Congress leader, KPCC president designate D.K. Shivakumar appealed to party workers and Mr. Kharge’s supporters not to turn up at the venue for the nomination filing. “We have to adhere to social distancing norms. I appeal to all not to come to Bengaluru and be disappointed. One can congratulate Mr. Kharge once he gets elected.”
08 June 2020||Bengaluru,||Kannada actor Chiranjeevi Sarja dead||Kannada actor Chiranjeevi Sarja passed away at a city hospital on Sunday afternoon. He was 39. He is suspected to have died of cardiac arrest. The news came as a shock to the industry. Sources close to the family said the actor suffered convulsions on Saturday and he took medicines after consulting a doctor. However, he developed breathlessness in the night and also complained of chest pain on Sunday afternoon. He was taken to hospital, where he was declared brought dead. “He was brought in an unresponsive state to the hospital at 2.18 p.m. All efforts to resuscitate him failed and he was declared dead,” said Dr. G. Govindaiah Yateesh, unit head, Apollo Speciality Hospital, Jayanagar. Doctors suspected that he died of a cardiac arrest. He tested negative for COVID-19. A senior doctor said the golden hour was lost before the patient was brought into the hospital. “The patient has suffered convulsions and breathlessness on Saturday afternoon. He should have been rushed to the hospital on Saturday itself, and if done so maybe we could have saved him,” a senior doctor said. The last rites will be conducted at the family’s native village, Jakkanahalli, in Tumakuru district on Monday. Chiranjeevi Sarja came from a family of film artistes. He was the grandson of well-known Kannada actor the late Shakti Prasad. He was the nephew of noted multi-lingual actor Arjun Sarja. Chiranjeevi Sarja made his film debut in 2009 with the Kannada film Vayuputra and acted in 22 films. Four other films, with him as the lead actor, are in various stages of production. He married Kannada actor Meghana Raj, daughter of well-known actors Sundar Raj and Pramila Joshai, in May 2018. Actor Tara, who broke down at the hospital on Sunday evening, revealed that Ms. Meghana Raj was pregnant. “He was too young to go like this,” she lamented. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and Leader of the Opposition in the Legislative Assembly Siddaramaiah, and people from the Kannada film industry have mourned the death of Chiranjeevi Sarja. “He had a bright career and future ahead. It is sad that we lost a talent, so young,” said the Chief Minister.
08 June 2020||Mumbai,||Several barred from flight to Frankfurt||Several Indians returning to the United States and Canada said they were not allowed to board a repatriation flight operating to Frankfurt and beyond after they reached the Mumbai airport from various parts of India on Sunday. Vancouver resident Pal Pillai, among those who were denied boarding on the Lufthansa flight, said, “They started checking passengers outside the terminal. There was a lot of confusion ... and the checking staff kept referring matters to their seniors who were inside the terminal building. When my turn came, I was turned away citing that the Directorate General of Civil Aviation rules did not allow permanent residents of Canada like me to fly.” Mr. Pillai, a partner at a sports photography agency and who came to Mumbai in early March as part of an assignment for the Indian Premier League, has a 6-year-old son and a wife in Vancouver. He has been staying in Dombivali with his senior citizen parents. “All the passengers turned away, some 15-odd of us had tickets and boarding passes. We had filled up all our details and the airline not once disclosed that there was a rule preventing us from flying. Bookings should have not been processed to begin with. They have made this a joke,” said Mr. Pillai who booked his ticket just 40-hours earlier paying Rs. 98,000. ‘Rude behaviour’ Arifa Desai, who came from Surat, was also among those who were refused boarding. “I waited for 6 hours hoping that they would clarify the rules... when I finally went inside the terminal with the help of security personnel, the aircraft had already taken off. The staff spoke to me rudely when I mentioned that they should have informed us” Passengers alleged that the airline blamed it on the government, though there was no rule stopping their travel. In a statement, a Lufthansa spokesperson said overall, flights currently were subject to entry regulations set by countries worldwide. “As for India, the German embassy has obtained approval for Lufthansa to operate two relief flights to and from Mumbai. The approval includes all E.U. nationals and E.U. residents, as well as U.S. and Canadian nationals and their spouses [including Indian spouses]. However, we do not have the permission by the Indian government to fly Indian citizens to the U.S. and Canada yet, even if they hold a working/residence permit for these countries.” The airline said all information related to both flights had been published on the Lufthansa India customer website, including travel regulations set by Indian authorities. Based on demand, Lufthansa is operating two repatriation flights from Mumbai to Frankfurt.
08 June 2020||LUCKNOW,||Police probe Prayagraj teacher recruitment racket||Five persons were arrested in Prayagraj for allegedly taking money to help candidates clear a teacher recruitment test. The police are investigating the case, in which eight have been booked. The arrest comes a week after the Allahabad High Court stayed the process to appoint 69,000 assistant basic education teachers after discrepancies were found in the answer key published with the result.
08 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||CBI books four Bhopal policemen in woman’s “self-immolation” case||The CBI has booked four policemen in connection with the death of a 30-year-old woman of Pardhi community due to self-immolation in Bhopal in 2017 over alleged harassment for a bribe of Rs. 20,000. A petition was filed in Madhya Pradesh High Court’s by the victim Indermal Bai’s relatives. The petitioners had alleged that police continuously harassed her for bribe, following which she set herself ablaze.
08 June 2020||Jaipur,||Hospital apologises for anti-Muslim chat||The owner of a private hospital in Rajasthan’s Churu district has tendered an unconditional apology after some online chats among its staff members, which allegedly disparaged Muslim patients, went viral on the social media. The police have launched a probe. The WhatsApp chats allegedly suggested it was best not to attend to them, as the infection was spreading among the community.     We have never discriminated against Muslim patients Sunil Chaudhary Srichand Bardia Rog Nidan Kendra
08 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||National Gallery of Modern Art to hold online summer art workshops||The National Gallery of Modern Art in Delhi on Sunday said that it would hold its annual summer art workshops online. “Naimisha 2020” would be held from Monday till July 3, the NGMA said. The workshops would be on painting, sculpture, printmaking and ‘indrajaal’ — an interdisciplinary creative workshop.
08 June 2020||Hyderabad,||Young reporter with COVID-19 dies in Hyderabad||A 33-year-old reporter from Hyderabad who contracted COVID-19 died on Sunday morning. The young reporter who resided in Saidabad was employed with a Telugu TV news channel. He got married a little over six months ago and is survived by a pregnant wife. After initially being admitted in Fever Hospital, he was shifted to Gandhi Hospital, on June 4 upon testing positive for coronavirus. He suffered from fever and cough for three days prior to admission into the hospital. Gandhi Hospital Superintendent M. Raja Rao said the reporter developed breathlessness on afternoon of the same day (June 4), and was shifted to Intensive Care Unit (ICU). As his oxygen saturation levels were not proper, oxygen was provided to him. Teams of doctors including physicians, anaesthetists, pulmonologists, and the superintendent frequently attended him. “But he suffered from cardiac arrest on Sunday morning. He was resuscitated but could not be revived and declared dead at 9.37 a.m.,” Dr. Rao said. About possible reasons for the death, he said that the patient suffered from Myasthenia Gravis (neuromuscular disorder) — in which all muscles have weakness including respiratory muscles. Further, the patient’s Thymus Gland was removed earlier as part of treatment for the neuromuscular disorder, and he was on steroids for the condition. “Along with the co-morbidities, he had COVID-19, bilateral pneumonia with Type-1 respiratory failure and Acute Respiratory Syndrome (ARDS). We tried our best but he couldn’t be revived,” the Superintendent said.
08 June 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,||Sand removal work progressing||The District Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) task force headed by Vinay Goyal, Thiruvalla Subcollector, has intensified the sand and debris clearance from the river course of the Pampa on the fourth day on Sunday. Dr. Goyal said 17 earth movers had been deployed for removing the sand, clay and boulders as well as the debris left by the floods of August, 2018. The work started on Thursday to avert chances of floods similar to that of 2018 at Pampa and surrounding areas during the ensuing monsoon. According to Dr. Goyal, 4,007 cubic metres (1,092 truckloads) of sand had been removed till Sunday afternoon. He said the work was progressing fast and more trucks and earth movers would be pressed into service, if needed. The intermittent rainfall disrupted the work often and the task force was trying its best to complete the work before the monsoon strengthened, he said. The Irrigation Department had quantified the quantum of sand deposit at 75,000 cubic metre, while a Revenue Department survey had put it at 1.29 lakh cubic metre. Dr. Goyal said officials attached to the departments of Forest, Irrigation and Revenue were camping at Pampa with a mission to complete the task as early as possible. The sand and other debris collected from the river course have been dumped in the open forest area near the KSRTC depot at Chakkupalam.
08 June 2020||B. Tilak Chandar,TAMIL NADU||Bar association moves HC against advocate||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has appointed an amicus curiae to assist the court in a case where Srivilliputhur Bar Association has alleged that an advocate, now suspended from the association, had started practising even before he had cleared the All India Bar Examination. A Division Bench of Justices P.N. Prakash and B. Pugalendhi appointed an amicus curiae to assist the court in ascertaining if the allegation made by the Association was true. The petition was filed by S. Thirumalaiappan, secretary of the Association, against advocate J. Auspin Jack. The petitioner said during the scrutiny of members’ list, it was found that Auspin Jack who became a member of the Bar Association in 2016 had not cleared the AIBE, mandatory for all law graduates. When the petitioner contacted the Bar Council of Tamil Nadu and Puducherry, he was informed that the advocate had been suspended for four years. He was suspended in 2015 for not clearing the AIBE and the suspension had been revoked in 2019. It was said that he had continued to practise during this period. Subsequently, he was removed from the Association. A police complaint was lodged. However, no action was taken against the advocate, and hence the petition was filed, the petitioner said.
08 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Corpn. to distribute HCQ among civic workers||With the number of cases rising, the Greater Chennai Corporation is set to distribute hydroxychloroquine (HCQ) to civic workers and asymptomatic contacts. This follows a revised government order on permitting use of hydroxychloroquine for prophylaxis treatment of SARS CoV-2 infection for a period beyond eight weeks with strict monitoring of clinical and ECG parameters. At least 35,000 front line workers in Chennai and thousands of asymptomatic contacts of positive cases are expected to get hydroxychloroquine with medical supervision. Earlier, the civic body had advised top ranking officials to take hydroxychloroquine. But most of the front line workers were not provided with the medication. Many officials who received hydroxychloroquine tablets did not take them, fearing side effects. Instead, they opted for herbal concoctions to boost their immunity. After the new guidelines of ICMR, the State government has directed the civic bodies and district administration to give 400 mg of hydroxychloroquine twice a day on day one followed by once every week for the next seven weeks. Hydroxychloroquine will be supplied to front line workers beyond the eighth week also. Civic officials will not prescribe the dosage for workers with pre-existing cardiomyopathy or retinopathy. Asymptomatic contacts, including children aged under 15, pregnant women and lactating women will not be given hydroxychloroquine. The workers and the asymptomatic contacts are expected to get hydroxychloroquine after screening, including ECG. Corporation workers said the monitoring of side effects of hydroxychloroquine is expected to be challenging during the pandemic. In the past few weeks of COVID-19 containment work, many workers received tablets without knowing anything about the medication and their condition. Revised order After the revised government order with detailed guidelines, the front line workers are expected to get clarity on prophylaxis treatment during the pandemic. The prophylaxis treatment is expected to reduce the spread in containment zones where front line workers are doing duty. The Corporation, in a tweet on Sunday, has reported an increase in the death rate. The death rate which remained around 0.8% for the past few weeks has increased to 0.9% this weekend. Zones such as Royapuram, Tondiarpet, Thiru Vi Ka Nagar, Anna Nagar, Teynampet, Kodambakkam, Valasaravakkam and Adyar have reported a rise in number of positive cases. The number of positive cases has been rising in other zones also. The COVID-19 positive cases have crossed 22,000, with over 0,000 active cases. Officials are exploring the possibility of increasing COVID-19 bed capacity in major hospitals which is around 9,500. The bed capacity, including in COVID-19 care centres, is only 17,500. Work is under way to increase the bed capacity, the officials added.
08 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State records 1,497 fresh cases while Chennai sees another surge||Chennai saw yet another massive spike in COVID-19 cases on Sunday, with 1,155 persons testing positive for the infection. The other districts of Tamil Nadu added 342 cases, bringing the day’s tally to 1,497. The number of active cases in Chennai stands at 10,982. In all, the city accounts for 22,149 cases, of which 10,954 have been discharged. As of Sunday, the State had 14,396 active cases, including those under home isolation. As many as 604 persons were discharged from hospitals across the State, bringing the total number of patients discharged to 16,999. The medical bulletin of the Directorate of Public Health termed one case ‘imported’. Seven returnees from abroad and 11 passengers who had come to the State from various parts of the country had tested positive. As of Sunday, the total number of people who had tested positive stood at 31,667*. As many as 15,671 persons were tested in a single day. 18 deaths Of the 18 deaths recorded across the State on Sunday, one death each was reported from Vellore, Tiruvallur and Chengalpattu. The remaining fatalities had occurred in hospitals in Chennai. While five persons died in private hospitals, government hospitals accounted for the remaining fatalities. Fifteen of the deceased had co-morbid conditions, but three of them had succumbed to the viral infection. Three patients, who had no co-morbid conditions, succumbed to COVID-19. They had all been admitted to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital. Among the deceased was a 44-year-old woman who was admitted to the hospital on May 30, two days after her test samples returned positive for the infection. A 49-year-old man, who was admitted on Friday, died on Saturday. His sample, which was taken on May 30 at Tondiarpet GH, came back positive on June 1. A 50-year-old man from the city, who had tested positive for the infection on May 29, was admitted to the hospital the next day. He died on Saturday night. Of the 1,48,797 passengers who had arrived in Tamil Nadu through various entry points till Saturday, as many as 1,826 have tested positive. The highest number of COVID-19 cases were detected among people who had arrived either by their own vehicle or by bus, the government bulletin noted. Returnees test positive Among the passengers who tested positive on Saturday were four returnees from Kuwait and five from the United Arab Emirates, all of whom had travelled through Tiruvananthapuram airport to reach Kanniyakumari district. One other passenger from the United Arab Emirates had returned to Thoothukudi district through the Tiruvananthapuram airport. (* Two deaths were cross-notified to other States. One patient died after turning negative for the infection .)  Of the 18 deaths recorded across the State on Sunday, 15 occurred in hospitals in Chennai
08 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chennai accounts for roughly one in every four tests carried out in T.N.||The district-wise data on COVID-19 testing, released by the Health and Family Welfare Department for the first time on Sunday, showed that roughly one in every four tests in the State was performed in Chennai. The city, which accounts for close to 70% of the cases in Tamil Nadu, accounted for 23.13% of the tests performed in the State. Of the 5,27,212 samples tested as per the data released by the department, 1,21,950 were from Chennai. While the tests conducted per million population (tpm) data for districts were released on a couple of occasions before, this was the first time that the State released the absolute number of tests performed in different districts. The data, however, did not reflect the latest figures and was based on information uploaded so far by all the laboratories on the ICMR portal, the medical bulletin said. Coimbatore stood a distant second with 22,872 samples tested, which is less than 20% of the tests performed in Chennai. As observed in the tpm data released earlier, there was no clear correlation between the number of cases and the number of tests. Ariyalur which has the eighth-highest number of cases in the State, came last in terms of testing, with just 3,950 tests performed. On the other hand, Kanniyakumari, which ranked fifth in the number of tests performed (18,366), had only 87 cases, placing it at the 27th rank in terms of the number of cases. The testing to positive cases rate also varied widely between the districts, indicating how some districts were testing fewer numbers of contacts for every new case detected than other districts.
08 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Cabin crew find it tough to be in PPE for long hours||Flight attendants work like front line warriors, completely covered from head to toe in personal protection equipment (PPE). Unlike healthcare professionals, they are not used to donning these clothes for long hours. While it is manageable on short haul flights, being airborne with these PPEs for over two-and-a-half hours or more is tough, say some flight attendants. “Of course, it is for our own safety and we want to wear them too. But to drink water and have a quick bite is difficult while wearing them. We need help from colleagues to take them off even to have a sip of water. We can go without drinking water for short flights but for long flights, like on Delhi-Chennai trip, it is exhausting to go on without water because we keep walking every now and then,” said a cabin crew member of an airline. Acid test The real difficulty will arise when regular international passenger operations begin, say some of the flight attendants. “It is quite suffocating wearing the PPE over the airline uniform for a few hours. I am scared to think how it will be if we have to be in them for something like 10 hours or 12 hours in the coming months. Maybe, we will eventually get used to it. After all, this is the way forward,” another cabin crew member said.
08 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘T.N. has highest recovery rate in India, lowest number of deaths in the world’||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Sunday said Tamil Nadu had the highest recovery rate among COVID-19 patients in the country and the lowest number of deaths in the world. This, he said, was thanks to the combined efforts of the government and the people, who had extended their support to the lockdown rules. In an eight-page statement detailing the measures taken by the government for the benefit of the public, industries and farmers since the first case of COVID-19 was reported in Tamil Nadu, Mr. Palaniswami repeatedly referred to the precautionary measures taken by his regime. The Chief Minister’s statement comes at a time when the State’s case count has been surging and has already crossed the 30,000-mark. Tamil Nadu has reported over 1,000 cases a day for the past one week. Chennai alone accounted for nearly 21,000 cases, as of June 6. “Even before the virus entered Tamil Nadu, our State had set an example for the country and had taken several measures. When we came to know of the spread of the virus in China, as early as in January, I ordered that stringent precautionary measures should be taken immediately. When our first case was detected on March 7, multiple measures were taken immediately to prevent its spread,” he said. The CM said Tamil Nadu’s testing rate for COVID-19 patients was higher than most other States. “As of June 4, we had tested more than 5.50 lakh samples. It was due to the high testing rate that we were able to ascertain that 86% of those infected were asymptomatic. Since we understood this, we were able to take various measures to prevent the spread of the virus,” he said. He listed various steps taken by the government with the help of sanitation workers, local bodies and district officials, including the creation of additional healthcare facilities. Notwithstanding the measures being taken by the government, the Chief Minister said that without the people’s support, it would not be possible to defeat COVID-19. He requested everyone to maintain physical distancing, wear a mask while outdoors, step outside only for essential purposes and follow a healthy diet.
08 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Despite vacancies dozen IPS officers await promotion||At least a dozen IPS officers in the rank of Deputy Inspector-General of Police and Superintendent of Police are awaiting promotion though many of them were declared fit for elevation months ago. While their batchmates in other States have already been promoted and given posting, these officers are keeping their fingers crossed even as vacancies exist. A couple of months ago the 1995-batch of IPS officers comprising IGPs S. Davidson Devasirvatham, Sandeep Mittal (on central deputation), S. Bala Naga Devi (on inter-cadre deputation) and S.N. Seshasai (retired from service on May 31) were promoted to the rank of Additional Director-General of Police. But officers belonging to the 2002 batch in the rank of IGPs — J. Loganathan, Kapil Kumar C Saratkar, N. Kannan, Santosh Kumar, P.C Thenmozhi, G. Karthikeyan, K. Joshi Normal Kumar and K. Bhavaneeswari — though declared fit for elevation in February were not issued orders of promotion/posting. Similarly, the 2006 batch has nine IPS officers — Abhishek Dixit, S. Mallikha, B. Shamoondeswari, S. Lakshmi, S. Rajeswari, M. Pandian, S. Rajendran, M.S. Muthusamy and N.M Mylvahanan — who are awaiting promotion. Though sources in the police headquarters say the proposals relating to the promotion/posting of both batches were sent to the Home Department, a decision on issuing the orders would have to be taken at the highest level. “It is just not the IPS officers who are waiting for promotion/postings. There are officers in other ranks like Additional Deputy Superintendents of Police, Deputy Superintendents of Police etc who are on the verge of retirement waiting for elevation. A fresh batch of Group-I DSPs who completed their practical training are waiting for postings since six months now,” a senior police official said. TNPA in trouble? In another issue, the Tamil Nadu Police Academy, considered one of the country’s best police training centres, is going through a leadership crisis with most of its senior officers either proceeding on leave or on deputation. While the ADGP, TNPA, has been roped in to monitor COVID-19 control strategy in Chennai City, the IGP was on medical leave, two SPs and one DSP were on leave, sources in the academy said, adding that about three other officials were also on medical leave due to COVID-19. The DGP (Training) has deputed a DIG-rank officer to supervise the affairs of the academy that provides training for not only the direct recruit Group-I DSPs, Sub-Inspectors etc, but serves as a training platform for other Central/State law-enforcing agencies. “The ADGP is on official duty managing the pandemic in the city and the IGP has proceeded on medical leave. The other two SPs have availed leave as per norms. The DGP/Head of Police Force had a discussion with the DGP (Training) on this issue on Saturday. Posting officers in the vacancies in TNPA [that arose due to officers going on leave/deputation] is a decision to be taken by the government,” an official in the police headquarters said.
08 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Panel asks college to share admission procedure||The Tamil Nadu Information Commission has directed the Women’s Christian College here to share details of admission procedure sought by a student under the Right to Information Act, 2005. The case arises out of a petition filed by N. Yashwi Reddy of Tiruvallur district who had applied for admission to M.Sc (Applied Psychology) and did not get a seat last year. The student filed a petition under RTI seeking status of her candidature, eligibility criteria for admission, details of marks and cut-off marks. The college Principal/Public Information Officer replied that the candidate was not selected and denied information to other questions stating that it had no public interest. Aggrieved over the denial of information, the applicant filed an appeal under Section 19(1) of the Act before the First Appellate Authority and when there was no response, she moved the Tamil Nadu Information Commission under the provisions of Section 19(3) of the Act. Admission criteria Pointing to a reference made by the Principal/PIO that the procedure was as per the “admission criteria followed in a minority institution especially in relation to Women’s Christian College, Chennai”, the State Information Commissioner S. Muthuraj said that the reply was “vague” in nature. Referring to the University Grants Commission Guidelines for Autonomous Colleges, 2017, with regard to mandatory disclosures to be made on official websites, he said admission procedures should be stated clearly for the convenience of the public. Mr. Muthuraj said that the admission criteria and the procedure should not be veiled but made transparent for the public and subject to disclosure under the RTI Act. Stating that the Madras High Court in the Tamil Nadu Dr Ambedkar Law University vs the Tamil Nadu Information Commission had ruled that “evaluated answer book is also an information under the RTI,” he said the plea of the petitioner seeking to know the marks obtained by her in the written examination/interview and the cut off marks was an information that could be obtained under the Act. Mr. Muthuraj said that in the facts and circumstances of the case, the Commission found that the petitioner had established her case and directed the Principal/PIO to give information sought by her within 15 days.
08 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Only 40% of restaurants may re-open today||Only 40% of hotels in and around Chennai will be re-opening for dine-ins on Monday. Around 30% of the restaurant owners are in a wait-and-watch mood, while the rest are grappling with labour shortage and cash crunch. According to industry estimates, the city has over 9,500 eateries, including bakeries and coffee shops. “There is a huge manpower shortage in the hotel industry and it would easily take over six months [depending on the COVID-19 situation] to get back to normalcy,” said M. Ravi, president, The Chennai Hotels Association and chairman of Vasanta Bhavan Hotels India Pvt. Ltd. “Many hoteliers are facing a huge cash crunch to resume operations. The government should come forward and remove GST for one year and also ensure banks provide a lending hand to the industry,” he said. While there would not be any immediate impact on prices, hotels that are opening have decided to drop many items from the menu and the major players are opening only select outlets where they see potential for good footfall. For instance, of its 30 outlets in Chennai, Vasanta Bhavan will open only its Mylapore and Maduravoyal branches for dine-in. Touch-free transaction Dindigul Thalappakatti has said that it would re-open only 18 of its 30 outlets for dine-in in Chennai. “We will have takeaways at all the other restaurants,” said Sathish D. Nagasamy, Managing Director of the group. All outlets will have a QR code, which will direct customers to the menu page. After the order is placed, the server will scan the order confirmation. Those who are not tech-savvy will be given takeaway menu cards. K.T. Srinivasa Raja, managing director of Adyar Ananda Bhavan Sweets India Pvt. Ltd. that owns the A2B chain of hotels, said they would be opening only select outlets. “We have adequate staff to run business and most of our cooks are from Tamil Nadu only. We had migrant workers in cleaning and washing zones only,” he said. “We cut down the menu as we want to give food items that can be made and served fast. Our takeaways have improved and we are witnessing good traction there,” he added. Hotel Pandian, which has six branches in Ambattur and Gummudipoondi, is expecting only 30% footfall. Its owner Muthamil Pandian said he was facing a shortage of labour. “We have reduced the seating capacity from 150 to 40 now,” he said. On Sunday, hotels that are set to allow dine-in on Monday sanitised their premises. Managers have been instructed to check every customer and ensure that they follow safety protocol. Most hotels have pushed aside eight-seat tables and have only kept only three-seat or four-seat tables now.
08 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Despite high prices, meat markets see good sales||Despite high prices, Sunday morning witnessed large crowds milling fish and meat markets. At the Kasimedu market, which had temporary structures to ensure people maintained personal distancing, wholesalers and fishermen returning on boats followed the rules. However, retailers, who carry fish to residential localities, threw all caution to the winds and rushed with their baskets to buy fish. At Nochikuppam, though sellers sat apart and vehicles were not allowed inside, customers were seen rushing to spots where boats landed. “This is because many other markets are not open. The high prices were due to the fact that mechanised boats are yet to leave the shores. Maybe in a week or ten days things will settle down,” a fisher said. K. Bharathi of South Indian Fishermen Welfare Association said the Fisheries Department must take steps to sell fish through more mobile outlets. “The Tamil Nadu Fisheries Development Corporation and the fishermen’s cooperatives should join hands to sell fish in residential localities to avoid people crowding to one place,” he said. Markets on Mount-Poonamalee Road and at Vanagaram, and meat stalls at Thirumangalam were busy.
08 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Over 1,000 beds available at private facilities in and around Chennai||As of Sunday, Chennai had 1,065 vacant beds in the 21 private hospitals that offer treatment for COVID-19. As many as 98 ventilators in these hospitals were yet to be used, according to statistics provided on the State government’s websitehttps://covid.uhcitp.in/stat- us/dashboard Though the government had launched a separate dashboard, detailing the number of beds, vacancies in beds and the number of ventilators put to use, it is limited to the city. The corresponding details for the districts have not been provided yet. On Saturday, actor Kasthuri Shankar took to social media to complain that an elderly woman had struggled to find an affordable facility for treatment of COVID-19. She said the woman, belonging to an influential family in Chennai, had tested positive at a private hospital in Abiramapuram. She was “highly symptomatic”, and “no hospital was willing to admit her, no beds available was the reply at government facilities. They had to pull strings to finally get into a hospital in Porur”, the actor tweeted. Her tweet appeared on the same day that the government issued an order capping the treatment cost at private hospitals across the State. Speaking about the government notification, Health Secretary Beela Rajesh said, “There were complaints that an artificial shortage of beds was being created by hospitals.” On Sunday, the number of active cases in the city stood at 10,982. As for the districts, she said the case load was low, and there had been no issues with regard to availability of beds. The portal would provide the details for districts as well ‘shortly’, she said. Treatment for COVID-19 is provided free of cost at government hospitals. For nearly three weeks now, government hospitals have been struggling as the case load in Chennai has been steadily increasing.
08 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Early diagnosis of cancer crucial, say doctors||Early diagnosis of cancer helps increase the possibility of cure for patients to a great extent, said doctors participating in a ‘Cancer Survivors’ Day’ virtual conference organised by EsoIndia on Sunday. Pala Babu Rajesh, the first Indian-origin doctor to be elected vice-president of the Royal College of Surgeons of Edinburg, said that though there was always a possibility of relapse in cancer, the possibility of a potential cure was high when diagnosed early. Highlighting that those successfully treated for cancer had overcome a great challenge in their lives, Dr. Rajesh opined that ‘survivors’ may not be the right term to refer to them. Mallika Tiruvadanan, palliative medicine specialist, said that the scope and understanding of palliative care had changed over time. “It is not only for those who are terminally ill. Palliative care can help those in the initial stages of cancer. It can help them deal with the treatment,” she said. S.M. Chandramohan, gastrointestinal surgeon and founder of EsoIndia, highlighted various awareness programmes organised by the team stressing the importance of early diagnosis of cancer. He explained how treatment options had considerably improved over the years. Many patients who successfully underwent treatment shared their experiences.
08 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||25 women apply for V-C post at Madras University||The list of aspirants to the post of Vice-Chancellor of the University of Madras has as many as 177 persons, including around 25 women and professors from within the university. Among the applicants is Kalyani Mathivanan, whose tenure at the Madurai Kamaraj University ended with allegations of arbitrarily removing some professors from the post of head of department. The prestigious 163-year-old university has been in serious financial trouble in the last decade. Mismanagement of funds has landed the university in financial crisis in the past decade. P. Duraisamy, who completed his tenure on May 26 as Vice-Chancellor, managed to bring some amount of order in the financial structure. “I am surprised to see that a substantial number of women have applied. Madras University has never had a lady as a V-C till now. It would be a welcome change,” said P. T. Srinivasan, former Syndicate Member and head of the Department of Management Studies.
08 June 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Anna varsity issues circular on exams||Anna University has released a detailed circular on the examination process and the method of assessment of students in the wake of the situation arising out of the COVID-19 pandemic. The Controller of Examinations (CoE) said that this was a one-time decision, in view of the extraordinary circumstances, and that the university was not setting a precedent. The circular, dated June 4, said the decision was taken based on a meeting held in May by the vice-chancellor and the chairman of the academic council. The university had revised the academic calendar for the new semester. While faculty members have been advised to continue engaging students through online classes and fora, online internal assessments, tests and project reviews should not be conducted, “considering the social and economic disparities among students and the absence of an online mechanism to conduct the test”, and taking into consideration the fact that rural areas do not have access to proper bandwidth, the CoE said. The circular called for an exam schedule that will not overlap with the ongoing semester. There is no change in the question paper pattern. The current batch of students in UG and PG programmes will undergo a short “crash course” soon after colleges reopen to facilitate pending internal assessments and examinations. Exams for final-semester students of both UG and PG courses will be held soon after colleges reopen. Lower-semester students will be permitted to return to the college and the hostel after exams for final-semester students are completed.
08 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chief Minister’s speech disappointing: Stalin||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Sunday said Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami's speech was disappointing and did not detail any concrete plans to tackle the COVID-19 situation and help people whose livelihoods have been affected. In a Facebook post, he urged the Chief Minister not to make mere statements and cite statistics on the handling of the COVID-19 situation, but take serious action for containment of the pandemic. “What happened to the announcement on converting marriage halls and schools into hospitals?” he asked. He reiterated the demand of the DMK and its allies that the State government should provide Rs. 5,000 per month as relief to all ration cardholders. Mr. Stalin said Chennai was the worst-affected and was suffering from non-availability of hospital beds. Earlier in the day, he urged the State Control Room to disclose the number of beds and ventilators available in private and government hospitals in Chennai. Mr. Stalin also urged the government to review whether community spread had begun in Chennai and take all precautionary measures. Alleging under-reporting of deaths, he called on the government to announce the “right number” of fatalities. “The government has failed miserably in handling the COVID-19 crisis. The under-reporting of deaths is not justified and is condemnable,” Mr. Stalin said. He pointed out that the daily medical bulletin does not contain information on the number of people admitted to Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital, Stanley Medical College Hospital, Kilpauk Medical College and Omandurar Medical College Hospital, among others, the number of available ventilators, how many people are on ventilators, and the break-up of deaths due to coronavirus and those due to other reasons. Mr. Stalin said there was a lot of confusion over the government’s handling of the COVID-19 situation in Chennai, citing lapses in decision-making with regard to the operation of the Koyambedu market. “It took a month for the government to decide on the Koyambedu market. It is hesitant to disclose whether community spread has happened, despite cases increasing zone-wise. First, they appointed a committee of IPS officers, then they appointed J. Radhakrishnan as a special officer, and now a five-member ministerial group. Also, IAS officer Pankaj Kumar Bansal was appointed as Special Coordinator to Greater Chennai Corporation,” he noted. Mr. Stalin said the five zones in Chennai with maximum number of cases should be declared as ‘severe containment zones’ and the government should supply all necessary commodities to the people in these zones and take firm action on controlling the spread of the virus. “Despite all the confusion and mismanagement, why has the Chief Minister allowed Local Administration Minister S.P. Velumani to continue in his post,” he asked.
08 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||IAS posts reshuffled||The Tamil Nadu government effected a minor reshuffle of IAS officers on Sunday. TNEB head shifted Vikram Kapur, additional Chief Secretary, Chairman and Managing Director, Tamil Nadu Electricity Board (TNEB) & Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation Limited (Tangedco), and Chairman, Tamil Nadu Transmission Corporation Limited (Tantransco), has been transferred and posted as Additional Chief Secretary, Tourism, Culture and Religious Endowments Department, replacing Dr. Sandeep Saxena. Pradeep Yadav, Principal Secretary and Managing Director, Chennai Metro Rail Limited, has been given full additional charge of TNEB and Tangedco as CMD, and Chairman, Tantransco, till further orders.  Forest Dept. Dr. Saxena, has been transferred and posted as additional Chief Secretary, Environment and Forest Department, a post held by Shambu Kallolikar. Mr. Kallolikar has been transferred and posted as Principal Secretary, Handlooms, Handicrafts, Textiles and Khadi Department, replacing Pradeep Yadav, who held additional charge of the department. S. K. Prabakar, additional Chief Secretary, Home, Prohibition and Excise Department, has been give full additional charge of the post of Principal Secretary, Energy Department in the place of A. Karthik, who held additional charge.
08 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Man in drunken state sets ablaze wife, children||The Maduravoyal police have launched a hunt to nab a 44-year-old man from Kolkata who allegedly set ablaze his wife, son and daughter. The police said Maqbool Ali, 44, from Kolkata had come to the city a few years ago and was living with his family at a rented house at Noombal. He was working with a private firm but quit his job later. While his wife Koresha Begam, 40, and son Akram Ali, 21, were working in a shoe manufacturing company, his 13-year-old daughter was studying in Class 7 in a private school. The police said his wife threw him out of the house as he was jobless and took to drinking. On Saturday night, an inebriated Ali quarrelled with his wife and dozed off in front of the house. In the early hours of Sunday, he set his wife and children ablaze after pouring petrol on them. Neighbours alerted the police. The victims were rushed to the Government Kilpauk Medical College Hospital. The woman and son died of burns, the police said. Taxi driver murdered A 31-year-old call-taxi driver was hacked to death in Pallikaranai police station limits. After recovering his body from a vacant plot on Medavakkam Koot Road, the police launched a probe to trace the killers. The body bore several stab wounds. The police identified the victim as Samkumar, 31, of Rajakilpakkam. He had come to the place on the invitation of his friends, Rakesh, Ajith and Thideer Mani, who attacked him with knives during a brawl.
08 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Help desk set up for issuing e-pass at airport||For the benefit of passengers who land at the city airport without a T.N. e-pass, counters have been set up by the State government in the arrival hall. Five such counters now issue nearly 150 passes a day on an average, an official said. “This week alone we have issued nearly 1,000 such passes to passengers. Not just issuing passes, the staff behind those counters can also clarify on other queries the passengers may have. It also works like a help desk. Passengers can always reach out if they have any problem,” he said. The number of counters may get increased as and when the number of passengers goes up in the coming weeks, he said. Officials of Airports Authority of India said the facility might be helpful for passengers who take the flight at the last minute to rush to the city in case of an emergency. Sometimes, passengers who have had to attend a funeral or some family emergency won’t have the time to register on the portal. “Such emergency passes may be cleared quickly, but the passenger may forget to get one in the urgency. For them, this facility will be of help,” an official said.
08 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Teachers told to report for exam duty today||With the public exams set to begin from June 15 in Tamil Nadu, teachers handling classes 10, 11 and 12 in some districts have been asked to report for duty in government schools from Monday. A government school teacher said that they have been instructed to start distribution of masks to students who will be taking up the exams. “Three masks will be given to students taking up class 10 exams and one mask for students taking up the pending Plus 1 exam,” he said. While the Directorate of Government Examinations (DGE) began the distribution of hall tickets from June 4, many schools have asked students to come to school from Monday to collect them in batches of not more than 10 students at a time. Guidelines issued As a part of the guidelines issued for the conduct of the public exams, schools are also expected to begin disinfecting classrooms and exam centers as well as ensure that furniture is arranged to meet physical distancing norms. In Chennai, Metropolitan Transport Corporation (MTC) is getting special buses ready for facilitating students to collect their hall tickets from Monday. In a press release, it said as the Class 10 public exam was supposed to start on June 15, hall tickets would be issued from June 8 to 13. MTC will be operating 110 buses in 63 routes covering all parts of the city from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. While transport would be free for students, teachers would have to purchase tickets. Only 24 persons will be allowed in a bus with a seating capacity of 60 and all commuters should wear masks.  While transport would be free for students, teachers would have to purchase tickets
08 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Ban online classes: Ramadoss||PMK founder S. Ramadoss on Sunday said that online classes only added to the mental stress of parents and students as they were merely a ploy by schools to ensure that parents paid fees. In a statement, Dr. Ramadoss said that he was disappointed that the School Education Department was encouraging online classes despite the fact that they could never replace the classroom experience. “Schools are starting online classes to extract fees,” the PMK leader said.
08 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DMK decides to continue stir||DMK president M.K. Stalin headed a meeting with party workers in Coimbatore District through videoconferencing after which it was decided to hold a slew of protests against Municipal Administration Minister S.P. Velumani, which the party alleged was behind the filing of false cases against its cadre. According to a release, DMK leaders in Coimbatore K.M. Dhandapani, P.R. Arulmozhi, Girirajan, Wilson, NR Elango, MLA N. Karthik, C.R. Ramachandran and M. Muthusamy participated in the meeting. On June 5, the party organised a protest in Coimbatore alleging that the Minister was behind the arrest of DMK men who questioned his corrupt practices, mismanagement of the municipal administration and water supply department. Despite following physical distancing norms, the police booked cases and arrested the cadre at the behest of the Minister, the party alleged. Reacting to Mr. Stalin's statement, Mr. Velumani charged that the DMK president was indulging in politicking unable to stomach the growth and the rising popularity of Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami. Referring to the protest by the DMK, Mr. Velumani said more than 50 DMK cadre tried to stop the police from doing their duty. The DMK local leaders were protesting to remain in their party posts by garnering the attention of their leader. “Instead of condemning his party’s unruly elements and goondas, Mr. Stalin is trying to blame me out of political ill-will against me and to divert the people’s attention from his mistakes,” the Minister said.  Mr. Stalin is trying to blame me out of political ill-will against me and to divert the people’s attention from his mistakes S.P. Velumani Municipal Administration Minister
08 June 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||CPI, CPI(M) demand allotment of houses for residents without tokens||A day after the Coimbatore Corporation began the long-pending task of demolishing encroachments on the Muthannankulam tank bund, the Communist Party of India, Communist Party of India(Marxist) and a few other parties staged a protest near the tank, on Thadagam Road, on Sunday. Member of Parliament, P.R. Natarajan, who is from the CPI(M), former MLA M. Arumugham, CPI(M) district secretary V. Ramamoorthy and members of the DMK, MDMK squatted on the Road, blocking the movement of vehicles. Mr. Natarajan said the Corporation taking up the drive to evict people from buildings that had long served as their homes during the COVID-19 period, when livelihood was under threat, was wrong. His party had come to understand that neither the Corporation nor the Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board (TNSCB), which constructed alternative houses for the families evicted from the tank, had issued tokens for allotment of alternative houses to all those who resided on the tank bund. Therefore, the party’s demand was that the Corporation should not demolish the houses of those who did not get the allotment tokens and would remain there. Mr. Arumugham said the protesters demand was that if vacant houses abutted houses with occupants, the Corporation should not demolish those – at least till Tuesday, when there would be a meeting with the district administration and Corporation to decide the fate of those without tokens. Mr. Natarajan said that the protesters another demand was that the Corporation or the TNSCB should consider constructing the alternative houses on Sundaram Street, R.S. Puram, or in Selvapuram for those without tokens, as originally promised at the time of issuing allotment tokens for others. After the protesters blocked the traffic, senior Corporation and City Police officials rushed to the spot to hold talks. Sources in the Corporation said it was at the talks that a decision was taken to hold talks on Tuesday. But the Corporation was going ahead with demolishing vacant houses and by evening had demolished 148 houses. On Saturday, the Corporation had demolished 300 houses.
08 June 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Amid wait for court order, new brick kilns spring up in Thadagam Valley||While the Madras High Court is yet to issue orders on petitions seeking closure of unauthorised brick kilns in Thadagam Valley, Coimbatore district, construction of three new brick kilns are under way in the area, according to activists. Two brick kilns are coming up in 24 Veerapandi village panchayat and one in Nanjundapuram village panchayat, the activists allege. Veerapandi is among 30 Ecologically Sensitive Areas (ESA) listed in the Western Ghats Draft Notification released by the Ministry of Environment and Forests in October 2018. According to the notification, “there shall be a complete ban on mining, quarrying and sand mining in ESA and all existing mines shall be phased out within five years from the date of issue of the final notification or on the expiry of the existing mining lease, whichever is earlier”. “As per a document provided by the District Environmental Engineer (Coimbatore north), Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board chairman issued letters to Coimbatore District Collector and assistant Director of Department of Geology and Mining on February 20 this year to take appropriate action on brick kilns operating in Chinna Thadagam, Nanjundapuram, Veerapandi, Somaiyampalayam and Pannimadai panchayats after conducting inspection based on complaints that they were causing damage to environment. It also says that as cases are under the consideration of the High Court, further action will be taken based on order. When action against brick kilns remains pending till orders are to be issued by the court, how can construction of new brick kilns be allowed,” asks activist S. Ganesh from Thadagam. Nanjundapuram, Chinna Thadagam, Veerapandi and Somaiyampalayam are listed as places in hill areas as per an annexure to the Government Order 49 dated March 24, 2003 on Hill Area Conservation Authority (HACA) where restrictions are in place for developmental and industrial activities, says activist T.M.S. Rajendran, one of the petitioners in the High Court. Mr. Rajendran’s son Sujendra Gowda claimed that truck drivers threatened him for taking photos of the activity when he went to the land belonging to his family at 24 Veerapandi on Sunday morning. “I found that red earth was dug without permission from eight acre land belonging to our family that remains unused following a land dispute between my father and his brother. We do not wish to sell soil and now someone has stolen it, probably at night,” said Mr. Gowda.
08 June 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Man detained under Goondas Act||Coimbatore City Police have invoked the provisions of Goondas Act against the man who was arrested for placing pork pieces in front of two temples on Sullivan Street in Coimbatore on May 29. City Police Commissioner Sumit Sharan issued the detention order against Hari Ram Prakash (48), a resident of Kavundampalayam, on June 5. The order was served to him in the prison, where he is under judicial custody, on Saturday. According to police, Prakash placed a carry bag containing pork in front of two temples on Sullivan Street that were closed due to lockdown restrictions. The police traced Prakash based on surveillance camera visuals and arrested him within six hours. The Bazaar Street police registered two separate cases under Sections 295A (Deliberate and malicious acts intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion or religious beliefs), 153A (Promoting enmity between different groups) and 298 (Uttering words, etc., with deliberate intent to wound religious feelings) of the Indian Penal Code. Police had said that the man did not belong to any organisation and his motive was unclear.
08 June 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Minister accused of misusing official machinery||DMK Coimbatore east district unit in-charge and MLA N. Karthik has accused Municipal Administration Minister S.P. Velumani of misusing government officials for his political gain. In a statement issued here on Sunday, Mr. Karthik said the Minister with the connivance of senior government officials had since May 18 sent junior employees for distributing the AIADMK’s COVID-19 freebies in Thondamuthur Assembly constituency. Using the opportunity, he had also asked the officials to conduct a door-to-door survey so that at the time of election, the Minister could distribute money, the MLA alleged. Again, the Minister with the assistance of officials in the Women’s Development Corporation had obtained the details of women’s self-help groups in Coimbatore and shared with his partymen, who in each of the wards approached the SHG members with the officials’ support promising them to do the needful.
08 June 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Salem Division refunds Rs. 2.32 crore of cancelled ticket fares||The Salem Division of Southern Railway said that ticket fares of around Rs. 2.32 crore had been refunded to customers as of Saturday for the cancellations of trains booked during the lockdown period. The refund counters are open at 12 railway stations under the Salem Division. Among these, Coimbatore Junction saw the maximum refund of around Rs. 49 lakh followed by Erode Junction (Rs. 46.6 lakh) and Salem Junction (Rs. 45 lakh) as of Saturday, railway officials said. Average refund On an average, around Rs. 50 lakh were being refunded to the customers every day. The Salem Division initially opened the refund counters in Coimbatore, Tiruppur, Salem, Erode and Karur Junctions on June 2. From June 4, the refund counters were opened at seven more Junctions - Udhagamandalam, Coonoor, Mettupalayam, Coimbatore North, Podanur, Salem Town and Tirupattur. The railway officials said the entire ticket fare for all tickets booked after March 22 when the train services were cancelled across the country were refunded. The refund would be available for a period of 180 days or six months from the date of journey, and hence the public were advised not to approach the counters in a hurry and cause over crowding. The refund counters function from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. every day at the 12 railway stations. Customers must wear masks while visiting the counters and get the tokens from the Chief Reservation Supervisor of respective railway stations, which will be distributed from 8 a.m. on the premises. Refund of ticket fares will also be available online atwww.irctc.co.infor tickets purchased online, according to the officials.
08 June 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Water released from Aliyar||The State government on Sunday started releasing water from the Aliyar Reservoir. A release from the district administration said Minister S.P. Velumani participated at a function to mark the opening of the shutters. The release said the government’s decision to release water in response to the demand from farmers including those in the Old Ayacut area. The government would continue to release water through the five Aliyar old channels for 146 days, from June 7 to October 31, depending on the current water level and the expected rainfall.
08 June 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Man found murdered||A 30-year-old man was found murdered at Panaimarathur near Selvapuram here on Sunday. The police identified the deceased as Ramesh, a native of Dharmapuri district, who was doing odd jobs here. The body was found near a temple at Panaimarathur on Sunday morning. The throat of the deceased was slit with a sharp object. On information, the Selvapuram police rushed to the spot and inspected the body. They found an identification card from a wallet based on which the deceased was identified. The body was shifted to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital for post-mortem. During preliminary investigations, the police found that the man used to come to the area and he was in touch with some persons who were allegedly peddling ganja.
08 June 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Man held||The Coimbatore City Police invoked provisions of the Goondas Act against a man who was arrested for placing pork in front of two temples on Sullivan Street in Coimbatore on May 29. City Police Commissioner Sumit Sharan issued the detention order against Hari Ram Prakash, 48, a resident of Kavundampalayam on June 5. The order was served to the accused who is currently in prison on Saturday. According to the police, Prakash placed a carry bag containing pork in front of two temples, which remained closed due to lockdown restrictions.
08 June 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Power shutdown||Due to maintenance work in the sub-stations, there will be no power in the following areas from 9 a.m. to 2 p.m.:  Kuppepalayam and Kaduvettipalayam sub-stations- June 8 : Sengalipalayam, Kuppepalayam, Puthur, Kurumbapalayam, Vadavalli, Vadugapalayam, Mondikalipudur, Rangappagoundanpudur, Moonukattiyur, Onnipalayam, Karichipalayam, Kaduvettipalayam, Nallagoundanpalayam, Chandrapuram, Selambarayampalayam, Molakalipalayam, part of Valaiyapalayam, Ganapathypalayam, Mooperipalayam, Vagrayampalayam, Pappampatty, Salaiyur, part of Karuvalur.  Periyanaikenpalayam, Madhampatti, Thondamuthur, Devarayapuram sub-stations- June 9: KG Mill, Chavady, Veerakeralam, PSG Estate, Vedapatty, Selvapuram, Telugupalayam feeders: Periyanaikenpalayam, Naikenpalayam, Kovanur, Gudalur Kavundapalayam, Jothipuram, Press Colony, No. 4 Veerapandy, Idigarai, Sengalipalayam, Poochiyur, Chnna Thadagam, Nanjundapuram, Mangarai, Annaikatti, Pannimadai, Narasimhanaikenpalayam, Madhampatti, Alandurai, Kuppanur, Karadimadai, Poondi, Semmedu, Theethipalayam, Perur, Goundanur, Kalampalayam, Perur Chettipalayam, Devarayapuram, Boluvampatty, Viraliyur, Narasipuram, JN Palayam, Kaliannanpudur, Puthur, Thennamanallur, Kondayampalayam, Thendral Nagar, Thondamuthur, Kembanur, Muthipalayam, Kalikkanaikenpalayam, Poochiyur, Puthupalayam, Dheenampalayam, Uliyampalayam, Dhaliyur, Kulathupalayam, West Chithirai Chavady, East Chithirai Chavady, Nambiyalaganpalayam, Nagarajapuram, Thimmaya Nagar, Anna Nagar, Ajjanur, part of Maharani Avenue, Pommanampalayam pirivu, Vedapatty, Kurumbapalayam, Delhi Public School area, Veerakeralam, Vanniyampalayam, Sundapalayam, Poosaripalayam, Telugupalayam, Andipalayam, part of Perur, Elvapuram, Pannaimarathur, House unit.
08 June 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Mortgaging of tamarind trees continues in Bargur Hills||High yielding tamarind trees fail to bring delight to most of the farmers in Bargur hills as the practice of mortgaging trees to local money lenders, who harvest the fruits until repayment of the money is done in lump sum, continues for many decades. There are 33 hamlets in the hill area of Anthiyur Taluk where millets and vegetables are widely cultivated in the small holdings that are rain-fed. Tamarind trees are present in large numbers on patta lands that ensures seasonal income of Rs. 2,000 to Rs. 4,000 per tree during the harvest done in January and February. But many of the farmers had pledged their trees and borrowed money varying from Rs. 5,000 to Rs. 20,000 for meeting expenses towards marriage, fencing farm land, cultivation and to repay old debts. The farmer need not pay the interest as the entire fruits are harvested by the lender until the money is repaid which ranges from three to 15 years. “Repayment is accepted only in lump sum”, said H. Madhan of Eratti who borrowed Rs. 5,000 three years ago for fencing his land. “Yield is about 15 kg - 20 kg in my tree and the lender takes it away”, said Madhan, who was unable to repay the money due to poor yield of tapioca in the last two years. There are trees which are over 120 years old in the hill area as farmers said that yield differs in each tree. Appaiyan of Thamaraikarai said that when the yield is good, one can harvest 50 kg from a single tree and the processed tamarind is sold at over Rs. 200 by the lender in the plains. Mortgaging has been in practice for many centuries and we are unable to get out of it, he said and added that their seasonal income is also curtailed leaving them poor forever. V.P. Gunasekaran, State Committee Member, Tamil Nadu Tribal People Association, said that under the Tree Patta Scheme, also known as 2C Patta, many farmers were given rights that enable them to harvest fruit from tamarind trees on poramboke land. “They had pledged their pattas and are losing their regular income for many generations”, he said. P. Alagesan, Senior Scientist and Head, ICAR Krishi Vigyan Kendra – MYRADA, Gobichettipalayam, said that a minimum of 2,000 farmers have pledged trees for a meagre sum. “We can provide interest-free loans to the farmers and get them released from the debt”, he added.
08 June 2020||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Girl given injection at pharmacy, dies||A 15-year-old girl from Uttar Pradesh died near Hosur allegedly after she was administered injection at a pharmacy.  According to officials, Mona lived with her family at Thorapalli here. On Saturday, she fell sick and her brother Bilal took her to a pharmacy run by a person named Khalim near Thorapalli. Mona was allegedly administered injection and sent home by Khalim’s wife Fareeda. On Sunday, Mona had severe headache and her nose started bleeding. Mona’s brother took her to the pharmacy again and she was administered another injection. However, her condition worsened. She died on the way to Hosur government hospital. Mona’s body was sent to Dharmapuri GH for autopsy. Based on a complaint lodged by her family members, Hosur police have registered a case. Pharmacy sealed A team of Health and Revenue officials sealed the medical shop. Search is on for Khalim.
08 June 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Hotels and tea shops get ready for opening after lockdown||oOwners of hotels and tea shops here are gearing up to open their establishments on Monday after two and a half months since the start of the COVID-19 lockdown. They are getting tables cleaned, their premises disinfected and hand sanitisers available. However, they are not hoping to see many customers on day one. A meeting between owners of hotels and tea shops and Collector T.G. Vinay was held on Saturday to discuss the guidelines issued by the State government. Hotel and tea shop owners agreed to ensure gloves for their employees and masks for employees and customers, sanitisers at the entrance and run their establishments at 50% capacity. They, however, were miffed at the order to shut shop at 8 p.m. District president of Tamil Nadu Hotel Owners’ Association K.L. Kumar said many in the city had their dinner only at 8 p.m. “We request the government to give us an hour’s extension,” he said. The district administration called for disinfection five times a day, necessitating closure of hotels five times. “We cannot spray disinfectants when people are eating. An effective solution must be found,” he said. K. Ibrahim, proprietor of Subam Coffee Bar, said the move to open tea shops and provide seating arrangement would be useful for them. “It has been difficult to procure thermometer guns. To admit people, we need to check their body temperature. I wonder how everyone is going to do this,” he said. Most of the proprietors, however, believe that it will take time to rebuild customer confidence. “People are not yet ready to eat out,” says State secretary of Tamil Nadu Hotel Owners’ Association R. Srinivasan. Mr. Kumar said people might begin enjoying themselves at restaurants again only next year. “Dining out is considered an enjoyable experience usually. However, with the COVID-19 scare, only those who really crave the food at restaurants will come out. Until then, we must wait,” he said. The association members said they were heavily dependent on their loyal customer base to pull through these hard times. Mr. Srinivasan said small hotels could not run advertisement campaigns to boost customer confidence. “It will take a minimum of six months for us to bounce back. We have to pay electricity bill, rent and salaries of workers although only half the people are working and only half the capacity can be filled at restaurants,” he said.
08 June 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Crocodile rescued from well near Melur||A mugger crocodile, measuring four feet long, was rescued from a well at Vannamparaipatti in Melur taluk on Saturday. It was a native of freshwater habitats. A team of forest department officials and volunteers of Oorvanam, a non-governmental organisation, rushed to the spot after they received information from the villagers. District Forest Officer S. Anand said this species of crocodile was usually found in freshwater sources like rivers, ponds and lakes. However, this species is not usually found in Madurai region. “Initially, the villagers told us that the crocodile might have been washed away from Vaigai dam. However, when we enquired officials from Theni district, they told us that the crocodile was not usually found in the Vaigai too,” said Mr. Anand. With the crocodile measuring around four feet, there are possibilities that the animal could have been illegally brought here during the lockdown, said Mr. Anand. “We are investigating on this aspect,” he said. The DFO said his team had been searching for the crocodile for the past one month based on information received earlier.
08 June 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||MP for testing of people entering Madurai district||Madurai MP, Su. Venkatesan, has cautioned Madurai district administration to have a better plan in testing of passengers coming to the Madurai from other districts, especially Chennai, to avert a major crisis. “It is imperative that we have an emergency plan of action to prevent Madurai becoming another Chennai in terms of higher number of COVID-19 cases,” he said. In a statement, he said that around 8,000 people have come to Madurai from Chennai by road using TN e-pass. Similarly, some 5,000 people have entered Madurai through the Villupuram-Madurai special train, he said. However, swab tests have been conducted only for 2,000 air passengers coming to Madurai from Chennai by flight services in the last five days, he said. “While initially, the standard operating procedure for the air passengers was that only inter-state passengers should be made to give swab tests. But, swab test is being taken for all passengers coming to Madurai even from Chennai, “ an official said. Mr. Venkatesan complained that around 14,000 people who had come to Madurai by road and trains and those whohad come by air in the initial days were not at all tested for COVID-19. Expressing apprehension that the situation could turn to worse in Madurai, he said that number of testing conducting in Madurai should be increased manifold. “All those who have entered Madurai using e-pass should be tested in the next few days,” he said.
08 June 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Thermal scanning to be done in all Class 10 board centres||In view of COVID-19, the education department is arranging for thermal scanners to be placed in the 469 centres where students of Class 10 will write their board exams starting June 15. Madurai District's Chief Education Officer K. Swaminathan said all 40,124 candidates who are likely to appear for the exams will be scanned. If students are found to be running a temperature on the day of the exam through thermal scanning, they will be asked to go back home after counselling, he said. “If they want to write the exam, they will be seated in a separate room in their original centre,” he said. Apart from the 469 centres, 30 other centres in the district’s 15 educational blocks will be set up specifically to accommodate students who reside in containment zones. They will be seated in centres away from other students to avoid the potential spread of COVID-19. Although the exam was initially scheduled between June 1 and 12, extra time has provided space to take stricter precautions, the officer says. He adds that on exam days, all students will be provided masks and hand sanitizer. Only 10 students will be seated in each room and invigilating teachers will be maintaining distance while appraising their rooms. They too must wear masks. Centres have been disinfected already and will be cleaned thoroughly twice after each exam, the officer said. He added that hall tickets are being distributed in schools and can be downloaded through the http://www.dge.tn.gov.in/portal. An absentee list of those unable to write exams will be collected and sent to the headquarters in Chennai, he said.
08 June 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Adoption agencies get relief in Madurai||Members of the district Child Welfare Committee (CWC) sponsored 20 cartons of dried infant formula for infants at Grace Kennett Home and Claretian Mercy Home during their routine inspection here on Wednesday. CWC Chairman K. Vijayasaravanan said that over 300 children who have been orphaned, abandoned or surrendered to the district’s two special adoption agencies will be benefited. All the children were below five years, he said. The move will come as a relief to children during these times of lockdown since procurement had become a hassle. “Moreover, it is in high demand. Even though some institutions have access to funds, they do not always have access to material. So this will definitely help them during COVID-19 lockdown,” he said. Members of the Child Welfare Committee and District Child Protection Unit, including officer A. Ganesan, gave away the relief material.
08 June 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||HC orders status quo in highway project||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has ordered the status quo to be maintained in the Madurai Ring Road Phase-I Highway Project that connects Vadipatti and Chittampatti. A Division Bench of Justices S.S. Sundar and C. Saravanan observed that the order of the status quo had to be maintained till further orders to preserve the rights of several individual landowners. The court was hearing the petition filed by A.M.M. Ambigapathy from Madurai, an agriculturalist, who complained that fertile agricultural lands would be lost if land acquisition for the project continued. The NHAI submitted that a number of people had consented to give their land for the project, and it could not be stalled merely because it was inconvenient for some of the landowners. The court said the right of individual landowners was protected under the Constitution. If the project was allowed to continue, a situation might arise where the court might have to re-do the whole thing in public interest. Instead of allowing the project to continue and then hear the parties concerned report the fait accompli situation, the order of the status quo had to be maintained, the judges said.
08 June 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Gang robs man||B. Muthumani (27) was robbed of Rs. 6,000 and a wrist watch by a gang at Vadipatti on Saturday night. Police said the victim was sitting near the Viralipatti bridge and talking over mobile phone at 11 p.m. Vadipatti police are investigating.
08 June 2020||NAGERCOIL,TAMIL NADU||SSI murder case: NIA team in Nagercoil||A six-member team from the National Investigation Agency (NIA) commenced its probe into the killing of Special Sub-Inspector of Police Wilson (56) at a check post at Padanthalumoodu in Kanniyakumari district by unidentified assailants on January 8. Initially, it was suspected that some bootleggers committed the crime to escape from the police. The killers had opened fire at the SSI, causing grievous injuries, and also attacked him with a sword. The SSI suffered injuries on his abdomen and leg. However, further probe indicated that the murder suspects had contacts with fundamentalists and naxals in different parts of the country. DGP J.K. Tripathy visited the spot and ordered a probe by appointing Superintendent of Police Sreenath in charge of teams from Tamil Nadu and Kerala. Subsequently, the investigation by the two State police led to the arrest of two suspects – Abdul Sameer (29) and Thoufeeq (27) of Tiruvedancode in Kanniyakumari district. The special teams arrested them when they were reportedly waiting to board a train to Karnataka from Kerala, the police said. The NIA team arrived here after the case was transferred to the Central agency by the State government. According to reliable sources, the team visited the house of one of the suspects and interrogated the family members and few acquaintances. The police team said that Thoufeeq’s name figured in a case relating the murder of a BJP leader and his accomplice Abdul Sameer was allegedly involved in a communal murder in 2014.
08 June 2020||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Man surrenders after murdering friend||The Namakkal police on Sunday arrested a man for murdering and burying the body of his friend in his house. According to police, Dinesh (32), who runs a grocery store, loaned huge sum of money to his friend Naresh Kumar at various instances. When Dinesh asked Naresh Kumar to repay the money, he picked a quarrel with him. On June 4, Dinesh invited Naresh to his house and got him intoxicated. Later, Dinesh attacked Naresh with a hard object and he succumbed to the injuries. To hide the murder, Dinesh buried Naresh’s body on the premises of his house, police said.   On Sunday, Dinesh confessed the crime to the Village Administrative Officer. On information, senior police officials rushed to the spot and recovered the body. It was sent to the Namakkal Government Medical College Hospital for autopsy. Police arrested Dinesh.
08 June 2020||P.A. Narayani,TAMIL NADU||A quiet life trampled all too suddenly||Life changed all of a sudden for 26-year-old K. Revathi after the death of her husband S. Kalidhasan. On May 24, she received a call informing her that her husband, who was a mahout at Subramaniya Swamy Temple at Tirupparankundram, was trampled by the temple elephant he had been taking care of for 10 months. “It was totally shocking. I still cannot believe that such an incident occurred. But, I am slowly coming to terms with it,” she says. With a four-year-old daughter to take care of, Ms. Revathi says she is awaiting compensation and a government job to rebuild her family. She says her husband had been one of the mahouts at Meenakshi Sundareswarar Temple for 18 years. “His grandfather and uncle, who were also mahouts, trained him,” she says. Kalidhasan was moved to Subramaniya Swamy Temple ten months ago. “The post was vacant after two mahouts were injured by the elephant. But when my husband took up the job, we were confident as he was experienced and well trained,” she says.  ‘Passionate about job’ Kalidhasan was very passionate about the job, she adds. “For the past 10 months, he was a daily wage employee, earning Rs. 5,000 per month. In another two months, he would have become a permanent employee. But, now everything has changed,” she says. A narrow bylane in the crowded Thideer Nagar leads to the cramped residence of S. Karthik, brother of Kalidhasan, where Ms. Revathi and her daughter are currently staying. In the COVID-19 pandemic situation, Mr. Karthik, an autorickshaw driver, earns a meagre income and supports the family. “Though my husband’s family is supportive, I need to be financially independent to take care of my daughter,” she says. Her daughter was scared to be in the house for the first four days after the death of her father as people were crying and wailing in grief, says Ms. Revathi. “That was when I decided that I needed to be strong to ensure a good future for her,” she says. Having studied up to Class 10 and completed a diploma course in nursing, Ms. Revathi is hoping that she will get a government job. “The officials have said that after submitting necessary documents, we can get Rs. 10 lakh from the insurance companies,” says Mr. Karthik. “Raising my daughter as a single mother would be extremely challenging. But, I need to stay strong to do that,” Ms. Revathi says.
08 June 2020||PERAMBALUR,TAMIL NADU||PWD bid to catch up with projects||The Public Works Department has resumed construction of a reservoir across the Maruthaiyar at Kottarai and plans to complete the project by the end of this financial year. Work, which was suspended due to lockdown, resumed last week. With nearly 80% of the work completed, authorities have expedited efforts to acquire land required for the reservoir and channels. Construction of a bridge across a surplus channel and an approach road is under way. Nearly 1,116 acres of land, including 893.39 acres of private holdings and about 222 acres of poromboke land, are to be acquired. A substantial portion of the land has already been acquired and the process is under way to acquire the remaining area, PWD sources said. The project was announced by former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa under Rule 110 in the Assembly in April 2013 and work began three years later. The reservoir was sanctioned at an estimated cost of Rs. 67.50 crore, but the estimate has since been revised to Rs. 92.70 crore. The reservoir, with a storage capacity of 424 million cubic feet, will harvest the rain flow in the Maruthaiyar and a few other jungle streams. The bunds of the reservoir will run a length of about 2,300 metre with two irrigation sluices. Two irrigation canals of 9.91 km and 6.6 km will be built. The project will irrigate 4,194 acres of land in Kottarai, Adhanur, Koothur, Pujangarayanallur, Nochikulam, Thondapadi, Azhagiripalayam, Koodalur and Sathanur. Besides, it will help improve the groundwater table substantially in the region. The project was scheduled to be completed by March 2018. On Friday, S. Ramamoorthy, PWD Chief Engineer, Water Resources Organisation, Tiruchi region, inspected the progress of the work and instructed officials to expedite work to ensure that water could be stored in the reservoir before year-end. S. Thiruvettaiselvam, Superintending Engineer, PWD, Mid-Cauvery basin, D. Dakshinamurthy, Executive Engineer, Maruthaiyar basin, and T.N. Prabakaran, Assistant Executive Engineer, PWD, and other officials briefed the Chief Engineer on progress of work.
08 June 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||12 cases||Twelve new COVID-19 cases, including five doctors at Jipmer, were diagnosed in Puducherry on Sunday. According to the Health Department, among the 9 admissions at Jipmer, three were relatives of doctors and one a technician in the casualty.
08 June 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Anti-green corridor farmers demand action against ministers||Anti-green corridor farmers from Nazhikallpatti and nearby areas staged a protest here on Sunday demanding action against Minister for Environment K.C. Karuppannan and Information and Publicity Minister Kadambur C. Raju for speaking in favour of the project.  The protesters demanded that the ministers withdraw their comments and removed from the post for supporting the implementation of Salem-Chennai green corridor project. The farmers also demanded that the Centre should withdraw its petition in Supreme Court demanding an early hearing against the Madras High Court order on the eight-lane green corridor project. The farmers said that the State government should stand by them in this matter.
08 June 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Butterflies swarm Kurumbapatti Zoological Park||If the Kurumbapatti zoological park is open to public by now, they could have witnessed a swarm of butterflies like never before at the butterfly garden here. According to forest officials, the butterfly garden is witnessing an increase in butterfly population for the past couple of months and they are also trying to study what could have caused it. The officials said that besides the butterfly species found here, species that were generally spotted in Western Ghats had also been spotted at the garden this time. The butterfly garden at Kurumbapatti zoological park was set up around September last year and it has been a hit with visitors ever since. Butterfly host plants were planted to attract them and bee hive boxes were set up to enable cross pollination. District Forest Officer R. Murugan said that the butterfly garden had come out well and the butterfly population was higher compared to earlier period. A study had begun to identify the species, he said. M. Parthipan, biologist at the park, said that they had been conducting the study for the past couple of months and they had spotted about 29 species of butterflies at the garden. He said that species like Common banded peacock had been spotted here. N. Murugesh from Salem Nature Society said that March-April was generally the migratory period of butterflies from Western Ghats to Eastern Ghats. However, the reason behind the increase in butterfly population had to be studied.
08 June 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||351 desilting works get under way||A total of 351 desilting works have been taken up in the Cauvery and Vennar sub-basins below the Grand Anicut this year. Around 1,244 km of irrigation channels will be desilted and water regulating systems renovated in Tiruvaur district. Channels in Nagapattinam (1072.71 km) and Thanjavur (944.97 km) districts will also get desilted to ensure free and quick flow to tail-end areas within 10 days. Last year, watercourses to an extent of 2,629.85 km were desilted and strengthened, according to an official release. The works are being planned for completion before June 12, the scheduled date for opening of Mettur dam, to ensure that water released from Stanley Reservoir reaches tail-end areas in the delta region within 10 days. It normally takes about 25 days, but desilting executed on a war footing this year will ensure quicker flow, the release said. Thanking the government for expediting the works, M. Ganesan of Vairavan Kovil Channel Water Users Association has said the channel remained clogged with wild growth for years and timely completion of desilting will help farmers take up kuruvai cultivation and facilitate irrigation in around 500 acres of agricultural land. M. Panneer Selvam of Kalyana Odai Water Users Association has said desilting of the channel ensures assured water supply to 670 acres in the area.
08 June 2020||THENI,TAMIL NADU||Officials come to farmers’ help||A series of measures have been initiated to ensure peaceful man-animal coexistence in the forest areas in Theni. After the farmers, holding patta lands close to the reserve forest areas in Thevaram and Kombai like blocks, complained to Collector M. Pallavi Baldev about the frequent issues relating to coexistence with elephants, a high-level committee was formed with the initiative of District Forest Officer Gowtham and team. A couple of meetings followed by interactions resulted in drawing a broad advisory for the farmers and villagers by the forest officials. A consensus was arrived and it was proposed to have three layers of fencing of patta lands close to the reserve forest areas with the government assistance on subsidy. It was proposed to form two teams comprising 15 members each which would be provided with vehicles fitted with public address system, alarms and crackers. These teams would move into the villages close to the reserve forests from 5 p.m. to 7 a.m. The idea is to ensure wild animals didn't encroach upon patta lands and without causing damage to the crops and to mankind, they would be chased into deep forests. Similarly, during daytime a 12-member committee comprising villagers and foresters would monitor the peripheries of the forest areas. Display boards have been put up at entrances to reserve forest areas. This is just to keep the people aware about the dos and donts, a forest official at Thevaram said. Although the forest officials have earmarked certain pathways for villagers to move around to graze their goats and milch animals, it had been advised not to use those pathways for two months from now as they apprehend movement of animals on the stretch. According to forest staff, locations including Saakaluthu, Pathinettampadi, Kudiraipaanchan, Ramakalmettu and others were permitted pathways. Similarly, the DFO said night watchmen close to the farms were advised to have a proper shelter instead of makeshift ones.
08 June 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Indians stranded in Maldives reach VOC Port by Jalashwa||Around 700 Indian nationals who were stranded in Maldives have been repatriated by the Indian Navy shipJalashwa. They reached the VOC Port here on Sunday. Senior port officials, led by its chairman T.K. Ramachandran, Thoothukudi Collector Sandeep Nanduri, Superintendent of Police Arun Balagopalan, Corporation Commissioner V.P. Jeyaseelan and other officers supervised the arrival of the passengers. The officials said the passengers had departed from the port of Male around 9.30 p.m. on Friday and reached the outer anchorage of VOC Port at 9 a.m. on Sunday. On arrival, they were screened by a health team on the port premises and their luggage was sanitised. As a safety measure, all passengers were given PPE kits, after which they boarded buses to reach the passenger terminal. After obtaining self-declaration forms, they were guided on how to download and configure the Aarogya Setu app on their phones, using the free Wi-Fi provided by the port authorities. Soon after immigration and customs formalities were completed, the passengers were taken to the respective buses for onward destinations. The officials said that all the passengers were given breakfast and lunch. This is the second call by INS Jalashwa to the VOC Port, as last week, the ship had repatriated 686 Indians from Colombo. A State Transport Corporation official said that passengers bound for long-distance destinations such as Chennai boarded sleeper buses of the SETC, while those travelling to nearer destinations like Madurai were provided seater vehicles of the Corporation. Very few passengers, who were not fit to travel by buses, were given accommodation at the Government Engineering College, he said.
08 June 2020||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||High-risk surgery performed on woman at Thoothukudi GMCH||A team of surgeons and anesthetists at the Thoothukudi Government Medical College Hospital successfully saved the life of a 19-year-old pregnant woman from death and helped her deliver the baby by performing a cesarean section on Saturday. Doctors at the Medical College Hospital here said that Kaliammal of Oddapidaram had met with a road accident, while she was on a two-wheeler as a pillion rider. She was not wearing helmet. In a critical condition, she was admitted to the hospital. For about an hour or so, the patient was consciously speaking, but suddenly her condition deteriorated. A CT Scan on her brain indicated that there was a ‘severe’ internal bleeding. Immediately, a team of surgeons performed the surgery knowing well about the high risk involved and removed the clot weighing about 200 grams. Even as they were performing the surgery, the baby on her appeared to be critical. Swiftly, the gynaecologist and her team performed a cesarean section and delivered the baby. The mother and baby have been responding well and were stable, the doctors said on Sunday. The swift work by the duty doctors, surgeons and para--medical team saved the two lives was commended by Health Minister C. Vijayabhaskar. In a tweet, the Minister said, “The pregnant woman was admitted in a very critical condition .. An emergency craniotomy and caesarean by Dr. Raja Vignesh, neurosurgeon, gynecologist, and obstetricians past midnight show their commitment.”
08 June 2020||THOOTHUKUDI/MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Madurai, Thoothukudi report 14 fresh cases each||In Thoothukudi, the increasing number of people testing positive for COVID-19 continues to cause worry as the district reported 14 new cases on Sunday. They were all admitted to Government Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital. Tirunelveli district recorded two fresh cases. Tenkasi reported three cases, and all of them had returned from Chennai. There were three fresh cases in Theni district. According to an official at Government Theni Medical College Hospital, one of the patients was from Cumbum and another from Periyakulam. The third person was a driver from Alandur, Chennai, who had returned after dropping the two positive cases here in his vehicle two days ago. He has been admitted to hospital in Chennai. In Dindigul district, 13 fresh cases were reported. All of them had travel history. They have been admitted to the Government Medical College Hospital in Karur. Ramanathapuram district recorded nine fresh cases and its tally went up to 106. There were no new cases reported in Kanniyakumari and Sivaganga districts. The State medical bulletin said 13 people were discharged from the Tirunelveli hospital, 16 from the Thoothukudi hospital and five from the Asaripallam hospital in Kanniyakumari district.  Virudhunagar  district recorded five new positive cases, and one patient was discharged. All the fresh positive cases have returned from Chennai, and two among them were children. With this, the total number of cases registered in the district rose to 149 and the number of active cases is at 33. A total of 14 people, including two sanitary workers at Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH), and a Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) man on airport duty, tested positive in Madurai district on Sunday, taking the district’s tally to 312. According to Collector T.G. Vinay, two of positive cases were from the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court. Three others were their contacts. Four members of a family from S. Alangulam were admitted to the GRH with COVID-19. The patients included an eight-year-old girl, who had headache and vomiting. The two other fresh cases were from Sellur and Ansari Nagar. None of the patients had any travel history and three of them displayed symptoms. The oldest among the fresh cases was an 80-year-old woman from Ansari Nagar. The total number of active cases stands at 74. Six people were discharged on Sunday.
08 June 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Infected patient dies at Tiruchi GH||A 58-year-old man from Tiruvallur district died of COVID-19 at Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital (MGMGH) here on Sunday. According to sources, the deceased from Veppampattu in Thiruvallur district came along with his family to Methel village near Adhanur in Perambalur district to attend his relative’s marriage on May 27. He developed fever on June 2 and went to a private hospital in Ariyalur for treatment. He was subsequently referred to a private hospital in Tiruchi. Since he had symptoms of COVID-19, he was referred and admitted to MGMGH. Upon admission, his swab sample was lifted for laboratory test. He was found positive for the virus on June 4. Since his condition worsened, he was put on ventilator. He died on Sunday. The patient was said to have been a diabetic and also suffered from heart ailment. Fourteen more persons tested positive in central districts on Sunday. The maximum number of cases was reported in Thanjavur district, followed by Tiruchi. While Thanjavur district recorded seven cases, Tiruchi accounted for four. Pudukottai and Ariyalur districts recorded two and one. In Ariyalur, the lone patient was said to have contracted the virus from his son, who worked in Chennai and had tested positive. He later came and stayed with his parents. While his father tested negative, his mother tested positive for the virus. In Tiruchi, four persons tested positive for the virus. One of them was a 26-year-old man working in National Institute of Technology, Tiruchi. Upon arrival by a flight to Tiruchi a few days ago, his swab sample was collected, and it turned out to be positive. The remaining three, who tested positive, were contacts of those who tested positive for the virus. One of them was an employee of the Heavy Alloy Penetrator Project in Tiruchi. The other two were from Pirattiyur and K.K. Nagar.
08 June 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Gandhi Market traders withdraw strike||A strike planned by Trichy Gandhi Market All Kinds of Wholesale and Retail Traders Association, demanding the opening of Gandhi Market was withdrawn following talks between traders and officials here on Sunday. The traders, led by association president Ve. Govindarajulu, held talks with the Corporation Commissioner, Revenue Divisional Officer, Tiruchi, and senior police officers at the Corporation office. The deliberations were carried out after association members held a meeting earlier in the day and decided to go on a strike on the night of June 7 and stop wholesale and retail trading activities in the city including G Corner. It was also decided that all 27 traders’ association of Gandhi Market would extend support to the strike call. Further, it was also decided at the meeting that the State government and the district administration should invite traders of Gandhi Market for talks to announce a favourable decision with regard to reopening the market failing which they would intensify the protest. Accordingly, a meeting was called by officials with the traders at the Corporation office in the evening. Corporation Commissioner S. Sivasubramanian presided over the meeting in the presence of Revenue Divisional Officer, Tiruchi, N. Viswanathan and senior police officers. The meeting lasted nearly three hours during which both sides explained their position. After conclusion of the meeting, Corporation Commissioner S. Sivasubramanian toldThe Hinduthat since the lockdown was in place the traders were informed that reopening of the Gandhi Market was based on the State government’s decision. The Corporation Commissioner further said he had conveyed to the traders that the market could be reopened if the government decided to lift the lockdown after June 30 or accorded permission for its reopening even before that. Mr. Govindarajulu said he wanted the authorities to announce the date of the reopening of the Gandhi Market besides finding out the reason for fire accidents at the market. He said the officials conveyed that Gandhi Market could be reopened only after the lockdown ended on June 30. The association decided to withdraw the strike following an agreement arrived at during the meeting, Mr. Govindarajulu added.
08 June 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Boilers association for rehabilitation banks||The Tamil Nadu Boilers Association has sought the creation of a rehabilitation bank/cell attached to the lead bank of the district or State for smooth revival of units declared as non-performing assets (NPA). “The MSME sector in Tiruchi region has been in a crisis for the last four years and the pandemic has further aggravated the situation for NPA units that provided largescale employment for the last five decades,” association treasurer Rajappa Rajkumar said. The accounts of the units must be transferred to the bank/cell after through a one-time settlement (OTS) of the outstanding, depending on the auction/market value of the properties, whichever was less. Units interested in making OTS shall be permitted to do so immediately. Those who want time must be given a one-year period without interest after receiving initial payment of 10% of the OTS amount. Those wish to run the unit in the existing form without further investment — by making the OTS — must be sanctioned interest-free working capital term loan payable in seven years with a moratorium period of a year. Units that need additional facilities must be provided access to equity funds by the government and further back up by banks. Equity and facilities not exceeding Rs. 2 crore must be covered under the credit guarantee scheme. The OTS can also be converted into interest-free working capital loan payable in seven years with a moratorium period of 12 months. The banks can take action if promoters fail to honour the commitment in line with the proposal. Promoters who run the units must be encouraged to form a cluster to take bulk orders, which they must distribute among themselves to emerge out of the sickness successfully and early. The case of MSME NPA units in Tiruchi must be given special consideration due to jobs they provide, prompt payment of taxes and meeting other statutory obligations. As they have become sick due to change in government policies and general recession, sanction of additional limits at lower rate of interest or interest subvention must be given. All NPA units have sold personal belongings and, hence, no collatoral or other securities must be demanded. The classification of such units must be changed to standard from substandard. With proper assistance, India can be an export hub. Tiruchi has been known as one of the best fabrication hubs in South Asia. The MSME units have acquired proficiency in fabrication and machining of heavy and large equipment. Educated and highly skilled entrepreneurs have the expertise for complicated jobs, and skilled and efficient labour is readily available. All types of latest welding technology have been developed through Welding Research Institute, BHEL, Tiruchi. The Tiruchi fabrication hub has the manufacturing capacity of around seven lakh metric tonnes per annum. BHEL Tiruchi has started getting orders. BHEL Ranipet has got good orders for flue gas desulfurisation from thermal plants for the next four to five years. Also, Tiruchi has been identified as a hub for production of defence components as part of defence corridor. Tiruchi MSME units have already formed clusters to undertake bulk orders from defence and railways, Mr. Rajappa Rajkumar said.
08 June 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||All schools start disinfecting premises||Heads of schools have been entrusted with the responsibility of disinfecting classrooms for conducting SSLC public examinations later this month. Since every school has been made an exam centre to enforce social distancing, they have been instructed to undertake thorough disinfection of classrooms and furniture. Two block education officers have been deployed in each of the 16 blocks in the district to monitor the effectiveness of disinfection activities, official sources said. The examination, which was earlier planned at 164 designated centres, will be conducted in 458 schools. As per the new schedule necessitated by the lockdown, it will be conducted from June 15- 25. Preparatory meetings of chief superintendents were chaired by Chief Educational Officer S. Shanthi on Friday.
08 June 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Consumer body objects to reopening||The Consumer Protection Council, Tamil Nadu, has made a representation to the Chief Secretary, seeking intervention to ensure that Gandhi Market was not reopened but shifted to Kallikudi Complex. In a letter to Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam, with copies also addressed to the Secretary to Chief Minister, Jayashree Muralidharan, and Collector S. Sivarasu, Secretary of Consumer Protection Council, Tamil Nadu, S. Pushpavanam said the maximum good for the largest number of people being the basic principle of governance a few hundreds of traders must not be allowed to have their way with their muscle power, money power and political influence. The encroachments in and outside the market were the cause for pollution and traffic congestion, resulting in wastage of fuel and wastage of man-hours of lakhs of people who had to pass through the narrow strip of road available for traffic. Ignorant people bought unhygienic vegetables and other goods sold in the environment. The structures in Gandhi Market had already become dilapidated, and the wiring, more than 60 years old, caused frequent fire accidents, the letter said. The facility created at Kallikudi by the State government at a cost of Rs. 77 crore comprising 800 shops with several lifts from ground floor to first floor and other modern facilities was going waste. “Therefore, we request you to permanently close the Gandhi Market which, after reconstruction, could be used for a better purpose. The wholesale and retail traders must be forced to go to Kallikudi complex and all encroachments in and around and opposite Gandhi Market must be cleared, Mr. Pushpavanam said.
08 June 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||No end to online woes||The State government's stand on holding online classes appears to have caused confusion due to lack of clarity on the duration of interface every day. Citing studies, parents say children of elementary level, who watch TV or use computer for more than two hours per day, are more likely to have emotional, social and attention problems. It is true that there is no uniformity in the duration of the classes. One school, for instance, has informed parents that they will be for three to four hours daily, while another has confined them to an hour. Parents have been instructed to make sure that net connection, personal computer laptop or android IOS phone, head phones, ZOOM App, relevant books and notebooks are in place. “Now that the lockdown restrictions are being lifted, we are back to our jobs that sustain us economically. The question in families where both parents work to make ends meet is who will assist the kids at home,” a parent wondered. While not against the concept of online teaching, they are concerned over schools collecting fee for online classes. The State government, while permitting online classes, has conveyed to schools that strict action will be taken if they collect fee from students at this juncture. But, there is nothing that prevents schools from taking a stand that online teaching necessitates purchase of textbooks and notebooks. Parents who go to schools to purchase books eventually end up paying the tuition fee as well due to the pressure exerted by the managements, another parent points out. The ordeal of parents may not end anytime soon. As the schools have also mentioned in their communication to parents that punctuality, daily attendance and discipline of the students will be monitored online, many find themselves with no option but to fall in line, as there is no certainty on how long it will take for regular classes to resume. The private schools seem to have the last laugh, as officials say they are as helpless as the parents.
08 June 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Mother, minor daughter found dead inside well||The water level at Mettur dam stood at 101.67 feet on Sunday against its full level of 120 feet. The inflow was 1,740 cusecs and the discharge 1,000 cusecs.    A 30-year-old woman and her eight-year-old daughter were found dead inside a farm well at Poolambadi village in the district on Saturday. Police sources said M. Maria Princy left home with her daughter and did not return. Later, villagers noticed their bodies floating inside the well. The bodies were retrieved by firefighters and sent to government hospital for post-mortem. Arumbavur Police registered a case under Section 174 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. The woman's husband was employed in Saudi Arabia. Further investigation was on, the sources added.    In separate cases, seven persons have been arrested on charges of poaching wild boars and deer in Tiruchi district. Acting on information, an official of the forest department arrested M. Madhi of Mullal village near Lalgudi on the charge of poaching a female wild boar and its offspring near Thatchankurichi reserve forest on Saturday. Meat was seized from his alleged possession. Six persons allegedly poached a deer near Omandur on Saturday. Forest officials said they consumed the meat but were found with the dead animal’s skin in their possession.
08 June 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Drinking water scheme to commence shortly||Work on the Rs. 543.20 crore combined drinking water scheme, which was designed in 2017 for the benefit of five municipalities – Sankarankovil and Puliyangudi in Tenkasi district and Rajapalayam, Sivakasi and Thiruthangal in Virudhunagar district – is to commence shortly. With the funding of the Central and the State Governments and also contributions from the beneficiary urban local bodies, the multi-crore project is to be executed for the benefit of 4.50 lakh population living now in these urban local bodies. When survey for this project was conducted in 2017, it was estimated that the five municipalities had 4.35 lakh population and it had increased to 4.45 lakh now. “As per this estimation, the five beneficiary municipalities will have 5.18 lakh people in 2032 which will rise to 6.21 lakh in 2047. Consequently, demand for drinking water of these municipalities will touch 46.08 million litres per day (MLD) in 2032 and 61.98 MLD in 2047. With Tamirbharani being the source, we’ve designed this project to adequately meet the demand of the population even after 27 years in these municipalities,” said Collector Shilpa Prabhakar Satish, after inspecting the site on Saturday. To ensure abundant supply of water for this project, a well is to be sunk in the Tamirabharani and a check-dam across the river will be constructed to ensure stagnation of water around the well near Kondanagaram near here. The 61.98 MLD water pumped out from the well will be taken to the purification tank situated about 3.98 Km from the well. Of this, 46.08 MLD will be purified everyday and supplied. The purified water will be stored in two ground-level water tanks at purification centre with the capacity of 23.20 lakh litre and 2.50 lakh litre respectively before pumping it to the first pumping station at Manur situated about 21.81 km from the purification centre. The second ground-level sumps with pumping station with the capacity of 23.20 lakh litre and 2.50 lakh litre will be constructed at Panaivadalichathram, situated about 22.23 km from Manur. The third pumping station will come up at Sankarankovil, where a massive ground-level sump will be constructed to pump the water to Puliyangudi municipality. While Puliyangudi will get new ground-level sumps to ensure efficient drinking water supply, Thirunvenkatam town panchayat will also get new sumps under this project in addition to the existing overhead tanks and the sumps. “Once this project is completed, every person in Puliyangudi (72,000 people) and Sankarankovil (63,000 people) municipalities will get 135 litres of water a day while the every resident of town panchayats en route will get 90 litres of water a day,” said Ms. Shilpa.
08 June 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Desilting of channel begins||Desilting of Pallamadai Channel that takes water to Pallamadaikulam nourishing crop on 1,000 acres, commenced on Saturday After the channel taking water to the Manur Periyakulam, one of the biggest water bodies of the district, and Periyakulam were desilted last year, farmers of this region could enjoy two bumper harvests successively since last October. With the water available now in the Periyakulam and also in their farm wells, the agriculturists have already started work for the ‘kar’ paddy cultivation and are of sure that they would have good yield in the ‘third crop’ also. The prime reason behind the rejuvenation of farming activity in this region is the desilting of irrigation channel taking water to the Periyakulam and the water body by District Collector Shilpa Parabhakar Satish with the technical assistance of Anna University. When the Collector visited this new-look water body and the farming operations being carried out in this dry area with the water stored in the Periyakulam during last December, women from several villages around Manur received a visibly moved Ms. Shilpa with ‘aarthi’, ‘kumkum’ and the fruits and vegetables they had harvested. On seeing the positive impact of the desilting work done at Periyakulam and its channel, Ms. Shilpa, with the help of the farmers and Anna University’s technical guidance, started desilting the 26 km-long Pallamadai channel. After desilting was carried out for about 15 Km last year, the remaining channel desilting work between Kalakkudi and Pallamadai was started on Saturday. “We’ll complete the work before June-end so that over 1,000 acres of cultivable land in this region will get benefited,” Ms. Shilpa said. Prof. G. Sakthinathan Deputy Director of Anna University Constituent Colleges, Chennai , who headed desilting operations of various water bodies in Tirunelveli and Thoothukudi districts, especially the desilting of Chittar and Maanur Periyakulam Channel, said the work, with the association of the farmers, would be completed before the deadline.
08 June 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Free electricity for farmers will not be scrapped: Vanathi Srinivasan||The Central government has not said anywhere that it would scrap the free electricity scheme for farmers, asserted BJP State General Secretary Vanathi Srinivasan in Tiruppur on Sunday. Speaking to mediapersons following a meeting of BJP functionaries, she accused that the opposition parties are creating a false propaganda that the scheme would be scrapped and that their recent protests are a diversion. The Central government merely asked the State government for the electricity distribution details among the 21 lakh farmers in Tamil Nadu, Ms. Srinivasan claimed. The BJP will carry out door-to-door as well as online campaigns in support of the Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan , Ms. Srinivasan said. With the departure of migrant workers from Tiruppur district, the industries must attempt to employ the Tamils who returned from other States in the existing vacancies, she said.
08 June 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Nilgiris hotels, lodges told not reopen for business||The Nilgiris district administration has warned of strict action against hotels, homestays, lodges and resorts that function illegally. In a press release, the District Collector J. Innocent Divya, said following the easing of travel restrictions in the Nilgiris, there were complaints from the public that a number of homestays and private resorts were allowing travellers to stay in their properties. Special teams have been formed to check on these properties and find out if they were indeed being re-opened. Any of these properties found to be functioning illegally would be sealed, the Collector said. Members of the public who find tourists staying in these properties should contact local tahsildars in Udhagamandalam, Coonoor, and Gudalur, and share the details, she said. Following reports that tourists were travelling to the Nilgiris posing as residents by TNSTC buses from other districts, all buses would stop at Mettupalayam, an official said. “We received information from the district administration that many tourists were boarding buses and reaching the Nilgiris. So we have decided to stop all 15 buses at Mettupalayam itself,” said a TNSTC official. People have also been urged to ensure personal distancing and to wear masks when they venture out from their homes by the district administration. Mask mandatory “Any person found to be outside without a mask will be fined as per rules under the Epidemic Diseases Act of 1897. Local bodies across the Nilgiris have been asked to form flying squads to enforce the law, including ensuring personal distancing and preventing large groups of people from gathering in any given location.
08 June 2020||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||VIT teams qualify for hackathon||Nasscom FutureSkills in collaboration with IBM organised a national-level hackathon, which was open to all university students and their mentoring faculty members with an objective to find innovative solutions to deal with the COVID-19 crisis. Students from over 500 institutions across India with 26,478 registrations participated. Of the top 16 short-listed teams for the final presentation and evaluation, five from VIT found their way in the list representing all the four campuses.
08 June 2020||June 08 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Corporation disinfects Class X examination centres in schools||As many as 1,890 Coimbatore Corporation students will take their Class X examination in 28 schools. Of the 1,890 students, 1,188 were girls. According to sources, the Corporation had begun disinfecting the 189 classrooms in the 28 schools that it had identified for the students to write the examination. Each of the 189 classrooms would have only 10 students in keeping with the State Government norms. The Corporation had begun distributing hall tickets to students and would soon consider distributing kabasurakudineer – a herbal decoction aimed at boosting immunity, mask and gloves to students when they appear for examination. The field staff in the wards or zones that housed the schools were also inspecting the schools to clean tanks to ensure supply of clean water and ensure that toilets were clean. The Corporation had closed the schools more than two months ago to comply with the COVID-19 lockdown guidelines.
08 June 2020||June 08 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||532 centres arranged in Salem||The Salem district administration has arranged 532 centres here for conducting Class X examinations. According to a release, the class 10 examinations will be held between June 15 and 25 and 46,487 students would be taking the examinations in the district. District Collector S.A. Raman said in a release that 36,686 students would be attending the Class 11 examinations on June 16 and 1,592 students who couldn’t attend the Class 12 examinations due to COVID-19 prevention measures would take the examinations here on June 18. According to officials, 5,859 hall invigilators and 272 stenographers have been appointed for the examinations. Besides 532 examination centres, 56 special examination centres have been arranged here for class 10 examinations. For higher secondary examinations, 322 examination centres have been arranged, it added. Students and their parents travelling here for the examinations will be allowed to enter the district without the e-pass once they show their identity cards and hall tickets to officials. Hall tickets Students can collect their hall tickets from their respective schools or download them online. Hall tickets will be delivered to homes of students, who are in quarantine, a release said.
08 June 2020||June 08 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Four of a family quarantined||Corporation officials on Sunday home quarantined four persons of a family, including a nine-month-old baby, after they drove from Chennai to Tiruppur allegedly without obtaining an e-pass. The four members comprised two women aged 25 and 19, a 16-year-old boy and the baby girl, who is the daughter of the 25-year-old woman. Corporation sources said the family reached Tiruppur in a rented car on June 3 to participate in the arrangements for a relative’s wedding scheduled later this month. Upon receiving information, Corporation officials visited their house and pasted the house quarantine sticker outside their residence, advising them not to venture out for 28 days. They claimed that the driver of the rented car, who dropped them off at Tiruppur, had the e-pass and that they did not possess it, for which a warning was issued to them, according to the sources. Swab samples lifted The swab samples of the four persons were lifted and sent to the COVID-19 testing laboratory at Tiruppur Government Medical College Hospital on Saturday.
08 June 2020||June 08 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Restrictions in functioning of markets from today||Following the heavy crowds witnessed at fish and vegetable markets at Thennampalayam in Tiruppur Corporation limits on Sunday, District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan ordered restrictions for both the markets from Monday. In a release, Mr. Vijayakarthikeyan said that the Thennampalayam vegetable market will not allow the public from Monday and will function only for wholesale and retail vendors. Temporary vegetable markets will be set up on the premises of L.R.G Government Arts College for Women and Nanjappa Municipal Boys Higher Secondary School for purchasing vegetables. Door delivery of vegetables within Corporation limits will be available, Mr. Vijayakarthikeyan said. Thennampalayam fish market will now be functioning on Sundays for wholesale and retail vendors only and not for the public. However, it will remain open from Monday to Saturday for the public. Mr. Vijayakarthikeyan noted that reports of overcrowding are being received by the district administration despite issuing guidelines for the public to carry umbrellas to ensure personal distancing and prevent the spread of COVID-19. Public must avoid venturing outside their houses unnecessarily and must wear masks and carry umbrellas while coming outside. Police and local body officials will levy fine on those not wearing masks and spitting in public places, he said.
08 June 2020||June 08 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Lack of transportation hits mango sale||The nationwide lockdown has severely affected sale of mangoes, this year. Traders here opined that though lockdown relaxations were provided by May, the sale of mangoes did not improve much compared to previous years and the yield was also poor. A. Jayapal, president of Salem Mango and Fruits Traders Association said that the arrival of mangoes and sale was affected this year due to lack of proper transportation and courier facilities. “The mango season would end almost in another two weeks and the sale was poor compared to previous years. Sales were limited to local level unlike previous years when large amount of stock would be couriered to different places”, he said. Nearly 40 to 50 varieties of mangoes are sold here and mangoes from Salem are sent to various parts of the country and are also exported to foreign countries. Varieties like Imam pasand, Alphonso, Malgova, Salem Bangalora are being delivered to the market now. Mr. Jayapal said that earlier while about 20-40 tonnes of mangoes arrive at Salem market during this period, now only 3-4 tonnes reach every day. He added, “due to lack of proper transportation facilities, stock from neighbouring districts like Krishnagiri have not arrived here much and we couldn’t take courier orders as well this year due to lack of courier delivery facilities.”
08 June 2020||June 08 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||3 test positive in Coimbatore||Three persons, including a technician attached to the Department of Physical Medicine at the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH), have tested positive for COVID-19, said Health Department sources. The technician, aged 27, had gone to Villupuram before the lockdown was enforced and he was not on duty for about two months. The man returned some days back and reported for duty at CMCH on June 2, said sources. After developing symptoms of COVID-19, he volunteered for testing and the result returned positive late on Saturday. Swab samples of more than a dozen of his colleagues were collected for testing. A 42-year-old man who came to Coimbatore from New Delhi and a 54-year-old man from Kanuvai road who returned from Chennai on Saturday also tested positive for the disease. As per the COVID-19 media bulletin issued by the Health Department on Sunday, 161 persons tested positive for the disease, so far, in the district. Of these, 152 were domestic cases and nine were imported cases. Coimbatore district had 14 active cases as of Sunday.
08 June 2020||June 08 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Flurry of calls keeps firefighters on their toes||Firefighters in the central region encompassing nine districts attended to a flurry of fire calls besides executing rescue operations during the lockdown period. While there were instances of fire accidents causing damage to properties, fire fighters were also successful in saving properties worth nearly a whopping Rs. 9 crore. The firefighting personnel carried out their mandated duties of fire fighting and rescue operations alongside battling at the frontline to prevent the spread of COVID-19 pandemic by spraying disinfectants in public places and in interior locations across the region ever since the lockdown was announced in late March. Statistics provided by the Fire and Rescue Services Department here revealed that the central region alone witnessed as many as 2,074 fire accidents, which were attended to by firefighters from March to May. The central region encompasses Tiruchi, Perambalur, Karur, Nagapattinam, Pudukottai, Thanjavur, Tiruvarur and Villupuram Divisions with a total number of 95 fire and rescue stations. The entire month of March saw a total number of 913 fire accidents reported at various places in the central region. The number of fire accidents reported in April and May were 609 and 552 respectively. According to firefighters, fire accidents were reported in thatched tenements, bushes, garbage, hay stacks and wooden wastes besides others. Fire accidents reported in thatched tenements alone were 205 across the central region. The reasons varied, they said. The value of the property damaged due to the slew of fire accidents was estimated to be over Rs. 89.17 lakh. In addition to attending to a series of fire calls, firefighters executed as many as 1,814 rescue missions during the three-month period from March. They included attending to 120 road accidents and saving the injured besides rescuing animals from open and abandoned wells. The firefighters were executing their core duties alongside carrying out additional responsibility of spraying disinfectants to contain the spread of COVID-19 pandemic at residential localities, hospitals, busy and main thoroughfares, by lanes, commercial and business hotspots, police stations, police quarters and other places across the region, said Deputy Director, Fire and Rescue Services, central region, Meenakshi Vijayakumar. Ms. Meenakshi Vijayakumar said swab tests were been done on all firefighters and officers in the central region as they were involved in the frontline in checking the spread of the viral disease across the State.
08 June 2020||June 08 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||FPOs ensure income for farmers in Bargur Hills||When families of daily wagers and workers of unorganised sector faced challenges during the COVID-19 lockdown, Farmers’ Producers Organisations (FPOs) in the district played a significant role in procuring and marketing farm produces from the small and marginal farmers in Bargur Hills that ensured sustained livelihood for them. Brinjal, beans, green chilli, banana, chow chow, tamarind, millets and jackfruit are grown in the hill area as 80% of the crops are rain-fed. Also, bee keeping is done by the farmers while Bargur cow and buffalo milk are produced by the farmers and procured by Surabi Milk and Agri Products Producers Group that has 166 farmers as its members. Direct sale Vegetables, fruits, honey and milk are sold directly to customers in Gobichettipalayam, Anthiyur and in the city. Due to spread of SARS-CoV-2 virus in the district, complete lockdown was enforced, and movement of these products and milk from the hills was completely stopped. “We found 10 tonnes of vegetables, 8,000 litres of native cow and buffalo milk and eggs and chicks grown in backyard poultry farm could not be moved to the plains due to lockdown”, said P. Alagesan, Senior Scientist and Head, ICAR Krishi Vigyan Kendra – MYRADA, Gobichettipalayam. KVK that was instrumental in forming Surabi took up the issue with Collector C. Kathiravan and trucks were permitted to transport vegetables and milk from Bargur hill to Anthiyur. After a week, trucks transported the products to the plains and door-to-door sales were carried out and the income was shared with farmers. Likewise, Kazhani Farmers Producer Company Limited at Kallipatti in Gobichettipalayam Taluk marketed seedlings, grocery items and bio-inputs to the farmers, Mr. Alagesan said and added that two school buses were used to market the produce in Gobichettipalayam and Anthiyur areas. “These two FPOs ensured regular income for 625 farmers, 120 tribal farmers and 25 backyard poultry entrepreneurs as products worth Rs. 18.35 lakh were sold during the 48-day period”, he added.
08 June 2020||June 08 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Sale of rat poison comes under police scanner after spurt in suicide cases||Recurring instances of suicide through consumption of rat poison has prompted law enforcers to compile a list of manufacturing, marketing and retail units in five districts under Tiruchi Range. A woman police inspector has been appointed in Tiruchi, Pudukottai, Karur, Ariyalur and Perambalur districts. Officials have also created Whatsapp groups with shopkeepers selling the substance. The law enforcers have held meetings with shopkeepers and advised them to inform the inspector either over phone or through the Whatsapp group in the event of any purchase by a customer. The shopkeepers can also contact the District Special Branch if they are unable to convey the information to the inspector. Ascertain reason On receiving information about purchase, the inspector will contact the customer to ascertain the reason for buying it and offer counseling to those identified with suicidal tendencies and help in overcoming them, a press release issued by Deputy Inspector General of Police, Tiruchi Range, V. Balakrishnan said. In 2018, police recorded 138 suicides due to consumption of rat poison in Tiruchi Range and the number went up to 165 in 2019. Sixty-three have committed suicide up to May this year. The initiative has been put in place to prevent such suicides. Action has been initiated against 160 shops in Tiruchi district and 68 in Pudukottai district for selling rat poison without obtaining government permission, the release added.
08 June 2020||June 08 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 test cost capped in pvt. hospitals||Health Secretary Beela Rajesh said Tamil Nadu is probably the first State to come out with such guidelines. “We need to have a quality check mechanism in place. So far, the quality control check had been completed for 17 government laboratories,” she said. The reports of the quality control checks would be conveyed to the laboratories. The government has prescribed that the samples with CT value of 25 to 35 for ‘e’ gene screening assay must be chosen. Director of Medical Education R. Narayana Babu said the test results from the laboratories should correlate with the results obtained in government labs. One of the aspects is to check the CT of lungs to assess their involvement in the infection. The values are chosen so that it would provide accurate results of a patient who is symptomatic. A person with values lower than 25 would be asymptomatic and one with over 35 would be seriously ill.   We need to have a quality check mechanism in place. So far, the quality control check had been completed for 17 government laboratories
08 June 2020||June 08 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Three new cases in Salem||Three COVID-19 positive cases were reported in Salem on Sunday. According to health officials, the patients, including a middle-aged couple and a person from Thammampatti here have travelled to Salem from Chennai. The patients are undergoing treatment here. Two COVID-19 positive cases were reported in Dharmapuri on Sunday. According to officials, an 8-year-old girl and a 62-year-old male from the same family have tested positive for the disease and they have travelled to the district from Chennai. The patients are undergoing treatment at the Dharmapuri Government Hospital.
08 June 2020||June 08 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Woman held for murdering husband||The Race Course police arrested a 52-year-old woman, who beat her husband to death on Saturday. S. Maheswari, a resident of Karuppakkal Thottam at Pappanaickenpalayam, was arrested for murdering her husband R. Sivaprakasam (56). The police said that Sivaprakasam used to pick up quarrel with his wife under the influence of alcohol. The man came home in an inebriated state on Saturday afternoon and quarrelled with his wife. The man also allegedly assaulted her. The woman, according to the police, hit her husband on the head with a wooden log. Though the injured man was rushed to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital, doctors declared him brought dead. The woman was arrested for the murder based on a complaint filed by the daughter of the couple.
08 June 2020||June 08 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Fitness at any cost||
08 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Industries face liquidity crisis one month after reopening||A month after reopening, industry bodies complain of a complete breakdown of supply-and-payment chain in the market, which has created severe shortage of working capital, no loans, and widespread job losses. The industrial sector, they say, is reeling under a liquidity crisis and the banks, they allege, are not of any help despite the “collateral free automatic loans” to micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs) being a main feature of the Rs. 20 lakh crore relief package announced by the Union government. “The Finance Minister said loans to MSMEs would be ‘automatic’ and earmarked Rs. 3 lakh crore for it. But banks are still wary of lending and concerned about non-performing assets. They are asking for orders on the book and to justify the need for the loan, among several other restrictions to grant loans. Not many industries in the State have received loans,” said C.R. Janardhana, president, Federation of Karnataka Chamber of Commerce and Industry (FKCCI). Banks are also favouring larger MSMEs with a good credit rating, and the smaller firms that are more in trouble seem to figure nowhere in their scheme of things, said Srinivas Asranna, chairperson, Peenya Industries Association (PIA). Industry bodies like FKCCI, PIA, and Kassia are now holding a series of meetings with lead bankers to prompt them to disburse more loans. Given the economic situation today, it may be months before the flow of new orders is restored to pre-lockdown days, industrialists say. But what is also troubling the industry is the existing orders being deferred, or worse, cancelled. MSMEs work as ancillary units to large-scale manufacturing industries, which are themselves in trouble. “For instance, the auto sector has had zero sales for two months now and has a large inventory of unsold vehicles. Forget new orders, auto industry is not ready to take delivery of orders they had placed before lockdown. This is true of other sectors as well. This has led to a cascading effect. Unless my customers pay my bill, I cannot clear the bills for raw materials. The only way to solve the disruption of payment and supply chains is to take a loan for working capital which has not been easy to come by,” explained Mr. Asranna. At a recent tripartite meeting between the State government, industry and trade unions as part of the Task Force set up by the Labour Department, the Joint Committee of Trade Unions (JCTU) appealed to the government to ensure large industries clear bills of MSMEs for orders already on the books, which will ease up the liquidity crunch in the industry. However, the State government has not made any intervention in the space till date, sources in the MSME industry said. Add to this, supply of raw materials from Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra, Gujarat, and Rajasthan — all States that have reported high number of COVID-19 cases — has not been restored. “Even the imports have been impacted. Though some raw materials imported through the sea route have arrived, its delivery has been delayed for a long time now due to COVID-19 fears and associated procedures,” said Mr. Janardhana.
08 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Two deaths, 239 new cases reported in State||Two more COVID-19 deaths and 239 new cases were reported in the State on Sunday. With this, the death toll rose to 61, apart from two non-COVID-19 deaths, while the total number of positive cases touched 5,452. Both patients who succumbed to the infection were from Bengaluru and had comorbidities. One of them, a 61-year-old SARI (Severe Acute Respiratory Infection) patient who was on a ventilator in the ICU, died on Saturday, while the second patient, a 57-year-old man who was also suffering from filariasis and chronic myeloid leukemia, died at the same hospital on Sunday. Maharashtra returnees continued to haunt the State, with 177 of the 239 new patients having a travel history to that State. A total of 183 of the new cases were inter-State travellers while nine of them were international travellers. One inter-district traveller, who came from Ballari to Bengaluru, too tested positive. Sunday’s cases also included 10 patients with Influenza-Like Illness, two with SARI, 22 primary contacts of previous positive patients, and 10 patients whose contact tracing is still on. While Kalaburagi and Yadgir, with 39 cases each, recorded the highest number of cases on Sunday, Belagavi followed with 38 cases. Bengaluru Urban saw 23 cases while Dakshina Kannada and Davangere recorded 17 cases each. Udupi, which had recorded the highest number of cases for three consecutive days till Saturday, reported only 13 cases. A majority of the cases in Kalaburagi, Yadgir, Belagavi, Dakshina Kannada, and Udupi were travellers from Maharashtra. While Shivamogga reported 12 cases, Vijayapura and Bidar saw nine each, while Hassan reported five cases. Bengaluru Rural saw five cases — all returnees from Kuwait. The 23 cases in Bengaluru Urban included 10 ILI and two SARI cases, apart from two travellers from the United Arab Emirates and returnees from Delhi and Ballari. Four primary contacts of previous positive patients also tested positive in this district. Active cases, discharges There are 3,257 active cases in the State. Four districts — Kalaburagi, Yadgir, Udupi, and Riachur — have more than 300 cases each and account for 62.48% of the State’s COVID-19 burden. With 798 cases, a major chunk of active cases are from Udupi. While Kalaburagi and Yadgir have 487 and 445 cases, respectively, Raichur has 305 cases. With 143 discharges on Sunday, the total number of discharged persons touched 2,132 — which is 39% of the total positive cases.
08 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||KMF plans to seek Rs. 867 crore loan to pay for milk procured||Stung by the crisis caused by the lockdown that has weakened the financial capacity of the district milk unions, Karnataka Milk Federation (KMF) is proposing to seek a loan of Rs. 867 crore from banking institutions for the working capital to pay for the milk procured from farmers. Pledging stocks The 14 district milk unions will pledge their stock of butter, skimmed milk power and ghee among other products to raise loans for the working capital, and ensure payments to farmers are made on time. Till now, despite a shrunk market for milk and milk products, unions have not defaulted on payment. However, over the last two months with the demand for its products reduced, milk unions have resorted to cut in procurement price twice, which is in the range of Rs. 2.5 per litre to Rs. 3.5 per litre, affecting about 2 million farmers. Top KMF sources confirmed that they are already in talks with banks to raise the proposed loan of about Rs. 867 crore on behalf of the unions. “Though the proposal is for Rs. 867 crore, it does not mean we will utilise it completely. In case the market conditions improve our loan component also comes down. We have negotiated the loans at the rate of 5.67% interest,” said the source. Among the top milk federations in the country, KMF has decided to utilise the ‘interest subvention scheme’ announced for the dairy sector by the Union government recently. “Of the 5.67% interest, the Centre pays 2% and if we make repayment on time, the Centre will further give 2% as incentive. This means, our burden is just a fraction of the interest negotiated,” sources explained. Stocks pile up The KMF’s necessity to seek loans for its working capital comes at a time when it is grappling with increasing milk procurement while the market for several value-added products is yet to open. Fast moving products such as butter, ghee, cheese and skimmed milk powder (SMP) that are in high demand in North India, hardly have any takers. In the middle of peak milk season, the procurement has exceeded 81 lakh litres a day while the sale of milk is less than 50% of the procurement. On an average, about 30% of the daily procurement is being converted into SMP. The federation, which is saddled with 7,500 metric tonnes of SMP, has another cause to worry. For, the price of SMP has seen a steep decline from about Rs. 330 per kg before the lockdown to about Rs. 130 per kg now. On the other hand, supply to schools for Ksheera Bhagya has also stopped. The stock of butter with the unions exceeds 2,000 tonnes even as the butter prices have seen a decline from about Rs. 350 per kg before the lockdown to about Rs. 225 per kg now.  Inter-State trade hit A source in Bangaluru Milk Union Ltd. (BAMUL) said that the milk unions were suffering losses in conversion of milk to SMP as a good part was being sent to Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu for conversion, which came at a higher cost. However, KMF sources were confident that when the full fledged opening of food industry happens, the pile of stocks will find markets.
08 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Markets, malls, hotels, places of worship ‘unlock’ today||Bengalureans will be able to shop at malls and markets, dine at their favourite hotels and restaurants and head to places of worship from Monday as most such establishments are set to “unlock” themselves. However, signs of the “new normal” will be evident. Hoteliers and restauranters claim to have taken several measures, such as not placing menu cards on the tables, encouraging digital transactions, sanitising all touch points and tables. P.C. Rao, president of the Bruhat Bengaluru Hotels’ Association, said that posters on COVID-19 would also be put up in hotels and restaurants, while maintenance of hygiene and sanitation is being given paramount importance. All the common areas and touch points will be sanitised, he added. Markets Markets are also set to reopen on Monday. Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) Commissioner B.H. Anil Kumar, accompanied by senior civic officials, inspected Krishna Rajendra Market on Sunday afternoon. G.M. Divakar, president of K.R. Market Flower Traders’ Association, said that to begin with, only licence holders would be permitted in the market. The 2,200 shops in the market would be reopening after 80-odd days. The onus is on the shopkeepers to ensure crowd management, he said. Russell Market, on the other hand, will be reopening only on Tuesday. According to Mohammed Idrees Choudhury, general secretary of Russell Market Traders’ Association, massive cleaning of the market premises is scheduled on Monday. While many temples are set to reopen on Monday, ISKCON has postponed the same till June 15. “We are still planning strategies on crowd management. We propose to allow only 100 devotees per hour. Devotees may book the time slot online. We also plan to have sensors installed in taps to make them touch-free,” said a representative of ISKCON. No ‘prasada’ At the Gavi Gangasareshwara Temple, darshan will be allowed between 8 a.m. and noon. “There will be no archanas or special prayers. We will not be giving teertha or prasada for the devotees either. Volunteers and temple staff will regulate the devotees to ensure there is no crowding and social distance is maintained,” said priest Somasundar Dikshit. Churches will be open only post June 13, said J.A. Kantharaj, spokesperson of the Archdiocese of Bangalore. “We have received the SOP from the government and have conveyed the same to the 110 churches coming under the archidiocese. We are planning to continue with live streaming prayers, while also increasing the number of services,” he said and added that devotees would be asked to use alternate pews to maintain social distancing. Maqsood Imran, imam of Jamia Masjid, said sanitiser tunnels would be placed inside the mosque, apart from sensor-based hand sanitiser dispensers. The mats in the prayer halls have been removed and markings have been made to ensure social distancing among those coming to pray. The community members had also been urged to finish ‘wadoo’ (cleaning ritual) at home before coming to pray. Some malls to wait Meanwhile, a few malls have decided to put off reopening by a couple of days. Shashie Kumar, chief executive officer, Brigade Retail, told The Hindu that while the mall premises had been sanitised completely, they had decided to give time to the retailers to take necessary measures in their individual shops. Nandeesh M.R., general manager of Garuda Mall, said Aarogya Sethu app would be made mandatory for anyone visiting the mall that would be open from Monday. “We have also taken steps to ensure social distancing in the food courts,” he said.
08 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||CM’s warning to tractor-owning families to return BPL cards draws flak||Criticising the State government’s move to ‘criminalise’ farmers who own tractors but are also holding on to BPL card, former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy on Sunday said that such a move was foolish and anti-farmer. “(Chief Minister) B.S. Yediyurappa has stated that criminal action will be taken against those farmers owning tractors who do not return the BPL card. It seems that this government that harasses farmers is waiting on its toes to take legal action against farmers,” Mr. Kumaraswamy tweeted. In a series of tweets, he added, “To return the BPL cards, the government has kept the tractor as a yardstick. Are the governments not incentivising farmers to purchase tractors? Is it not foolish to promote purchase of tractors on one hand and on the other snatch away the BPL card?” In another tweet, he said: “In the current competitive world, it is imperative to have farm equipment and vehicles. The government should promote it. It should not threaten to take away the BPL, which is not only restricted to seeking food ration but is also a basis to secure several other facilities.” He further said, “Genuine beneficiaries should get the facilities. There are loopholes in the public distribution system that have to be rectified and focus should be on this. The government should drop its habit of targeting farmers.” KPCC president-designate D.K. Shivakumar also criticised the government’s move to withdraw BPL cards from families of farmers who owned tractors. “We will fight on behalf of the farmers. Many farmers with two acres own tractors. They cannot be considered big farmers. There should be no question of withdrawing BPL cards from poor farmers.” Instead, he said, Anna Bhagya scheme should be extended to farmers too.
08 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||70% of contract workers in private sector are unemployed||In little over a month after industries were allowed to start, a large contract workforce is now staring at a bleak future. Industry sources estimate that at least 70% of about 6 lakh contract workers across private industries do not have employment currently as industries with a stunted demand do not have enough work to hire contract workers. Considered as a “uncovered flexible workforce”, those working on contract are believed to constitute about 60% of the total nearly one million blue collared jobs in industries across industrial areas in and around Bengaluru. Unfortunately, multiple sources in industries and trade unions confirmed, there is no accurate data on contract workers as they are not organised. First to be affected in any industrial crisis, contract workers also have limited legal cover to protect their employment. “Industries have not received orders yet. In fact, about 30% of industries have not even started. Those that have started have received about 10% to 30% orders. These works have been taken up mostly by permanent workers and there are not enough orders to provide employment for those on contract,” confirmed president of Karnataka Industries Association B.C. Prabhakar. “Most of the contract workers are migrants, who have returned home. Many are also hesitant to return,” he added. What may be the worrying factor, according to him, is that the industries are expecting a “little improvement” in demand over the next six months while return to the pre-lockdown production levels may take at least two years. With the huge labour problem unfolding in the industry, CITU general secretary Meenakshi Sundaram said that contract labour losing jobs were not restricted to private sector alone as a number of such workers in big public sector undertakings in the city have also not been called for work nor have they been paid full salary. He also pointed out that industries had been appointing apprentices under the National Employability Enhancement Mission to extract cheap labour. “This section has also been affected.” Part of the problem is that industries, to keep their “workforce flexible”, hired more workers on contract than permanent workers, violating the provisions of The Contract Labour (Regulation and Abolition) Act, which defines jobs that are not permanent in nature to be filled by contract workers. “Today, most contract workers are doing permanent jobs and are paid minimum wages, which is not even half of what a permanent employee earns,” AITUC general secretary D.A. Vijaybhaskar pointed out. The Labour Department mostly turned a blind eye towards these violations, he added. Enquiries revealed that if their minimum wages are between Rs. 14,000 and Rs. 16,000 a month, a permanent employee in the same category of work would earn more than Rs. 30,000. Both industries and trade union leaders acknowledge that the ratio of contract workers over permanent workers in most workplaces exceeds 50%.
08 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Padarayanapura councillor arrested||Padarayanapura councillor Imran Pasha was arrested after his supporters took out a huge procession from Victoria Hospital till his house minutes following he discharge from the hospital after being treated for COVID-19 on Sunday. The police said Mr. Pasha was arrested for violating the NDMA Act and prohibitory orders. He was sent to Victoria Hospital jail ward. Earlier, hundreds of supporters cheered and showered flowers and followed his car on bikes, leading to traffic jam on Mysuru Road for some time. There was no social distancing maintained during the procession as people thronged the car to shake hands with him. The police, who arrived at the spot, failed to contain the crowd. Following his discharge after nine days of treatment, Mr. Pasha called upon his followers to maintain social distance and stay at home to stay safe. However, the excited supporters did not pay heed and followed his car cheering, shouting slogans, and whistling all the way. The J.J. Nagar police had earlier filed an FIR against Mr. Pasha for creating ruckus and refusing to get admitted to hospital after he tested positive. Padarayanapura is a containment zone and carrying out such massive procession violating social distance amounts to an offence under the NDMA Act, a senior police officer said. Police Commissioner Bhaskar Rao imposed prohibitory orders in Padarayanapura for five days with immediate effect. The prohibitory orders are applicable in J.J. Nagar police station limits to contain gatherings, carrying out processions, and violating social distancing in the containment zone, Mr. Rao said.
08 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Six-car metro best mass transit alternative for ORR, airport line: BMRCL study||A six-car metro system has emerged as the most viable mass transport system to connect the Kempegowda International Airport (KIA) with Silk Board, according to a study conducted by Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Ltd. (BMRCL). The BMRCL, through Infrastructure Development Corporation (Karnataka) Ltd. (iDeCK), conducted an ‘Alternatives Analysis’ for Outer Ring Road (Silk Board to K.R. Puram) and K.R. Puram to KIA lines. Various alternative mass transit systems such as Bus Rapid Transit System, Monorail, Metro Lite – elevated , metro system (6- coach trains running at 3-minute headway) and Heavy Metro (8-coach trains at 3-minute headway) were analysed. Various parameters, including mobility effects, conceptual engineering effect, cost of the project, environmental, and social impact were considered for evaluation. The study on the 17-km ORR line (K.R. Puram to Silk Board) states that around 4.5 lakh employees are working in tech parks and other companies on the corridor. “It is estimated that in the next four years, an additional 30 million square feet would be available for occupancy, which in turn projects 8 lakh working population by 2021. With immense growth in intra-city traffic, the ORR is under tremendous pressure with high congestion index manifested in low speeds and high travel times. With rapid urbanisation, in most of the stretches of the ORR, the existing traffic volumes are far higher than the intended design of 5,400 PCUs (passenger car units),” it states. Travel demand The report analyses that required travel demand for the ORR corridor is 33,709 PHPDT (peak hour peak directional traffic) by 2041 and states that the BRTS, Metro Lite, and Monorail cannot meet them. “Metro rail system is a medium-capacity transit system having the passenger throughput between 20,000 PHPDT and 60,000 PHPDT, while the required travel demand for this corridor is 33,709 PHPDT, which clearly indicates that the metro system can easily fulfil the required travel demand for this corridor,” states that report. Reasoning why the KIA needs the mass transit system to the KIA, the report states that the corridor carries more than 10,000 PCU in the peak hour, and while the corridor (airport road) itself is not experiencing any congestion, Hebbal, the entry point and the network within the central parts of city are experiencing severe congestion. The report also states that travel demand to be catered to from K.R. Puram to KIA is 46,252 PHPDT. Like the ORR line, other modes of transport such BRTS, Monorail, and Metro Lite will not be in a position to meet them and Heavy Metro is an expensive project hence not recommended. The study recommends implementation of metro rail projects on this corridor too. The BMRCL has already completed land acquisition for the ORR line and compensation being distributed for acquisition of properties on airport line.
08 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Siddaramaiah urges Union government to revise MSP||Stating that the new MSP announced for 17 crops during this kharif by the Union government was grossly inadequate and would not help farmers, Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah on Sunday said that the government should reconsider the decision and announce a fresh MSP based on the formula recommended by the National Commission on farmers headed by M.S. Swaminathan. In a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Mr. Siddaramaiah said that MSP should be extended to all agriculture produce to help farmers tide over the fallout of COVID-19 . He also said that many farmers do not have access to markets to sell at MSP, which pushes them to sell their produce to local traders at much lower prices. While the demand of farmers has been calculation of MSP based on the recommendation of M.S. Swaminathan Commission, the government has not done so, and makes it difficult for the farmers to expect any remunerative returns on their investments. “This is one of the major reasons for farmers’ distress,” he said. For example, he said that as per the Centre’s current calculation, the MSP for groundnut has been announced at Rs. 5,275 on a cost of production of Rs. 3,515. However, as per the commission’s formula, the cost of production would be Rs. 6,509 and the MSP should have been Rs. 9,763.50. “This wide difference in MSP can be seen for all crops announced.” Mr. Siddaramaiah said that as the MSP are a major source for price discovery, farmers are disadvantaged to unlock the true market value of their produce due to the current calculations.
08 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Tough task for officials at Attibele check-post||It has not been an easy task for officials, police personnels, and volunteers at the Karnataka-Tamil Nadu border check-post on Hosur Road, near Attibele, who are inspecting and permitting vehicles to cross the border round the clock. An official on duty at the check-post said there was high traffic for three days from June 1, when institutional quarantine was done away for inter-State returnees, except Maharashtra. “Now, the traffic is getting back to normal and we are vigilant,” the official said. However, there are allegations of people entering the State using their own vehicles not being monitored closely and dodging checkpoints. The number of people returning from Tamil Nadu, which is reporting a high number of COVID-19 cases, is quite high at the check-post and the checking needs to be “thorough and strict”, some said. “I didn’t know the procedure and I just drove without getting checked. But I have quarantined myself,” a person who wished anonymity said. But officials maintained that even if some may have inadvertently escaped checking, the numbers will be “negligible”. A police officer said that Attibele check-post was the only inter-State check-post connecting the city presently and that they had blocked inner roads like T.V.S. Road, Anekal Road and Hosur-Bagalur Road that connected the State to Tamil Nadu. Speaking to The Hindu , Madhukar Govindarajulu, an entrepreneur who volunteers at the check-post, said that registration on Seva Sindhu portal was a must and they insist on Aarogya Sethu app as well. “Thermal screening is done and those who have not registered on Seva Sindhu are made to fill a form on the spot which is fed in the system. We can see vehicles coming and we stop them and check,” he said, adding that weekends see surge in number of vehicles. Meanwhile, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has appealed to Resident Welfare Associations (RWAs), apartment complexes and neighbours to report such returnees. A member of an RWA in the city said they were working closely with officials and were keeping an eye on inter-State returnees.
08 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||NIMHANS ward sealed as patient tests positive||The psychiatry emergency services ward at the National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences (NIMHANS) has been sealed for fumigation and sanitisation after a patient brought there tested positive for COVID-19. Psychiatry emergency services will now operate from the adjacent Casualty building. Male patients, who require short-stay care, will be admitted at the Centre for Addiction Medicine male ward, while female patients will be in Pavilion 4 on the same premises. This arrangement will be on till Tuesday, after which services will resume in the sanitised building, institute authorities said. NIMHANS Director B.N. Gangadhar told The Hindu on Sunday that a 34-year-old woman with a mental health disorder requiring emergency care was brought to the hospital on Friday. She was admitted for observation and tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 although she did not show any symptoms, he said. She was brought to the ward by the police after she was found wandering around in Gurappanapalya (BTM Layout) on Friday. She was tested as she came from a high-risk area, and her result came back positive on Saturday night. Subsequently, the shifting and sanitisation process began, he said. Around 50 patients in the ward and staff who were on duty during the period when the woman was in the ward are being evaluated and quarantined, he said. Sources said it was not known that the patient was from a hotspot at the time of admission as the police had not informed them. The doctors felt the need to test her and collected her swab samples after learning that she came from a high-risk area. “Although we followed the normal screening procedure of thermal scanning and more, she could not be identified initially as a suspected case of COVID-19 as she was asymptomatic,” a source said. While the patient has been sent to Victoria Hospital, her mother, who was also traced, has been sent to Bowring and Lady Curzon Hospital for testing. Sources said two staff members from the laboratory and medical records section of the institute, who had a travel history to Tamil Nadu, had tested positive a few days ago and were under treatment.
08 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Goods truck set on fire on NICE Road||A truck transporting steel racks was set on fire by allegedly a group of men over road rage on NICE Road in the early hours of Saturday. Based on the complaint filed by Veerendra, the truck driver, the Jnana Bharathi police have registered a case against the accused charging then under Section 435 (mischief by fire or explosive substance) for further investigation. In his complaint, Veerandra said he was coming towards the city from Chennai carrying loads of steel racks. On NICE Road, a car was trying to overtake the truck. After many attempts, the car managed to drive past and waited for the truck by parking the car in the middle of the road. Sensing trouble, Veerendra parked the truck on the roadside and ran towards the jungle area for cover. The group approached the truck and searched for him before setting the truck on fire and speeding away, the police said. After the group left, Veerendra returned, but by then the truck was engulfed in flames.
08 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Victim helps catch molester on train||A 24-year-old private firm employee chased and caught a man who was trying to escape after allegedly molesting her on a train on Saturday. As the Bhopal–Bengaluru train reached Dharmavaram, the victim, who was sleeping, noticed the man molesting her, but he ran away. She raised an alarm and chased him before alerting RPF security personnel. The TTE was informed and joined the search. The trio searched the entire train before zeroing in on the accused, later identified as Siraj P.P., 28, from Waynad, Kerala. Siraj is a private firm employee in Bengaluru. He was arrested and handed over to the city railway police after the train reached Bengaluru. The police charged for outraging the modesty of woman and handed him over to the Dharmavaram police for further investigation.
08 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Industry bodies lobby for holiday to labour laws, unions oppose||Multiple industry bodies have appealed to the State government to declare a three-year holiday to all labour laws, on the lines of Uttar Pradesh, but trade unions have severely opposed any such move. “Given the economic situation, industries cannot operate under outdated labour laws, which have become a large impediment to flexibility and adaptability to the situation in the industry,” argued C.R. Janardhana, president, FKCCI. The State government earlier allowed industries to get their workers to work for 10 hours a day, paying overtime (OT) for the additional two hours, but the order was withdrawn. This, Mr. Janardhana said, has brought no relief. Satyanand Mukund, secretary, All India Trade Union Congress, Bengaluru, opposed any move to declare labour law holiday in the State. “There is no rationale to the demand to declare holiday to labour laws. A holiday to labour laws will only cause anarchy in the industry leading to severe job losses,” he said.
08 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||47 containment zones in city||The number of containment zones in the city increased to 47 on Sunday. There were 45 zones on Saturday. The BBMP’s West zone has 11 containment zones followed by Mahadevapura zone at eight, East zone and Bommanahalli zones have seven each, and South zone has five. While Dasarahalli zone has two containment zones, R.R. Nagar zone has three, and Yelahanka has four containment zones.
08 June 2020||Chikkamagaluru,KARNATAKA||Elderly couple found dead||An aged couple, with none to take care of them, was found dead at their residence at Hosamane Extension in Chikkamagaluru town on Saturday evening. The police gave the names of the deceased as Gopalakrishna (78) and his wife Rathnamma (73). The police suspected that they may have committed suicide. They are survived by two sons who were not living with them. The couple left a note stating that they had difficulties due to age-related health issues. Rathnamma had undergone a surgery recently and both were tired of visiting hospitals. They did mention that there was none to take care of them. However, they have not blamed anybody for their extreme step. Chikkamagaluru Town Police have registered a case. Chikkamagaluru Superintendent of Police Harish Pandey told The Hindu that further investigation will be taken up.  Farmer shoots himself Meanwhile, a farmer was found dead at his farm at Madlubailu near Nemmar in Sringeri taluk on Saturday. The police said that Shivappa Naika first consumed poison and then shot himself in his farm. His family members rushed to him after they heard the gunshot. He is survived by his wife and two sons. Earlier, Shivappa Naika was staying put in Keregadde within the Kudremukh National Park. He relocated to Madlubailu after he lost his land. He purchased three acres and 39 guntas of land where he had been living for the last five years. According to his family members, Naika had borrowed loan from banks for land development. Sringeri Police have registered a case. ( T hose in distress or having suicidal tendencies may call Arogya Sahayavani on Ph: 104 for help .)
08 June 2020||DHARWAD,KARNATAKA||Three more in Dharwad||The total number of COVID-19 positive cases reported in the district has touched 60 with three more cases reported on Sunday. However, the recovery rate is more than the active cases here. A total of 34 patients have recuperated and discharged from hospital against 26 active cases who are under treatment till date. Of the 18,827 samples tested so far, 17,526 tested negative and the results of 1,225 are awaited.
08 June 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Six government first grade colleges shifted to Bengaluru, Belagavi||The Department of Collegiate Education has shifted six government first grade colleges, including three in Hassan, citing the lack of strength. Interestingly, among the six, four have been relocated to Bengaluru, while the rest two to Belagavi district. In Hassan, the colleges located at Hettur (Sakleshpur taluk), Arehalli (Belur) and Halli Mysuru (Holenarasipur) have been chosen, citing that the students’ strength in these was below 100. The remaining three were located in Sathanur in Ramanagar district, Terakanambi in Gundlupet taluk and Hanur in Kollegal taluk in Chamarajanagar district. Government order The State government issued an order to this effect last month. Rajappa, principal, Lead College, Hassan district, told The Hindu that the government had taken this decision considering the poor students’ strength. “The government had sought reports about the students’ strength. Based on these, the decision has been taken. The teaching staff had no workload in these colleges because of the poor strength. A professor should have 16-hour-duty a week. But, given the strength, they did not have even a part-time job,” he said. The government, in its order, stated that the students of these colleges could be accommodated in government colleges nearby. With the closure of the college at Hettur, there would be only one college at Sakleshpur town for the entire taluk. “We have a building for the college. And, recently a post-metric hostel has been sanctioned for Hettur. The government should not take the students’ strength alone as the criteria for such a decision,” opined H.K. Kumaraswamy, State JD(S) president and Sakleshpur MLA. The MLA said he would meet the senior officers and appeal them to retain the college in Hettur. In Malenadu region, it would be difficult for the students to travel long distances. Moreover, Sakleshpur is known for elephant menace, he added.
08 June 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||‘Distribute masks to students two days before SSLC exam’||Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar has urged officials to expedite preparations for SSLC examinations to be held from June 25. Taking stock of preparedness at a review meeting on SSLC exam with DDPIs and BEOs of Kalaburagi, Bidar and Yadgir districts in Kalaburagi on Sunday, Mr. Suresh Kumar reiterated that top priority is to ensure the safety of students arriving at examination centres and help them take the examination with confidence. Both teachers and students must wear masks and maintain social distancing, students should be subjected to thermal screening before entering the examination centre and social distancing should be ensured in seating arrangements, he added. Mr. Suresh Kumar directed the officials to provide two masks each for students two days before the examination and ask students to carry their own water bottles. Mr. Suresh Kumar clarified that the students who could not attend SSLC exams going to be held from June 25 to July 4 due to the coronavirus situation can appear as freshers for advanced supplementary examinations to be held in August. He said that a committee, comprising academics and experts, had resolved to conduct the SSLC exam. “Students want exams as they have studied hard throughout the year to score good marks,” he added.  Online revision To instil confidence in students, online revision classes and exam preparation tips will also be held on DD Chandana channel from June 10 to June 20. As per the guidelines of the National Council for Education Research and Training (NCERT), the existing syllabus will be reduced following the lack of active academic activities due to COVID-19 outbreak and nation-wide lockdown, the Minister said. Mr. Suresh Kumar also directed the district-level officials to make a video of model examination centre as per the standard operating procedure introduced for social distancing and other safety measures.  ‘Students who cannot attend the exam can appear as freshers during the supplementary examination to be held in August’
08 June 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Police officer tests positive||A Circle Inspector of Police attached to the Hosapete Circle in Ballari district tested positive for COVID-19 on Saturday. The officer was among several police officers who attended a meeting convened by the Director-General of Police Praveen Sood in Ballari on Friday. Speaking to The Hindu , Ballari Superintendent of Police C.K. Baba confirmed that the infected Circle Inspector was among the three police staff that tested positive for the disease on Friday. The other two were constables attached to Mariyammanahalli Police Station and the Tungabhadra Dam Police Outpost, respectively. Mr. Baba said that nearly 50 people, including Additional Superintendent of Police Lavanya, who were in contact with one police personnel or the other that tested positive for COVID-19 have been quarantined.
08 June 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||43,174 students to write exam in Kalaburagi||Kalaburagi Deputy Director for Public Instructions Shantgouda said that 43,175 students would appear for SSLC examination in 136 centres in the district. As many as 632 students from Kalaburagi will appear for the examination in other educational districts, while 539 students from other districts will write the exam in Kalaburagi. As many as three students from outside the State, one from Maharashtra and two from Tamil Nadu, will appear for the exam in Kalaburagi district. Transportation facilities are being provided for them to reach the exam centres.
08 June 2020||Mandya,KARNATAKA||Narrow escape for Minister in Mandya||Minister for Municipal Administration, Horticulture and Sericulture K.C. Narayana Gowda had a close shave near Bankapura in Mandya district on Sunday as the workers engaged in the Bengaluru-Jalasuru State highway upgrading works carried out unscientific rock blasting. Eyewitnesses said that pieces of a huge rock flew high up in the air and fell on the highway when the fleet of vehicles that Mr. Gowda and government officials were travelling in was between K.R. Pet and Nagamangala. The workers had blasted a roadside huge rock without blocking vehicle movement, said police officials. The incident shook Mr. Gowda, who is also the in-charge minister of Mandya, and others, as pieces of the stone fell on the road in their presence. Following the development, based on the instructions of Mr. Gowda, the contractor concerned was taken into custody for questioning, said Nagamangala police sources.
08 June 2020||Mandya,KARNATAKA||Ranganathittu to reopen||Ranganathittu Bird Sanctuary, the largest bird sanctuary in Karnataka, on the banks of the Cauvery in Mandya district, is all set to enthral visitors again, after a gap of 86 days. The Forest Department, the custodian of the bird sanctuary, is geared up to reopen it on Monday. The bird sanctuary was closed on March 14 following the spread of COVID-19. The sanctuary — a combination of several mini-islets in the Cauvery near Srirangapatna — had not been closed for this long a period since it got the status of bird sanctuary in 1940. The nationwide lockdown has caused it a loss of Rs. 1.5 crore, a senior forest officer said. “We have taken all precautionary measures to prevent a possible spread of COVID-19 at the bird sanctuary,” he told The Hindu on Sunday. According to him, every visitor will be asked to strictly wear a mask and maintain social distancing while entering the sanctuary. Disinfectants will be provided to all visitors. Currently, Ranganathittu has only around 8,500 birds. A majority of open-billed storks, spoonbills, spot-billed pelicans, and painted storks have left the sanctuary with hatchlings. The islets of Ranganathittu were formed during the construction of a barrier across the Cauvery between 1645 and 1648, by the then Mysore ruler Kantirava Narasaraja Wadiyar. The bird sanctuary is home to many native and migratory birds, and is considered a safe place for river otters, marsh crocodiles (muggers), and several species of fish.
08 June 2020||Mandya,KARNATAKA||Sudden mass lay-offs leave workers worried||Hundreds of employees of Euro Clothing Company, a unit of Gokaldas Exports Ltd., staged a protest on the premises of the company in Srirangapatna on Saturday following the announcement of mass lay-offs. The company, established on July 1, 2010 is said have employed at least 1,200 people from Srirangapatna, Pandavapura, Mandya, Mysuru, and other places. Citing the reason of dwindling production activities following lockdown, the company issued a mass lay-off circular on Saturday. Severely condemning the lay-offs, the employees staged a protest. The company has thrown labour laws and employees welfare to the wind and has illegally announced the lay-offs, said Jayaram, legal adviser, Garment and Textile Workers’ Union. “We have requested the district administration’s intervention,” he told The Hindu besides stating that the union would legally oppose the lay-offs.
08 June 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Kateel temple may open for darshan on July 1||Kateel Sri Durgaparameshwari Temple, a muzrai temple in Dakshina Kannada with the highest number of visitors among other temples in the coastal belt, will not be opened for devotees on Monday. According to sources in the temple, the administration is thinking of introducing free e-booking facility for darshan to allow devotees in a staggered manner. Once the on-line booking facility is ready, the temple is likely to be re-opened for devotees on July 1. As there is not enough space inside and outside the temple, allowing a limited number of devotees in a day will help maintain social distancing, according to sources. Kukke Subrahmanya temple, another muzrai temple with the highest highest revenue in the State, will be re-open on Monday. Devotees can have only darshan — from 8.30 a.m. to 5.30 a.m. Administrator of the Kukke Subrahmanya temple and also Additional Deputy Commissioner of Dakshina Kannada M.J. Roopa said in a release on Sunday that devotees are not allowed to stay in the accommodation facilities of the temple till this month-end. She said that devotees will be given tokens and they will be allowed to go inside the temple during the allotted time-slot. Ms. Roopa said that food-prasadam will not be served in the temple. The devotees will not be given theertha, gandha or any type of prasadams. They are not allowed to offer mangalarati. The release said that the devotees are not allowed to prostrate or sit on the temple premises. No devotee is allowed to take bath in the “snana ghatta” or the temple pond. The devotees will have to wear masks and they will be screened with an infra-red thermometer. She has advised those aged 65 and above, children aged below 10, pregnant women and sick people to avoid visiting the temple. The Manjunatha temple at Dharmasthala, the Kudroli Gokarnanatha temple, the Mangaladevi temple and the Kadri Manjunatha temple in the city will also be re-opened for devotees on Monday. A statement from the Dharmasthala temple said on Sunday that the darshan timings will be from 6.30 a.m. to 2 p.m. and from 5 p.m. to 8 p.m. Food will be served at the temple, it said.  However, other temples in the Dakshina Kannada district will re-open today for devotees
08 June 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Only 20 students to be allowed in one examination hall||In compliance with social distancing norms, only 20 students will be seated in a hall when the SSLC examination begins in Dakshina Kannada on June 25. Those with symptoms of viral infection will be asked to write the examination in an isolated room earmarked for the purpose at the examination centres. These are among the steps taken by the Dakshina Kannada district administration for the examination which will end on July 4. A total of 30,825 students from the district will write the examination in 95 examination centres. The district administration has set apart 19 additional centres. Deputy Director of Public Instruction, Dakshina Kannada, Malleswamy told The Hindu that all students will be subjected to thermal scanning before they are allowed to enter the examination centre. Those found with viral infection symptoms will be asked to write the examination in an isolated room at the centre. A total of 102 such rooms have been set up. Every examination hall will be sanitised, he said. Every student will be provided face masks. Four teachers from Scouts and Guides will be posted as volunteers at each centre. There are 1,328 Class 10 students in Dakshina Kannada who will write the examination in their native places in North Karnataka. These students shifted to their native places along with their parents during the lockdown. Mr. Malleswamy said that students were given time till May 30 to choose the examination centres near their native places. He said that Dakshina Kannada has the highest number of students writing the examination outside the district. As many as 345 students from Kasaragod in Kerala will write the examination in Dakshina Kannada. These students have to produce their hall ticket at the border check-posts before entering Karnataka. Students can use their hall tickets to avail themselves of a free ride on KSRTC buses to reach the examination centres. Helplines have been set up at the district headquarters and seven education blocks to answer queries from students. These helplines will be functional from Monday and will be operational every day (except on government holidays) between 9.30 a.m. and 5.30 p.m. The district helpline numbers are Ph:180042511017(toll free) and9845651353.  A total of 30,825 students will write the examination in 95 centres in Dakshina Kannada
08 June 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Major tourist locations in Mysuru to be thrown open to visitors today||Places of tourist interest such as the Mysuru palace, zoo and Chamundi Hills, which were out of bounds for visitors for the past several weeks in view of the measures taken by the government to prevent the spread of COVID-19, will reopen on Monday. This will coincide with the resumption of dine-in services at restaurants and other eateries in the city. The famed Mysuru palace, which usually attracts thousands of tourists every day, will be opened after a gap of almost three months. It will be open between 10 a.m. and 5 p.m. from Monday to Friday, and will remain closed on Saturdays, Sundays and other public holidays, said officials. However, entry to people below the age of 10 and above the age of 65 onto the palace premises is prohibited in view of the government guidelines. All visitors will have to be subjected to thermal scanning to record their temperature, besides being made to clean their hands with sanitizer. Though visitors will be encouraged to purchase tickets online, the palace authorities will also issue tickets at the venue after spraying disinfectant on the currency. Also, visitors’ luggage will be disinfected before being accepted for safekeeping. Other attractions Similarly, Chamundi Hills, to which entry has been prohibited since March 20, will also become accessible from Monday. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order) Prakash Gowda, who confirmed that the road leading to Chamundi Hills would be reopened from Monday, said a decision was yet to be taken on allowing people to use the steps leading up the hilltop. Chamundi Hills beckons not only tourists, but also a large number of devotees to the Chamundeshwari Temple that is situated at the summit. Fitness-conscious people also trek up the more than 1,000 steps to the hilltop. Meanwhile, measures have been taken at the temple to clean the premises ahead of its reopening for darshan from Monday. The management has also painted square boxes at a distance of six feet from one another inside the barricades where devotees generally stand in queue. According to the chief priest of the temple, Shashidhar Dixit, devotees should wear masks, subject themselves to thermal screening, and clean their hands with sanitizer before entry. They should also maintain social distancing inside the temple. Citing the Government Order, Mr. Dixit said elderly persons, pregnant women, and children aged below 10 would not be allowed in. Devotees will also not be allowed to carry fruits or prasada. Temple assistant executive officer Govindaraju said people with COVID-19 symptoms would be denied entry. Darshan will be permitted between 7.30 a.m. and 1 p.m. and again between 3.30 p.m. and 5.30 p.m. Mysuru zoo and Karanji Lake Nature Park will also reopen on Monday.  Opening their doors  Mysuru palace will be open between 10 a.m. and 5 p.m. from Monday to Friday, and will be closed on Saturdays, Sundays and other holidays  Darshan at Chamundeshwari Temple will be permitted between 7.30 a.m. and 1 p.m. and again between 3.30 p.m. and 5.30 p.m.
08 June 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Kodagu: decision today?||Even as major tourist spots in Mysuru will reopen on Monday, sites in Kodagu, a major hill station, will not greet visitors as no decision has been taken on throwing open destinations in the land of coffee. The hospitality sector was waiting for tourist spots to reopen for resurrecting the tourism industry. The revenue of the hotel industry largely depends on tourist footfall. Kodagu Deputy Commissioner Annies Kanmani Joy has convened a meeting of stakeholders at her office in Madikeri on Monday to discuss about the Standard Operating Procedures and other issues. Kodagu Hotels, Restaurants and Resorts’ Association president Nagendra Prasad said, “A decision is expected during Monday’s meeting since hotels and restaurants bank on tourism for revenue. Tourist spots in other cities are reopening on Monday, and we expect the same in Kodagu.” Monsoon is considered off-season for tourism, with Kodagu receiving heavy rains for over three months. Yet, the hospitality sector, which is in dire straits with zero business because of the lockdown, has been keeping its fingers crossed.
08 June 2020||UDUPI,KARNATAKA||Shobha Karandlaje for staggered arrival of returnees in Udupi||Shobha Karandlaje, MP, has said that she has urged the Chief Secretary of the State to ensure that the arrival of people from Maharashtra in Udupi district be staggered. Addressing persons here, Ms. Karandlaje said that as many as 13,541 persons had returned to the district from other States and foreign countries. Of these 13,541 persons, 11,776 had returned from other States, especially Maharashtra, while 1,765 persons had returned from foreign countries. A large number of people from other States were still waiting to come to the district from other States. As many as 281 persons from Mumbai had already procured e-passes for entering the district. But if a large number of persons arrived suddenly from Maharashtra, then the medical facilities here might not be enough to treat them if many of them test positive for COVID-19, she said. She said that nobody wanted to prevent natives from Udupi district from returning as they belonged to this place. There were 1,174 beds for the treatment of COVID-19 patients in different hospitals in the district. At present, 685 patients were being treated in the district. If the number of returnees arriving to the district was staggered, then proper treatment could be provided to those requiring them, Ms. Karandlaje said.  Of those who have returned, 11,776 were from other States  Also, as many as 1,765 people have come back to the district from foreign countries  There are 1,174 beds earmarked for the treatment of COVID-19 patients in the district
08 June 2020||Vijayapura,KARNATAKA||Almatti starts receiving inflow||Almatti reservoir which normally starts receiving inflow during the last week of June or in the first week of July, has set a record of sorts with inflow being registered in first week of June itself. This is attributed to rain lashing Maharashtra and the Western Ghats, and consequently, water flowing into the Krishna river course across which the dam has been built. While on Friday, the dam recorded an inflow of 12,761 cusecs, on Saturday it was 14,050 cusecs. The water level stood at 509.55 metres against total height of the dam put at 519.60 metres. At present, the dam has 27,788 tmcft of water stored. On June 6 last year, the water stored in the dam was 22,577 tmcft, according to officials of Krishna Bhagya Jal Nigam Limited (KBJNL). Last year, inflow started only on July 3. Inflow had completely stopped in December. Compared to last year, this year the dam has 5,211 tmcft of more water. Besides the rainfall, 10,000 cusecs of water discharged from the Hipparagi barrage is said to have added to the inflow into the dam. Meanwhile, KBJNL officials said that they are in touch with their counterparts in Maharashtra to keep a watch over discharge of water from their reservoirs into the Krishna river course.
08 June 2020||Vijayapura,KARNATAKA||We need relief too: Tourist guides||Vijayapura, a city known for monuments such as the historic Gol Gumbaz, has seen complete fall in tourist visits during the lockdown. One section that has been severely hit but gone without any relief are tourist guides. “Guides get no salary or remuneration from the government. The only earning for them is what tourists who hire them pay. But since the tourist places have been closed, we have no visitors and we have no money for survival,” said Vijayakumar Bandi, a tourist guide along with eight others at Gol Gumbaz. Sridhar Irsur, another guide here, said that they earn around Rs. 10,000 to Rs. 12,000 a month in tourist season, but this is nil now. Ashok Mayachari, State president, Tourist Guides’ Union, said that the State has around 1,050 registered guides who have undergone training and obtained licences from Department of Tourism to work as guides. “Since several years, we have been urging successive governments pay a minimum remuneration to the guides, but till date, our demands have not been met,” he said. While they were surviving with a fee paid by tourists, the lockdown has completely used up their earnings, he said. “When the government is extending financial help to many communities to overcome the crisis, why can’t it announce a relief package for us too?” he asked. Memorandum received Mallikarjun Bhajantri, District Tourism Officer, said that the department has received a memorandum from the union seeking financial benefit. “We will submit the report to Tourism Ministry for taking further action,” he said.
08 June 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||39 COVID-19 positive cases in Yadgir||As many as 39 fresh COVID-19 positive cases were registered in Yadgir district and one case was reported in Raichur on Sunday. All 40 patients had returned from Maharashtra and they were kept under various institutional quarantine centres. At present, all these patients are getting treatment at the designated hospital in Yadgir and Raichur, respectively. With these fresh cases, the total in Yadgir district has gone up to 515. Of these, 70 patients have been discharged while one patient has died. The number of active cases is 444. In Raichur, the total number of cases have gone up to 359. Of these, 53 patients have been discharged and one patient has died. The number of active cases is 305.
08 June 2020||June 08 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Guidelines to prevent big congregations||The government has also encouraged the livestreaming of Mass and has banned events such as rosary, novena prayers, baptism, first communion and marriage, among others. Gurudwaras have been asked to complete prayers in the minimum permissible time, and hold Sunday prayers in three separate batches if necessary. Extra devotees will have to wait outside maintaining social distancing. Zoroastrian Agyaris, offering sukhad, touching priests and the presence of more than four devotees in the kebla have been banned. Jain Basadis and Buddhist Viharas have been asked to complete prayers as soon as possible. There will be no distribution of Gowtham prasad at viharas and there will also be no use of puja wheels attached to stupas.
08 June 2020||June 08 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Chiranjeevi Sarja dead||Chiranjeevi Sarja came from a family of film artistes. He was the grandson of well-known Kannada actor the late Shakti Prasad. He was the nephew of noted multi-lingual actor Arjun Sarja. Chiranjeevi Sarja made his film debut in 2009 with the Kannada film Vayuputra and acted in 22 films. Four other films, with him as the lead actor, are in various stages of production. He married Kannada actor Meghana Raj, daughter of well-known actors Sundar Raj and Pramila Joshai, in May 2018. Actor Tara, who broke down at the hospital on Sunday evening, revealed that Ms. Meghana Raj was pregnant. “He was too young to go like this,” she lamented. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and Leader of the Opposition in the Legislative Assembly Siddaramaiah, and people from the Kannada film industry have mourned the death of Chiranjeevi Sarja. “He had a bright career and future ahead. It is sad that we lost a talent, so young,” said the Chief Minister.
08 June 2020||June 08 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||MSMEs unable to access relief packages: KASSIA||Karnataka Small Scale Industries Association has said MSMEs are concerned about the implementation of the COVID-19 emergency relief packages announced by the State and Union governments. As per the trade body, guidelines issued under the Emergency Credit Link Guarantee Scheme are not uniform and different banks have framed their own guidelines, leading to confusion and hardship in making use of the schemes at a dire time.
08 June 2020||June 08 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Correction||The name of the civic body was erroneously spelt in the report, ‘Mobile application for real time information on weather’, published in these columns on June 7. It should have been Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike. The error is regretted.
08 June 2020||June 08 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Teleconsultation||Although outpatient services at NIMHANS were shut down during the lockdown period and resumed only on June 1, patients were followed up with regularly through teleconsultation. “Our doctors made 15,000 calls for regular follow-up with patients during the lockdown and provided them consultation. Emergency services continued without any disruption,” said the Director of NIMHANSB.N. Gangadhar.
08 June 2020||June 08 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||CoP||A couple of days ago, serpentine queues were seen in front of a fair price shop at Jalahalli village in Bengaluru. All the rush was because former MLA Munirathna, who resigned from the Legislative Assembly and joined the BJP, was distributing vegetables to ration card-holders. Many leaders have been carrying out relief work during the lockdown. The curious part here was all the posters(in picture)put up around schools with pictures of Mr. Munirathna. The captions not only identified him as a leader serving the citizens, “who he saw asmembers of one family”, but also as “MLA of Rajarajesh-warinagar constituency”. However, polls to this segment are yet to be held. Mr. Munirathna was among the 17 MLAs disqualified by the then Speaker K.R. Ramesh Kumar. While byelections to 15 constituencies were held, polls to Maski and Rajarajeshwarinagar were not held following pending petitions in the High Court on electoral malpractices. But these legalities do not appear to have meant much to the disqualified MLA.   The lockdown has made life difficult for many, but you would not count MLAs to be among them, least of all when it comes to access to food. But this was exactly what Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi cited as the reason behind some MLAs from North Karnataka rushing to the house of former Minister Umesh Katti(in picture)twice over the past fortnight to participate in what was said to be meetings of “rebel” MLAs. They have been building pressure on Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa to make them Ministers or give tickets in the ensuing Rajya Sabha and Legislative Council polls. “There was no politics behind it. It is just that MLAs from North Karnataka were not getting North Karnataka-style food for two months and Mr. Katti decided to feed them. Even I am feeding around 50 persons, including Ministers, MLAs and the general public, at my home every day,” Mr. Savadi said. Mr. Katti repeated the same argument before journalists in Bengaluru. That Mr. Katti had only fed hungry MLAs during the lockdown became a popular joke among the people of Belagavi. Whatever the truth may be with regard to the so-called “rebellion” — related to food or politics — it certainly managed to push COVID-19-related news to the background for a few days.   The selection of veteran Congress leader M. Mallikarjun Kharge as Congress candidate for the Rajya Sabha elections does not seem to have gone down very well with State Congress leaders and workers. Leaders in the party admitted that former Congress president Rahul Gandhi, MP for Wayanad, was for a younger candidate, but his mother and party president Sonia Gandhi had picked Mr. Kharge given his vast parliamentary experience and command over both English and Hindi. This has reportedly irked a group of leaders, including former MP S.P. Muddhahanume Gowda, and two Rajya Sabha members who are retiring on June 25. Apparently, Mr. Gandhi and AICC general secretary K.C. Venugopal had, in 2019, assured Mr. Gowda that he would be given the Rajya Sabha ticket for his “sacrifice” of the Tumakuru seat following seat adjustment with the JD(S) in the 2019 general elections. According to a leader, the turn of events will create a “trust deficit”. It is said that retiring RS members too have become upset because they have not been given a chance to contest elections again. Will the high command pacify the unhappy leaders by giving them ticket in the Council elections, also scheduled this month? Chitra V. Ramani Rishikesh Bahadur Desai Nagesh Prabhu
08 June 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Complete Alappuzha canal project by October: Isaac||Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac has directed the Irrigation Department to complete the first phase of the Alappuzha canal rejuvenation project by October. He was speaking at a meeting to review development projects in Alappuzha town at the District Collectorate on Saturday. The first phase of the project, which included the cleaning of nine major canals, was originally scheduled to be completed before the onset of the Southwest monsoon. However, the COVID-19 induced lockdown delayed the process. The major canals being cleaned and deepened in the first phase are Vade Canal, Commercial Canal, West Junction Canal, East Junction Canal, Uppootti Canal, Murinjapuzha Thodu, Kottaram Thodu, Alappuzha-Sherthala (AS) Canal, and Alappuzha-Ambalapuzha Canal. According to officials with the Irrigation Department, of the total 24 km to be rejuvenated, work has been completed in 18 km. The work on Vade canal would be finished in two weeks, said an official. As part of the project, the canal banks will be beautified along with constructing cycle tracks and footpath. Earlier, the State government had sanctioned Rs. 108 crore under the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB) for the execution of the project, which will be completed in four phases. A sum of Rs. 39 crore is being utilised in the initial phase. Land acquisition The Finance Minister said that the process of land acquisition for the reconstruction of Power House Bridge (Shavakottapalam), Kommady bridge and Nehru Trophy bridge in the town would be hastened.
08 June 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Destitute family to get home in Mannar||After living in a shack on a waterlogged land at Mannar grama panchayat for several months, Rohini, 60, her daughter and three children will soon get a new home. It was made possible thanks to the intervention of Chengannur MLA, Saji Cherian, who promised the family a house under the Karuna Mission, a wing of the Karuna Pain and Palliative Care Society, Chengannur. After knowing the plight of the destitute family from newspaper reports, the MLA visited them on Sunday. Mr. Cherian said that the family would be immediately shifted to a nearby house offered by a woman until a new house was constructed.
08 June 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Youth drowns in pond||A 23-year-old youth drowned in a temple pond in Alappuzha on Sunday. The deceased has been identified as Kurien Martin, of Vadackal, Alappuzha. The police said that the deceased was bathing with his friends in the pond of Kalarcode temple when the incident occurred. In a separate incident six people travelling on a country boat fell into Vembanad Lake near Panavally. They were rescued by the crew of an ambulance boat of the State Water Transport Department. The Poochackal police said that a case has been registered against the boat operator for transporting people in violation of the COVID-19 induced lockdown rules.
08 June 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Seven test positive in Alappuzha||Seven more people tested positive for COVID-19 in the district on Sunday. Of the cases, six have come from foreign countries and one from another State. Officials said that two young men, from Pathiyoor and Kayamkulam respectively, came from Kuwait on May 28. Another two patients, a 52-year-old Mannar native and 45-year-old from Kayamkulam, had come from Dubai on May 29. The fifth patient, a youth hailing from Thazhakara, reached the district from Dubai on May 23. Another, a young woman, from Punnapra, came from Tajikistan on May 28. The seventh person, a youth hailing from Ambalappuzha, had come from Chennai in a private vehicle on May 22. Of the patients, six have been admitted to Government Medical College Hospital, Alappuzha and one person to Taluk hospital, Haripad. Meanwhile, three persons admitted to hospitals with COVID-19 have tested negative. The number of active cases in the district stands at 74.
08 June 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Leopard caught in snare rescued||A leopard that had got trapped in a wire snare inside a private coffee plantation on the fringes of Wayanad Wildlife Sanctuary on Sunday was rescued after applying tranquilliser darts. The leopard was spotted in the plantation at Pallippady, near Moolamkavu under the Sulthan Bathery forest range of the sanctuary, by villagers in the morning. A team of forest officials led by Wayanad Wildlife Sanctuary warden P.K. Asif reached the spot to rescue the animal after the villagers informed them about the incident. Officials said the animal’s hip had got stuck in the cables and it might have sustained internal injuries. The health condition of the animal could be ascertained only after a medical examination, they added. Earlier, the animal had escaped to the plantation after breaking the snare, while the forest officials were trying to rescue it. However, a team of veterinarians led by forest surgeon Arun Zachariah had caught the animal in the evening after tranquillising it. Later, the animal was shifted to a veterinary clinic. The Forest Department has registered a case under provisions of the Wildlife Protection Act and has started an inquiry on the laying of the cable net in the coffee plantation.
08 June 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||Migrant workers board train to West Bengal||Another train ferrying migrant workers left from Kannur railway station for Bankura district in West Bengal on Sunday. The train departed from Kannur railway station at 4 p.m. with 1,630 migrant workers. 18,984 return home A train to West Bengal had left from Mahe on June 3 with 1,650 workers. So far, 18,984 workers from various States have returned home from Kannur.
08 June 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Major posts in Kochi corpn. lying vacant||Kochi corporation councillors have raised grievances of poor project implementation, even as the local body grapples with vacancies in several senior positions. Nearly 16 vacancies have arisen between March and May after senior officials retired, said Deputy Mayor K.R. Premakumar. The positions of executive engineer, superintending engineer, two assistant executive engineers, a few assistant engineers and overseers in the corporation’s zonal offices are vacant, he said. “Project implementation and development projects will be hit if appointments are not made soon. Existing officials are overburdened with files,” he said. A health officer, who is supposed to be a doctor, has not been appointed in over seven years. For now, a senior health inspector has taken charge, he added. The responsibility of mobilising Plan fund and other development projects lies with the engineers, said P.J. Joseph, chairman, Tax Appeal Standing Committee. Work has now slacked off on spillover projects from the previous year. If these projects are not completed in a time-bound manner, the corporation might lose some of the Plan fund amount, he said. “Even if our own fund is low, major Plan fund projects like road work and work on the main canals should proceed efficiently,” he added. Funds for projects from the 2019-20 financial year, amounting to Rs. 18 crore, have still not been received from the government, said Gracy Joseph, chairperson, Development Standing Committee. If the fund is low, contractors are unlikely to take up additional work, she pointed out. According to K.J. Antony, Opposition leader, a lack of monitoring and consistent review, along with shoddy estimates taken by the corporation engineers, has left work unfinished. Work undertaken in all of the zonal offices needs to be reviewed urgently for an overall picture of what work has been taken up or not, considering the council is nearing the end of its term, he said.  A health officer, who is supposed to be a doctor, has not been appointed in over seven years K.R. Premakumar Deputy Mayor
08 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||From snares to chicken waste, traps are aplenty||From setting up snares to leaving fruits packed with explosives and poison to passing high voltage current through solar fences, improvised techniques are being devised in Kerala’s forests and forest fringes to hunt wildlife. The illegal hunting of wildlife in Kerala came to focus with the killing of a pregnant elephant last week in Palakkad. The animal is suspected to have chomped on a fruit filled with explosives, laid to kill wild boar. Poisoning and laying snare made out of Bowden cable are the common methods adopted to keep crop raiders under control. Rarely, some miscreants take to guns. Wild animals, including elephants, are electrocuted when they come into contact with direct power lines which are put up to look like solar fence, according to senior forest officials. Waste from poultry farms is also used to trap wild boar. Plastic containers of 500-litre capacity are used to trap wild boar in some parts of Thrissur. The jars are filled with chicken waste and laid in pits. Attracted by the stench, the animals get into the container, only to be trapped, said a Divisional Forest Officer. Such traps are laid to kill the animals for meat, he said. They stand still In another case, steel snares with sharp spikes were seized from Chalakudy. The spike closes in on the limb of the animal as it attempts to free itself. As the spikes hurt, the trapped animal would abandon its struggle and stay still, he said. Wild boar is the commonly targeted species in Kerala as the animals are known crop raiders. Barking deer, spotted deer, Sambar, elephants and at times tigers walk into the trap and get killed. Most of the illegal hunting takes place in private estates and agricultural lands located near forest areas, which are outside the protected areas, said a Divisional Forest Officer of a flying squad. Only organised gangs hunt inside forest areas and that too for ivory and pelt. Such operations require men, money, and a network to sell the products. A few cases were also registered in the State for hunting elephants, he said. Punishment Hunting of wild animals is prohibited by law. The Wildlife Protection Act 1972 prescribes a maximum imprisonment up to seven years and fine for such offences. Besides hunting, the possession of meat of any such animal or trophy derived from such animals is also punishable under the Act.  Wild animals are electrocuted when they come into contact with direct power lines which are put up to look like solar fence
08 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Trenched roads in city cry for restoration||Several key roads in the city that were trenched by the Kerala Water Authority (KWA) and the Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) have not been restored back to shape, despite the intensifying monsoon, resulting in a harrowing time for motorists and pedestrians. The roads include the Kundannoor-Pettah National Highway (NH) stretch and the Alinchuvadu-Vennala road that runs parallel to the Palarivattom-Vyttila NH corridor. Numerous other spots, mostly at junctions on arterial roads, which were dug up by the KSEB as part of its 220-kV Transgrid project, too have not been fully restored. A good portion of the width of these corridors remains undulated and covered with mud and tar debris. Fear is rife that the condition of these corridors will worsen when the monsoon intensifies and more vehicles take to the road following lockdown relaxations. “Traffic snarls are acute on the Kundannoor-Maradu stretch, which was dug up by the KWA a few months ago. Motorists and pedestrians using the NH stretch are worried as the road has only two-lane width and is even otherwise accident-prone. Passenger vehicles have to jostle for space since far too many fuel tankers and other goods carriers rely on the road to reach the NH Bypass and the seaport,” said Prabin Kumar, an IT professional who lives at Maradu. A senior official of the Public Works Department (NH Wing) said the department had been pursuing with the KWA the need to resurface trenched portions of the road at the earliest. “On its part, the KSEB is bound to tar-coat portions dug up by it, before handing them back to us. This has been mentioned in the bilateral agreement,” he added. The PWD (Roads Wing) owns the Alinchuvadu-Vennala road, which was trenched by the KWA and has not been restored. A senior KSEB official said the agency had restored much of the Vennala-Thuthiyoor road that was dug up in 2019 for laying power cables. “Efforts are on to complete the rest of the road work,” the official added. The agency has completed work only on 10 of the 16 concrete chambers that are being constructed for joining power cables as part of its Transgrid project, it is learnt. Highway Protection Act Even as COVID-19 curbs played havoc with the work schedules of various agencies, PWD officials said they were empowered to take steps to ensure the safety of road users under the Kerala Highway Protection Act. Collector to oversee The District Collector and the Executive Engineer concerned must review actions taken every month and send reports to the PWD Secretary, besides sharing them with the media. The PWD officials concerned will be held responsible if there is any dereliction of duty, in accordance with the Act. The department had in 2019 suspended two engineers after a two-wheeler rider lost his life after falling into a trench dug up by the KWA at Mamangalam near Palarivattom. “The Executive Engineer concerned is the ‘highway authority’ as per the PWD Manual and the Highway Protection Act. Similarly, the Assistant Engineer concerned is the ‘custodian’ of the said road. Overseers too have their job cut out in the form of inspecting roads within their jurisdiction every day, reporting issues to the higher-ups and taking steps to prevent accidents. They are duty-bound to ensure the safety of roads, footpaths, and allied infrastructure,” PWD sources said.
08 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Pizhala-Moolampilly overbridge to be ready soon||The impending commissioning of the 607-metre-long Pizhala-Moolampilly overbridge later this month is expected to hasten the development of the Moolampilly-Chatanad road corridor, which will lessen the distance by road between North Paravur and Ernakulam from 32 km to 13 km. The overbridge is part of the first phase of development work undertaken by the Goshree Islands Development Authority (GIDA) to realise the road that will also usher in better connectivity among Goshree islands. But there are issues galore as parts of the road pass through ecologically-fragile areas, including pokkali paddy fields. “The entry to the bridge is being readied now. Even after the bridge is readied in around a fortnight, only two-wheelers might be able to use it, unless approach roads are developed. The bridge has to be linked with a panchayat road since a 50-metre approach stretch on the original alignment will have to be built over pokkali fields. This will in turn cause a curve on the corridor,” said Francis Dianish, vice chairman of Pizhala Karamuttikal Samara Samiti, which is spearheading the agitation for speedy realisation of the corridor. Once realised, the road will lessen congestion on the narrow and accident-prone NH 66 stretch from Kodungallur to Edappally. A key element of the second phase of the road project will be the construction of the Chatanad-Valiyakadamakudy overbridge. Though the project had been given administrative sanction, it was not realised due to land acquisition issues, sources said. In the third phase, the Pizhala-Valiyakadamakudy connectivity will have to be established. The stretch will also pass through pokkali fields, and an environment impact assessment is awaited. A sum of Rs. 40 crore was earmarked for the project in the 2017-18 Budget.
08 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||African snails come back with monsoon||With the onset of monsoon, giant African snails have started reappearing in many parts of the city. Large snails were spotted at Karingachira, West Kochi and central city areas. Scores of snails could be seen moving along the walls of a holding at Karingachira during the early morning hours. A swampy yard near the area was also swarmed by the snails. As the day progressed the snails disappeared from the walls, said Abhilash, a resident of the area. Residents of Fort Kochi and Ayyappankavu areas too complained about the presence of the snails. In some parts of Fort Kochi, snails were seen crawling along the walls of buildings. However, the intensity of its infestation is less when compared to previous years, said K.J. Antony, a councillor from the West Kochi area. In the central city, the presence of the snails was reported from Mangalavanam and Ayyappankavu areas. Earlier, the Kerala University of Fisheries and Ocean Studies was requested to look into the issue and suggest some solution when the city areas were infested. Hibi Eden, who was then representing the Ernakulam Assembly Constituency, took the initiative to find a solution to the menace, said Deepak Joy, councillor from the Ayyappankavu region. However, the project did not progress much. People used to control the molluscan population by sprinkling common salt over it. The spraying of larvicides also turned out to be useful in controlling the population to some extent, Mr. Joy said. Unlike earlier years, the Eda Kochi area is relatively free of snail infestation this season, said Prathibha Ansari, chairperson of the health standing committee of the Kochi Corporation. Earlier, the presence of the snails had caused much hardship to the people of the area. People resorted to sprinkling of salt to control them. Luckily, they are yet to make their presence known in the area. The stray ones that are seen in some parts vanished shortly after sunshine. There has not been any complaint from the general public this time, Ms. Ansari said. KFRI advisory An advisory issued by the Kerala Forest Research Institute (KFRI), Thrissur, suggested the use of a concoction of tobacco and copper sulphate. It also suggested not to use any chemicals for the control of snails. Phone: 0487-2690222.
08 June 2020||Kochi,KERALA||1 more held in film set vandalism case||One more person has been arrested in connection with the vandalism last month of the Minnal Murali film set at Kalady. The total number of arrests in the case stands at six. Krishnadas, 28, who was arrested from Perumbavoor on Sunday, was identified as one of the key conspirators in the case. He has a criminal record with cases being registered against him in the past for an ATM robbery bid and for possessing dangerous weapons. The provisions of Kerala Anti-social Activities (Prevention) Act is likely to be invoked against him. Of the 11 people who directly participated in the vandalism, another five were yet to be arrested, police said. The investigation team is led by District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural) K. Karthik.
08 June 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Pay-cut decision cannot be unilateral: AMMA||The Association of Malayalam Movie Artistes (AMMA) is against the unilateral suggestion by producers on pay cuts for actors and technicians. Edavela Babu, general secretary, AMMA, said that they had not yet received any official communication from the Kerala Film Producers Association on possible pay cuts. “We are all aware of the crisis and are willing to cooperate. But the decision to enforce pay cuts cannot be one-sided. What is needed is a meeting of all associations to discuss the way forward,” he said. Once an official communication was received from the producers’ association, AMMA would decide on the response, but a meeting with the producers might not be possible in a hurry. “With the number of COVID-19 cases increasing, members of the association may not be able to travel for the meeting. Besides, there is no hurry to arrive at a decision since there is no clarity on the situation in which we might be able to begin shooting,” he said. The unfinished films needed to be finished before beginning new ones. The remuneration that artistes received for each film could be different and was arrived at after some understanding and discussion, he said. Implementation One aspect that AMMA was likely to insist on was that if pay cuts were implemented, they would have to be enforced across the board. A situation where the top stars received their regular pay and people who already received little bore the brunt of the cut would not be acceptable, Mr. Babu said. The AMMA general body meeting and the inauguration of its Kochi office have been postponed indefinitely.  AMMA likely to insist that if pay cuts are implemented, they should be enforced across the board.
08 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Gandhians to hold hunger strike today||Gandhian activists will hold a day-long hunger strike at Ernakulam Gandhi Bhavan on Monday. The agitation is part of a nationwide relay fast being organised by the Gandhian Collective India against alleged denial of justice to the poor and the downtrodden sections of the country. National campaign The national campaign was kicked off from Champaran in Bihar on June 5. In Kochi, V.M. Michel, secretary of the Gandhi Peace Foundation, will lead the protest. P.K. Shamsudeen, former judge of the Kerala High Court, will inaugurate the programme, said a communication.
08 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||AI pilot discharged||Air India pilot Bindu Sebastian who had tested positive for coronavirus was discharged from the Government Medical College Hospital (MCH) here on Sunday. She had tested negative in two consecutive tests after her treatment. She was admitted to the MCH last Sunday. Ms. Sebastian was part of the Vande Bharat Mission. There were no positive cases of people residing in the district on Sunday. However, one person from Thrissur, who was under observation at the Moovattupuza general hospital, tested positive. The 60-year-old had come here from Abu Dhabi on June 1. There are 10,349 people in quarantine in the district, of which 9157 are under home isolation while 477 were in Covid care centres and 716 in paid centres.
08 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||CUSAT to conduct online exams||Cochin University of Science and Technology (CUSAT) will hold postgraduate final examinations online between June 10 and June 25, said a communication from the university here. The online examinations are being held in the wake of COVID-19 spread, said the communication. The timings of the examinations will be decided by the heads of the respective departments. Students without facilities for taking the online examinations can inform the university and arrangements will be made at their respective colleges for the examinations. The examinations are of three-hour duration. There will be specific time to ensure that answers are uploaded. A committee has been formed for the conduct of the exams.
08 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||‘Trawl ban based on ground reality’||The Matsya Thozhilali Aikya Vedi has demanded that the State government take up active measures to conserve fisheries resources even as the 52-day monsoon trawl ban is slated to come into effect later this week. Charles George, convener of the fishers’ forum, said countries like Indonesia, Australia, and New Zealand had banned the practice of trawling. In Sri Lanka, it had been banned since 2018, he said. He slammed the Union government’s decision to restrict trawl ban to just 47 days. Mr. George claimed that trawl ban had the backing of ground realities and knowledge of traditional fish workers on resource availability.
08 June 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Design institute comes up with portable isolation unit||While hospitals in major cities are running out of critical-care beds, the Kerala State Institute of Design (KSID) has come up with EZY-Isolate, an indoor modular portable isolation unit for emergency situations. With the caseload going up on a daily basis, the model may prove to be an ideal option for the Health Department in its race against time and space to ensure isolation facilities. Multipurpose “It is a multipurpose concept that can be used in a number of scenarios. It can be used to accommodate COVID-19 patients, quarantine those coming from hotspots and admit symptomatic persons. It lowers the risk to a great extent compared to large quarantine facilities that place people in halls without any partition. There is also an option to arrange negative air pressure and oxygen pipes in the units so that they meet all medical requirements,” says Arjun U.R., an electrical engineer and a fourth-semester student of Integrated Lifestyle Product Design who designed the unit with the help of faculty members. EZY-Isolate comes in multiple configurations and the standard unit is a cubical structure made of galvanised iron pipe and fabrics like polyester, nylon or canvas. The outer cover uses Velcro locking mechanism to provide airtight covering and each wall will be 8-ft long. The unit also comes with transparent windows, zipper doors, filtered air inlet vent and an exhaust fan. Another feature of the EZY-Isolate unit is that it can be easily dismantled and transported to any place. “Each module will have space for a bed, table, chair, personal belongings, bags and a pedestal fan. If you want a larger space two or more units can be joined and a portable chemical toilet attached to each unit. They can be set up as temporary isolation facilities at railway stations and airports also,” he adds. Customisable While the production cost of a single unit is Rs. 8,000, it can be mass-produced at Rs. 5,000. “We have received encouraging feedback from the National Health Mission (NHM), State Medical Board and PEID Cell who inspected the design this week,” says Manoj Kumar Kini, Principal, KSID.
08 June 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||9 test positive in Kollam||Nine more persons from Kollam, eight of them expatriates, tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Sunday. A 51-year-old woman is the only contact case and the Health Department has traced the source of infection to a relative. Others include a Vettikavala resident who travelled on Kuwait-Thiruvananthapuram flight IX1596 on May 28 and 51-year-old Kalluvathukkal resident who arrived on Kuwait-Kochi J9-1405 flight on May 27. Both Another patient is a 42-year-old Kalluvathukal resident who reached Thiruvananthapuram airport from Abu Dhabi on May 27. A 42-year-old woman who had travelled to Kochi from Kuwait on May 27 and a 46-year-old Nedumbana resident who arrived on Riyadh-Thiruvananthapuram flight AI 928 on May 31 are also among those who tested positive. A 33-year-old woman and her six-year-old son too tested positive on Sunday. They had travelled from Kuwait to Thiruvanathapuram on May 28 and were in home quarantine. Another patient had travelled from Russia to Kannur on AJ 1946 Air India Flight. The 20-year-old Thirumullavaram resident had reached Kannur on May 31 and was in quarantine. The ninth patient is a 42-year-old Pathanapuram resident who was in institutional quarantine after her arrival from Kuwait on May 27.
08 June 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Project to help students attend online classes||Taking note of the plight of those unable to join the virtual classes due to connectivity challenges, the authorities here have embarked on a mission to arrange adequate facilities for 4,289 school students in Kottayam to enable them to attend the classes. A meeting convened by the District Collector M.Anjana here has decided to reposition the 377 television set and 3,577 laptops in possession of the government schools to various common centres for the benefit of these students. Steps are also in place to expand the online learning facility to at least 200 libraries from the current 94 units by next week. According to the Collector, a project offering online learning facility for all students in the district will be formed in association with the various local bodies. “We are examining the possibility of utilizing various government schemes for this purpose, besides seeking cooperation from the different departments, elected representatives and the various service and voluntary organisations. The possibility of extending these facilities for the students coming from other districts through sponsorship is too being considered,” the official said. For instance, the cooperative banks in the district have sponsored as many as 140 television sets while more such contributions are forthcoming. This is in addition to the 100 sets to be received through the District Industrial Centre and the KSFE. Tablets for students Commenting on the initiative, Sebastian Kulathungal, president of the Kottayam District Panchayat, said the local body would examine the possibility of providing tablet computers to at least 3,000 students. The meeting was attended by the Deputy Director of Education V.R. Shyla and Assistant Collector Shikha Surendran. As per estimates by the Education Department, about 85 percent of the 2.68 lakh school students in the district have attended the virtual classes since its launch.The Department, through a survey across 846 schools in the district, also identified about 8,500 students who are unable to access these classes due to technical challenges including the lack of smart phones.
08 June 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Three fresh cases in Kottayam, total touches 32||Three more persons, who returned to Kottayam from outside Kerala, tested positive for COVID 19 here on Sunday, taking the total number of active cases in the district to 32. According to officials with the District Health Department, a 34-year-old Payippad native who landed from Muscat on May 30, has been tested positive for the disease. Earlier last week, his wife too was tested positive for the virus infection and has been admitted to the Government Medical College in Kottayam. The other two positive cases were identified as a 31-year-old native of Changanassery, who returned from Mumbai by train on May 26 and a 24-year-old woman from Kangazha, who flew in from Maharashtra the next day. Meanwhile, a 29-year-old woman who was undergoing treatment at the GMC here has recovered from the disease. With this, the total number of recovery cases in the district has touched 37.
08 June 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||With no system in place, people resort to burning of plastic waste||The smell of burning plastic permeates the air in many parts of the city, especially during the evenings when the rain takes a break. The lockdown has put breaks on non-biodegradable waste collection in the city, and residents see no other alternative than to burn it. “It is not that we are unaware of the health hazards caused by burning of plastic. But how long will we store it in our houses?” asked a homemaker at Karapparamba. The Kozhikode Corporation had a smooth system earlier wherein trained Kudumbashree workers would collect non-biodegradable waste from every locality once in a while for a fee. But the Kudumbashree was replaced by the Haritha Karma Sena recently under the new policy of the State government. The Sena has been deployed in more than 50 of the total 75 wards in the corporation. Sena members were trained by Niravu Zero Waste Management. However, the lockdown and the pandemic put a damper on the system. Most Sena members refused to turn up for the job out of fear. Also, the training for the rest of the wards could not be completed. As a result, plastic waste accumulated everywhere for more than two months, and unable to store it for a longer duration, many resorted to burning it. Corpn.’s promise The corporation had announced earlier that the Sena would be active again during the first week of June, but there seem to be some glitches. “The contract with Niravu had expired and it was extended for another year in a recent council meeting to complete the training process,” said K. Sivadasan, Health Supervisor of the corporation. Also, efforts are being made to sensitise trained members to resume duty. “We only have a few more wards to cover. The Sena will be active in the rest of the wards soon enough,” he added.
08 June 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||International flights may resume soon||The Ministry of Civil Aviation is contemplating to resume international flights by this month itself. Sources told The Hindu that the Director General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) and the Airports Authority of India (AAI) were weighing options for recommencing international flights, especially to Europe, the U.S. and Canada. However, any decision in this regard would be taken only in accordance with the lifting of travel restrictions imposed by other nations to control COVID-19. Several Non-Resident Indian (NRI) organisations and expatriates have been demanding resumption of flights to Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) nations. Huge demand “Numerous people have been approaching us to restart the international flights,” Hardeep Singh Puri, Union Minister for Civil Aviation, tweeted recently. Sources said some nations such as Bahrain, Qatar and the UAE have lifted lockdown measures, but have not lifted the curbs on foreign residents. With approval only Flights are subject to prior approval from the General Authority of Civil Aviation in Saudi Arabia and passengers have not been allowed to enter Kuwait. Sources said NRIs holding valid residence permits in the UAE had approached the Ministry of Civil Aviation. India was willing to fly out people having valid documents to countries which were allowing foreigners. But due to the travel curbs, evacuation flights to the UAE were going empty from India, the Minister said. Already more than 50,000 Indians have been evacuated through the Vande Bharat mission from first week of May. However, the number of passengers ferried by outbound flights is about 13,000 till now. Gradual opening Meanwhile, the Union Ministry of Home Affairs has laid down guidelines for the fifth phase of the lockdown to facilitate the gradual and calibrated reopening of the aviation sector. About 50% of the domestic flights will resume operation in the coming days.
08 June 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Facility to make source-level waste management a habit||The modular Material Collection Facility (MCF), suitable for homesteads and other establishments, is a latest invention of the Kozhikode-based Niravu Zero Waste Management. Keeping with the motto, ‘My Waste, My responsibility’, the Micro MCF facilitates source-level segregation of dry waste before it is shifted to government facilities. The Micro MCF is a metal structure comprising eight compartments that could be fixed on a wall. The compartments are lined with cloth bags for ease of removal when required. Waste could be deposited in either of these compartments based on its nature such as plastic covers, plastic bottles, metals, glass, paper, medicine strips and thermocol. The usage of the compartments could be customised based on the requirements of the user. “This kind of source-level segregation is already being practised in countries like Japan. We need to incorporate the facility in our homes for a zero-waste world,” said Babu Parambath, Project Coordinator of Niravu. By practising the method through which primary segregation of waste is carried out at source, the need for secondary segregation at the local body-level MCF can be eliminated. It could directly be transferred to the block-level Material Recovery facilities (MRFs). This makes the task much easier for members of the Haritha Karma Sena that collects waste from sources. “People think that waste management is the sole responsibility of the local body. This should change. We should be engaged in waste management with the same seriousness that we give to constructing toilets at our houses,” Mr. Parambath said. The Micro MCF with eight compartments costs around Rs. 15,000 while its smaller form with three compartments cost Rs. 6,000. “A nano MCF that could be fitted under a chair is also possible, if needed. But the point is that each one of us should find a space for it around us, and waste management at source should become a habit,” he added.
08 June 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Body of flash flood victim recovered||The body of a 17-year-old boy who went missing in the Iruvazhinji river following a flash flood on Saturday was recovered by rescue squads on Sunday. The police identified the deceased as Hani Rahman, a native of Poolappoyil in Mukkom. The body was spotted by the rescue squads near the Thazhethiruvambadi stretch of the Iruvazhinji. It was around 8 a.m. that the search was resumed in the area on Sunday. Four groups of local volunteers had joined the search operations along with the Fire and Rescue Services units. The boy had gone missing while bathing in the river along with four friends on Saturday. The flash flood was reportedly the result of a landslip inside the forest. The area witnessed incessant rainfall leading to an alarming increase in water levels in rivers.
08 June 2020||Malappuram,KERALA||Malappuram reports 27 new cases||Twenty-seven more people were confirmed to have contracted COVID-19 in Malappuram on Sunday. There are 148 COVID-19 patients currently under treatment at the Government Medical College Hospital, Manjeri. Twenty-four of the patients who tested positive on Sunday had returned from abroad. One person had returned from Chennai, and two others contracted the disease from primary contacts. In Palakkad Six persons were tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Palakkad on Sunday. While two of them had come back from Mumbai, one had returned from Dubai. Two acquired the virus through primary contact. In Thrissur Twenty-six persons from Thrissur were tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Sunday. With this, the total number of patients undergoing treatment in hospitals in the district reached 103. So far, 137 cases have been reported from Thrissur. Eight members of a family from Irinjalakuda, who arrived from Mumbai on May 27, tested positive on Sunday. The family members include two women aged 62 and 39, three men aged 30, 37, and 38, a girl of six years of age, and two boys aged two. Seven persons who arrived from Abu Dhabi on June 1 have tested positive. Three patients — a 60-year-old man from Puranattukara, a 38-year-old man from Padiyur and a 37-year-old man from Alagappa Nagar — arrived from Dubai on May 28. Among the other positive cases are a 40-year-old man who returned from Mumbai on May 27, a 28-year-old woman and a 12-year-old girl who returned from Chennai on May 23, the wife and daughter of a COVID-19 patient from Peringottukara, and the father of a COVID-19 patient from Thrikkur. In Kozhikode Six persons who returned from abroad were declared positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kozhikode, while a native of Thrissur undergoing treatment at a private hospital was cured of the infection on Sunday. According to a release by District Medical Officer V. Jayasree, the first patient is a 26-year-old from Unnikulam who had returned from Saudi Arabia on June 2. He was admitted to the Government Medical College Hospital after symptoms were noticed during screening. The second patient, a 24-year-old man from Azhiyoor, had returned from Kuwait on June 2 and was under observation at a COVID-19 care centre. The third patient is a 55-year-old man from Omassery who came back from Riyadh on May 31 and was at a COVID-19 care centre. The fourth patient, a 22-year-old man from Cheruvannur, Perambra, and the fifth patient, a 28-year-old man from Velam, had returned from Dubai on May 28, and was at a COVID-19 care centre. The sixth patient is a 43-year-old man from Changaroth who came back from Kuwait on May 29 and was at a COVID-19 care centre. The number of active COVID-19 cases from Kozhikode is 57 at present. As many as 8,116 people are under observation, of whom 3,724 are expatriates. (With inputs from Thrissur, Palakkad and Kozhikode bureaus)
08 June 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Children in tribal colony get TV||The Muslim Youth League (MYL), led by its State president Sayed Munawwarali Shihab Thangal and general secretary P.K. Firos, reached out to the Vaniyampuzha tribal colony at Munderi on Sunday, with a television set for children there. “It is painful to see these children spending their time in June without having any means of schooling. That is why we donated a television set with DTH facilities. Now, the children can attend classes on television,” said the Thangal. The television was installed in a building near the Vaniyampuzha forest station. Mr. Thangal and Mr. Firos interacted with the children. They said they would donate a television to Iruttukuthi colony too.
08 June 2020||New Delhi,KERALA||Plea in Supreme Court seeks probe by CBI||A petition has been filed in the Supreme Court seeking a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) or a special investigation team (SIT) into the recent death of a pregnant wild elephant after eating a fruit filled with firecrackers in Kerala’s Silent Valley Forest. The plea, filed by Delhi-based lawyer Avadh Bihari Kaushik, alleged that prima facie it appeared to be a “calculated and organised” racket to kill elephants. Referring to media reports, the plea said that in April this year another elephant, found with mouth injuries in the Pathanapuram forest range in Kollam district, had died. The court was requested to call for the entire record of the cases regarding killing of elephants in Kerala and in other States. The petition sought a directive for transferring the case of pregnant elephant’s killing and similar incidents to the CBI “under the constant monitoring” of the top court. Alternatively, the court should direct setting up of an SIT, headed by a former judge of the apex court. It said the SIT should examine the issue on a larger scale and suggest proper mechanisms to end the killings and punish the culprits. The plea said that the Government of India had launched Project Elephant in 1992 to support the States in protecting the animals, their habitats, and migration corridors. “However, all the efforts by the Central and State governments have failed since the poachers are more committed to their job than the agencies appointed to nab them,” the petition said. According to a preliminary post-mortem report, the elephant had severe wounds in its oral cavity, most likely sustained by the burst of explosives in her mouth.
08 June 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||13 more cases in Pathanamthitta||With 13 more Non-Resident Keralites (NoRKs) testing positive for SARS-CoV-2, the number of COVID-19 patients in the district went up to 103 on Sunday.  According to an official bulletin released here on Sunday evening, eight of the newly diagnosed COVID patients are women. A 68-year-old woman who came to Mezhuvely from Delhi on May 28, a 72-year-old woman who came to Puramattom from Dubai on May 21, a 74-year-old woman who came to Kattoor near Cherukol from Dubai on May 21, a 27-year-old woman who came to Kozhencherry from Kuwait on May 26, a 29-year-old woman who came from Delhi to Malappally on May 29, a 27-year-old woman who came to Vallamkulam from Gujarat on May 27, a 58-year-old woman who came to Thumpamon from Kuwait on May 28, a 60-year-old man who came to Thumpamon from Kuwait on May 28, a 41-year-old man who came to Edayaranmula from Abu Dhabi on May 29, a 28-year-old man who came to Maniyar from Chennai on June 2, a 31-year-old woman who came to Parakode from Kuwait on May 26, a 67-year-old man who came to Pandalam from Kuwait on May 29, and a 64-year-old man who came to Adoor from Dubai on May 22 are the 13 persons who tested positive for COVID-19 on Sunday.
08 June 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Nod for Rs. 460-cr. package for Upper Kuttanad||The Union Ministry of Agriculture has given green signal to a Rs. 460-crore project for eco-restoration and livelihood enhancement of riverine flood plains in the Upper Kuttanad region spread across the three districts of Pathanamthitta, Kottayam and Alappuzha. Suresh Gopi, MP, had taken the initiative for the project on the basis of a report prepared by the Upper Kuttanad Karshika Vikasana Samiti (UKKVS). In an official communication to Mr. Gopi, Union Minister for Agriculture Narendra Singh Tomar, stated that the Union Ministry had cleared a Rs. 100-crore pilot project for Chennithala for promoting local food production and nutritional security. Detailed report The samiti has been asked to provide a detailed project report, with break up of activities to be initiated in the area, to the Union Ministry so that it could take further course of action for the convergence of activities under related Central schemes in Kuttanad region. The samiti chairman, Gopan Chennithala, told The Hindu that the project was aimed at a comprehensive development of farm sector in Upper Kuttanad thereby improving the State’s food security to a great extent. The project will cover 21 grama panchayats and four municipalities in the Upper Kuttanad region and the pilot project will be implemented in 18 wards of the Chennithala-Tripperunthura grama panchayat, says Mr. Gopan. Mr. Suresh Gopi said the proposed project would be of great help in improving the standard of living of the farming community in Upper Kuttanad. He said the ecology of Kuttanad has been considered as a Globally Important Agriculture Heritage System (GIAHS). According to him, natural or organic farming will have to be promoted to maintain a rich natural flora and fauna, besides increasing the farmers’ income. Bird sanctuary The Union Ministry also suggested that fragmented wetlands in the region may be maintained as a bird sanctuary.
08 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Four COVID-19 cases in capital||The capital district on Sunday reported four more cases of COVID-19, all of which were diagnosed in men who came from outside the State in recent times. The SARS-CoV-2 infection was diagnosed in two Attingal natives, aged 34 years and 39 years, both returning from Abu Dhabi; a 24-year-old Neyyattinkara native who came from Hyderabad on a domestic flight; and a 38-year-old man from Karakkonam who returned from Thanjavur. While 77 COVID-19 patients are being treated in the district, three Thiruvananthapuam natives are hospitalised in Kottayam, Ernakulam, and Malappuram. The district administration also quarantined 846 people as part of the COVID-19 containment efforts. With this, the number of people who were being closely monitored has gone up to 13,899. As many as 316 completed the mandated self-isolation period. Thirty-six symptomatic people were hospitalised on the day. As many as 1,606 people have currently been lodged in 52 corona care centres. The inter-State border at Inchivila continues to witness an influx of returnees from other States. A total of 153 people crossed the border. Of them, 143 came from Tamil Nadu. Others include those who came from Karnataka and Telangana. 57 booked While a total lockdown was observed on Sunday, the City police booked 57 people under provisions of Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance, 2020. Forty-two vehicles were also seized. Besides, 111 people were booked for failing to wear masks outdoors.
08 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Govt. offices to work at full strength from today||All State government offices will commence functioning fully from Monday. So will the public sector and quasi-government entities. Offices will remain closed on Saturdays until further notice. Government institutions in containment zones and hotspots will open with minimal staff who live within the district. Due to the ban on inter-district travel and lack of public transport during the lockdown period, a large section of government employees had reported for work at district collectorates and local bodies. They should report to their respective offices from Monday with relieving order and duty certificate, proceedings issued by the General Administration Department said here on Sunday. Exemption Government employees who have seriously ill parents or children with autism and cerebral palsy should be given duty exemption as far as possible. The government has exempted employees with children less than the age of one and pregnant women from reporting for work. They should work from home. Employees who have serious health issues and employees who have children below the age of five and parents above the age of 65 should be exempted from duty that entailed interaction with the public. Work from home The government has asked department heads to promote work from home. All employees should seek VPN connectivity through the Information Technology Department. They should use the e-office system to process files. The department heads would issue guidelines for marking attendance. Employees in containment zones who could not work from home and those afflicted by COVID-19 virus could seek special casual leave for the period.
08 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||State’s fiscal strain eases as Centre releases funds||The focussed political initiatives of Kerala for securing transfers due from the Centre seem to have offered a reprieve and temporarily eased the strain on State finances. Complementary and sustained political efforts taken up at the behest of the Left Democratic Front government have prompted the Centre to release the Revenue Deficit Grant awarded by the 15th Union Finance Commission and also clear the Rs. 2,048-crore Goods and Services Tax compensation arrears from December to February. Front-loading of loans in the first month of the current financial year also helped the government buttress the strain induced by COVID-19, which was threatening to snowball into a total collapse. The COVID-19-induced fiscal impasse is far from over and if the Centre again decides to curtail the loans as done in the previous year, the State may slip into a grave resource crunch yet again. The restrictions imposed by the Centre during the final quarter of the past financial year had caught the State unawares and the government had to strive hard to overcome a shortfall of Rs. 8,000 crore in its expected income. Since the State is set to switch over to poll mode, with the local body elections in October and Assembly polls next year, the government could ill-afford to shelve major projects and will also be compelled to effect a lot of cash transfers. Hence it has become imperative to ward off a crisis. The pioneering efforts of Kerala followed by an action plan to mobilise the support of non-BJP-ruled States had ultimately coaxed the Centre to release a fixed quantum of revenue deficit grant and also the GST compensation arrears. Political moves Such political moves have ensured a consistent flow of revenue from the Centre. But for such efforts, the dip in Central revenue would have deeply impacted the State. A series of meetings of non-BJP-ruled States convened here and subsequently in Vijayawada and Puducherry challenging the terms of reference of the 15th Union Finance Commission and a memorandum submitted to the President have all had their impact. Lifting of lockdown curbs is expected to revive economic activity and once the revenue streams from excise and other sources are revived, the government is expected to have a smooth sail in the months ahead, sources said.  Revenue Deficit Grant awarded by 15th Union Finance Commission and Rs. 2,048-crore GST arrears released
08 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Some churches adopt ‘wait and watch’ policy||The Christian denominations in the region seemed to be in two minds on whether to reopen the churches for worship even as the State government has permitted places of worship to reopen with restrictions from June 9. While some of the denominations have made clear their intentions to reopen, a few others have decided to wait and watch until the pandemic situation improves. The Thiruvananthapuram Latin Archdiocese Archbishop Soosa Pakiam M. has, in a circular to the parishes, indicated that churches can reopen on June 9, but given them freedom to make their own decisions on reopening. The St. Joseph’s Metropolitan Church at Palayam, under the Archdiocese, in a separate statement issued following a committee meeting on Sunday evening, said that it would not open on June 9. The Syro-Malankara Catholic Church has given its parishes time till June 14 to re-open, after making enough preparations. The Malankara Orthodox Syrian Church will take a final decision on reopening of its churches at a Synod scheduled to be held in Kottayam on Tuesday. The CSI, with around 600 churches in the district, has not yet taken a final decision, but sources said chances were more for the churches to reopen with all the restrictions. In July The Jacobite Syrian Christian Church has decided to reopen its churches only in July. The churches that are reopening have some common precautions, including the keeping of a register at the entry point to note down the names and details of the devotees. The services will be limited to parishioners during this period, with no strangers being allowed. Strict physical distancing has to be followed and masks have to be worn at the time of the service. The Syro-Malankara Catholic Church has allowed leniency on compulsory attendance on Sunday mass, instead the parishioners can attend the mass on any one day in the week. The mass has to be ended in an hour. The Church has to be cleaned up after the mass. Choirs will be avoided. Catechism classes have been stopped for now, with online classes happening. Devotees above the age of 65 and below the age of 10 are not allowed, as per government instructions.
08 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Local bodies in State on a gadget-collection spree||Local bodies in Kerala have been on their toes ever since the COVID-19 outbreak, managing community kitchens, running quarantine centres, disinfecting public places, along with handling their routine work. Their latest responsibility is to ensure the necessary facilities so that not a single student misses out on the online classes. Students who do not have any facilities are being identified and television sets, laptops or smartphones are being arranged from the own funds or through contribution from sponsors. In the Thiruvananthapuram district panchayat, the initial list had 19,671 students, mainly in the Adivasi colonies and coastal regions, without access to a television or Internet. However, after the first round of arrangements and further scrutiny, the list has come down to 8,600 students. In the city Corporation, the initial list, collected from the heads of schools in the region, has more than 4,000 students, which will further be scrutinised with the help of ward councillors. Connectivity issues “Out of the 8,600 students in our region, 266 are from Adivasi areas, where we have been running ‘Vanajyoti’ centres to provide evening tuition and snacks for the students. Television sets will be arranged in all 15 centres for students to access the Victers channel. In the other regions, they will be set up in community study centres, libraries or anganwadis. Already, televisions have been placed in 26 such centres. For students from remote areas, we will provide laptops or smartphones, though connectivity issues have to be addressed,” says Thiruvananthapuram district panchayat president V.K. Madhu. In 42 coastal villages in the district, the project is being implemented through 55 fishers’ societies. The district panchayat plans to buy around 300 television sets for the purpose. With revenue running dry and expenses shooting up, the local bodies are expecting individuals and organisations to sponsor television sets, smartphones or laptops. In Idukki At the Bison Valley panchayat in Idukki district, the local church sponsored televisions for some students. “In some settlements, television sets have been distributed through the church. We have been asked to identify students who might have been missed out,” says Mercy Thomas, panchayat president. At Pullur Periya panchayat in Kasaragod, the plan is to have television sets at a common centre in every locality. “We plan to put up television sets in 31 anganwadis in the panchayat. The number of students without facilities is being ascertained,” says Sarada S. Nair, panchayat president.
08 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||‘Make class-content simple for special needs children’||The online classes now under way for State school students on Victers channel do not completely meet the requirements of children with special needs. Since these children do not comprehend the session on Victers channel fully well, subject teachers at Government Vocational Higher Secondary School for the Deaf and Government School for Blind at Jagathy here and other institutions have started sending notes and recorded audio and videos on WhatsApp to parents or neighbours or relatives. Doubts Doubts too are cleared over WhatsApp. Parents too watch the videos and help their children with assignments. Apart from special schools, many children with special needs also study in ordinary schools. To make the online class-content more friendly for such children, the State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT) has given directions to teachers to keep their needs in mind during the presentation. One is the use of subtitles in each video before sending it for telecast. In the case of hearing impaired students, teachers have been urged to include more pictures, graphs, presentations, animations, and videos. Main concepts should be scrolled for easy comprehension. For visually-challenged students, videos, presentations, and animations used in the recordings should be accompanied by audio support. Slides used in presentation should be displayed in a manner that students get time to read each. Fonts should be large enough so that students who have partial vision can benefit from these, as also those with learning disabilities. Special children Worksheets should be sent for intellectually-disabled students and those with learning disabilities. In the case of home-based students who are unwell, resource teachers should adapt the content in association with subject teachers. For children without access to technology, learning activities or therapies have to be provided by teachers or therapists in the stipulated format by making home visits.
08 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Seventh arrest in gang-rape case||The Thiruvananthapuram Rural police on Sunday recorded the seventh arrest in the gang-rape case of a woman in Kadinamkulam, thereby nabbing all of the accused in the incident that sparked mass outrage after it came to light that the victim’s husband played a major role in the crime that took place in the presence of the couple’s son. Noufal Shah, 27, of Pallipuram was arrested by the Kadinamkulam police and remanded in judicial custody for 14 days. Absconding since the incident that took place on June 4, Noufal was nabbed from a house at Channankara. He is accused of having played a major role in abducting the woman in his autorickshaw and exploiting her. The investigation team had earlier arrested six people, including the victim’s husband. According to District Police Chief (Thiruvananthapuram Rural) B. Asokan, the investigation team continues to probe whether the crime was pre-meditated. The possibility currently hinges on two findings, one being that Rajan was known to the victim’s husband and secondly, the victim is claimed to have seen her husband receiving money from the former during one of their earlier visits to his house at Vettuthura. Meanwhile, the National Commission for Women (NCW) on Sunday sought an action-taken report from the Kerala Police on the case. The NCW has taken suo motu cognisance of the incident and expressed concern about the grave violation of safety and security of women in the State, which it said, “cannot be overlooked and needs to be addressed immediately.”  (With inputs from PTI)
08 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||KSUM project for start-up upscaling||The Kerala Startup Mission (KSUM) has launched a project to facilitate the support of start-ups to industries for technological upgradation and upscaling of business. The scheme called Business-to-Start-ups has taken off with a round table attended by representatives of 25 industry associations and those from a wide range of industries. Sesssions The deliberations were led by M. Sivasankar, Principal Secretary, Electronics and IT, and Saji Gopinath, CEO, KSUM. Representatives of various business and industry forums including GTech, CII, TiE Kerala, Great Malabar Initiative, Malabar Chamber of Commerce, Calicut Management Association, BPCL and HLL Lifecare Ltd were among those present at the programme. KSUM has also started a series of sessions called Reverse Pitching for industries to present their problems before start-ups. The focus of these sessions will be various services including software solutions required by traditional, small and medium industries, and business strategies to market their products. Details of the programme are available athttps://singlewindow. startupmission.in.
08 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KLDB puts off farmer support schemes||The Kerala Livestock Development Board (KLDB) has decided to put off several key farmer support schemes, including those for the conservation of Malabari goats and fodder, citing financial constraints. Adverse impact The decision, however, is likely to have an adverse impact on farmers, sources said. In an internal communique to unit managers last month, the KLDB stated that the following schemes “will not be taken up during 2020-21:” (a) Conservation and improvement of Malabari goats through field performance recording and buck distribution programme, (b) Assistance for conducting research and development on fodder and fodder seed production, (c) Support to conduct training in animal husbandry activities, (d) Kudumbashree-linked forage programme and establishment of fodder demonstration units, and (e) Fodder seed production and distribution. Truncated plan outlay The KLDB management has attributed the decision to a truncated plan outlay. The departmental working group had cleared all ongoing KLDB projects for 2020-21, but KLDB was informed that it could expect only 50% of the plan outlay for the fiscal. Which meant, KLDB could expect only Rs. 10.75 crore this year for State plan schemes. KLDB was also advised to ‘reprioritise’ schemes by dropping some of them and reducing targets for some others to limit expenditure. Denial When contact, KLDB managing director Jose James denied that the board had decided to drop the schemes. “We have not dropped the schemes. We may have to reorient the schemes once the final orders regarding plan allocation is issued by June-end,” he said.
08 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Veterinary surgeons perform complex surgery on Alsatian pup||The Multi-Speciality Veterinary Hospital at Kudappanakunnu has achieved yet another breakthrough by reviving a three-month-old Alsatian pup that suffered from a congenital condition. Anchal native Baby Blesson Kutty knocked on several doors to seek treatment for his pet dog Julie who found it difficult to digest solid food and survived on milk alone. As a result of chronic vomiting and cachexia (weight loss and muscle wasting), the puppy weighed 3.5 kg, less than half of what a healthy dog of the same breed would weigh at that age. “The veterinarians of a clinic run by the Eroor grama panchayat and the Government Veterinary Hospital were clueless about the condition, with some attributing it to tapeworm infection” Mr. Kutty says.  The dog found her saviours at the veterinary hospital in Kudappanakunnu, where she was diagnosed with persistent right aortic arch, a vascular ring anomaly that obstructs the oesophagus and prevents digestion. A team comprising veterinary surgeons Hari Krishnakumar, who is also the hospital’s deputy director, T. Rajeev, Anoop R., and Rahul performed a five-hour-long thoracic surgery, along with the Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute for Medical Sciences and Technology veterinary scientist Umashankar P.R. The absence of an anaesthesia ventilator compelled them to artificially ventilate the dog using an Ambu (Artificial Manual Breathing Unit) bag, Dr. Rajeev said.
08 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Miyawaki forest coming up at District Jail||The Prisons Department is set to extend its Miyawaki forest programme to 55 more jails in the State. The first of the Miyawaki forests is coming up on land that was lying idle at District Jail here. Director General of Prisons Rishiraj Singh inaugurated the formal planting of the Miyawaki forest on World Environment Day on Friday. Gandhi Smrithivanam The forest will be named ‘Gandhi Smrithivanam’ in connection with the 150th birth anniversary of Gandhi. It is coming up on 20 cents that had been set aside by the District Jail for waste management. It was on October 2 last year that the inmates started preparing the swampy land for planting the forest. The boundaries were also marked. Then planting of diverse flora, including trees and medicinal plants, got under way with the support of the inmates and officials.  The Kerala State Biodiversity Board (KSBB) and the Jawaharlal Nehru Tropical Botanic Garden and Research Institute (JNTBGRI) at Palode were also approached for saplings and technical support. Over 1,000 saplings of diverse trees, creeper, medicinal plants, and other flora, besides 50 saplings of bamboo of different varieties have also been planted. The JNTBGRI and the KSBB have agreed to help with the maintenance of the forest.
08 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Online system for school admission||The State government has issued an order for conducting school admissions online. Applications for admissions to government, aided, and recognised unaided schools can be submitted through the Sampoorna school management software (www.sampoorna.kite.kerala.gov.in) maintained by the Kerala Infrastructure and Technology for Education (KITE). Parents can also apply for transfer certificates through Sampoorna. The order calls for continuing the current system of class promotions for students from Classes 1 to 9 through Sampoorna. Students from other streams such as CBSE and ICSE and new students can apply for admission through Sampoorna. Provisional admission will be given to such students. Supporting documents, including video on the online admission process, are available onwww.sampoorna.kite. kerala.gov.in.
08 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Plea for online classes in Tamil, Kannada||The Aikya Malayala Prasthanam has demanded that online classes be made available in the State’s official minority languages of Tamil and Kannada. The organisation, in a letter to the Chief Minister, said that with online classes being conducted in Malayalam, it was possible to reach out to 97% of State school students. Linguistic minorities At the same time, it should be kept in mind that in parts of the State, linguistic minorities received education in their own languages. Making the online classes available in Tamil and Kannada would help in totally fulfilling this mother tongue-oriented initiative.
08 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||KU exams postponed||The University of Kerala has postponed the sixth-semester CBCSS BA History, Economics, Sociology, Hindi Language and Literature, Malayalam Language, Culture, and Literature, English Language and Literature, and Career Related -BA English and Communicative English examinations. The revised schedule will be announced later. The university has also informed that the fifth semester examinations of distance education courses conducted by the School of Distance Education will commence on June 8 as per schedule.
08 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Corporation - volunteers||Those interested in taking part in the disaster response programmes of the city Corporation need to register in the Smart Trivandrum mobile application, Mayor K. Sreekumar has said. People between the ages of 18 and 50 can register as volunteers in the programme. Contact: 9496434409, 9496434410.
08 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Mosque reopening||The Thiruvananthapuram Manacaud Valiyapalli Muslim Jamaath has decided to open the mosques under it, as the State Government has permitted places of worship to reopen with restrictions from June 9. But, only the mosques which can accommodate the increased number of devotees for Friday prayers and implement all the restrictions stipulated by the government, will reopen. The Muslim Jamaaths in the Kaniyapuram region has decided to not open mosques till June 30.
08 June 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Religious places gear up to receive the faithful||Temples and churches have announced guidelines for devotees as religious institutions are gearing up to allow their entry from June 9. In a circular sent to various churches, Thrissur Archbishop Mar Andrews Thazhath asked vicars to strictly follow the guidelines of State and Union governments. Only 100 persons should be allowed at a time inside the church. A safe distance of 6 ft should be maintained between people. The Diocese of Kannur has decided to open churches to devotees in Kannur and Kasaragod districts from Tuesday. Speaking to The Hindu , Bishop Alex Vadakumthala said 63 churches under the Kannur Diocese in the districts of Kannur and Kasaragod would be opened. Entry to temple Sree Vadakkumnathan Temple will open from 7 a.m. to 10 a.m. in the morning and 5 p.m. to 6.30 p.m. in the evening every day. Entry will be restricted through the East Nada of the temple, according to a press release by Devaswom manager. Mosques to remain shut All major mosques across the State will continue to remain closed for a few more weeks in spite of the government allowing them to reopen conditionally from Monday. All India Jamiyyathul Ulama general secretary Kanthapuram A.P. Aboobacker Musliar called upon people to exercise extreme vigil now as COVID-19 infection rate was reaching an explosive level. Samastha Kerala Jamiyyathul Ulama leaders Sayed Mohammed Jifri Muthukoya Thangal, Sayed Hyderali Shihab Thangal and K. Alikutty Musliar said that mosques would be reopened only in accordance with government conditions. (With inputs from Kannur and Malappuram bureaus)
08 June 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Keralite dies in Saudi||A 47-year-old construction worker from Kadukkachuvadu in Kodungalloor died of COVID-19 in Saudi Arabia on Sunday. He was under observation for the last two weeks.
08 June 2020||June 08 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||An unkept promise of elephantine proportion||Captive elephants continue to be denied free food grains promised during the COVID-19 lockdown period even as the State mourns the killing of a pregnant wild elephant. The State government could not so far fulfil the promise to deliver food grains at the door steps of elephant owners though the lockdown has entered its fifth phase. The proposal was to give food grains worth Rs. 400 for 40 days for each animal. The Department of Animal Husbandry was entrusted with the task of providing the food for elephants along with domestic animals during the lockdown and Rs. 5 crore was allotted for the purpose. The Forest Department had also drawn up a list of 255 elephants eligible for the assistance. “Though the elephant owners were offered food grains, it has not materialised so far,” said P.S. Raveendranath, an owner of two elephants. With no revenue during the lockdown period, the management of animals has turned out to be a prohibitively expensive affair. It requires at least Rs. 4,000 a day to maintain an elephant, which feeds on 25 palm fronds and significant quantities of rice, flattened rice and other food stuff every day. The salary of the two mahouts too adds up to the expense, said Mr. Ravindranath. Rest and treatment Elephants need to be fed on time and now it is time to provide them rest and medical treatment. Yet, the promised food has not arrived, said K.S. Sreejith, who manages a few elephants. Each day, an elephant would be fed around 4 kg cooked rice, 2 kg green gram and one kg onions, besides the palm fronds, he said. At the same time, a few animal rights activists have opposed the proposal and pointed out that captive elephants cannot be bracketed along with domestic animals.
08 June 2020||June 08 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||No takers?||
08 June 2020||June 08 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||For safe darshan||
08 June 2020||June 08 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Weakened wall||
08 June 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Arrival of monsoon poses new challenges for health officials||As the southwest monsoon sets its foot in Rayalaseema, heavy rains this month are likely in the region, and this has become has a cause for concern for the health officials in the district that has registered a surge in COVID-19 cases recently.The tally in Anantapur district went up from 231 on Wednesday to 290 on Sunday. Explaining how monsoon poses new challenges for officials, Government General Hospital Superintendent M. Ramaswamy Naik told The Hindu that the virus is capable of spreading through faecal matter getting mixed with rainwater and drains carrying them. “In such a case, the municipal authorities and panchayats have a handful of work to keep the drains clean ahead of monsoon to avoid worsening of the situation,” Mr. Naik said. It is a doubly-loaded work for the authorities who have been grappling with a host of other issues. What’s more worrisome is that the new infections are being reported from across the district, unlike in the beginning when the majority of them were concentrated in Hindupur. ‘Inadequate facilities’ Meanwhile, with a steady rise in the cases, and only three COVID designated hospitals in the district- RDT Bathalapalli (300 beds), KIMS Saveera (100 beds) and Hindupur District Headquarters Hospital (100 beds), the need to expand the health infrastructure has arisen. Moreover, the new Super Speciality Hospital building in the city is yet to be made functional. The GGH Superintendent said that the district administration was getting prepared to obtain approval for converting at least 100 beds in the Anantapur GGH into COVID-19 ward at the existing Chest, Infectious Diseases and Isolation Wards, where initially positive patients were admitted. Anantapur district currently does not have have another major teaching hospital like Kurnool district does, hence all serious non-COVID patients were being sent to the GGH and on Sunday evening against its 500-bed capacity, 520 patients were being taken care of, Dr. Ramaswamy added. The only option now for the COVID patients is to go to Kurnool and Tirupati. “We do not have good hospitals where serious non-COVID patients could be sent,” Dr. Ramaswamy said.
08 June 2020||CHINTOOR (EAST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||Suspected Maoists axe tree, disrupt power in Agency||In an act suspected to be of the Maoists, a tree was axed in the early hours of Sunday on the road between Pega and Edugurallapalli villages of Chintoor mandal in the district that led to disruption in power supply in the vicinity in the Agency area. The area where the tree was axed is located about 15-km from Sarivela village, where suspected Maoists allegedly torched road construction machinery on Saturday. “Electricity authorities came to know about disruption in power at around 2 a.m. on Sunday due to axing of a tree. Whether it is an act of the Maoists is yet to be ascertained. We have not found any letter from the Maoists at the site to attribute the act to them,” Chintoor Circle Inspector G. Yuvakumar said. As a precautionary measure, the police did not attempt to visit the site . Mr. Yuvakumar said the police were on high alert as the tribal groups called for bandh on June 9 against the scrapping of GO 3, which provides cent percent reservation to the tribals.
08 June 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD temples to open today||The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) has decided to allow darshan at the temples under its purview in and around Tirupati on an experimental basis from Monday. However, the devotees need to book darshan tokens online or through SMS services. In a release issued on Sunday, the TTD said that darshan will be allowed at Sri Padmavathi temple at Tiruchanur (SVP), Sri Kalayana Venkateswara Swamy temple at Srinivasa Mangapuram (SVS), Sri Prasanna Venkateswara Swamy temple at Appalayagunta (SVA), Sri Govindaraja Swamy temple (SVG) and Sri Kapileswara Swamy temple (SVK) at Tirupati between 7.30 a.m. and 6 p.m., with specified breaks for the rituals. Devotees can book darshan tokens at www.tirupatibalaji.ap.gov.in. SMS services Those seeking darshan can also send SMSes to 932103330 in a particular format: TTD (space) Temple (space) Date (space) Number of persons. For instance, darshan tokens of Sri Govindaraja Swamy temple (SVG) for six persons on June 11 can be booked by sending SMS: TTD SVG 11.06.2020 6. Apart from the online and SMS services, the TTD has also decided to provide PoS terminals to temples for easy transaction.
08 June 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||70-yr-old woman dies of COVID in Chittoor||A 70-year-old woman died of COVID-19 while undergoing treatment in Tirupati on Sunday. With this, the death toll climbed to five in Chittoor district. According to district medical and health officials, the total number of positive persons in the district stood at 395 as on Sunday, of which 150 are under isolation, while 240 were discharged.
08 June 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man, son killed in hit-and-run in Chittoor||A man and his son were killed and another person injured when their motorcycle was hit by a unidentified vehicle near Akkamcheruvu cross of Irala mandal, 30 km from here, in the wee hours of Sunday. According to the Irala police, Kadar Basha (38) and his son Tabroz (14), along with a relative, were returning home to Kallur after attending a family function at Irala on Saturday night. En-route, their motorcycle was hit by an unidentified vehicle, killing the father-son duo on the spot. The third person suffered grievous injuries. Police shifted the bodies to the area hospital for an autopsy. CCTV footage is being scrutinised to identify the vehicle involved in the hit-and-run.
08 June 2020||Chittoor,ANDHRA PRADESH||Lorry driver burnt alive in road mishap||A lorry driver was burnt alive when his vehicle went up in flames after hitting a divider near Chinnakunta village in Kadapa district on the Kadapa-Hyderabad National Highway on Sunday. According to information, the lorry driver failed to negotiate a curve and rammed into a divider at high speed after which the lorry’s engine bay caught fire. The driver tried to exit the lorry but was unable to as the lorry immediately went up in flames. Case registered Motorists who witnessed the accident immediately called the police and fire personnel, but by the time they reached, the lorry was charred. The lorry was on its way to Kadapa from Kurnool. Police registered a case.
08 June 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||4 hurt as YSRCP, TDP men resort to stone pelting||Four persons were injured when supporters of the YSRCP and the TDP resorted to stone pelting, at Pallam village in Katrenikona mandal in East Godavari district on Sunday morning. The incident took place when TDP leader Danduprolu Satyam and YSRCP supporters had gathered after the latter had allegedly passed comments on Mr. Satyam while he was passing through their area in the village to observe his father’s death anniversary in the morning. During an argument between the supporters of the two parties on the episode, a fight reportedly broke between them and they started pelting stones at each other. “Four of them received minor injuries in the clash and have been admitted to a private hospital in Amalapuram,” Amalapuram Deputy-Superintendent of Police Sk. Masum Basha said. Mr. Basha added that a case has been registered and a group of people, allegedly involved in the clash, have been arrested. A team of police personnel has been deployed in the village to prevent any further clashes.
08 June 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Online booking must for Seva at Srisailam||The general devotees and visitors who wish to stay or avail Arjitha Seva at the Sri Bhramaramba Mallikarjuna Devasthanam at Srisailam have to register their names on the website: www.srisailamonline.com, according to a release from the temple management. In all, 3,000 tickets would be sold online per day. Temple Executive Officer Karanam S. Rama Rao said that while on June 8 and 9 only the temple staff and archakas would be allowed to have darshan on an experimental basis, on June 10 the local devotees would get a chance to enter the temple. The temple premises would be thrown open to the general public from June 11, but all COVID-19 protocols would be followed. The health of all the devotees visiting the temple would be screened, children and people above 65 years would not be allowed to have darshan. Those coming to the temple need to wear masks.
08 June 2020||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Active cases in Nellore district climb to 339||At least 32 more persons tested positive for the viral disease in SPSR Nellore and Prakasam districts in the last 24 hours. With a large number of people returning to the State by special trains and other modes of transport, the disease has started spreading to remote places in the two south coastal Andhra districts. Health officials said 28 more persons from across the Nellore district got infected, including two persons who had returned from Bengaluru and one person from Chennai. Three of the newly-infected persons hailed from Vizianagaram district and two others from Srikakulam district.  Sangam accounted for a maximum of five fresh cases followed by Kavali and Dagadarthi with three cases each, Vinjamur, Kondapur, and Atmakur with two cases each and Jaladanki, Venkatachalam, Kodavalur with one each. The number of active cases mounted to 339 in the district. As many as 354 primary contacts of the infected persons were isolated. Prakasam’s tally In Prakasam district, four more men got infected, COVID-19 nodal officer John Richards said. One person each had returned from Delhi, Haryana and Tamil Nadu. With this, the number of active cases rose to 50 in the district. The infected persons were a 31-year-old man from a Kodavalavaripalem, near Karamchedu, a 56-year-old man from Tangutur, a 22-year-old man from Ongole and 32-year-old man from Nandavanavanam, near Singarayakonda. Health officials anticipated that the number of new cases will go up in the coming days coinciding with the Unlock 1.0 announced by the Centre. Implementation of the containment action plan will be more difficult as the disease has started spreading to far-flung areas.
08 June 2020||NUZVID (KRISHNA DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||Lockdown blues: Tribals fall back on selling arrack||With many villagers losing jobs during the lockdown in the last two months, many families from the Scheduled Tribes, Scheduled Castes and Backward Castes communities have begun making and selling arrack in tribal hamlets and island villages in Krishna district. Illicitly distilled (ID) liquor business, which was limited to some hamlets and Girijana thandas, has spread to many other villages as demand for arrack rose due to the ban on liquor during the lockdown. “One person used to earn Rs. 400 in a day by doing some manual labour, agriculture or construction work in villages. In the wake of COVID-19, the government prohibited the sale of liquor and all outlets were closed since March 22. As many people depended on arrack, the demand for ID liquor manufacturing and selling has become a good source of income for many families,” said a woman named Mangi of Chinna Thanda in Krishna district. Another factor behind the rise in demand for arrack has been the government’s decision to hike the prices of liquor by 70%. Unable to buy IMFL brands at high rates, tipplers have switched to arrack in villages, locals said. “We depend on agriculture for a living. Normally, we go for red chilly plucking every year in border villages. But there was no transportation and no work due to the lockdown this year and we are unable to feed our families,” said Daravathu Bujji of Kanimerla Thanda. Some tipplers who were addicted to liquor drank alcohol-based sanitisers in a fit of desperation and were hospitalised. Two persons died after drinking a chemical at Tanuku in West Godavari district during the lockdown, and five died in a similar incident at Visakhapatnam a couple of days ago. “As there were no liquor sales during the lockdown, ID liquor sellers transported the arrack on boats, two-wheelers and other means of transport to West Godavari, neighbouring Khammam and Kothagudem-Bhadradri districts in Telangana State. In some hamlets, villagers sold arrack at Rs. 1,000 a litre,” said K. Venkanna, a villager. SEB and police teams unearthed many arrack brewing units at Bantumilli, Kruthivennu, Mylavaram, Jeelugumilli, Chatrai, Gampalagudem, Reddygudem, Vissannapeta, Tiruvuru, Machilipatnam Rural and other mandals post lockdown. “Almost all the persons in the families, including women, will engage in manufacturing arrack and fermented jaggery wash. They will maintain stocks of methyl alcohol, spirit, jaggery and other other chemicals to prepare ID liquor. Children and women will sell at their homes and at some points and transport the liquor sachets to other villages,” said a liquor trader named Bhukya Ramadevi. The ID liquor business is thriving in more than 300 villages in Krishna, West Godavari and other districts. Due to the lockdown, closure of liquor shops and lack of livelihood, arrack manufacturers have doubled and are making good business, an Excise official said. Officials of the Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB), police and the Prohibition and Excise officials conducted raids on many hamlets and destroyed ID liquor manufacturing ‘battis’, damaged the stocks and recovered the material at many places in the last few days.
08 June 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Red gram farmers protest as procurement stopped||Red gram growers from Kanigiri region in Prakasam district staged a demonstration on Sunday after the procurement of their produce by the Primary Agricultural Cooperative Society (PACS) as part of the market intervention scheme was stopped. Hit by the lockdown, the farmers came in large numbers to the procurement centre to liquidate their stocks piled up in the last two months. First come, first served The PACS purchased 100 tonnes of red gram from the farmers on a first-come-first-served basis at a remunerative price of Rs. 5,800 per quintal. However, the PACS officials stopped the procurement, saying that their quota had been exhausted. Irked over this, scores of farmers who brought more than 300 tonnes of red gram staged a noisy protest, demanding that the procurement be resumed. “There are no takers for the produce even at Rs. 4,500 per quintal in the market. We could not sell our produce for the last two months in view of the depressed market condition owing to lockdown,” complained a group of farmers. The farmers who have cultivated red gram in more than 18,000 acres in Kanigiri region claimed that they had done the e-booking for their produce. “The market intervention scheme will be resumed only after getting the clearance from the Marketing Department,” said PACS president S. Mohan Reddy. Meanwhile, CPI(M)-led Kavulu Rythu Sangam State president N. Ranga Rao said that the produce brought by only a section of the farmers had been purchased by the Marketing Department. “The government should procure the entire produce available with the farmers at a remunerative price,” he said.
08 June 2020||POLAVARAM (WEST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||Maoists support bandh||The CPI(Maoist) has extended its support to the bandh called in the Agency by the Adivasis on June 9 . Leaders of the Adivasula JAC and the A.P. G.O. No. 3 Sadhana Committee gave the bandh call. Polavaram MLA and A.P. Legislative Committee for Tribal Welfare Chairman Tellam Balaraju held a series of meetings with various Girijana Sankshema Sanghams over the issue and promised to take the issue to the notice of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and Tribal Welfare Minister P. Pushpa Srivani . The leaders had taken the issue to the notice of Mr. Reddy recently and sought that a review petition be filed in the Supreme Court over quashing of the order. Members of the Adivasi Employees and Teachers’ Associations, Adivasi Hakkula Sangham, and Girijana Sankshema Sangham earlier staged a protest at Buttaigudem, Polavaram and other mandals seeking revision as per the G.O.
08 June 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||15 injured in clash||Fifteen persons suffered injuries when YSRCP and TDP activists clashed over the benefits of Matyakara Bharosa scheme, in Manchineellapeta village of Srikakulam district on Sunday. Locals alleged that only YSRCP sympathisers were given the benefits while ignoring others on the pretext that they were TDP supporters. Police reached the spot and quelled the fight.
08 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Durga temple gearing up to welcome devotees||The Kanaka Durga temple in the city will be thrown open to the devotees starting June 10 after a gap of almost two months following relaxation in the norms pertaining to COVID-19 lockdown. Ahead of it, the Sri Durga Malleswara Swamyvarla Devasthanam will undertake a trial run by allowing its employees to have darshan of the presiding deity for two days from Monday. The aim is to plug loopholes, if any, in the measures put in place to check the spread of virus. Darshan timings Addressing the media here on Sunday, temple trust board chairman Pyla Somi Naidu and Executive Officer M.V. Suresh Babu said there would be no ‘antaralaya darshan’. Also, the devotees would not be allowed to prepare ‘pongal’ and offer the same to the presiding deity. The darshan timings would be from 6 a.m. to 11.30 a.m. and from 12.30 p.m. to 5 p.m., they said, and added that priests would neither offer ‘setarai’ or ‘theertham’ to the devotees. Slot booking “Arrangements have been made to facilitate darshan for 250 people per hour in each queue. Devotees need to book a slot for free darshan or Rs. 100 ticket darshan, laddu prasadam, and ‘keshakhandana’ (tonsuring) either on the website, www.kanakadurgamma.org, or mobile app, kanakadurgamma, or at the Mee Seva counters. They have to download the tickets, or obtain the printouts at the four counters opened at the Madapati Satram,” Mr. Somi Naidu said. On the dos and don’ts, they said only devotees wearing masks would be allowed for darshan. Also, they would have to bring ID proof issued by the government. Those having fever, cold, cough and other ailments would not be allowed. Also, pregnant women, senior citizens above 65 years and children below 10 years would not be allowed, they added. These apart, the devotees would have to wash their feet and hands before entering the Maha Mandapam queue, they said. “Sanitiser stands have been arranged at 50 places in the temple. The body temperature of every devotee will be checked before they enter the queue. They will also pass through the disinfection chambers. A distance of at least 6 feet will have to be maintained between devotees,” they said, and advised the devout to leave immediately after darshan via the Sivalayam stairway. Prasadam would be given at the Mahamandapam counter to those who purchase tickets in advance, they said. “The queues will be sanitised with sodium hypochloride once in every two hours. The bus and elevator services will not be available until further orders. The sari stall has been closed down temporarily. Arrangements are in place for distribution of prasadam (pulihora / daddojanam) packets from 7 a.m. to 3 p.m. The temple staff wearing masks and gloves will distribute them. Every devotee will have to download the Aaryoga Setu app in their mobiles,” they added.  The body temperature of every devotee will be checked before they enter the queue. A distance of at least 6 feet will have to be maintained between devotees Pyla Somi Naidu Trust board chairman
08 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Women’s panel condemns murder of domestic help||Andhra Pradesh Women’s Commission Chairperson Vasireddi Padma on Sunday expressed concern over the alleged torture and murder of a 32-year-old woman in Visakhapatnam a couple of days ago. The victim, a native of Ravulapalem in East Godavari district, was a domestic help at the house of G. Vasantha. Officers investigating the woman’s death under suspicious circumstances at her employer’s house at Akkayyapalem in the city found her head tonsured and multiple burn injuries on her private parts, Ms. Padma said, and added that it was an inhuman act. As per information, the victim was brought up by her aunt after her family members were murdered when she was young. Later, she was married off even before she attained the age of marriage. However, her husband deserted her after a few years. A few months ago, the victim was brought to the city and engaged as domestic help at Vasantha’s house. “The woman was allegedly forced into flesh trade and tortured severely by her employer. Suspecting that the woman might escape, Vasantha and a few others allegedly detained her in a room, tonsured her head and caused burns on her private parts using a hot spatula. She was allegedly not given food or water,” Ms. Padma said. “The incident brings to the fore the lack of good neighbourliness at apartments, group houses and colonies. The perpetrators of the crime had tried to hush up the murder,” Ms. Padma said, and added that the case would be thoroughly inquired. Suspects picked up “The Commission will soon visit Visakhapatnam and seek details of investigation from the police. All the accused will be brought to book,” said Commission Director R. Suez. The police had already picked up a few suspects. A few relatives of the victim were also being questioned, she added.
08 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Curbs at border checkposts will stay for now: official||In view of the sharp rise in the number of COVID-19 positive cases, the restrictions at the checkposts along the Inter-State border, railway stations and domestic airports will stay for some more time, Principal Secretary (Transport, Roads and Buildings) M. T. Krishna Babu has said. In a statement released on Sunday, he said that reports being shown by a section of broadcast media that the curbs at inter-State border checkposts were being removed were not true. Mr. Krishna Babu, who is also the Nodal Officer of State Control Room for COVID-19, made it clear that people who wanted to come to Andhra Pradesh would have to register themselves on the ‘Spandana’ website. “After registrations, tests will be conducted as per the protocol. People coming from six high-risk States will be put under institutional quarantine for seven days. People coming to A.P. must keep these factors in mind,” said Mr. Krishna Babu. Bus services to TS Referring to the issue of the Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC) resuming bus operations between A.P. and Telangana, Mr. Krishna Babu said permission from the Telangana government was awaited for the same. “The APSRTC is ready to run buses from Hyderabad to the districts in A.P. on point-to-point basis, once it gets the nod from the Telangana government,” he explained.
08 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sand booking facility at village, ward secretariats now||Principal Secretary (Mining) Gopalakrishna Dwivedi on Sunday said that sand booking facilities would be available at the village and ward secretariats, besides the online mode. In a statement, Mr. Dwivedi said online booking timings would be extended and a buffer stock of about 70 lakh metric tonnes of sand would be kept for use during the monsoons. In a review meeting held on June 5, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy instructed the officials to pile enough stocks in sand depots and to ensure that bulk orders were booked only under the supervision of the respective district Joint Collectors. He had also stressed on transparency in booking and delivery of the commodity.  Door delivery Mr. Dwivedi said for smaller requirements, people could draw sand from the local sources and it could be delivered using push carts within a radius of 5 km free of cost. He said Andhra Pradesh was the only State which had introduced door delivery system for sand to bring in transparency. The bookings can be done through the Andhra Pradesh Mineral Development Corporation (APMDC). “A Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) has been constituted to check the unauthorised mining and transport of sand by installing cameras at the stock points and checkposts. Penalty Stringent punishment of a two-year imprisonment and a fine of up to Rs. 2 lakh are meant to be deterrents,” said Mr. Dwivedi. “At present, an average of 1.25 lakh metric tonnes of sand is mined every day and the government plans to increase it to 3 lakh metric tonnes per day,” he added.  Special team Informing that 70 lakh tonnes of sand was being stored for the monsoon season, he said efforts were on to bring back the migrant labourers who are skilled in sand mining. “Special teams have been formed at the district level on sand operations to keep a watch on malpractice,” said Mr. Dwivedi.
08 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||1,185 liquor bottles seized in three separate raids||The police on Sunday seized about 60 bottles of liquor being illegally transported in a milk van and took three persons into custody. During a vehicle check-up, the personnel intercepted the van at Gandigunta village and seized the stock. The Vuyyur police registered a case. In a separate raid, the team led by Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) ASP M. Sathi Babu confiscated 250 liquor bottles being smuggled in a four-wheeler and took two persons into custody. “We stopped the vehicle at Gudavalli check post and seized the bottles. A case has been registered,” Mr. Sathi Babu said. The Krishna district police, during yet another raid, seized 875 liquor bottles being smuggled from Telangana, at Gandrayi check-post, under Chillakallu police station limits on Sunday. Police destroyed jaggery wash at Arthamuru and Manjuluru villages in Bantumilli mandal and cases registered against two persons.
08 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police round up gang members for group clash||Police investigating a group clash that occurred at Patamata on May 31 reportedly took a few persons into custody on Sunday. On May 31, two rival gangs headed by Koduri Manikanta alias Pandu and Thota Sandeep clashed at Thotavari Veedhi in Patamata, with several gang members suffering critical injuries. Members of the two groups, who attacked each other with daggers, iron rods and blades, were reportedly under the influence of alcohol and ganja, police said. Police Commissioner Ch. Dwaraka Tirumala Rao, who produced 13 members of the Pandu gang before the media on Friday, said that some more persons involved in the clash would be arrested soon. Six special teams constituted to arrested the accused were questioning the members of both the groups involved in the clash. Police also took into custody two rowdy-sheeters, who were reportedly gang members of Pandu and had allegedly participated in many extortion deals. Police are investigating the role of the two gangs in other extortion cases, if any, and whether any political party was supporting the gangs in their activities.
08 June 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Retired irrigation engineer dead||Koneru Rajendra Prasad, 70, a retired engineer (Irrigation Department), died at his residence here on Saturday. He is survived by his wife, and a son and daughter who live in the United States. Rajendra Prasad had worked in various capacities in the State. He was Deputy Superintending Engineer, Krishna Irrigation Circle, when he retired in 2007. Rajendra Prasad was known for his wide knowledge of various irrigation works in the Krishna Delta and Prakasam Barrage. Retired Engineers-in-Chief M.A. Rehman and I.S.N. Raju, Chief Engineers K.V. Subba Rao and D. Ramakrishna, Polavaram SE V. Ramesh Babu and Inter-State Division DE K.B. Gangadhara Rao condoled his death.
08 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Gas leak: high-power committee holds talks amid tight security||Amid heavy police bandobust and barricading, the high-power committee constituted to inquire into the styrene vapour leak incident in LG Polymers plant here, held talks with a select group of political party representatives and affected villagers on Sunday. The committee is headed by senior IAS officer Neerabh Kumar Prasad. The GVMC building, the venue of the meeting, turned into a fortress with the deployment of large posse of police force. Entry into the building was allowed only to those who had permission to attend the meeting with the members of the committee. The committee was constituted by the State government to find out the causes that led to the accident that claimed 12 lives and hospitalised many on May 7. While the National Green Tribunal (NGT) had found fault with the management, the High Court ordered seizure of the passports of top officials of the Korean company. Woman cries foul “My husband, Y. Kanaka Raju, died because of inhaling poisonous gas that leaked from the LG Polymers plant. He died while undergoing treatment at a private hospital in the city on June 1. However, none has come to console me,” bemoaned Lavanya, a home-maker from R.R. Venkatapuram, the village where the chemical plant is located. Ms. Lavanya told The Hindu that the authorities should recognise that her husband died due to the toxic gas emission. N. Srinivas, uncle of the deceased, said they were hankering for Rs. 1 crore compensation announced to all those who died due to the gas leak, and alleged that they were denied entry by the police saying they had no permission to meet the committee members. Demanding that the post mortem report be disclosed, he said it would confirm the death due to inhalation of styrene monomer vapour. CPI(M) city committee president B. Ganga Rao demanded the immediate closure of the LG Polymers plant and arrest of the top management of the company, and wondered why the committee did not allow all the affected people to air their grievances. LG Polymers Pollution Sufferers’ Welfare Committee president G. Venkat Reddy said they would continue their protests till justice was done to all the affected people. He said 400 farmers who suffered should also be given adequate compensation. BJP city women’s wing vice-president Madhavi Charles said the committee lacked transparency. Jana Sena Visakha West constituency coordinator Pilla Ramakrishna said the committee should allow everyone to submit their representations.
08 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Hotels, malls gear up to reopen||After more than two months, hotels, malls and restaurants gear up to receive people from Monday in the city. The managements have been busy conducting spraying (disinfecting) activities on their premises on Sunday. Hotels and restaurant owners have been taking additional care for their customers in seating arrangement and at rooms. Andhra Pradesh Tourism Development Corporation (APTDC) Divisional Manager T.G. Prasada Reddy said that rooms in APTDC hotels at Araku, Tyda and city region were already sprayed with disinfectants. “We briefed our staff about the guidelines issued by the government and measures to be taken while receiving guests, at the restaurant, about cleaning rooms and others. Bookings have been made online,” he said. Restaurant managements were seen preparing the premises making sure the tables are far from each other and encouraging online methods while ordering food as well as making payments. “Before entering the cafe, we check temperature of the customers and provide sanitiser. We made sure that tables are at two-metre distance from each other. We are providing QR code scanning facility so that customers need not touch menu chart,” said N. Prasanth, owner of Brew ‘n’ Bistro, a cafe from Lawsons Bay Colony. Most of the malls in the Jagadamba region and Dabagardens have to be closed due to strict instructions by the district administration in the wake of increase in COVID-19 cases in the district. However, malls in other areas (except containment zones) will start operating from Monday morning. ‘Darshan’ arrangements Temples are also seen gearing up to open from Monday from 6 a.m. Sri Varaha Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy temple, Simhachalam, a major temple from the region, will reopen and devotees will be allowed for ‘darshan’ from 6 a.m to 6 p.m. Executive Officer M. Venkateswara Rao made arrangements to ensure physical distancing of devotees. Assistant Commissioner, Endowments Department, Visakhapatnam, K. Shanthi, has asked managers and authorities of temples in the district to strictly implement guidelines given by the government. She said that devotees should compulsorily wear masks. After washing feet, devotees need to wash hands with sanitiser and enter temple. She said that devotees are not allowed to touch statues of deities or ‘Dwaja Sthambas.’
08 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rowdy-sheeter, 4 others held for ‘holding liquor party’||City-based rowdy-sheeter Merugu Chittibabu alias Chittimamu along with four others were arrested on Saturday for allegedly organising a liquor party during the lockdown in a function hall at Duvvada in the city. The police also booked lockdown violation cases against several gang members and six bouncers who were present at the party. Based on credible information, in a joint operation by the City Task Force (CTF) and the Duvvada police, teams led by Assistant Commissioner of Police (CTF) A. Trinad Rao and Duvvada police station Inspector Lakshmi raided a function hall, where the gang members allegedly organised a liquor party to celebrate the birthday of Chittimamu in the early hours of Saturday. The police seized 20 kg ganja, 31 liquor bottles and about Rs. 1.50 lakh from the gang members. The police booked cases under various sections, including the NDPS Act, on the five persons. The arrested were remanded. Strict vigil The City Task Force has been keeping a strict vigil on the movement of Chittimamu’s gang. On May 24, nine rowdy-sheeters belonging to Chittimamu’s gang were arrested by the CTF while they were allegedly planning to eliminate two members of their rival gang.
08 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Materials, vehicles used for illegal mining seized||Officials of the Forest Department seized materials and vehicles used for illegal mining in the Chimalapadu Forest Block under Kalyanapulova Reservoir limits in Raavikamatam mandal in the district on Sunday, according to P.S. Ajay Kumar, national secretary, All India Rural Agricultural Labour Association (AIARLA). Divisional Forest Officer of Visakhapatnam C. Selvam inspected the site on Sunday. The Somalammakonda, abutting Chimalapadu panchayat, was declared a reserve forest way back in 1982. But, granite mining had been going there illegally for the past three years, Mr. Ajay Kumar said. There was some vacant land between Chimalapadu revenue limits and the Somalammakonda forest. Unscrupulous persons obtained mining licence taking advantage of the vacant land (gap area) with the connivance of some forest officials in the past, according to Mr. Ajay Kumar. The association has been demanding a probe into the issue for a long time. He said that the association had lodged complaints with the Union Forest Secretary, Forest Department and the Principal Chief Conservator of Forests (PCCF) seeking action against the former DFO, Ranger and the Forest Officer, who had given a report in favour of the mining company. Chodavaram Forest Ranger Ram Naresh and Medivada Section Officer Prasad participated in the inspection on Sunday.
08 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||15 new cases in Vizag district take tally to 179||Fifteen new COVID-19 cases were reported from the district taking the tally to 179 here on Sunday. With the new cases, the total number of active cases in the district increased to 85. A total of 93 patients were discharged from the hospitals after testing negative. One death was reported from Chengalraopeta. Among the new cases, four cases are from Sriharipuram, two cases each were reported from Anakapalle, Kancharapalem, Madhurawada and Dibbapalem. Sabbavaram, Gajuwaka and Parawada reported one case each. Health Department officials are on toes as 51 new COVID-19 cases were reported in the last three days.
08 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Botcha slams Naidu’s ‘vilification campaign’||Municipal Administration and Urban Development Minister Botcha Satyanarayana on Sunday asserted that the government would fulfil its goal of establishing three Capitals in the State, despite a ‘vilification campaign’ launched on social media by TDP chief N. Chandrababu Naidu to scuttle the move. “The government will also ensure distribution of 30 lakh house sites to the poor and will deliver other programmes too,” he told the media here. “Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy decided to set up an executive capital in Visakhapatnam, a judicial capital in Kurnool and a legislative capital in Amaravati to ensure decentralised development, and the government will ensure that it happens,” Mr. Satyanarayana said. Denying forcible acquisition of assigned lands for distribution of house-sites to the poor under Land Pooling Scheme in Visakhapatnam, the Minister said that there was no truth in the allegations, and that if it could be proved that even an inch of land was acquired forcibly. he would take full responsibility for it. Coming down heavily on Mr. Naidu, the Minister said the TDP chief and his son Nara Lokesh had confined themselves to their home in Hyderabad for nearly two months ever since the beginning of the lockdown and had only recently moved to Amaravati after a public backlash. He said that they were using social media only to defame the YSRCP Government. Sujala Sravanthi Mr. Satyanarayana said that the State Government would lay the stone for the Uttarandhra Sujala Sravanthi scheme which would bring Godavari waters to North Andhra. He refuted allegations made by TDP leader Ch. Ayyanna Patrudu that the Agricultural Research Station at Anakapalle was being shifted to Pullivendula. “If required, another research station would be set up at Pullivendula,” he said. Speaking about the completion of one year in office of the YSRCP Government, the Minister said that they have already fulfilled most of the promises in record time and said that despite a huge financial burden left by the previous government, the Chief Minister was keen on implementing revolutionary schemes for the welfare of the poor.
08 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Technology offers innovative ways to treat brain tumour’||The latest technologies offer innovative approach to treat brain tumour, says Atchiyya Naidu, consultant neuro surgeon, KIMS ICON Hospital, on the eve of World Brain Tumour Day. The World Brain Tumour Day is observed to raise awareness about the disease and help patients deal with the condition in a more effective way. Brain tumour can be cancerous or non-cancerous. The symptoms develop in patients depending on the tumour’s location, the speed at which the cancerous cells multiply and spread to adjacent areas. “With the advent of technologies such as stereotaxic, brain mapping, neuro navigation, nerve monitoring, microscope, endoscope and intra-operative MRI, tumours can be excised with precision without damaging normal brain,” says Dr. Naidu. The incidence of central nervous system (CNS) tumours in India ranges from 5 to 10 for every 1 lakh population and accounts for 2% of malignancy, says the neurosurgeon. High-risk group While the causes are mostly unknown, children and adults who are exposed to radiation, persons with rare genetic conditions, and those over 60 years of age are at higher risk of contracting the disease. The most common symptom is headache, which occurs in 35% of patients and can appear along with nausea, vomiting, and problems with a variety of specific nerve functions called focal neurological deficit. Referring to treatment, Dr. Naidu says apart from maximal safe surgical resection, radiotherapy and oral chemotherapy are administered after surgical debunking in some cases of malignant tumours. Molecular markers Outcome and survival rate depends on age of patient, type of tumour, and the extent of the surgical excision and molecular characteristics of the tumour. Recent studies on molecular markers have opened newer modalities in brain and spine tumours, Dr. Naidu says. Small brain tumours can be managed with Stereotactic radio surgery after stereotactic biopsy without anesthesia, he adds.
08 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Startup steps up to help people in distress||A startup has come forward to help denizens within a radius of 100 km from Visakhapatnam through its app. Though the app and web-based startup was launched three years ago, it has now introduced a new feature called ‘Help Around’ after the nationwide lockdown was announced with an aim of helping those in distress due to the ongoing lockdown. The startup, called Localwire, is a Startup India-registered firm and has over 70,000 users. In the last few days, it has received a wide range of requests such as supply of groceries and provisions for an orphanage, food for 10 construction workers held up due to lockdown at Madhurawada and supply of medicines for seriously ill patients and succour for 20 poor families at China Rushikonda. “Localwire is a dedicated social network for the local community where users can discover or contribute news/happenings around their locations. We being a hyper-local social network, do regularly share the information/alerts with our users to stay updated with what’s happening in their localities, ex: update on containment streets, shifting of Rythu Bazaars or ration distribution and availability of various services like face masks and sanitisers,” firm’s founder and CEO Rakesh Polisetty told The Hindu . He said they launched ‘Help Around’ to enable people in need to ask for help and connect with nearby people who are willingly to render them the required service. The operation for the app is very simple. Users who request for help have to mark the location along with what they are looking for and every post will be verified with an OTP on their mobile number. Once the request is posted it is visible to the nearby people with the exact location on map, this helps NGOs/volunteers/donors to connect with the needy in their localities. “Our internal team also validates the requests and take it forward by sharing it on our social media pages and pushing notifications to our users. It’s been a week we launched this feature and so far we have been able to connect many requests. GVMC Commissioner Srijana Gummalla also tweeted this initiative and requested citizens to connect with the needy. We are are thankful to Ms Srijana for supporting this cause,” Mr. Rakesh said. The Localwire app can be downloaded from Google Play Store.
08 June 2020||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Opposition demands shifting of LG plant||Leaders of several Opposition parties and people’s organisations met Neerabh Kumar Prasad, chairman of the High-Power Committee on the LG Polymers gas leak, here on Sunday, demanding shifting of the LG Polymers plant from its present location. MLAs P.G.V.R. Naidu (Visakhapatnam West), Vasupalli Ganesh Kumar (South) and Velagapudi Ramakrishna Babu (East), CPI State assistant secretary J.V. Satyanarayana Murthy, CPI(M) city committee secretary B. Ganga Rao, Mahila Congress president Pedada Ramani Kumari, BJP leader B.V.S. Prabhakar and Bahujan Samaj Party president Daliraju were among those who met the chairman. They sought stringent punishment for those responsible for the gas leak. Representatives of various organisations also demanded action against the management of LG Polymers for its negligence that resulted in the gas leak. They submitted a representation to the chairman demanding immediate shifting of the plant, punishment of the guilty and payment of compensation to the victims. In a letter to the committee chairman on Sunday, PAV general secretary T. Kameswara Rao said that the affected people were suffering from irritation in the eyes and skin, respiratory problems, nausea, unsteady gait, loss of consciousness and gastro-intestinal problems, as a result of prolonged inhalation of styrene monomer.  Long-term effects He said that it was understood that exposure to styrene monomer vapour has long-term health effects such as hearing loss, damage to the brain and liver, reproductive toxicity, fertility loss in women, adverse impact on the foetus in pregnant women, and cancer (as per the International Agency on Cancer Research). CPI(M) Greater Visakha City Committee secretary B. Ganga Rao said that the committee, appointed by the National Green Tribunal (NGT), has already submitted its report based on which the NGT had ruled that the mishap had occurred due to the negligence of the management. CPI(ML) New Democracy city secretary Y. Kondaiah demanded arrest of the management of LG Polymers and also officials concerned for violating the existing eco-protection laws and closure of the plant permanently. K. Ramachandra Murthy, a senior citizen and former INTUC leader, opined that the committee should consider two options: either to shift the company to some other place in the district or to provide alternative houses in another area and shift the residents away from the vicinity of the company.
08 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Six people arrested||Cracking the mysterious death of 32-year-old domestic help from Akkayyapalem, the IV Town police arrested six persons here on Sunday night. The main accused has been identified as Vasantha alias Jyothi, the house owner, and two of her family members. A family member of the victim is also among the accused. Torture alleged According to IV Town police, problem started when the domestic help and Vasantha allegedly had a clash over sharing of money earned from alleged illegal activities. Vasantha, along with a few others, allegedly beat up the doemstic help, tortured her with lighted cigarette butts, heated spatula and even tonsured her hair. The woman succumbed to the injuries, the police said. One of the family members of the victim, who was arrested in the case, had allegedly forced her into anti-social activities to earn easy money. The victim hailed from East Godavari district. She was staying in a rented house at Akkayyapalem area of the city. On Thursday morning, she was found dead. While her body was being taken to the cremation ground by the accused, the police stopped them and shifted the body to King George Hospital (KGH) for post-mortem .
08 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naval personnel of INS Kuthar reach out to COVID warriors||In an endeavour to reach out to the community during the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, naval personnel of INS Kuthar contributed provisions to Loyola Old-age Home on the occasion of the 30th anniversary of the ship on Saturday. According to a naval press release, in addition, 500 hygiene kits which were prepared by the ladies and children of the ship's officers and men were handed over to District Medical and Health Officer as an act of solidarity with the corona warriors. Each kit comprised two handmade cloth masks and sanitisers for use by the health and sanitary staff. INS Kuthar, an indigenously designed and built P-25 guided missile corvette, was commissioned into the Indian Navy on June 7, 1990 in Mumbai.
08 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man dies after drinking sanitiser accidentally||A man died after he drank an alcohol-based sanitiser mistaking it for water, at Nakkapalle in Visakhapatnam district, on Saturday night. The deceased was identified as S. Satyanarayana (55), a resident of Saripallivanipalem of Nakkapalle mandal, who worked as an attender at the MRO office in Nakkapalle. According to reports, at around 5.30 p.m. on Saturday, Satyanarayana drank a small quantity of the sanitiser that was kept on an office table. He later told the office staff after which he was rushed to the Nakkapalle Community Health Centre. Doctors who examined Satyanarayana’s condition at the hospital decided to discharge him in an hour after he told them that he was feeling fine and had only ingested a small amount of sanitiser. However, after a few hours, Satyanarayana began having bouts of vomiting. He was then rushed to the Anakapalle area hospital, where he died while undergoing treatment. His body was sent for post-mortem. Nakkapalle police registered a case of unnatural death based on a complaint by family members.
08 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bolisetty denied audience||Jana Sena leader Bolisetty Satyanarayana was refused permission to attend the meeting convened by the high-power committee on Sunday . He was reportedly refused entry as the JSP did not figure on the list of attendees prepared by officials who would meet the committee. He later addressed a representation to the committee. Mr. Satyanarayana said they had consulted chemical engineering expert Prof. K.V. Rao and wanted to know why Consent for Establishment and Consent for Operation were issued when the land itself was in litigation with the government. The government was on strong footing with the judgment given by Justice Bhagavati in the case Manchegowda Etc. Vs State of Karnataka on April 17, 1984, when the sale of land was conditional and violation of condition amounted to Void of Sale itself. He said that their secondary question was whether the LG Polymers plant which stored and used hazardous material could operate without the consent of Ministry of Environment and Forests.
08 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||2 youngsters die as their bike hits median||Two youth from Allipuram area, aged around 20 to 25 years, died in a road accident near Rushikonda area in Visakhapatnam on Saturday. According to reports, the youth died when the two-wheeler they riding hit the median while taking a sharp turn near Rushikonda. While one died on the spot due to severe head injuries, another youth died while undergoing treatment. Bodies have been sent for post-mortem. Arilova police registered a case and investigation is on.
08 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Medical kits distributed to health staff||District Collector V. Vinay Chand distributed COVID-19 medical kits to the Health Department staff here on Sunday. Mr. Vinay Chand distributed 4,800 N95 masks, 4,650 PPE kits, 2,375 sanitisers, 1,53,500 masks and 28,600 cloth masks to staff of 94 primary Health Centres (PHCs) in the district. He also distributed 2,275 N95 masks, 4,550 PPEs, 105 sanitisers, 6,000 masks to 16 Community Health Centres (CHCs) and Anakapalle area hospital.
08 June 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Maintaining visitors’ list must for hotels, restaurants: DIG||Visakhapatnam Range Deputy Inspector General (DIG) L.K.V. Ranaga Rao has asked all commercial establishments, hotels and restaurants to maintain visitors’ list without fail, saying that it would help in immediate contact tracing in case any COVID-19 positive case is reported. The relaxations in the lockdown norms should not be misused and all commercial establishments must sanitise their premises regularly as per the COVID-19 guidelines, he said. Social distancing “More number of visitors and customers should not be allowed into restaurants and hotels. Wearing mask and maintaining social distance by the visitors and the staff of commercial establishments are mandatory. Such measures will prevent community transmission of the disease,” said Mr. Ranga Rao. Referring to the infection count, the DIG said there were around 200 positive cases reported from the Visakhapatnam range which includes Vizianagaram and Srikakulam districts. He interacted with Srikakulam SP R.N.Ammi Reddy and his Vizianagaram counterpart B. Raja Kumari on Sunday and discussed the arrangements in place to check the spread of the virus. ‘Strengthen checkposts’ The DIG said that all the checkposts should be strengthend to prevent entry of people through ‘illegal routes’. “People who travel by trains and flights need to undergo medical tests before being put under quarantine,” said Mr. Ranga Rao. He further said that round-the-clock vigilance would continue at quarantine centres. “With further relaxations in the lockdown, the role of Police Department has become more crucial,” the DIG added.
08 June 2020||June 08 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Protective gear||
08 June 2020||ADILABAD,TELANGANA||Temple premises sanitised||All the 530 temples under Endowment Department in former united Adilabad district will reopen on Monday following easing of lockdown restrictions. Respective authorities have made preparations like sanitising premises of temples and drawing circles for devotees to stand at a distance to maintain the social distancing norm. The famous Gnana Saraswati temple at Basar in Nirmal district will be thrown open at 7 a.m. and devotees can have darshan until 6 p.m. every day. Authorities have sanitised the temple premises including the queue area. The reopening will, however, be restricted only to darshan as no Aksharabhyasam, no Arjita Seva, no Annadanam will be available. Neither will be the laddu prasadam. Devotees will not be allowed a holy dip on the Godavari ghat either. Among the important temples that will reopen will be the Gudem Satyanarayana Swami temple in Dandepally and Jainad Laxminarayana Swami temple in Adilabad district.
08 June 2020||ADILABAD,TELANGANA||Policeman hurt as gun goes off accidentally||A guard on duty at the Collector's camp office in Nirmal was injured on the side of his chest when a bullet got discharged accidentally from his SLR while he was cleaning it on Sunday morning. However, it did not result in any serious injury to him. The guard, Shankar Goud, is an Armed Reserve head constable.
08 June 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Strict safety protocol at Bhadradi||The portals of the historic Sri Sitaramachandra Swamy temple dating back to the 17th century in Bhadrachalam will be reopened for darshan, after the coronavirus-forced break of nearly 80 days, on June 8. The shrine, popularly known as Bhadradri, will be thrown open for devotees at 6.30 a.m. on Monday in adherence to the COVID-19 safety protocol. The devotees will be allowed to have darshan of the temple deity only after undergoing the mandatory thermal screening. The temple authorities have procured five thermal scanners for this purpose. Wearing face masks is mandatory for entering into the temple and no one will be allowed inside the sanctum sanctorum of the shrine. Devotees should bring documents to prove their age along with them, temple sources said. All other special pujas including the Arjita Sevas (paid services) will remain suspended as per the lockdown norms, sources added. However, the online facility will be available for the devotees desirous of getting pujas performed on their behalf without their presence by the priests at the temple. Online bookings for various pujas can be done through https://ts.meeseva.telangana.gov.in/ and “T App Folio,” sources added. The temple will remain open for darshan from 6.30 a.m. to 11.30 a.m. and 3 p.m. to 6.30 p.m. daily from Monday.
08 June 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Labourer dies after mound of earth caves-in||A labourer was killed after a mound of earth caved in on him while deepening an old open well at Narayanapuram village in Aswaraopeta mandal on Sunday. The incident occurred when five labourers were carrying out a digging operation at the defunct well of a local farmer in the afternoon. The victim was identified as N Venkat Rao of Narayanapuram. The efforts by the labourers at the work site to save him proved futile. His body was retrieved by removing the mound of earth using a hydraulic excavator late in the afternoon.
08 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Doctors list out measures to delay spread in own fraternity||As the eventuality of a large number of healthcare professionals contracting COVID-19 stares at Telangana government, senior doctors from various government hospitals have come up with suggestions to delay the spread without interrupting medical services. The list includes implementation of tele-consultation facility so that patients with minor health problems can avoid hospital visits; booking appointments well in advance to avoid crowding in out-patient sections; screen between doctors and patients; strict enforcement of masks and no-spitting rules; and restricting number of attendants of a patient, even if it is a VIP. They have said that these suggestions have to be implemented at the earliest so as to avoid a situation where there aren’t enough doctors to attend critical cases. After relaxations in lockdown norms, people have started visiting hospitals in large numbers, even for minor health issues. Doctors say that such avoidable visits may expose the patients as well as hospital staff to the virus. Heads of major government hospitals said though they are trying to enforce physical distancing and masks, the number of violations is frustrating to handle. A senior doctor at Osmania General Hospital (OGH), on the condition of anonymity, said that some patients who consulted them in the past few weeks are complaining of minor ailments such as indigestion or seeking refill of prescribed medicines. “These kind of problems can be addressed through tele-consultation. Along with the patient, their attendants too can avoid visiting hospitals. After initial tele-consultation, if doctors opine that a patient needs in-person consultation, they can visit. Otherwise, there is no need to get out of home. This helps both the patient as well as the doctor to reduce exposure to the virus,” the doctor said. The option of tele-consultation, which requires internet connection and a phone camera, has already been implemented by many corporate hospitals. “If a government can arrange live streaming through web cameras at all election booths during voting, arrangement for tele-consultation can be done too,” a junior doctor said. Another senior doctor who also made the same suggestion said that managing attendants has become a task for them. “Like corporate hospitals, the number of attendants has to be strictly restricted. Recently, a political leader walked into our hospital demanding that he be allowed to see a patient while the attendants were already there. You can imagine how such a situation would have panned out in a corporate hospital,” said the doctor from OGH. ‘Use PPE’ Senior officials in Health department said the health of doctors, nurses, para medical staff and contract employees is of priority. “Our message to them is, do not hesitate to use PPE if there is a need for it,” an official said. Steps are being taken to recruit more healthcare professionals. “Regardless of that, we are keen on protecting our existing doctors, nurses, para medical staff, Class-IV employees, from coronavirus,” the official said.
08 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Domestic sector helps shore up energy demand in March-May||At a time when the energy demand was looking southwards with near total shutdown of all commercial and industrial activity in Telangana following the lockdown enforced to prevent the spread of COVID-19 pandemic, it was the domestic sector that kept the consumption at a healthy level although it has declined nearly 7% during this March-May period compared to 2019. The total lockdown imposed from the last week of March to the third week of May has pushed all the industrial and commercial establishments into hibernation mode except those involved in the production/processing/supply/sale of essential commodities. However, it was the domestic sector, with the help of most of the working class either forced to stay home due to closure of work places or made to work-from-home, which maintained the demand at a reasonable level. Generally, the energy demand is about 30% each from the industrial and agricultural activity including the free power, about 25% from domestic consumption and the remaining 15% from commercial and temporary demand. According to a senior executive of TS-Transco the energy consumption during the March-May period this year was about 16,760 million units (MU) against 17,960 MU during the same period last year. “With the commercial and industrial activity almost shutdown, the domestic consumption has shot up during the period to restrict the energy consumption decline for the period to about 6.7%,” the official said adding that it had increased moderately by 3% in March compared to the same month last year as the shutdown came into force only during the last week. The consumption this April went down by 16% compared to April 2019 as entire month was under lockdown and in May it has declined by over 9% compared to May 2019 as the industrial and commercial activity has started reopening from the third week. Increase in energy demand would generally be in double-digit during April and May months in the recent years, the official explained. Although, the lockdown period has kept the short-term energy purchase bill of the two power distribution companies (discoms) in the State low, it has enabled one unit of 4×270 MW Bhadradri Thermal Power Station (BTPS) supplement about 84 MU of in-firm power to the grid from May 15.
08 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||BOCW Board to take back unspent amounts||The Building and Other Construction Workers Welfare Board is planning to seek reimbursement of around Rs. 300 crore that is likely to remain unspent from the funds it has transferred to the government for welfare of workers during the lockdown period. The development comes in the light of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao’s recent assertion that the government would stop providing Rs. 1,500 cash to workers from June as the phased lifting of restrictions would enable them to find jobs. The Board has released over Rs. 900 crore from the BOCW Welfare Cess in two instalments to the Civil Supplies department channelled through the Finance department for providing cash and 12-kg rice to over 14 lakh workers. While the Board released Rs. 336 crore as reimbursement of the expenditure incurred by the government in providing Rs. 1,500 cash and 12-kg rice to workers, the government took little over Rs. 600 crore for meeting in the expenditure in the months of May and June in advance. Payment of cash and distribution of rice continued for the month of May too and the government had recently announced its decision to stop the cash component from June which in turn would mean that the amount would ensure that the Board could claim the unspent amount. Verify accounts Senior officials said the Board had accordingly decided to get the details of the exact quantum of funds that remained unspent with the departments concerned. This would be followed by reconciliation of the accounts so that the Board would forward its request for reimbursement of unspent amount. “Reimbursement of the amount will be sought as the amount was taken on the agreement that it will be reimbursed after reconciliation of accounts and arriving at the exact quantum that has to be borne by the Board. The entire process is likely to take time,” a senior official told The Hindu . The funds spent on providing cash of Rs. 500 and 12-kg rice to around six lakh migrant workers were unlikely to be reimbursed and the Board decided to bear the expenditure.
08 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||EFLU end-semester exams over!||As other educational institutes struggle to reopen amid COVID-19 lockdown, the English and Foreign Languages University (EFLU) has successfully conducted the end-semester exams of its various undergraduate, postgraduate, teacher education courses, and Ph.D studies. The university is also probably the first in the country to have online viva-voce examinations of Ph.D scholars beginning as early as March 19, just a few days before the lockdown was announced. Fifteen viva-voce exams have been conducted so far with more already scheduled, said Vice-Chancellor E. Suresh Kumar. Unlike many other varsities that simply had to shut down operations after the lockdown announcement, EFLU engaged itself in strengthening the hands of the government creating radio jingles on spreading awareness on the pandemic. “Our staff and students responded positively to the ideas even during lockdown and made a difference,” he said. Using its strengths as a premium foreign languages learning destination in the world, EFLU launched COVID-19 awareness campaigns through short films in different Indian and foreign languages. In fact, Union HRD Minister Ramesh Pohkriyal appreciated the idea and himself released the films. Prof. Suresh Kumar said the films on the themes ‘Washing Hands’ and ‘Maintaining Social Distance’ were brought out in Hindi, English, Telugu, Arabic, Chinese, French, German, Japanese, Korean, and Spanish. “They were shared with the countries of the respective foreign languages,” Prof. Suresh Kumar added. As the restrictions ease and students gear up to get back into academic mode, the V-C says he has plans to offer specially designed open educational resources in various languages for learners devoted to acquiring foreign languages. These open resources will be in English, Sanskrit, Hindi, Russian, German, French, Arabic, Spanish, Italian, Japanese, Korean, Chinese, and Persian. To reach out to the English-handicapped in the country, the varsity has also developed a free mobile app ‘EnglishPro’, which will be released soon. The V-C says the app will be of immense use to the rural students and help them in improving their English pronunciation in a ‘Bharatiya’ way. “I understand how rural students lose out without English learning skills as I have faced it as a kid,” he says.
08 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Revanth Reddy an attention seeker, allege TRS MLAs, MLCs||Rejecting the allegations against Municipal Administration Minister K.T. Rama Rao, several TRS MLAs and MLCs at a press conference here charged that Malkajgiri MP A. Revanth Reddy was an habitual blackmailer trying to divert attention on his misdeeds while levelling baseless allegations against Mr. Rao. They further showed some pictures of buildings under constructions in Vattinagulapally area alleging that they belonged to Mr. Revanth Reddy and his relatives, and were being built in violation of the GO 111 that bans construction in the catchment area of Himayathsagar and Osmansagar lakes. “Mr. Revanth Reddy needs to respond to our allegations if he is sincere,” Balka Suman, TRS MLA, said here while addressing the media along with Armoor MLA, A. Jeevan Reddy, Huzurnagar MLA Saidi Reddy, MLC Karne Prabhakar and former MLC Bhanu Prasad Rao. Mr. Suman also threatened to expose Mr. Reddy’s “illegal” real estate dealings and that he should respond specifically on the present charges. He said the Minister had already declared all his properties in the election affidavit but Mr. Revanth Reddy is dragging Mr. Rao into unnecessary issues just to get attention. He said the lands mentioned by Mr. Revanth Reddy do not belong to the Minister, and he has already clarified it, he said. Mr. Prabhakar said the Congress leader is unfit to be in politics given his “cheap” stunts to create sensation. It was unfortunate that he is the working president of a national party, he said, adding that he is shocked to see all senior congress leaders supporting him sharing the same dais. He reminded that senior leader V. Hanmantha Rao himself admitted that several Congress leaders own farmhouses in lands under GO 111. Mr. Saidireddy said Congress was jealous of Mr. KTR’s growth as a national level leader and his rising popularity here. He disapproved the allegations saying they are made by a frustrated man.  Revanth trying to divert attention from his misdeeds by levelling baseless allegations against KTR. Balka Suman, TRS MLA.
08 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Cafes redraw rules to reopen||The breezy rush into an Irani café to sit down and order a chai and Osmania biscuits is set to change as café owners test the Standard Operating Procedures being laid out by the Centre. The jingle of coins, the clang of cutlery, the shouts of bearers and the noisy hubbub at the cafes is set to become history. Near Charminar, the new protocol can be seen at the Nimrah Café where squares are marked out on the pavement to ensure physical distancing. There is a hand sanitiser and an employee checks the temperature of the customers with a thermal scanner. “We have started using disposable cups and have stopped using our ceramic cups. Only a few people are allowed inside at a time. The new SOP do not affect us very much as most of our customers like to drink tea and go,” says Saleem, owner of the café. For many visitors, a visit to Charminar was incomplete without a photograph of the cup, saucer and the brownish liquid at the café. With paper cups, that will no longer be possible. The price has also gone up from Rs. 14 to Rs. 15 to compensate for the cost of the disposable cups. But the real challenge for implementing the SOPs will be at the restaurants that serve biryani. “We have a 500-seater restaurant at Gachibowli but we are going to open only one floor and begin with 50 people. We are going to use disposable plates but if the customer wants a regular plate we will serve it in that,” says Mohammad Rabbani of Shah Ghouse Café. Restaurants that serve biryani see diners waiting to tuck in at all times of the day. But will the diners step into the restaurants? “Hau (yes), most definitely! I miss eating biryani at a restaurant. One of the aspects of the Hyderabadi biryani experience is to have it hot, freshly drawn from the bagona , with the remnant dum still escaping the meat pieces… It is that experience I am craving for. Parcel biryani is almost always bad when compared to dining in,” says Moses Tulasi, a film-maker from the city. “Safety is an issue. I will go once and then decide whether to continue going or not,” says Mr. Tulasi. As the restaurants are free to open on Sunday after nearly 70 days, it remains to be seen whether Hyderabad gets back to its old Irani chai, biryani, Osmania biscuits experience or people play safe.
08 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Pass students based on internal marks: BJP||The BJP has urged the government to consider suggestion of the High Court to promote Class X students on the basis of their internal marks without conducting the exams, considering it is busy in containing spread of coronavirus. MLC and Greater Hyderabad City president N Ramachander Rao said as there is spurt in COVID-19 cases in the State, and this is causing much consternation among Class X students and their parents. The State government should follow the example of the Punjab government in promoting all its Class X students without conducting any exams, he said. While welcoming the decision of the government to defer Class X examinations, Mr. Rao said students can not take so much stress and they are not mentally prepared to write the exams in the present situation of coronavirus. Therefore the prospect of taking the internal marks into consideration should be seriously examined, he said. The MLC also demanded the government to bear transport charges of lecturers attending Intermediate paper valuation works from various places, particularly from Vikarabad, Chevella and Hayathnagar. The Education Department has issued two orders on June 5 and 6 directing deduction of transport allowances of those using RTC buses to reach the valuation centres. These lectures were not being supplied masks and sanitisers as promised by the government, he claimed. The BJP leader wanted the government to follow the standard procedure in appointment of Public Prosecutors (PPs). At present, PPs posts are being filled by conducting exams on a cadre basis and another one is selection of practising lawyers of the Bar Council called as “Tenure PPs” by a panel for a period of three years. It is not fair to ignore the ‘Tenure PPs’ for the 287 vacant posts since they bring much needed experience to the judicial system.
08 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Engineers oppose changes in power Bill||Members of the Telangana Electricity Engineers Association (TEEA) have requested the Centre to drop amendments proposed to the Electricity Act, 2003 stating that they are detrimental to the interests not only of the majority sections in the society such as poor, downtrodden, middle class and farmers but also the power distribution companies (Discoms) in States. In a detailed and point-wise opposition to the proposed amendments, president of the electricity engineers association N. Sivaji said the comments of the association like theirs were important since they were among the key stakeholders of the public sector energy sector and had the experience of ill-effects of privatisation of the sector. Their apprehensions include the reach of electricity to the last person in the society with high subsidy to some sections and the intention of the Centre behind the amendments appears to be safeguarding the interests of private power producers by dumping the State sector. Stating that privatisation of energy sector was not in the interests of end consumers and employees, he said it was not a great option in a country such as India where price is an important factor in determining the demand. Once privatised, exploitation of the consumer would be easy in the energy sector and the reaction of private sector during the natural calamities was, based on experience in some cities, knee-jerk and laid back against the public sector’s attitude of reacting swiftly during the crisis situations. He pointed out that experience with privatisation of distribution has so far been very bad with the franchisee/private distribution in Gaya, Samastipur, Bhagalpur, Gwalior, Sagar, Ujjain, Nagpur, Aurangabad, Jalgaon, Ranchi, Jamshedpur and a few other places has been a failure. Besides, most of the policy makers were also aware of the failure of private distribution in Odisha during the late 1990s.
08 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Now, PPE for doctors in OP too||With a surge in COVID-19 cases among healthcare professionals, the demand for Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) as well as N95 masks for doctors, nurses and supporting staff is growing shriller. Senior officials from the Health department said that instructions were issued to provide PPEs to doctors attending patients in casualty ward and Intensive Care Unit. “PPE will also be issued to doctors who attend patients in out-patient departments such as General Medicine, Pulmonology, Cardiology and Fever clinics. Besides, if a doctor suspects that a patient has coronavirus, he or she can ask for PPE,” a senior official said.
08 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Govt. releases SOPs for visitors’ safety||The State government has issued standard operating procedures (SOPs) on Sunday within the purview of guidelines issued by the Ministry of Home Affairs. The places to be reopened from Monday, however, continue to remain in shutdown in the containment zones. The general SOPs for reopening of these places, where people are expected to gather in good numbers, include provision of hand wash/sanitiser and thermal scanning at entrance, allowing entry to only asymptomatic persons, planning staggering of devotees/visitors/customers, if possible, making face-mask wearing mandatory for visitors as well as staff, and preventing large congregation/gathering. Further, frequent cleaning, sanitation and disinfection of premises including floors with focus on lavatories and regular disinfection of frequently touched surfaces such as door knobs, elevator buttons, hand rails, benches, washroom fixtures using 1% sodium hypochlorite are among general SOPs.
08 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Minister inaugurates special NAC website||National Academy of Construction should play a key role in providing employment and livelihood opportunities for youth in Telangana State by providing skill development training in various vocations to the unemployed youth and workers, said R&B Minister and NAC Vice Chairman Vemula Prashanth Reddy. He inaugurated the special website created by the NAC to help provide employment opportunities to migrant construction workers of Telangana at the R&B Office here on Saturday. Mr.Prashant Reddy said that in line with the vision of Chief Minister, the NAC should take lead in providing job opportunities to unemployed youth by coordinating with the construction companies. There is huge requirement of human resources in the State, he said. He said that in the wake of Coronavirus crisis, Telangana migrant construction workers- skilled and unskilled working in Gulf countries, Mumbai, Surat and other States were returning to the State. To help such migrant workers, the government through NAC would collect the data of such workers and help them find work in the construction sector by formulating required plans. The website https://tsnac.cgg.gov.in is designed by the Centre for Good Governance.
08 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||CM convenes meetings||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has convened separate meetings on Monday with Ministers and senior officials to discuss the conduct of SSC exams and steps taken to check the spread of coronavirus. At the meeting on virus after discussing SSC exams, a release said, Mr. Rao will focus on measures taken for containment of COVID and implementation of lockdown.
08 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Panel discussion held on safety management||Indian Institute of Chemical Engineers – Hyderabad Regional Centre ( IIChE – HRC) organised a panel discussion on ‘Best Practices of Safety Management in Chemical Industry’ through digital platform. G.D. Yadav, Emeritus Professor of Eminence and Former Vice-Chancellor, Institute of Chemical Technology, Mumbai and and V.V. Basava Rao, president, IIChE were the guests. Seasoned professionals from the chemical sector shared their experiences and perspectives on LG Polymer styrene gas leakage incident. Sanjay Bhardwaj, chairman, IIChE-HRC welcomed while Mukunda Vani, head, Chemical Engineering Department, Anurag University introduced the speakers. Speakers included D.M. Butala, P. Vijayaraghvan, Sushil Kumar, D.P. Misra, Sheela, R. Venugopal, V.V. Mahesh Kumar and Madan Gavane.
08 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Plantation at Chilkur||Pure Earth Foundation, a voluntary body, has taken up plantation at Chilkur in Moinabad mandal in the presence of MRO Anitha and other dignitaries. All the saplings have been geo-tagged into the GIS data for effective monitoring. PEF president M.V. Krishna Rao (IPS), vice-president S. Jayachandra and others participated, a press release said.
08 June 2020||KARIMNAGAR,TELANGANA||Devotees allowed only laghu darshan, no special rituals||All the historic and ancient temple shrines are being spruced up for reopening from Monday onwards. The temples were closed following the announcement of lockdown by the government on March 22. With the government allowing places of worship to reopen , the temple shrines are being readied for the reopening. Authorities have taken up sanitisation works such as spraying of hypochlorite, arranging hand sanitisers at the entrance and 6-foot physical distancing boxes in the queue lines. The devasthanam authorities have taken up the cleaning of temples such as Sri Raja Rajeshwara Swamy Devasthanam in Vemulawada, Sri Laxminarasimha Swamy Devasthanam in Dharmapuri, Sri Kaleshwara Muktheeshwara Swamy Devasthanam in Kaleshwaram, Sri Anjaneya Swamy Devasthanam in Kondagattu, Sri Koteshwara Siddeshwara Swamy Devasthanam in Koti Lingala and other temple shrines. As part of the new norms, all priests and pilgrims should compulsorily wear face masks and enter the premises by sanitising their hands and washing legs. The devotees would be allowed only for ‘laghu’ darshan and there would not be any special prayers, archanas, abhishekams etc. The devotees would not be allowed to take dip in the holy tanks (dharmagundam) at the temple shrines. The devotees are not allowed to offer their hair at ‘kalyanakatta” (tonsuring) at any temple shrine. At the Vemulawada temple shrine, there is no traditional offering of tying an ox (kode mokku) ritual.
08 June 2020||KARIMNAGAR,TELANGANA||Thermal screening at police stations||In order to check the spread of COVID-19 cases at an early stage, the Karimnagar Commissionerate of Police have decided to screen all the police personnel on duty and the general public visiting the police stations on various works by using infrared thermometers and the pulse oximeters. Accordingly, all the police stations were supplied with the thermal guns and pulse oximeters to conduct the screening of police personnel every day and register the details.
08 June 2020||NIZAMABAD,TELANGANA||No distribution of prasadams at temples||With the government giving permission for prayers at places of worship of all religions after 78 days of the lockdown imposed to combat COVID-19 the authorities have taken all measures to allow people into temples, mosques, gurudwaras and churches from Monday. Sanitisers and washing facilities would be kept available for visiting devotees at temples and temple committees and authorities would monitor for strict adherence to physical distancing. For which, standing places in the lines were earmarked clearly so as to avoid crowding. It has been made very clear that there would be no distribution of ‘prasadams’. Meanwhile, the officials are exploring the possibilities of introducing online services at certain important temples such as Neelakanteswar and Saibaba in Nizamabad, Anjaneyaswami at Salabathpur on Maharashtra border, Laxminarsimha Swami temples at Chukkapur and Bheemgal. According to Endowment officials, arrangements have been made to enable devotees to maintain six-foot distance. Soaps and sanitisers have been kept for washing before entering worshipping places and after leaving them. Without face masks devotees would not be allowed and those below 10 years and above 65 years of age would strictly be barred.
08 June 2020||NIZAMABAD,TELANGANA||Spices Board project to improve turmeric in TS||Member of Parliament Arvind Dharmapuri said that the turmeric task force committee (TTFC) with its sub-committees recently studied the issues in-depth right from planting of crop to its export promotion and made recommendations to the National Spices Board. The board in turn already submitted the proceedings of the taskforce with its recommendations to the Ministry of Commerce, with a project cost of Rs. 15 crore for implementation in Telangana. The project is for a period of three years and components being production of quality planting material, distribution of IPM kits, organic certification, distribution of silpaulin sheet, assistance for purchase of turmeric boilers and polishers, pack houses, assistance for FPOs and capacity building (training programmes). He said that the taskforce after a thorough discussion with various government agencies, farmers and traders’ association recommended ‘Pitambar’, ‘Prabha’, ‘Rajendra Sonia’ and ‘Roma’ varieties for the planting. It is learnt that the Ministry of Agriculture has already instructed the State Horticulture Department to develop seed nurseries of these promising varieties to cater the need of the farmers of Telangana. The nurseries would be certified by the Union Agriculture and Horticulture ministries. In the meantime Deputy Director, Nizamabad and DD, Warangal would coordinate with the concerned departments to issue a notification to inform farmers. As the stakeholders have been raising the issue of proper packing system for turmeric at various levels the Board will take up the issue with Indian Institute of Packaging, Mumbai (IIP) to address the issue, Mr. Arvind said. Traders and exporters have reported that the turmeric brought by farmers to market yard have a moisture of 15 or more resulting in deterioration of quality and leading to low price. To address the problem the Board decided to initiate action to supply moisture meters in to the AMC yard. He said that it was also decided to explore the possibility of constructing a community drying yard in the market yard.
08 June 2020||NIZAMABAD,TELANGANA||2BHK houses inaugurated||Assembly Speaker Pocharam Srinivas Reddy said that a total of 5,000 double bedroom houses are being built at a cost of Rs. 500 crore in 106 villages and that they are in different stages of completion in his Banswada constituency. “A majority of them reached final stage and would be complete in the next few months. My twin dreams of providing plenty of water to farmers and pacca houses to the homeless is becoming a reality. With the support and cooperation of the Chief Minister, I will get another 10,000 houses sanctioned,” he said. Addressing a gathering of beneficiaries and others after inaugurating 30 houses built with a cost of Rs. 1.51 crores at Hangarga village in Kotagiri mandal on Sunday, he warned that if anyone takes money from poor families by making promises of sanctioning houses - they would be sent to jail. Mr. Srinivas Reddy said that Nizam Sagar Project has gone bone-dry and there is no guarantee of Manjeera water. Therefore, it was planned to bring Godavari water into NSP under the Kaleshwaram project to irrigate over 2 lakh acres under the ayacut, he said. ZP Chairman D. Vithal Rao and DCCB Chairman P. Bhaskar Reddy were among those present.
08 June 2020||RAJANNA-SIRCILLA,TELANGANA||Model rythu bazaar with ethnic look in Sircilla||The Sircilla textile town, which is growing in leaps and bounds after being declaring district headquarters of the newly formed Rajanna-Sircilla district in the year 2016, is all set to get a model Rythu bazaar with all facilities and ethnic look on the picturesque shores of Manair river on the outskirts of the town. Minister for IT and Municipal Administration K. Taraka Rama Rao, who also represents Sircilla Assembly segment, is taking all initiatives for the beautification of the textile town with the widening of roads, development of new parks and plantation of saplings, besides giving ethnic look to the main roads with the paintings of Telangana culture and heritage. Accordingly, in order to benefit farmers and the customers, the Minister proposed a state-of-the-art modern Rythu bazaar on sprawling 2.14 acres at a cost of Rs. 5.15 crore. The existing vegetable market had become very congested at Gandhi Chowk and is causing inconvenience to the vendors and the customers due to non-availability of parking places. A total of 68 stalls were constructed in ethnic style depicting Telangana rural arts. Special stalls have been constructed in the center of the bazaar to sell fruits and flowers separate. At a corner, there is a stall to sell non-vegetarian items. Drinking water There are plans to provide a mineral water plant to provide adequate drinking water facilities to farmers and customers. Separate toilets have also been constructed at a corner and garbage bins to segregate the wet and dry garbage. Adequate parking lots have also been provided for the benefit of customers. The entrance of the model rythu bazaar is greeted by the statues of a vegetable vending farmer family and in the center of the bazaar, a statue depicting a woman selling vegetables has been installed. As the model rythu bazaar is ready for inauguration, the officials urged farmers to secure identity cards from the Horticulture Department to sell theirs produce at the bazaar. Farmers were told to approach the authorities along with pattadar passbook, Aadhaar card and passport-size photo for the issuance of the ID card. The officials said that Mr. Rao would finalise the date for inauguration of the model rythu bazaar, which is reported to be only one in the undivided Karimnagar district.
08 June 2020||RAJANNA-SIRCILLA,TELANGANA||New EO at Vemulawada||M Ramakrishna Rao, Endowments Deputy Commissioner, has assumed charge as the new executive officer of Sri Raja Rajeshwara Swamy Devasthanam in Vemulawada on Sunday evening. Talking to newsmen after holding a meeting with the temple and police officials, he said that top priority would be accorded for the smooth darshan and adequate measures taken to check the spread of coronavirus by screening devotees and ensuring that they wear masks and use sanitisers.
08 June 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Call to use reusable steel vessels||Finance Minister T. Harish Rao called upon general public to opt for reusable stainless steel utensils instead of disposable plastic materials during functions and other programmes. Inaugurating steel bank at 4th, 9th and 13th wards on Sunday, Mr. Harish Rao said that a ‘steel bank’ would be set up in all the wards and urged the people to come forward to use them. “These steel banks are being established with the help of Balavikasa and municipal corporation. This will reduce the use of plastic and arrest the spread of cancer. As many as 12 varieties of steel vessels will be available here for hire at the bank at very low rate,” said Mr. Harish Rao. He made the people to take a pledge to utilise reusable stainless steel material for any functions. Godavari water Mr. Harish Rao said that Godavari water would reach the outskirts of Narsapur within two weeks. He has also promised to allot double bedroom houses to the locals once the coronavirus pandemic had subsided. Municipal chairman K. Rajanarsu, Commissioner Srinivas Reddy and others were present.
08 June 2020||Special Correspondent,TELANGANA||Centre provided 2 lakh N-95 masks, 1 lakh PPEs: Kishan||Union Minister of State for Home G. Kishan Reddy on Sunday said that the Centre had provided two lakh N-95 masks and over one lakh Personal Protection Kits (PPEs) to Telangana to combat COVID-19 and cautioned the public to continue to exercise the spirit of lockdown and pay full attention to their health in view of the rising cases daily. Participating in the launch of the indigenous, cost effective, wireless physiological parameter or ‘COVID BEEP’ - Continuous Oxygenation and Vital Information Device Biomed, designed by ESIC Medical College in association with the ECIL for monitoring the coronavirus patients, he said several steps in coordination with the State government have been taken to deal with this situation. About 964 Covid special hospitals and 759 labs are working across the country, he said. Prime Minister Narendra Modi took ‘quick’ decisions to tackle this pandemic head on like timely implementation of nationwide lockdown even before the virus showed its prevalence and had saved countless lives. The government announced Rs. 1.7 lakh crore relief package under the ‘PM Garib Kalyan Yojana’ and also brought the PPEs and face masks under the Essential Commodities Act to prevent black marketing. The country has reached a capacity of manufacturing over 4.5 lakh PPEs a day, he said. ‘COVID BEEP’ can check parameters of patients like body temperature, blood oxygen saturation, heart rate, respiratory rate, electrocardiogram (ECG) and blood pressure along with patient location on a mobile phone, laptop/desktop computer for monitoring by doctor from any place for rendering timely treatment, he noted and appreciated the ESIC College for the initiative. “We are fully geared up to ramp up medical infrastructure. We cannot afford to put the lives of our doctors and medical practitioners at risk and devices like these and the new ‘Bio-Sensor lab’ will be a common platform for doctors and scientists to work together in mixing cutting-edge technology and medicine,” he said. A novel procedure called LAMP (Loop Amplification Test) to diagnose COVID-19 in a simple time saving method designed by Tata Institute of Fundamental Research (TIFR) was also inaugurated on the occasion. Earlier Union Minister of Atomic Energy Jitendra Singh inaugurated the ‘COVID-BEEP’, ECIL Chairman & Managing Director Sanjay Chaubey, ESIC Medical College Dean M. Srinivas and others participated in the meeting.
08 June 2020||WARANGAL URBAN DT.,TELANGANA||Teen with COVID symptoms dies||A 19-year-old girl with symptoms of COVID-19 died after being admitted to the Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) ward at Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Hospital (MGMH) here on Sunday. The doctors had collected the samples of the girl who resided at FCI Colony in Gopalpuram here and sent them for testing at the virology lab at Kakatiya Medical College (KMC). The test turned up negative. According to the hospital Superintendent B. Srinivas Rao, the girl had symptoms of cough and fever and was shifted to the SARI ward for treatment. The doctors collected her swab samples for COVID-19 testing, but after two hours, her health condition deteriorated, eventually resulting in death. “We alerted the District Medical and Health Officer (DMHO) about a suspected coronavirus-related death,” he said. Warangal Urban DMHO K. Lalitha Devi said the girl had a history of kidney ailments, and that the testing proved her death was not due to COVID-19.
08 June 2020||YADAGIRIGUTTA,TELANGANA||Darshan resumes at Yadadri||The premises of Yadadri Sri Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy temple leading to Balalayam was filled with painted white boxes at three-metre distance each, to ensure physical-distancing of devotees, as darshans are all set to resume Monday onwards. While the first day darshans on trial basis would be limited to the temple employees and locals, who are supposed to submit their Aadhaar photocopies, regular darshans will start on Tuesday. The Balalayam would be open between 5 a.m. and 8 p.m. for everyone with an Arjita Seva ticket purchased online or over the counter. And every day special devotees would be allowed between 10 a.m. and 11 a.m. Temple executive officer N. Geeta said private cars will not be allowed, instead, as per COVID-19 regulations, TSRTC shuttle buses will be operated. A limited number of two-wheelers and auto-rickshaws, as per rules, can reach the hilltop without any restriction.
08 June 2020||June 08 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||‘Households, close contacts are at highest risk’||COVID-19 cases continue to rise across the country yet a positive sign is that the number of persons getting infected through a positive patient is coming down, says Indian Institute of Public Health (IIPH)-Hyderabad Director G.V.S. Murthy. Excerpts from an interview: Where are we with regard to COVID-19 virus spread?  It continues to spread three months since it first entered the country with the number of cases increasing from 4.7 per million population on March 25 to 146 per million population on June 2; deaths increased from 0.08 per million to 4 per million so there is a steep increase in both cases and deaths, even if significantly lower than Western Europe and the US. Trajectory of transmission is not uniform because exposure to the virus has occurred at different time periods. Available data shows the number of people further infected when exposed to an infected COVID-19 patient is 1-1.3, which means one infected person is infecting an additional person. This has come down from as high as 3-plus persons in some States. This is a positive sign for the country as a whole. Household and close contacts are at highest risk as seen in clustering of cases in a few households/ localities rather than people outside the close contacts circle. Why aren't we seeing the peak or plateau as it has happened in other nations within eight weeks?  The first wave of outbreaks occurred due to persons infected outside the country and returning from China — late January to early February. The second wave was due to exposure of locals to infected foreigners during the same period. The third wave occurred when infected persons knowingly or unknowingly travelled to different parts infecting their close contacts (March-April). The fourth wave occurred when stranded Indians in countries with high infection rates were repatriated (late March- mid April) and the fifth wave was when those infected locally migrated to their home States in large numbers (April-May). Delhi, Kerala, Gujarat, Telangana and Uttar Pradesh were exposed to the first or second wave; Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Punjab and Delhi in third wave; Tamil Nadu and West Bengal were impacted in fourth wave while in the fifth wave, UP, Bihar and Odisha are more affected. Since incubation period is 2-10 days, there will be different trajectories in different States based on when and how many were exposed to the infected. However, other countries, too, had additional waves of infection even after the eight-week period. Are there any popular myths to be busted in our experience so far?  Hot water shower preventing coronavirus is a myth. So is standing in the sun. High outdoor temperatures and high humidity affect the longevity of the coronavirus on outside surfaces as it cannot remain viable in such conditions. But transmission through surface contact is only attributable to less than 5% of infections. More than 80% of infections are transmitted inside the household or closed spaces when they are in close contact for more than 15-20 minutes. None of the so-called ‘immune system boosters’ are proven. A regular balanced diet is the best immune-booster, coupled with low stress and anxiety. Touching ATM pin pads for a fleeting minute or drawing cash does not transmit virus. Currency notes or coins are known to grow organisms resulting in diarrhoea or respiratory infections in laboratory conditions, but the amount of organisms is so small it cannot cause infections in the real world. More worrying are practices like wetting your fingers to count notes or turn pages of a book as you put fingers directly in mouth. Is wearing masks and personal hygiene sufficient to protect against the virus? Masks and personal hygiene are important to reduce the risk of transmission but are not standalone measures to guarantee 100% protection. In fact, masks are more effective in preventing community spread of infection rather than protect an individual. Handwashing shows marginal beneficial effects but is more effective when combined with use of masks. There is no data specifically on COVID-19 at present but since the route of transmission is similar, what works for other respiratory infections should work here too. Physical distancing, masks and personal hygiene would result in significant protective effects.   Handwashing shows marginal beneficial effects but is more effective when combined with use of masks.
08 June 2020||June 08 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Strict rules for inter-caste marriage incentives||The recent decision of the State government to enhance the incentive for inter-caste marriages from Rs. 50,000 to Rs. 2.5 lakh has come as a windfall gain for the newly married couples. The enhancement was perceived to be beneficial to couples who were disowned by their parents for defying their word against entering into marriage. Though many couples were readmitted to the family fold after initially turning them away, a majority of them were still having to fend for themselves which was a big drain on their limited financial resources till they stabilised. However, it is not an easy take away of Rs. 2.5 lakh for the newly weds as the money comes with strict rules. The couple must have a joint bank account and, more importantly, get a `first marriage certificate’ from gazetted officers. Of course, the caste certificates of brides and grooms, certificates of age and educational qualification and marriage certificates from authorised officers follow.     As it is transactions at banks have become stricter as the staff are observing utmost care to keep themselves safe from customers and handling currency notes due to coronavirus. Imagine the staff contracting the virus in these circumstances. That is precisely what happened at a bank branch in Moosabowli near Charminar. After a member of the staff tested positive, the health authorities ordered the entire personnel right from the manager to go on home quarantine till June 14. As a result, the bank has been closed till that date. It is now a situation of distrust between the bank staff and customers. The fears of staff from customers have now been reversed in the circumstances. The customers are nervous over visiting the bank.  N. Rahul
08 June 2020||GURUGRAM,||Gurugram nodal officer holds meeting||Gurugram Metropolitan City Bus Limited chief executive officer Sonal Goel, also nodal officer for healthcare management facilities in the district, on Sunday held a virtual meeting with the management of various private hospitals on providing data over bed availability, fee charged and setting up of separate counters for COVID-19 patients. Ms. Goel, in separate meetings with around 30 hospitals, stressed that data with regard to the number of beds and patients as per the proforma required updation twice in a day and would be real-time. In case the portal was not updated, the responsibility should be fixed. The participants were informed about the directives of the district government of not refusing treatment to COVID-19 patients. It was also suggested that any specific assistance that hospitals required from administration may also be asked for.
08 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Malls and restaurants to reopen today with social distancing rules||Following the orders of the Centre, malls, restaurants, and places of worship will be reopened from June 8, said Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday. However, hotels and banquet halls will remain shut. He said there might be a need to take over hotels and banquets to transform them into COVID-19 care facilities. “The Centre has issued specific guidelines regarding the opening of these places, which include maintaining social distancing, wearing masks, and others. All these guidelines prepared by the experts of the Centre would be followed in Delhi and we will release the detailed order soon,” Mr. Kejriwal said in a digital press statement. “Relaxations do not mean that COVID-19 has ended. Wearing a mask is for your own safety. I am still getting reports that people are going out without masks,” he added. For senior citizens While announcing the unlock measures, Mr. Keriwal advised senior citizens and those who suffer from other health issues to be extra cautious and reduce interaction even with family members as much as possible. “My appeal to the senior citizens of Delhi is, do not think that the lockdown is over because you are the most vulnerable section right now. If there are young people in your house who are going outside for work then avoid any interaction with them and maintain social distancing,” Mr. Kejriwal said. He added that senior citizens and people with co-morbidity are two sections that are more vulnerable to COVID- 19.
08 June 2020||New Delhi,||Congress warns against opening up of Delhi places||The time is not right to open up shopping malls, restaurants and religious places in the Capital as COVID-19 has reached the community transmission stage with 25% positive cases, the Congress said on Sunday. Questions preparedness Addressing an online press conference, senior Congress leader Ajay Maken questioned Delhi’s preparedness to handle a spike in cases and blamed both the Arvind Kejriwal government as well the Centre for mishandling the health crisis. Mr. Maken cited an expert committee report to argue that by July, the city could see 1.9 lakh COVID-19 cases and may require as many as 10,500 ventilators. The Congress leader also said parents should not send their children from July and vehemently opposed Delhi Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia’s comment that schools could open in July. “It is premature for the Delhi government to open restaurants, malls from June 8 till the health infrastructure improved,” Mr. Maken said. “The way they are opening up gradually, we are going to definitely see a time when a large number of people will be tested COVID-19 positive and we will have nowhere to go — no hospitals and no quarantine centres to go to,” he added. The former Delhi Congress chief said it was ‘shameful’ that the government health infrastructure in Delhi was so bad. “This is because Delhi hospitals are in bad shape,” he said, and asked the Kejriwal government to explain why it was refusing admission to COVID-19 patients when 72% of its beds were empty according to its own website. Of the 38 government hospitals in Delhi, 33 were not treating COVID-19 patients and were refusing them admission, the Congress leader alleged The Delhi Congress leader also slammed the Delhi government for taking penal action against eight testing laboratories for ‘overtesting’.  The way they are opening up gradually, we are going to definitely see a time when a large number of people will be tested COVID-19 positive Ajay Maken Congress leader
08 June 2020||New Delhi,||Hospitals to admit only bona fide Delhi residents||Only “bona fide residents of the NCT of Delhi” will be allowed admission to the Capital’s government-administered and private hospitals beginning on Monday, read an order issued by the Health Department on Sunday. The order has been approved by Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal. Documents needed The residents of Delhi will be defined by voter IDs, bank passbooks, ration cards, drivers’ licenses, phone and electricity bills in addition to Aadhaar cards issued before June 7 among other documents bearing a residential address from the city. Income tax returns, postal packages bearing residential address will also do. Not applicable to these The move that is meant to address the “additional demand” on the city’s health infrastructure by “patients from other parts of the country” will not apply to those seeking treatment to life-threatening conditions, medico-legal cases or patients of Centre-run hospitals located here. “Treatment relating to oncology, transplantation, neuro-surgery shall continue for all patients irrespective of the place of residence,” the order stated. Similarly, medico-legal victims of incidents such as road accidents and acid attacks, among others, taking place in the territorial jurisdiction of Delhi will also be eligible for admission at city hospitals.  Treatment relating to oncology, transplantation, neuro-surgery shall continue for all patients irrespective of the place of residence Order by Health Dept. read
08 June 2020||New Delhi,||DMA condemns CM’s comment on hospitals over admission of patients||The Delhi Medical Association (DMA) on Sunday condemned Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal’s comments on “threatening” hospitals over the admission of COVID-19 patients. “Doctors who are serving the people of Delhi tirelessly from the last two months in this pandemic crisis risking their lives feel insulted by the way they are being treated,” the DMA said. Hitting out at the FIR filed against Sir Ganga Ram hospital, the association said it was demoralising for the entire medical fraternity. The hospital and its doctors “who have saved lakhs of lives in the last decades are being penalised and threatened” it said. Condemning the ‘intimidation’ of healthcare workers, the DMA argued that the government was unnecessarily putting pressure on healthcare systems. Asserting that the “suffering and hard work” of doctors who had to serve during the pandemic could only be understood by people who saw ground realities, the DMA made a series of demands. It demanded that all hospitals giving COIVD-19 care have dedicated testing facilities, it said among other demands.  Doctors who are serving the people of Delhi tirelessly... feel insulted by the way they are being treated Delhi Medical Association
08 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Congress accuses CM of not segregating hospitals||Delhi Congress on Sunday accused Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal of creating confusion by not segregating COVID-19 and non-COVID-19 hospitals.  ‘Hubs of virus’ Delhi Congress chief Ch. Anil Kumar said non-COVID-19 patients are now afraid of going to hospitals for regular checkups, which are becoming hubs of the virus. “Despite the directions by the Union Health Ministry, the government has kept both virus cases and non-virus cases under one roof. It needs to create district-wise segregation of COVID-19 hospitals. COVID-19 cases in Delhi have risen to 1,329 per 10 lakh, which is the highest in the country. But instead of increasing testing facilities, the government is penalising labs for conducting more tests,” Mr. Kumar alleged. He said Mr. Kejriwal was complying with only those directions of the Centre, which suits him. The five-member panel appointed by the government in its report said Delhi would need at least 15,000 COVID beds by June end but at present, the Capital has only a little over 8,000 reserved for COVID-19 patients, the party said. It alleged that the government was taking unilateral decisions without consulting doctors, nurses, paramedical staff, police, sanitation workers and others, who could have given them proper feedback on the ground reality. ‘CM failed on all fronts’ “Mr. Kejriwal failed on all fronts, including testing, tracing, treatment...,” Mr. Kumar added.
08 June 2020||New Delhi,||HC seeks action-taken report against contractors||Taking cue from the recent migrant crisis during the COVID-19 pandemic, the Delhi High Court has ordered the Central and Delhi government to submit a report showing the details of actions taken against ‘contractors’ and ‘employers’ for violation of service conditions of the migrant workers. Justice Prathiba M. Singh gave the direction while hearing Shashank S. Mangal’s petition seeking proper implementation of the Inter-State Migrant Workmen (Regulation of Employment and Conditions of Service) (ISMW) Act, 1979 in the Capital. The ISMW Act has various provisions that are essential for the overall well-being of workmen. It also stipulates payment of a ‘Journey allowance’ from the place of residence of the workman to the place of work in another State. The outward and return journeys are the responsibility of the contractor or the employer.
08 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||JNU reports first case of COVID-19||A staff member working as a pharmacist at the JNU health centre has tested positive, the university said on Sunday. In a circular issued by the Dean of Students Sudhir Pratap Singh, the university said that the staff member informed them about his illness on June 6 and that the district surveillance officer of the Delhi government has been informed. “All students, staff members and their wards who happened to visit the heath centre or been in touch with any staff of the JNU health centre may kindly note that if any symptoms of COVID-19 is developed, the person may visit the heath centre of any government hospital when it is required,” the Dean of Students said. The circular made a request to all students and the community on campus to adhere to guidelines issued by the university to contain the spread of the virus. This is the first case at the university which has been closed since the lockdown began. It had asked all students to leave campus and only a few students who had a valid reason were allowed to stay back. JNU, being a closed campus, has not been allowing any students or outsiders to enter during the lockdown.
08 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||City records 1,282 fresh virus cases||The Capital recorded 1,282 new COVID-19 cases on Sunday taking the total number of cases to 28,936. Of these, 17,125 are active cases. A health bulletin from the Delhi government said that no death has been reported in the last 24 hours but the death toll has been revised to 812. The bulletin added that 335 people recovered taking total recoveries to 10,999. The government said that an order has been issued to all private hospitals identified for the purpose of treating COVID-19 patients to provide their schedule of charges for treatment of COVID-19, to the Directorate General of Health services. It added that all charges must also be displayed at conspicuous places in their hospitals. The bulletin added that an order has been issued to all hospitals operating in the Capital that no patient who is having COVID-19 symptoms and is in moderate and severe category be denied admission on the pretext that patient is not having COVID-19 positive report.
08 June 2020||New Delhi,||Measures to be scaled down at Nizamuddin||The district administration on Sunday ordered the scaling down of COVID-19 containment measures at Nizamuddin Basti in south-east Delhi. This was ordered after the District Health Authorities recommended the same as no new case had been reported from the area, which was designated a containment zone on March 30, over the last 28 days. At Nizamuddin Basti, the last confirmed case had been reported on May 5 leading to the patient’s death on May 12.
08 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Corona Fee’ on liquor withdrawn||Liquor in the Capital is set to become cheaper as the Delhi Cabinet on Sunday withdrew the Special Corona Fee levied at 70% of the Maximum Retail Price with effect from June 10. The fee has been withdrawn on all categories of liquor sold through retail licenses for consumption “off” the premises, the decision said. However, it increased the rate of VAT from 20% to 25% on all categories on liquor sold in the jurisdiction of NCT Delhi. The 70% “corona fee” on the Maximum Retail Price was imposed on May 5 to earn additional revenue after liquor shops were reopened in the city on May 4. Huge crowds were seen gathered at the vends in the first few days creating chaos as social distancing norms were not being followed but after the initial rush, liquor sales dwindled, said sources.
08 June 2020||New Delhi,||BJP protest at Rajghat against AAP govt.||BJP MLAs staged a sit-in protest at Rajghat against the Delhi government for their alleged failure in dealing with the COVID-19 pandemic, on Sunday. The Delhi government, the BJP alleged, was shirking its responsibility of arranging quarantine facilities for citizens on the one hand.
08 June 2020||Ahmedabad,||In Gujarat, religious places to reopen today||Temples, mosques, churches, and other places of worship outside the COVID-19 containment zones in Gujarat are planning to open their doors for devotees from Monday after over two months, while taking all precautions to check the spread of the infection. To maintain physical distancing and avoid crowding, some of the religious places have decided to organise prayers in shifts and even start a token system to specify time slots to devotees for visits. The famous Somnath temple in Gir Somnath district will open for local devotees from Monday, but visitors from other districts will have to first register themselves online, starting June 12, an official of the temple trust said. Devotees have been asked to mandatorily wear face masks, get sanitised before entering the temple premises, and not bring elderly people (those above 65 years) and children (below 10 years) with them, he said. The temple will only allow priests to conduct the ‘aarti’ with no presence of devotees. The Ambaji temple in Banaskantha district will open from June 12 and allow devotees to visit the place in three shifts every day, starting at 7.30 a.m. and ending at 10.15 p.m., the temple trust said in a statement.It will not allow ‘aarti’ or special prayers, and visitors will be given a token specifying the time for visit, to ensure they enter and leave the temple premises without crowding the place, it said. The district administration and the temple trust have made arrangements for sanitisers and to ensure physical distancing. Mosques and churches are also making arrangements for prayers while ensuring that physical distancing is maintained. The historic Jama Masjid in Ahmedabad will allow Friday prayers in shifts, said Anis Desai, a member of Gujarat Chand Committee, which manages the mosque. “We will ensure physical distancing during prayers and keep sanitisers for devotees. Since people gather in large numbers during the Friday prayers, we are planning to organise prayers in shifts,” Mr. Desai said. The St. Thomas Catholic Church at Gandhidham in Kutch district is also making arrangements to allow people to offer prayers by following the physical distancing norms. Only one or two devotees will be allowed to occupy each of the 80 benches during the Sunday prayer, Father Joychen Paranjattu said. “We will follow all instructions of the government regarding this. We will open from next Sunday. Prayers will be held in shifts with a small number of people in each shift,” he said. On Saturday, Chief Minister Vijay Rupani held a videoconference with religious leaders from different communities and urged them to ensure adherence to lockdown guidelines while opening the places of worship for devotees. Mr. Rupani asked the religious places to make arrangements of token systems for visitors so that they come at the specified time slot to avoid crowding.
08 June 2020||Ahmedabad,||FIR against Rajkot resort for housing Cong. MLAs||A police complaint was filed on Sunday for an alleged violation of lockdown norms against a resort in Gujarat’s Rajkot district where the Congress has lodged some of its MLAs to thwart any ‘poaching’ bid, an official said. Except for five-six MLAs, most the 65 Congress legislators have reached various resorts in Gujarat after the party summoned them to protect them “from poaching” by the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), ahead of the June 19 Rajya Sabha elections for four seats from the State, a Congress leader said. The police registered an FIR against the owner and manager of Neelcity Resort in Rajkot under Section 188 (disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) of the Indian Penal Code for opening the resort for Congress MLAs, in alleged violation of a lockdown notification which does not allow hotels and restaurants to open till Monday. “We have lodged the FIR against the owner and manager of Neelcity Resort where Congress MLAs are staying. They have been booked for flouting the lockdown notification by opening the resort,” University Road police station inspector R.S. Thakar said. What the guidelines say As per Central and State government guidelines, hotels and restaurants can start operations from June 8, while Congress MLAs from Saurashtra region were lodged in the Rajkot resort on Saturday. After the resignations of three Congress MLAs, the party has shifted most of its legislators to three resorts in Rajkot, Ambaji in Banaskantha district and Anand. The Congress’s strength in the 182-member Gujarat Assembly has been reduced to 65 MLAs. Most of these MLAs have reached the resorts in Rajkot, Anand and Ambaji where they will stay until the Rajya Sabha election day, Congress spokesperson Manish Doshi said. “Five to seven MLAs, who have not reached, will do so by today. They might be held up due to personal reasons,” Mr. Doshi said. Leader of Opposition (LoP) in the Assembly Paresh Dhanani and former LoP Arjun Modhwadiya are staying with some other MLAs at the resort in Rajkot. Besides, senior Congress leaders Jagdish Thakor and Siddharth Patel are with the MLAs at Ambaji, and party’s Rajya Sabha poll candidate Bharatsinh Solanki and State unit president Amit Chavda are at Anand, Mr. Doshi said. Jaipur incident The Congress had in March also taken its MLAs to a resort in Jaipur after five party legislators resigned before the March 26 Rajya Sabha polls, which were subsequently postponed due to the lockdown. Over the last few days, Congress’s Akshay Patel, Jitu Chaudhary and Brijesh Merja have resigned as legislators. Earlier, Pravin Maru, Pradyumnasinh Jadeja, Soman Patel, JV Kakidia, and Mangal Gavit resigned in March. With the reduced strength of 65, the Congress may find it difficult to win two Rajya Sabha seats for which it has fielded Mr. Solanki and Shaktisinh Gohil. The Congress leaders have accused the ruling BJP of adopting means like “blackmailing, threatening or using money to poach its MLAs”, a charge refuted by the ruling party. The BJP, having 103 MLAs in the Assembly, has fielded Abhay Bhardwaj, Ramilaben Bara, and Narhari Amin for the election to four seats of the Rajya Sabha on June 19. Besides the BJP and the Congress, the 182-member Assembly also comprises two MLAs of the Bharatiya Tribal Party, one MLA of the NCP, and an Independent legislator, Jignesh Mevani. The effective strength of the House, however, stands at 172 as of now as 10 seats are currently vacant — two due to court cases and the rest because of resignations.
08 June 2020||Bhopal,||Chhattisgarh completes 37% yearly target under MGNREGA in two months||Continuing work during the lockdown, timely wage payments, and willingness of workers were credited for Chhattisgarh achieving 37% of the yearly target within two months under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA), the highest for any State in the period, Panchayat and Rural Development Minister T.S. Singh Deo said on Saturday. The Union Rural Development Ministry had set for the State a target to create 288.14 lakh projected persondays in April and May, under the MGNREGA, of which it has generated 503.37 lakh persondays, 175% more than the target. As a result, it has been able to cover 37% of the financial year’s target of creating 1,350 lakh persondays. “The scheme has helped pump money into the rural economy during the lockdown,” Mr. Deo told The Hindu . “Agricultural activity will be least affected by the COVID-19 pandemic as there is no issue of plants shutting or unavailability of labour. And the MGNREGA component will put money straight in the hands of households.” Mr. Deo pointed out that as urban business centres closed during the lockdown, more number of people returned to villages, needing some kind of work. “So, we were able to be there for them when they needed us.” Second to Maharashtra So far, the State has provided 100 days of employment to 1,996 families, the most only after Maharashtra. As Chhattisgarh has allowed more than one member of a family to work on a job card, Bijapur district as of Saturday had 113% workers employed against active job cards. “Even while the pandemic was picking up, we allowed the work to continue with the rider of physical distancing. And this paid off as other job alternatives were not available,” Mr. Deo said. Until now, employment of 23 days per family on an average had been provided in the State, against a national average of 16 days. The scheme’s biggest drawback, he said, is delayed payments which pushes workers away. “We made sure money reaches them as soon as possible.” As much as 98% funds transfer orders were released with dual signature within eight days of the muster roll closure. In Dantewada, Sukma, Bijapur and Narayanpur, remote districts hit by Maoism, payments are being made in cash. Mr. Deo further said workers took MGNREGA opportunities along with collecting minor forest produce like tendu leaves and mahua during yearly collection drives. Work during monsoon To help workers during the monsoon, when MGNREGA works invariably take a hit, the Chhattisgarh government has planned to create employment opportunities through interdepartmental convergence. “Earthen work opportunities will be lesser in the monsoon. We can give them some skill upgradation opportunities. We are considering if workers can be tagged with say horticulture, vegetable growing, sericulture, poultry and dairy sectors.” During the monsoon, workers either sow their own fields or those of others before seeking work elsewhere. “We are looking at what can be done at home. Their numbers will be far lesser than the employment potential reached today,” Mr. Deo said. As regards absorption of skilled migrant workers who returned to the State within the MGNREGA, the minister said, “Most are still in quarantine. We will get a better picture in a couple of weeks. We are taking down their details, noting down their skills to link them with available opportunities. But there may not be too many opportunities for them in the rural sector.” In order to scale up the scheme and generate incomes for workers, the Chhattisgarh government has requested the Centre to provide another 100 persondays per family at least during the pandemic. “The scheme’s budget has been increased by Rs. 40,000 crore to accommodate a Rs. 20 increase in wage and more persondays if required,” Mr. Deo said.
08 June 2020||Bhopal,||‘Samples declared inappropriate before testing’||A series of copies of communication between the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Medical College, Indore, and its virology laboratory tasked with testing samples for COVID-19 has revealed that authorities directed the testing in-charge to declare clutches of samples “inappropriate”, without testing them or consulting virologists. Declaring samples “inappropriate” warranted their recollection after disposal, a decision taken at the laboratory, explained an official of the State Directorate of Health Services. “You can’t declare them such before beginning the testing process,” she said. ‘No clue on orders’ “In this case, we were asked to deem them inappropriate even before putting them to test. We still have no clue why we got such orders from the top,” said an official, who worked at the laboratory, requesting anonymity. Despite such directions, virologists put most of the samples asked to be declared “inappropriate” to test between April 3 and 20. “Though we found few to be actually inappropriate, we were surprised to find most samples either tested positive or negative, which also suggests they were valid samples. Declaring them inappropriate would mean they never get recorded as tested,” he said. ‘Samples showed results’ For instance, on April 3 of at least three samples asked to be declared “inappropriate”, one had tested positive later. Similarly, in the list containing details of eight samples on April 7, another patient had tested positive. On April 4, as many as 34 samples were requested to be declared “inappropriate”, explained the official. Screengrabs of conversations on WhatsApp, the social media platform virologists and college officials are using to coordinate work, reveal senior officials of the college forwarded a list every day in April at least to virologists to declare samples collected at three government-run facilities managed by the college as “inappropriate”. In one such conversation on April 5 concerning Shatrughan Panjwani, the first medical doctor, a private practitioner, to die of COVID-19 in Indore four days later, an official overseeing the laboratory informs a senior official, after his first sample tested negative: “Sachin* (a virologist) is saying if we run the sample then we can’t give inappropriate sampling becos it is coming in machine record...we can give the report before processing.” (sic) “We were being repeatedly nagged to declare results inappropriate,” said the official speaking anonymously. To the message, the senior official replied: “Ok. Do it before running.”, and when subsequently asked, “Chest ward say jo sample aa rahe he….inappropriate sampling?”, she replies - Yes. Claiming that the official had edited WhatsApp messages, college Dean Jyoti Bindal told The Hindu, “We have never placed such requests with our laboratory. I am totally denying it. The machine has a memory, which is directly stored on the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) portal.” Further, a professor of the college around mid-May wrote to the Madhya Pradesh Chief Secretary, the Principal Secretary, Medical Education, and Divisional Commissioner, Indore, alleging manipulation of results in the laboratory. ‘Allegation baseless’ Confirming the receipt of the email, Sanjay Kumar Shukla, the Principal Secretary, said, “We had expected a detailed report from the college on this. But prima facie, this is all untrue. Any kind of alleged manipulation is completely baseless. This is my clear impression about the issue.” (*Name changed)
08 June 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha plans mega educational complexes for tribal students||The Odisha government is coming up with three mega educational complexes exclusively for tribal students, where both academic and sporting skills will be harnessed. The complexes will be established in tribal dominated districts such as Keonjhar, Sundargarh and Mayurbhanj. Each complex will house 3,000 tribal students, which is being dubbed as a unique initiative in government sector in the country. “We are going to set up mega educational complexes in Keonjhar, Sundargarh and Mayurbhanj where 3,000 students could study under one roof. Land has been identified. We are in process of preparing detailed project report,” said Ranjana Chopra, Principal Secretary of ST and SC Development, Minorities and Backward Classes Welfare Department on Saturday. Ms. Chopra informed that the campuses will have state-of-the-art facilities to improve educational and sporting skills of tribal students from Standard I to XII. Moreover, skill development centres will be an integral part of the projects. Though the department had asked for 30 acres of land, district administrations have come up with vast land stretches for the proposed institutions. Mayurbhanj district administration has identified 80 acres of land. In Keonjhar and Sundargarh, adequate land is available. Funds required for mega complexes will be sourced from Odisha Mineral Bearing Areas Development Corporation (OMBADC), which was formed for focused development of mineral rich districts. Incidentally, most mineral rich districts are tribal dominated. Most diverse tribes According to 2011 Census, Odisha’s tribal population constitutes 9.17 of country’s tribal population. In Odisha, tribal population is 22.85% of State’s total population. With 62 tribal communities, Odisha has most diverse tribes in India. In terms of tribal population, it occupies the third position in India. Similarly, of India’s total 75 particularly vulnerable tribal groups, 13 reside in Odisha. Santal and Bhuyan are two dominant tribal groups living in Keonjhar, Mayurbhanj and Sundargarh district.  Iron mining hub Incidentally, Keonjhar, where other tribes such as Sounti, Ho, Juang, Kharwar, Mahali, Oraon Kolha and Kora is the most mined district of the State. Keonjhar district itself contains more than 70% of the iron ore reserves of Odisha. Jharsuguda, Koraput and Mayurbhanj having extensive mining activities follows Keonjhar. A city-based private educational group has set up similar educational complexes exclusively for tribals in Bhubaneswar and their branches in different districts.
08 June 2020||CHANDIGARH,||‘Violation of virus safety norms unfortunate’||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Sunday said the COVID-19 situation in the State had so far been manageable due to the strict imposition of lockdown and the cooperation of people. He, however, said it had become essential now to ease some of the restrictions, but that did not mean that people could be allowed to violate the safety protocols, terming as “unfortunate” the large number of violations being reported. The Chief Minister, who was responding to questions during a Facebook live, said on last Friday alone, 4,600 challans had been issued for failure to wear mask in public, 160 for spitting, and around two dozen for not adhering to social distancing norms. “Such irresponsible behaviour could not be permitted as it could push Punjab on the same path as many other States in India,” he said. Capt. Amarinder pointed out that with 2.5% of the country’s population, the State was currently contributing a mere 0.5% of the COVID-19 cases. ‘Go to govt. hospitals’ Responding to a complaint of private hospitals charging exorbitantly for admitting COVID-19 patients, the Chief Minister said he will ask the medical department to check, but urged people to go to government hospitals which were equipped with the best-in-class facilities and staff.  93 new cases Meanwhile, Punjab recorded 93 fresh COVID-19 cases on June 7 and reported one more death taking the toll to 51, according to an official statement. The number of positive cases has reached 2,608.
08 June 2020||GURUGRAM,||Trehan, 15 others booked for money laundering, forgery||Eminent cardiologist Naresh Trehan and 15 others, including companies and unnamed Haryana government officials, have been booked for money laundering, corruption, criminal conspiracy, forgery and criminal breach of trust, among other charges, in connection with the allotment of land for Medanta Hospital here. The FIR was registered at Gurgaon Sadar police station on Saturday at the behest of Additional Sessions Judge Ashwani Kumar on the complaint of Malibu Towne resident Raman Sharma. The FIR is registered on 11 counts under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, the Prevention of Corruption Act and the Indian Penal Code. According to the six-page FIR, Dr. Trehan, the major promoter of the project, did not have adequate financial resources for the Rs. 900-crore Medicity project and the subscribed value of his company Global Health Private Limited was just 10% of the committed investment amount. Dr. Trehan allegedly entered into conspiracy with the other accused to create shell company, issue partly paid shares to GHP with full rights and grant overwhelming rights to two other companies without the permission of the government. The FIR alleged that the government did not appoint any health department official on the board of the hospital and did not check the financial capability of Dr. Trehan. It further accused Dr. Trehan and others of collusion to circumvent the terms of advertisement for allotment of land, and “place personal agenda ahead of the public purpose”. ‘Project still incomplete’ It added that Dr. Trehan colluded with the government officials and no competitor was allowed to make submission for the project. The FIR also alleged that the accused obtained Occupation Certificate on the basis of misrepresentation and the project was incomplete even after 15 years. Mr. Sharma had first filed the complaint before the Directorate of Enforcement on June 24, 2019, and approached the court after no “visible steps were taken”. The court disposed of the application in August. However, Mr. Sharma later learnt that the ED had forwarded the complaint to the Haryana Police which too did not lodge the FIR. He then approached the district court with the plea that certain paperwork were not available in the public domain and thus a need for investigation. The court ordered registration of FIR within 24 hours. Gurgaon Sadar SHO Inspector Naveen Kumar said the role of the accused was a matter of investigation and it would be done by senior officers. Medanta PR agency did not comment on the matter.
08 June 2020||GUWAHATI,||Central team studying Assam COVID-19 management||A Central team has been touring Assam since June 4 to study the State’s COVID-19 management, officials said on Sunday. “The team has held a series of discussions with senior officials over the COVID-19 situation in the State. The team members are expected to submit a report after their week-long tour is over,” said Samir Kumar Sinha, Assam’s Principal Secretary (Health and Family Welfare Department). The Central team comprises Ajay Tiwari, N.N. Naskar and Snigdha Basu.
08 June 2020||GUWAHATI/IMPHAL,||Quarantine centre under scanner||A quarantine centre in Manipur’s Churachandpur has come under the scanner after its inmates allegedly partied throwing all caution to the wind. Locals drew the attention of the district authorities after two videos purportedly on the inmates of the Bimala Raina Government Quarantine Centre went viral. The videos showed a few young men and women dancing, holding hands.  ‘Corona Devi puja’ The novel coronavirus that causes COVID-19 has turned in a female deity in Assam where the total number of positive cases reached 2,565 on Sunday. Since Saturday, people in at least five districts on the northern bank of the Brahmaputra have undertaken ‘Corona Devi puja’, offering prayers to spare them her wrath.
08 June 2020||Jaipur,||Hospital owner apologises for anti-Muslim chat by staff||The owner of a private hospital at Sardarshahar in Rajasthan’s Churu district has tendered an unconditional apology after some online chats among its staff members, which allegedly disparaged Muslim patients, went viral on the social media. The police have launched a probe. The chats on a WhatsApp group titled ‘Bardia Rise’ allegedly commented on Muslim COVID-19 patients, saying it was best not to attend to them, as the infection was spreading among the community, and that they should be referred to a Muslim doctor for treatment. The group was formed by the staff members of Srichand Bardia Rog Nidan Kendra in Sardarshahar. While one of them commented that he would not take X-rays of Muslim patients, another employee said that had Hindus tested COVID-19 positive and had there been a Muslim doctor, the latter would not have attended to them. Sunil Chaudhary, an orthopaedic surgeon who runs the hospital, apologised through a Facebook post, saying the hospital staff did not intend to hurt the sentiments of any community. “We apologise and assure that there will be no cause for complaint in future,” said the post. Dr. Chaudhary told The Hindu that the chats were from mid-April when the COVID-19 cases related to the Delhi’s Nizamuddin event were being reported in large numbers. “Our hospital has never discriminated against Muslim patients. These off-the-cuff remarks are being exaggerated,” he said. The police started an inquiry on a complaint from Maqbool Khan, the Churu district president of the Muslim Parishad Sansthan. Mr. Khan said he was summoned to the Sardarshahar police station on Saturday and his statement was recorded. No first information report in the matter has been registered so far.
08 June 2020||Mumbai,||16 years on, 4 policemen accused in Khwaja Yunus case reinstated||An assistant police inspector and three constables, who were suspended 16 years ago for the alleged custodial killing of Ghatkopar blast case suspect Khwaja Yunus, have been reinstated in service by the Mumbai Police, an official said on Sunday. The four policemen, who were suspended in 2004, are facing trial on various charges, including murder and destruction of evidence, in the Yunus case. Following their reinstatement on Friday, assistant police inspector Sachin Vaze and constables Rajendra Tiwari, Sunil Desai resumed duty in the local arms unit on Saturday, while constable Rajaram Nikam was reinstated in the motor vehicles department, a police official said. Mr. Vaze, a 1990 batch police officer and an encounter specialist, was arrested in 2004 and charge-sheeted in the alleged custodial killing case for concealment of facts. He resigned from the police force in November 2007. But, his resignation was rejected pending inquiry against him, the official said. Yunus (27), a native of Parbhani resident, was an engineer and used to work in Dubai. He was detained soon after the December 2002 Ghatkopar bomb blast case. While the police claimed Yunus escaped when he was being taken to Aurangabad for questioning, a Criminal Investigation Department inquiry ordered by the Bombay High court on a petition filed by his father earlier revealed he had died in police custody. The inquiry had indicted 14 policemen, but the government sanctioned prosecution of only four — Mr. Vaze, Mr. Tiwari, Mr. Nikam and Mr. Desai — who are facing charges of murder, voluntarily causing grievous hurt to extort confession, fabricating evidence, and criminal conspiracy in the case. A prosecution witness earlier told a sessions court that Yunus was stripped, and beaten on chest and abdomen with a belt in a lock-up.
08 June 2020||Mumbai,||Goan temples not opening from today||A meeting of nine major Goan temples’ trusts held at Mahalsa Devasthan in Mardol, Goa, on Sunday decided against opening the temples for devotees from June 8, after observing that the situation pertaining to the spread of COVID-19 was deteriorating. This comes a day after churches and mosques in the State decided to remain closed for now. Goa had 235 active cases of COVID-19 till Sunday evening. Of these, 33 cases were reported on Sunday. As many as 30 of the new cases were from Mangor Hill in Vasco locality, which has since been declared a containment zone by the government. Under the government’s phase I of unlocking the lockdown or Unlock I, places of religious worship have been permitted to reopen from Monday. The decision against reopening temples in Goa was backed by Ramnath Devasthan, Mahalsa Devasthan, Nagesh Devasthan, Mahalaxmi Devasthan, Devki Krishna Devasthan, Kamaxi Devasthan, and Ramnath Damodar Devasthan, all affiliated to the Partagal mutt, along with Shantadurga Devasthan and Mangeshi Devasthan affiliated to the Kavlem mutt. “Due to the rise in coronavirus cases in Goa and taking health and well-being of devotees of Shree Mahalaxmi Saunsthan, Panaji, the management has decided to extend the temple closure till June 30,” the Mahalaxmi temple management said in a statement. On Saturday, the Archbishop of Goa and the Association of All Goa Muslim Jamaats had also postponed the reopening of their respective religious places in view of the spike in COVID-19 cases. Father Barry Cardozo, director of the Diocesan Centre for Social Communications Media, in a statement, said they would like to inform priests and faithful that they are assessing the novel coronavirus-related situation in the State. “Therefore, we are not in a position to declare our places of worship open from June 8,” he said. The Association of All Goa Muslim Jamats executive committee members too decided to delay the reopening of all masjids in Goa till June 30. “We request committee members and heads of jamats of masjids across Goa to implement this advisory,” Shaikh Bashir Ahmed, president of the association, said.
08 June 2020||Mumbai,||No decision yet in Maharashtra: official||The Maharashtra government is yet to take a decision on opening religious places for devotees as part of lockdown relaxations, an official said on Sunday. The Union Ministry of Home Affairs last week said ‘Unlock-1’ will be initiated from June 8 under which the lockdown, will be relaxed, including opening of shopping malls, restaurants and religious places. However, the State, while last week extending the lockdown till June 30, decided to keep religious places closed for some more period, and no fresh decision has been taken on it. “A decision is yet to be taken on opening of temples, mosques, churches and other religious establishments for people. There has been no decision so far on allowing people to gather at such places,” State’s law and judiciary department secretary Rajendra Bhagwat told PTI .
08 June 2020||Beijing,||China exonerates self in white paper||A beleaguered China on Sunday exonerated itself from the global allegations of delay in reporting the COVID-19 outbreak, saying the virus was first noticed in Wuhan on December 27 as a viral pneumonia and human-to-human transmission was discovered on January 19, after which it took swift actions to curb it. A white paper released by the Chinese government gave a lengthy explanation to refute the allegations of cover up and delay by Beijing on reporting the COVID-19 outbreak last year in Wuhan. Spread from Wuhan According to the white paper, after the COVID-19 was identified by a hospital in Wuhan on December 27, the local government called experts to look into the cases through an analysis of the patients’ condition and clinical outcome, the findings of epidemiological investigations, and preliminary laboratory testing results. “The conclusion was that they were cases of viral pneumonia,” it said. Researchers from a high-level expert team organised by the National Health Commission (NHC) confirmed that the virus was transmissible among humans for the first time on January 19, hours before they notified the public, and less than a month before the experts were alerted by the newly discovered disease, it said. Before January 19, there was not sufficient evidence to indicate that it could be transmitted by humans, said Wang Guangfa, a leading Chinese respiratory expert who was among the first group of experts dispatched by the NHC to Wuhan in early January. According to the white paper, the NHC on January 14 required Wuhan and the whole Hubei province to enhance their preparation against the virus as there were s great uncertainties. China will make its COVID-19 vaccine a global public good when it is ready for application after successful research and clinical trials, Wang Zhigang, Minister of Science and Technology, told reporters in Beijing.
08 June 2020||Rio de Janeiro,||Brazil stops publishing running total of COVID-19 cases, deaths||Brazil’s government has stopped publishing a running total of COVID-19 deaths and infections in an extraordinary move that critics call an attempt to hide the true toll of the disease in Latin America’s largest nation. Saturday’s move came after months of criticism from experts that Brazil’s statistics are woefully deficient, and in some cases manipulated, so it may never be possible to understand the depth of the pandemic in the country. Brazil’s last official numbers showed it had recorded over 34,000 deaths related to COVID-19, the third-highest number in the world, just ahead of Italy. It reported nearly 6,15,000 infections, putting it second, behind the United States. Brazil, with about 210 million people, is the globe’s seventh most populous nation. Limited numbers On Friday, the federal Health Ministry took down a website that had showed daily, weekly and monthly figures on infections and deaths in Brazilian states. On Saturday, the site returned but the cumulative numbers of infections for States and the nation were no longer there. The site now shows only the numbers for the previous 24 hours. Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro tweeted Saturday that disease totals are “not representative” of the country’s current situation. A Bolsonaro ally contended to the newspaper O Globo that at least some States had sent falsified data to the Health Ministry, implying that they were exaggerating the toll. A council of State Health Secretaries said it would fight the changes by Mr. Bolsonaro, who has dismissed the gravity of the COVID-19 pandemic and tried to thwart attempts to impose quarantines, curfews and social distancing, arguing those steps are causing more damage to the economy than the illness. “The authoritarian, insensitive, inhumane and unethical attempt to make the COVID-19 deaths invisible will not prosper,” the Health Secretaries council said on Saturday. While precise counts of cases and deaths are difficult for governments worldwide, health researchers have been saying for weeks that irregularities with Brazilian statistics were making it impossible to get a handle on an exploding situation. Around the world, COVID-19 deaths are being undercounted to varying degrees due to lack of universal testing. Academic groups in dozens of nations have tried to figure out the magnitude of the undercount by studying the total number of deaths in a set period compared to the average of prior years in a nation, State, province or city. Where they find unexplained surges in deaths, it is likely due in large part to undiagnosed cases of COVID-19. In Brazil, such efforts have been handicapped by problems with the government statistics that serve as a baseline. It is very difficult to make predictions that you think are reliable,” said Fabio Mendes, an adjunct professor in software engineering at the federal University of Brasilia, who studies coronavirus statistics. “We know the numbers are bad.” The gravity of the problems with Brazil’s data became clear last month when academics reviewing death certificates compiled by the federal Civil Registration office — which compiles data from all Brazilian States — found drastic, unexplained fluctuations in monthly deaths in recent years, and puzzling discrepancies between States.
08 June 2020||Boston,||‘FB needs stricter policies on misinformation’||Dozens of scientists doing research funded by Mark Zuckerberg said Facebook should not be letting President Donald Trump use the social media platform to “spread both misinformation and incendiary statements.” The researchers, including 60 professors at leading U.S. research institutions, wrote to the Facebook CEO on Saturday asking Mr. Zuckerberg to “consider stricter policies on misinformation and incendiary language that harms people,” especially during the current turmoil over racial injustice. Taking the side of truth The letter calls the spread of “deliberate misinformation and divisive language” contrary to the researchers’ goals of using technology to prevent and eradicate disease, improve childhood education and reform the criminal justice system. Their mission “is antithetical to some of the stances that Facebook has been taking, so we’re encouraging them to be more on the side of truth and on the right side of history as we’ve said in the letter,” said Debora Marks of Harvard Medical School, one of three professors who organised it. The others are Martin Kampmann of the University of California-San Francisco and Jason Shepherd of the University of Utah. All have grants from a Chan Zuckerberg Initiative programme working to prevent, cure and treat neurodegenerative disorders including Alzheimer’s and Parkinson’s disease. They said the letter had more than 160 signatories. Mr. Shepherd said about 10% are employees of foundations run by Mr. Zuckerberg and his wife, Priscilla Chan. The letter objects specifically to Mr. Zuckerberg’s decision not to at least flag as a violation of Facebook’s community standards Mr. Trump’s post in response to unrest in Minneapolis. The letter’s authors called the post “a clear statement of inciting violence.” Twitter had both flagged and demoted a Trump tweet using the same language. In a statement, the Chan Zuckerberg Initiative noted that the philanthropic organisation is separate from Facebook and said “we are grateful for our staff, partners and grantees” and “respect their right to voice their opinions, including on Facebook policies.” Some Facebook employees have publicly objected to Mr. Zuckerberg’s refusal to take down or label misleading or incendiary posts by Mr. Trump and other politicians. But Mr. Zuckerberg has so far refused. On Friday, Mr. Zuckerberg said in a post that he would review “potential options for handling violating or partially-violating content aside from the binary leave-it-up or take-it-down decisions”. “Our current policy is that if content is actually inciting violence, then the right mitigation is to take that content down — not let people continue seeing it behind a flag. There is no exception to this policy for politicians or newsworthiness.”
08 June 2020||Colombo,||Sri Lanka keeping a close watch on locust situation||Sri Lanka is keeping a close watch on the locust situation in India, as it prepares to battle an increased population of local grasshoppers this season. “At the moment, the threat is thousands of miles away. We don’t think the locusts in India are heading this way yet, though we are keeping a close watch,” W.M.W. Weerakoon, Director General of the Department of Agriculture, told The Hindu on Sunday. More grasshoppers Meanwhile, agriculture authorities have asked farmers across the island to alert them if they spot an unusual rise in local grasshoppers in their fields. “We get local grasshoppers this time of the year, but there appears to be an increase. So we have asked farmers to monitor the situation and update us. But this is not the desert locust,” Mr. Weerakoon said. In May, the Department of Agriculture reported a large population of local grasshoppers in Mawathagama, in Sri Lanka’s North Western Province. They were preparing to contain the manifestation with chemicals. “Now, we fear there may be similar grasshoppers in other parts as well,” he said, adding that the change in climatic patterns may have contributed to it. According to Mr. Weerakoon, the local grasshoppers are more likely to attack home gardens and small fields, than large cultivable areas. Last year, Sri Lanka’s farmers were badly affected by the fall army worm — from the moth species, known by the scientific name Spodoptera frugiperda — said to have been carried here by strong winds from India.
08 June 2020||Jerusalem,||Killing of autistic Palestinian a tragedy, says Netanyahu||Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said on Sunday that the recent police killing of an autistic Palestinian man was unjustified and a “tragedy”, offering his condolences to the bereaved family. Israeli police shot 32-year-old Iyak Hallak in Jerusalem on May 30 while he was walking to his special needs school, after officers mistakenly thought he was armed. “What happened with Iyad Hallak is a tragedy. This is a man with limitations — autism — who was under suspicion, we know, wrongly, of being a terrorist in a very sensitive location,” Mr. Netanyahu said at the start of the weekly Cabinet meeting. The killing happened near Lions’ Gate in the alleys of the walled Old City, where Hallak had attended school for six years.   Thousands of mourners massed for Hallak’s funeral, while online the hashtag #PalestinianLivesMatter echoed the fury being seen at mass protests against police violence and racism in the United States.
08 June 2020||Frankfurt am Main,||U.S. plan on troop cut sparks concern||Germany on Sunday voiced concern at reports that President Donald Trump plans to cut the number of U.S. troops stationed in Germany, amid fears it could weaken a key pillar of NATO defence in the region. German Foreign Minister Heiko Maas said both countries stood to gain from close cooperation even if the transatlantic relationship had become “complicated” under Mr. Trump. Peter Beyer, Chancellor Angela Merkel’s coordinator for transatlantic relations, warned that “the German-U.S. relationship could be severely affected”.  The Wall Street Journal reported on Friday that Mr. Trump had ordered the Pentagon to slash the number of U.S. military personnel by 9,500 from the current 34,500 permanently assigned in Germany.
08 June 2020||Washington,||U.S. offers help in cleaning huge Russian oil spill||The U.S. on Saturday offered to help Russia clean up a vast fuel spill that has fouled an Arctic river in Siberia. “Despite our disagreements, the United States stands ready to assist Russia to mitigate this environmental disaster,” tweeted Secretary of State Mike Pompeo.AFP
08 June 2020||Caracas,||Caracas, June 7, 2020 (AFP) -||Venezuelan Opposition leader Juan Guaido reappeared in the street in videos distributed on Saturday by his team, after Foreign Minister Jorge Arreaza claimed he had taken refuge in the French embassy in Caracas. “They are the ones who are hiding... $15 million reward for them. I am showing my face,” said Mr. Guaido in a video.AFP
08 June 2020||June 08 2020 00:00 IST,||In Persian Gulf littoral, cooperative security is key||The United Nations defines this body of water as the Persian Gulf. The lands around it are shared by eight countries (Bahrain, Iran, Iraq, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, and the United Arab Emirates), all members of the UN. There is a commonality of interest among them in being major producers of crude oil and natural gas, and thereby contributing critically to the global economy and to their own prosperity. This has added to their geopolitical significance. At the same time, turbulence has often characterised their inter se political relations. A framework For eight decades prior to 1970, this body of water was a closely guarded British lake, administered in good measure by imperial civil servants from India. When that era ended, regional players sought to assert themselves. Imperatives of rivalry and cooperation became evident and, as a United States State Department report put it in 1973, ‘The upshot of all these cross currents is that the logic of Saudi-Iranian cooperation is being undercut by psychological, nationalistic, and prestige factors, which are likely to persist for a long time.’ The Nixon and the Carter Doctrines were the logical outcome to ensure American hegemony. An early effort for collective security, attempted in a conference in Muscat in 1975, was thwarted by Baathist Iraq. The Iranian Revolution put an end to the Twin Pillar approach and disturbed the strategiWc balance. The Iraq-Iran War enhanced U.S. interests and role. Many moons and much bloodshed later, it was left to the Security Council through Resolution 598 (1987) to explore ‘measures to enhance the security and stability in the region’. Any framework for stability and security thus needs to answer a set of questions: security for whom, by whom, against whom, for what purpose? Is the requirement in local, regional or global terms? Does it require an extra-regional agency? Given the historical context, one recalls a Saudi scholar’s remark in the 1990s that ‘Gulf regional security was an external issue long before it was an issue among the Gulf States themselves.’ The essential ingredients of such a framework would thus be to ensure: conditions of peace and stability in individual littoral states; freedom to all states of the Gulf littoral to exploit their hydrocarbon and other natural resources and export them; freedom of commercial shipping in international waters of the Persian Gulf; freedom of access to, and outlet from, Gulf waters through the Strait of Hormuz; prevention of conflict that may impinge on the freedom of trade and shipping and: prevention of emergence of conditions that may impinge on any of these considerations. Could such a framework be self-sustaining or require external guarantees for its operational success? If the latter, what should its parameters be? The GCC and the U.S. link The past two decades have revalidated William Fulbright’s observation that statesmen often confuse great power with total power and great responsibility with total responsibility. The war in Iraq and its aftermath testify to it. The U.S. effort to ‘contain’ the Iranian revolutionary forces, supplemented by the effort of the Arab states of the littoral (except Iraq) through the instrumentality of the Gulf Cooperation Council, or GCC (May 1981), to coordinate, cooperate and integrate to ‘serve the sublime objectives of the Arab Nation’ initially met with success in some functional fields and a lack of it in its wider objectives. In the meantime, geopolitical factors and conflicts elsewhere in the West Asian region — Yemen, Syria, Libya — aggravated global and regional relationships and hampered a modus vivendi in U.S.-Iran relations that was to be premised on the multilateral agreement on Iran’s nuclear programme agreed to by western powers and the Obama Administration but disowned by U.S. President Donald Trump whose strident policies have taken the region to the brink of an armed conflict. Perceptions of declining U.S. commitment to sub-regional security have been articulated in recent months amid hints of changing priorities. This is reported to have caused disquiet in some, perhaps all, members of the GCC, the hub of whose security concern remains pivoted on an Iranian threat (political and ideological rather than territorial) and an American insurance to deter it based on a convergence of interests in which oil, trade, arms purchases, etc have a role along with wider U.S. regional and global determinants. An evolving transformation It is evident that a common GCC threat perception has not evolved over time and has been hampered by the emergence of conflicting tactical and strategic interests and subjective considerations. The current divisions within the organisation are therefore here to stay. These have been aggravated by the global economic crisis, the immediate and longer term impact of COVID-19 on regional economies, the problems in the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC), and the decline in oil prices. One credible assessment done recently suggests that in the emerging shape of the region, ‘Saudi Arabia is a fading power, UAE, Qatar and Iran are emerging as the new regional leaders and Oman and Iraq will have to struggle to retain their sovereign identities. The GCC is effectively ended, and OPEC is becoming irrelevant as oil policy moves to a tripartite global condominium. None of this will necessarily happen overnight and external intervention could interfere in unexpected ways … But it is fair to say that the Persian Gulf as we have known for at least three generations is in the midst of a fundamental transformation.’ With the Arab League entombed and the GCC on life-support system, the Arab states of this sub-region are left to individual devices to explore working arrangements with Iraq and Iran. The imperatives for these are different but movement on both is discernible. With Iran in particular and notwithstanding the animosities of the past, pragmatic approaches of recent months seem to bear fruit. Oman has always kept its lines of communication with Iran open; Kuwait and Qatar had done likewise but in a quieter vein, and now the UAE has initiated pragmatic arrangements. These could set the stage for a wider dialogue. Both Iran and the GCC states would benefit from a formal commitment to an arrangement incorporating the six points listed above; so would every outside nation that has trading and economic interests in the Gulf. This could be sanctified by a global convention. Record shows that the alternative of exclusive security arrangements promotes armament drives, enhances insecurity and aggravates regional tensions. It unavoidably opens the door for Great Power interference. India’s ties How does India perceive these developments and how do they impact our strategic interests and concerns? Locating the Persian Gulf littoral with reference to India is an exercise in geography and history. The distance from Mumbai to Basra is 1,526 nautical miles and Bander Abbas and Dubai are in a radius of 1,000 nautical miles. The bilateral relationship, economic and political, with the GCC has blossomed in recent years. The governments are India-friendly and Indian-friendly and appreciate the benefits of a wide-ranging relationship. This is well reflected in the bilateral trade of around $121 billion and remittances of $49 billion from a workforce of over nine million. GCC suppliers account for around 34% of our crude imports and national oil companies in Saudi Arabia and Abu Dhabi are partners in a $44 billion investment in the giant Ratnagiri oil refinery. In addition, Saudi Aramco is reported to take a 20% stake in Reliance oil-to-chemicals business. The current adverse impact of the pandemic on our economic relations with the GCC countries has now become a matter of concern. The relationship with Iran, complex at all times and more so recently on account of overt American pressure, has economic potential and geopolitical relevance on account of its actual or alleged role in Pakistan and Afghanistan. Iran also neighbours Turkey and some countries of Central Asia, the Caucasus and the Caspian Sea region. Its size, politico-technological potential and economic resources, cannot be wished away, regionally and globally, but can be harnessed for wider good. India has eschewed involvement in local or regional disputes. Indian interests do not entail power projection; they necessitate in their totality, peace and regional stability, freedom of navigation and access to the region’s markets in terms of trade, technology and manpower resources. Indian interests would be best served if this stability is ensured through cooperative security since the alternative — of competitive security options — cannot ensure durable peace.   Hamid Ansari is the former Vice President of India, 2007-2017
08 June 2020||June 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Addressing the elephant in the room||The news last week about a pregnant elephant having her mouth blown caused outrage on social media. It’s impossible not to empathise with the pain of the elephant, which stood impassively in a river and died a slow death. But the wide narrative about the death of humanity is oversimplified. While people are demonising the farmer responsible for the incident, it is important to note that the elephant was an unintended target. Most crackers are aimed at wild boar that destroy small farmers’ crop. A major failing of conservation in India is that the needs of farmers and wild animals do not go hand in hand. Problems with the narrative With the absence of large predators outside forests and the huge availability of easily accessible food crops, deer, monkeys, boar and other species inevitably fill this space. In almost all developed nations these species are kept in control so they don’t destroy large crop areas. In less developed countries, local people take matters into their own hands. Studies show this “reciprocity” — boars eating crops, people eating boar — is what allows farmers tolerate these otherwise problematic animals. India does not allow rural people to hunt animals, but neither does the government cull animals regularly despite their numbers shooting up. While the government has the provision to declare overabundant animals “vermin”, and cull them under the Wildlife Protection Act, it very rarely does this. Vocal urban wildlife activist groups generally create a social media storm when such decisions are taken and challenge the order in court. These groups have no empathy for the farmers who struggle to make their ends meet while growing food for all of us. Kerala had declared boar “vermin”, but very few have been killed over the years. Given the widespread destruction of crop by these animals, farmers urgently need a safety net. Compensation schemes are one part of the solution, but in India this is always only a fraction of the market value of the crop, which is already precariously low. Poor farmers spend a lot of time navigating bureaucratic processes to get it. And there is no end to this process — some animal numbers just keep going up, linked to the availability of agricultural food crops, and the government cannot sustain an exponential growth in compensation. Second, this incident is far from new. The start of the monsoon is when animals move into human habitation more, partly on account of jackfruit and other crops/fruits. Incidents like this take place as it is notoriously hard to identify the culprits, since the event occurs much before the injured elephants are found. While there are dozens of calls to charge the culprits, it is far from easy for the forest department and police to do this. The third problem with the narrative around this incident is that all humans are grouped together. While some people are indeed over-exploiting the planet, everyone is far from being equally culpable for the ecological disaster that we are now in. Modern, developed, urban humans are in fact disproportionately responsible since we consume infinitely more resources. It is our greed that has destroyed vast tracts of forests and thousands of elephants and other animals over the last few decades. The poor farmer who inadvertently kills one elephant in an attempt to feed us while making enough money for himself is much less responsible. If arresting the person responsible is not going to be the solution, what can we do? This is best answered at two levels: one, how do we make sure that elephants don’t die in this way, and two, how do we reduce negative human-elephant interactions? The first problem is relatively simpler to solve: we should control the population of wild boar to minimise the impact they have on farmers. This is untenable to most people, since conservation in India is arguably mixed up with animal rights. Boars are classified “least concern”, and are in absolutely no danger of going extinct. If they are causing the death of much more threatened species like elephants, that gives us all the more reason to control their numbers. The modalities of this have to be worked out carefully to ensure there is no over-hunting and local extinction in some areas that have governance or enforcement problems. But the inability to enforce rules should not be used as an excuse for not taking decisive action about the expanding boar population. What can we do about the problem of elephants destroying crops, damaging property and killing people in accidental encounters? The modern conservation movement aims to separate human and wildlife spaces. When there is an overlap, there is a mistaken assumption that “conflict” is inevitable. This is arguably at odds with the reality in India, where the majority of animal range is outside protected areas. For elephants only about 25% of their range is within protected areas. The extent of distribution of other species is not even fully known. One study in central India by Majgaonkar and others found that only 2.6% of the range of leopards, hyenas and wolves in central India was within protected areas. So animals and people, particularly elephants, have always been interacting with each other. While there have always been problems, most interactions are peaceful, and there is a deep cultural tolerance not found in other parts of the world. However, as animals and human numbers grow and there is more pressure on land, the challenges of living together will also increase.  The way forward At a policy level, a good starting point would be to reorient the forest department to do away with the wildlife-territorial dichotomy of management that currently exists, especially since nobody has managed to inform animals that they are only allowed to stay in wildlife divisions. Beyond that there are no universal solutions. Solutions vary based on the context, the kinds of crops grown, density of people, socioeconomic status, etc. Farmers should be empowered and subsidised to better protect their land rather than wait for compensation or be forced to resort to these extreme, illegal measures out of desperation. India has done well in saving nature given its high population density. But as it continues to develop, there is going to be huge pressure on the natural world. While it is heartening to see everyone get upset about the death of the elephant, the hope is that there will also be large-scale protests about the large-scale destruction of the environment. The National Board for Wildlife and the Forest Advisory Committee are meant to scrutinise and minimise the large-scale diversion of forest land for development projects, but they have been reduced to rubber-stamping bodies. Even a coal mine inside an elephant reserve in Assam was recently cleared. The government is easing up environmental clearances and opening up forests for destruction to boost a post-COVID economy. When industrialists like Ratan Tata, who are angry and easily condemn the farmer, also start to protest about these bigger concerns on Twitter, we can pat ourselves on the back for being a truly environmentally conscious society. Tarsh Thekaekara is a Post Doctoral Fellow at the National Centre for Biological Sciences
08 June 2020||June 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Paging the private sector in the COVID fight||The COVID-19 pandemic is unlikely to disappear in the immediate future. Managing the epidemic and ensuring a full complement of health care will require extraordinary resources and investment. India’s public health sector has already spread itself thin in tackling the pandemic. This unprecedented crisis has highlighted the critical need to mobilise available resources in public sector, and the private sector in particular. However, the current strategies to involve the private sector in combating the infectious disease are shrouded in ambiguity. There are no clear policy guidelines to use private sector resources that could complement public sector efforts, and how the payments for their services made. Having been directed to suspend most of its services and be ready to manage COVID-19 cases (none forthcoming), the private sector is gasping for cash flows. Countries that have had a policy-based strategic relationship with the private sector seem to have performed well in controlling this pandemic. Instead of ‘arm twisting’ the private sector, there is a need to formulate a stable policy-based strategy to get the private sector on board. The pandemic has provided India an opportunity to restructure the strategies of engaging the private sector in realising public health goals. The recent economic package announced for the health sector, of around Rs. 2.1 lakh crore, envisions strengthening the health infrastructure in the immediate future. This is an opportunity to bring in structural changes in the health sector to rejuvenate partnerships with the private sector. Here, we propose certain policy options to leverage private sector resources for testing, hospitalisation, procurement of biomedical equipment and supplies, and a central intelligence system.  Laboratory services Despite governments trying to scale-up testing capacity in the country, there is still a long way to go for mass scale testing. We propose the following options to scale up testing capacity: Option 1: An accredited private laboratory can be contracted to be co-located in a public health facility preferably in tier-II/tier-III public hospitals. States that already have private laboratories under a public–private partnership (PPP) contract can be asked to add COVID-19 tests. The government may procure test kits and the private sector could charge a service fee from the government. Option 2: Suspect cases can be issued vouchers for testing at any empanelled private laboratories. E-vouchers generated by tele-health call centres can subsequently be reimbursed by the government. Option 3: A mobile sample collection and testing facility can be operated by a private entity in high density clusters; it can also be used as a fever clinic. This arrangement can be under the hub-spoke principle. The cost of tests, key performance indicators and payment system should be worked out in the purchase contract.  Hospital infrastructure Hospitalisation of COVID-19 cases cannot be restricted to hospitals in major cities alone. Improving the infrastructure and capacity in tier II and tier III cities in collaboration with the private sector is critical. The latest announcement to increase viability gap funding to 30% is bound to ease the capex pressure for the private sector. The options can be: Option 1: A private contractor could be hired to refurbish an existing ward in a public hospital into an intensive care unit (ICU) ward with additional beds and equipment and handover the refurbished ward to the public authority. Under this turnkey project, an ICU ward could be made available within a short time. Option 2: In a scenario where the district hospital does not have staff to operate an ICU ward (option 1), a private hospital partner could be contracted to provide staff and operate the ICU ward. Alternatively, a private hospital partner can refurbish, operate and later transfer the ICU ward. Though the model takes more time, the operator can convert the facility into any other speciality ward in the future. The Centre can provide viability gap funding to the State to support the development of such a facility. Option 3: The government can refer patients to empanelled private COVID-19 hospitals, at a fixed package rate. This kind of strategic purchasing or insurance reimbursement (say under the Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana) requires clear policy directions, a robust referral system, agreement on tariffs, and a quick reimbursement mechanism. The current government tariffs do not seem to evoke interest from the private sector.  Supply chain The upsurge in the demand for test kits, ventilators, and other biomedical supplies cannot be met by current manufacturers or supply chain sources. Repurposing through alternate sources indigenously is the need of the hour. A plethora of innovations and prototypes need government laboratories to test in quick time, approve and grant a licence for production which includes patenting. Besides facilitating quick credit access for manufacturing, the government may also give buy back guarantees and facilitate the supply chain channels. Central intelligence system An IT system with artificial intelligence capability should be the backbone of supporting all public and private sector efforts in combating COVID-19. The intelligence system should seamlessly help in case identification, contact tracing, managing a tele-health centre, generating e-vouchers, authorising tests, managing referrals for isolation and hospitalisation in the private sector, payment, follow-up, etc. IT behemoths in India should be roped in to configure an integrated system to detect any unusual pattern in terms of an increase in numbers. The resources dedicated to fighting the COVID-19 pandemic have the potential to create a good health infrastructure and strengthen health systems eventually. However, these initiatives require quick policy formulation followed by guidelines for contracting/purchasing, payments, defining standards, supply chain, strengthening procurement, etc. A group of inter-disciplinary experts to guide in institutionalising the private partnership arrangements would go a long way. Dr. Vijayashree Yellappa is fellow at NITI Aayog and senior specialist, Health System Transformation Platform, and Prof. A. Venkat Raman, FMS, Delhi University. With inputs by Sonjoy Saha, Adviser, PAMD/PPP Cell, NITI Aayog
08 June 2020||June 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Some lines are sacrosanct||A reader from Thiruvananthapuram, V.N. Mukundarajan, wanted this newspaper to emulate The New York Times ( NYT) and publish all kinds of opinions. He cited the example of Republican Senator Tom Cotton’s recent opinion piece which was published in NYT with the headline “Send in the troops”. The piece asked U.S. President Donald Trump to bring in the military to tackle the riots following the killing of George Floyd in Minneapolis while he was in police custody. Debating Cotton’s piece Before examining Mr. Mukundarajan’s suggestion, it is important to know the revulsion that the Senator’s article caused not only among readers but also within the NYT’s editorial team. The publication flip-flopped on its editorial reasoning — first, it published a convoluted justification for publishing the piece and then a retraction. The article did not find a place in the print edition. When the NYT staff, including Nikole Hannah-Jones, who won the Pulitzer Prize for her brilliant exploration of the legacy of African-Americans in the 1619 Project, tweeted their disapproval of the opinion piece, James Bennet, the editorial page editor, explained why they chose to publish the piece. He tweeted: “Times Opinion owes it to our readers to show them counter-arguments, particularly those made by people in a position to set policy. We understand that many readers find Senator Cotton’s argument painful, even dangerous. We believe that is one reason it requires public scrutiny and debate.” But with criticism against the newspaper gaining momentum, the head of communications at NYT, Eileen Murphy, came out with a statement that acknowledged the problems with the article. She said: “We’ve examined the piece and the process leading up to its publication. This review made clear that a rushed editorial process led to the publication of an op-ed that did not meet our standards.” From first defending the essay as an example of NYT’s commitment to airing a “diversity” of voices that differ from the paper’s editorial stance, publisher A.G. Sulzberger too later conceded that the op-ed should not have been published. He said the essay, in the view of many, “fell outside of the realm of acceptability, representing dangerous commentary in an explosive moment that should not have found a home in The Times, even as a counterpoint to our own institutional view.” He promised to host an employee town hall to discuss a host of questions, including about the op-ed. Limits to diversity of opinions Mr. Mukundarajan wrote: “I suggest that The Hindu should emulate the NYT and provide space to right-of-centre political views. Except for solitary pieces by the right, The Hindu ’s columns are monopolised by left-leaning commentators and writers. Take the case of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act. The paper gave disproportionate coverage to anti-CAA protests and opinion pieces ignoring the sentiments of large sections of society that supported the CAA.” His primary argument was that readers should listen to what the “other side” has to say. The editorial values of the owning company of this newspaper are enshrined in a public document which clearly states that the company must “endeavour to provide in its publications a fair and balanced coverage of competing interests, and to offer the readers diverse, reasonable viewpoints, subject to its editorial judgment”. While it is a policy to accommodate diverse opinions, including those that are critical of the newspaper’s editorial stand, it would be a dereliction of duty if the editors chose to publish articles that fan bigotry and rupture our social fabric. One of the criticisms against the media in the last decade is that in the name of providing space for contentious ideas, it has normalised hate. A responsible news organisation understands the crucial difference between editorial judgment and censorship. No article should be published simply because it espouses an opposite viewpoint. Every article, irrespective of its political or ideological affinity, should pass some crucial editorial tests. The questions editors ask are: Does the article normalise hate? Does it demonise the other? Does it weaken the institutional mechanism of checks and balances? Is it based on facts? Media scholars have argued for decades that space for diverse opinions does not mean space for hate speech or the excesses of the state. Writing that tramples on people’s democratic rights, yearnings and aspirations, and refuses to respect the dignity of every citizen, cannot invoke the idea of diversity to find a dignified space in a newspaper. readerseditor@thehindu.co.in
08 June 2020||June 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Swarms of extremism||As if the COVID-19 crisis were not enough, we now have swarms of locusts invading us. Clouds of locusts have overrun western India. As with COVID-19, country borders and barriers put up by proud sovereign nations have been crossed without difficulty, as the locusts have travelled from Africa to South Asia. Swarm intelligence Are locusts intelligent? Individual locusts are not. However, their swarms are swift, focused, responsive to stimuli and dangerously effective in their depredations. Biologists call this phenomenon ‘swarm intelligence’, where the individuals that make up a colony of living creatures are singularly unintelligent and are driven by programmed instinct, but their collective actions make their entire colony intelligent as an entity by itself. Swarm intelligence is common amongst insects; bees, ants and locusts demonstrate it amply. Yet, it is not unknown amongst higher animals as well. Migrating birds and shoals of fish display high degrees of swarm intelligence too. How does swarm intelligence work? An important point to note is that they are leaderless. A queen bee is not a royal in our human sense; she is just a vast progeny-producing machine. It is fascinating to see how a shoal of fish, without a ‘king or queen’ fish, when attacked at one flank by a predator, almost instantly displays an avoidance reaction. How did the fish furthest away from the attacked flank know that the shoal was in danger in less than a microsecond and veer away from the predator? Scientists put it down to the fact that within a swarm, individuals are constantly communicating with each other through actions, signals or otherwise, in a binary manner. Through binary communication, the fact that the swarm is in danger reaches all individuals in an instant and thereby, the instant response. Millions and billions of binary communications add up to a sum larger than the whole. This phenomenon is no biological curiosity. It is the very essence of the logic behind understanding brain function, as also the design of artificial intelligence. If the human brain was considered a colony of independently alive neuron cells, then it can be imagined that all its nuanced thought emerges from simple, binary synapse-mediated conversations between individual neurons. The atomisation of complex thinking as emerging from binary signals also lies at the foundation of computer science. So, what does all this have to do with the peculiar effectiveness of extremist political movements, whether of the right or of the left? They combine swarm intelligence with the more conventional leadership models shown by higher-level animals. We see all around us, for example, the resurgence of powerful right-wing movements, all fuelled by leaders who provide the focus of attention, then upscaled by swarms of followers, engaged in binary conversations. A leader signals something, whether it is the need to distort history, create a false sense of assurance in a faltering economy, fuel hate against somebody, or signal success when strategies fail. From then on, the swarms take over the creating of simple messages, fake news, sloganeering and hate. Individuals down the ladder, shorn of individual capabilities for critical thinking, share messages, amplify them and make hashtags trend. Is there any political future for the critical, thinking mind then? At first sight, liberals who are ruggedly individualistic are especially unsuited for being a part of any swarm. They reject binary communications, and see their proximate supporters as competitors rather than as part of a larger, coordinated order. Yet leaderless movements are not unknown in the liberal, freedom-loving world either. Think Hong Kong, the Arab Spring, and you have the elements of swarm intelligence backing the flowering and upscaling of pro-freedom movements. Eliminating political locusts is neither practical nor desirable. What we need are more compassionate, thinking and inclusive locusts. T. R. Raghunandan is former Secretary, Rural Development and Panchayat Raj, Karnataka, and former Joint Secretary, Ministry of Panchayat Raj, Government of India
08 June 2020||June 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Profit, not profiteering||The role of the state as a big brother is problematic, and yet only a vigilant, just state can temper the avaricious excesses in the society it governs. The move by certain States to regulate hospital fees charged in the private sector for COVID-19 care falls square in this category. Bombarded with reports about exorbitant bills being raised in the private sector for hospital care of persons who tested positive for COVID-19, a few States decided to get involved, rightly so, and set a cap on the tariff that can be charged by private hospitals. In some instances, the Indian Medical Association also prayed for intervention by the government to regulate this. Maharashtra was the first to fix a tariff, followed by Gujarat and Tamil Nadu, three of the States seeing a high number of COVID-19 infections. For the initial part of the epidemic, it was the State that was the primary testing agent and care giver, for all COVID-19 cases. At that stage, few private hospitals, if any, were in the front line of the battle. All tests were initially done by the government, and anyone who tested positive was shifted to a government hospital for isolation and treatment. However, as the number of cases increased, naturally calling all hands to the deck meant the significant involvement of the private sector. Complaints of overcharging followed. Media reports revealed differential rates across the country, but costs were upwards of Rs. 7 lakh for a minimum 14-day period of hospitalisation, even for mildly symptomatic or asymptomatic patients. If intensive care unit care is warranted, then the rates would be much higher. The state’s intervention could not have been delayed any further. In fact, in retrospect, the strategy employed by the Central government to cap the price of tests for COVID-19 at Rs. 4,500 in private labs could have been used to regulate private hospitals’ charges too. Hospitals have been graded into categories, depending on facilities provided, with reasonable rates fixed per day for each category. ICU rates are naturally higher, and States have specified that private hospitals should follow the tariff for beds or they could be charged for violations. Making it a participatory process, the private sector was also co-opted into discussions on tariff. Tamil Nadu has also fixed a separate tariff for beneficiaries under the Chief Minister’s Comprehensive Health Insurance Scheme (now subsumed under the Central Insurance scheme) making it easy for patients from lower income groups to access private care treatments for COVID-19. It has also re-fixed the rate for testing in a private lab at Rs. 3,000 per test. Further watchfulness should continue on the part of the State, but shorn of high-handedness. Staying alive to the hardships of its people, it must ensure ̥that the harsh times are not further exacerbated by profiteering.
08 June 2020||June 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Upper hand||The BJP won two consecutive majorities in the Lok Sabha but still stands short of one in the Rajya Sabha. But it is, along with its partners, making a gradual upward climb, though the halfway mark is still some distance away. A string of losses in State elections in recent years slowed down its pursuit and there are more State polls in the near future that will influence its fortunes. The BJP is currently the single largest party in the Rajya Sabha with 75 members. Together with its allies, including the nominated and independent members, the tally hovers around 102 in a house of 245. The Congress is perhaps at its lowest tally, with 39 members. The Congress and its friendly parties count to 73, which includes Left parties (6), TMC (13), SP (8), NCP (4) and one each of JD (S), IUML and Kerala Congress (Mani). These numbers are fluid as parties have hopped sides depending on issues. Another cohort of parties that largely favour the ruling dispensation include the Biju Janata Dal, Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP), TDP and TRS. On June 19, elections will take place for 24 Rajya Sabha seats — only part of existing vacancies — across 10 States, and the ruling party appears to be on an overdrive to maximise its numbers. The lack of a majority in the Rajya Sabha was considered a hindrance for the BJP in the first term, particularly for economic reforms. The party devised a dubious route to bypass the Upper House in lawmaking by arbitrarily labelling bills as money bills that need approval only by the Lok Sabha. The constitutional validity of this blatant approach was challenged in the Supreme Court, where the case is now lingering. The BJP has managed to muster the numbers in the Rajya Sabha for controversial laws that advance its social and political agenda in its second term. Last July, the Muslim Women (Protection of Rights on Marriage) Bill was passed despite opposition to some of the provisions from NDA allies, the JD(U) and AIADMK. The Triple Talaq Bill as it is popularly known, sailed through as parties such as the BSP conveniently went missing during the vote. The government could also get the numbers to pass the Citizenship (Amendment) Bill. The BJP has been relentlessly chiselling away at the Opposition ranks, meanwhile. On August 5 last year, as the Centre moved the Jammu and Kashmir Reorganisation Act, Congress chief whip Bhubaneshwar Kalita was nowhere to be seen. He resigned and has since found his way back to the Rajya Sabha on the BJP ticket. The TDP lost four of its six members and Samajwadi Party, three over the last year. The BJP also has a younger bench in the house of the elders compared to the Congress. It is not that the lack of a majority has stopped the BJP from doing what it was determined to. Still, the party is leaving no stone unturned to win a majority for itself and partners.
08 June 2020||June 08 2020 00:00 IST,||When man plays god||From Mendel who a century ago formulated his famous laws of heredity to Khorana who has just succeeded in producing a synthetic gene, the biochemical unit of inheritance is a long and exciting story. But the first, major breakthrough was achieved only in the past decade with the discovery and isolation of the mysterious D.N.A. (deoxiribonucleic acid) and R.N.A. (ribonucleic acid), the basic substances in the living cell, respectively carrying the predestined pattern of life (or the genetic code) and the means of its communication to final expression. The remarkable achievement of the team of scientists of the Wisconsin University, headed by Dr. H. G. Khorana, takes these probes into the very nature of life a big step forward. Whether it will also bring within man’s grasp, in the foreseeable future, the means of tinkering with the genetic code to alter his very being to desired ends is too soon to say. And yet such possibilities of genetic engineering, thrown open by the virtuoso Khorana performance, can be both exciting and frightening.
08 June 2020||June 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Don’t lose money when interest rates drop||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has been reducing interest rates to fight the economic slowdown. Accordingly, bank deposit rates are coming down. Rates on other instruments are also following suit so that the entire interest rate structure falls in line. Falling interest rates is a global phenomenon as every country is struggling with growth. While low rates are good for those who want to avail loans, it is not so good for savers. We discuss here some pockets within debt mutual funds, which would be interesting in the current scenario. Let us see what options you have for fixed income / debt investments. For bank deposits, the rate on a State Bank of India deposit of 5-10 years maturity is 5.4%. The rate on Kisan Vikas Patra is 6.9%, National Savings Certificate, 6.8% and Monthly Income Account, 6.6%. Public Provident Fund (PPF) pays 7.1% currently, but there is an upper ceiling on investment i.e. Rs. 1.5 lakh per year. The 7.75% RBI Savings Bonds have been discontinued. They may be relaunched but the interest rate would be lower. Yields (annualised returns) of tax-free PSU bonds in the secondary market are only 4.6% to 4.7%. Against this backdrop, we will discuss certain debt mutual fund investment options. Portfolio credit quality is important as you do not want any default risk. We will mention only those funds that have a AAA-oriented/Government Security-oriented portfolio. In this context, it is relevant to understand the concept of debt fund portfolio maturity roll-down. Let’s say there is a Fixed Maturity Plan (FMP) with a 3-year maturity. As per the rules, the maximum maturity of securities in the portfolio can be 3 years. After one year, the remaining maturity of bonds in the portfolio runs down to two years. After 3 years, all the bonds in the portfolio mature and you get your money back. Since the bonds are maturing, there is no volatility risk; it does not matter to you, on the date of maturity, whether bond prices in the market are going up or down. The difference between FMPs and open-ended debt funds is that open-ended funds will always have portfolio maturity. As an example, if a Short Duration Fund has a portfolio maturity of say 3 years today, it will have a portfolio maturity of 3 years even after the passage of 3 years, or little bit here and there e.g. 2.8 years or 3.1 years. The point is, it does not behave like an FMP. Now, the concept. There are a few open ended funds which have a strategy of portfolio maturity roll-down. It is a decision taken by the AMC to run a fund with that positioning. In an FMP, there is no redemption facility available with the AMC; in open-ended funds you can redeem i.e. liquidity is available to you. The advantage here is, your volatility risk is progressively coming down with every passing day. There would be some volatility as of today, but you need not worry; you just have to hold on to the fund. Since every investor would not be aware of open-ended funds run with a strategy of portfolio maturity roll-down, we have mentioned these funds briefly. Axis Dynamic Bond Fund has a portfolio comprising AAA-rated bonds. Portfolio maturity and portfolio duration is 9.5 years and 6.3 years. Similarly, L&T Triple Ace Bond Fund has a AAA-oriented portfolio. Portfolio maturity and duration is 7.7 and 5.4 years. If you have money with a longer term objective e.g. son’s education, daughter’s marriage or want to pass on a legacy for the next generation and want to deploy it for, say, 15 years and are looking for an alternative to PPF, then you may look at Nippon India Nivesh Lakshya Fund. This fund has a portfolio comprising Government Securities only i.e. there is no credit risk. With a portfolio maturity of approximately 25 years and a modified duration of approximately 11 years, this is for the long haul. The advantages of investing in funds with this strategy are: 1) Volatility or price movement risk is taken care of, provided you hold on for the time horizon required, which is indicated by the portfolio maturity; 2) If the interest rates come down over your holding period (i.e. bond prices move up), you would get that benefit as well in these funds. Valuation for NAV is done at market-based prices; 3) There is tax efficiency in debt mutual funds, which is not there in other taxable investments. For a holding period of more than three years in debt funds, you are eligible for indexation. By virtue of indexation, price appreciation roughly equivalent to inflation for that period is allowed as deduction for tax purposes. If your fund gives say 7% per year for the holding period and inflation is say 4% per year, then (7% minus 4%) 3% is taxable at 20%. That is, effective tax payable is only 0.6% and your return is (7% minus 0.6%) 6.4%. Other investments like bank deposits are taxable at your slab rate, which is 30% for most people. If you get 7% on a deposit for illustration (which is actually lower nowadays), tax payable is (30% of 7%) i.e. 2.1% and your net return is 4.9%.  (The author is founder, wiseinvestor.in)
08 June 2020||June 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Starting point of an insurance journey||The proposal form is just one starting point of your journey to protect yourself with insurance. There are many measures built into the legal and regulatory systems for insurance which, if followed diligently, will be the insurance for your insurance policy to work optimally. The Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority (Protection of Policyholders’ Interest) Regulations, 2002 lays down the framework in this regard. Complementing and supplementing these are many other regulations that touch upon more specialised areas in detail. For example, there are regulations about certain covers such as health insurance and unit-linked insurance policies (ULIPs), about intermediaries such as brokers, web aggregators and agents and service providers such as third-party administrators and loss surveyors relating to their training, competency and code of conduct. There are even regulations about advertisements and disclosure by insurance companies and other stakeholders in the insurance industry. There are regulations relating to insurance companies’ corporate governance, financial reporting, prudential norms or investments, or the regulations mandating that rural and social sectors should receive a certain percentage of each company’s products. Though seemingly unrelated to you and me, the individual policyholders, these too have the final objective of protecting policyholders’ interests. We will take brief look at them later and see how we stand to benefit. When you are ready to fill a proposal form, you would have been briefed about your policy options, maybe read the policy brochure or prospectus to get to know the benefits, what is covered, what is not and under what terms and conditions. The Protection of Policyholders’ Interest Regulations have something to say about this part of the process too. Incidentally, the regulation encourages forms and documents to be made available in languages recognised under the Constitution of India. As per the regulations, an insurance policy prospectus should clearly state the scope of benefits and the extent of insurance cover. It should explain explicitly the warranties, exceptions and conditions of the insurance cover. If it is a life insurance policy, it should state if it is participating / with-profit or non-participating / without-profit, which determines whether or not you will share the benefits of investment income related to this policy. Riders spelt out Any riders that can be purchased with the policy should also be spelt out in detail. The above details are in keeping with utmost good faith on the part of the insurance company and disclosure of material facts. If the proposer misrepresents or suppresses any material fact (unless it is a fraud), the insurance company can repudiate claims on this basis. But this right is limited to the initial three years of a policy. This is stated in Section 45 of The Insurance Act, 1939, and the regulations state that this information should be explicitly stated in the proposal and that the proposer should be guided by it. Nomination facility Most insurance policies can be nominated and this is a basic necessity and convenience for the beneficiary to receive the claim money. Failing to make a proper nomination defeats the very purpose of an insurance policy and holds up the receipt of claim money in a tedious legal processes. The regulations underline the importance of this stating that wherever the benefit of nomination is available, “the insurer shall draw the attention of the proposer to it and encourage… to avail the facility”. Once the proposal form is submitted, the insurer makes his underwriting decision. All such decisions have to be communicated to you in writing and within 15 days.   (The writer is a business journalist specialising in insurance & corporate history)
08 June 2020||June 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Speed breaker on bourse||What is a technical glitch? Simply put, a technical glitch in the context of a stock exchange is any event that affects normal trading in equities — be it in the cash segment or the derivatives market. It can affect the market in many ways and lead to investors not getting proper price quotes; or trades not getting executed promptly; or even issues such as margins not getting reflected properly. That, in turn, affects the ability to place trades. What causes a glitch? It can be caused by many factors. Indian exchanges are one of the fastest in the world in terms of speed of trade execution — BSE claims it is the fastest with a speed of six microseconds — and hence, involve a lot of technology that comes with its share of glitches. Technology is ever evolving and at times, a new update or patch that is released could lead to certain issues. To be fair to stock exchanges, they follow a rigorous testing process before going live with it. Further, brokers have leased line connections with the exchange servers and any issue with the connectivity can also lead to a glitch. Can it halt trading? Not always. The recent past has seen instances wherein a glitch affected only a certain segment of the market or only a certain aspect affected trading. Last week, brokers alleged that prices of Bank Nifty options contracts were not getting updated properly, thus affecting trading in those contracts. In November, brokers wrote a letter to the National Stock Exchange (NSE) alleging that they were not able to update their margins. In both these instances, trading was not halted but investors were surely impacted. Incidentally, the most high-profile glitch occurred on July 10, 2017 when the NSE was forced to suspend trading for more than three hours. So, while a technical glitch may not always lead to trading suspension, it will affect investors as trade execution gets hit. Is it common globally? It’s not that only Indian exchanges face such issues. Most of the leading global bourses have faced similar issues in the past. In August 2015, the New York Stock Exchange had to halt trading due to a glitch. Prior to that, Nasdaq faced a similar issue, being forced to suspend trading for three hours on account of an alleged broken price feed. Last year, the London Stock Exchange saw the start of a trading session getting delayed by almost two hours, which it attributed to a “technical software issue.”
08 June 2020||June 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Ask Us||Q.My neighbour, aged 75, has deposited all his life savings in a fixed deposit with a small finance bank (SFB). He is worried about the safety of his money as he feels a collapse of banks is imminent. Should he transfer his money to the SBI which is offering just 5.7% interest? Are SFB deposits safe? Should he diversify his savings across other SFBs?  Muthya Kannan A.While it is unlikely that the RBI or the government will allow any commercial bank to collapse in India, your neighbour is quite right to worry about his deposits, if he has all his savings parked in a single small finance bank. Small finance banks, or SFBs, are a new category of banks licensed by the RBI that provide loans to small-ticket and less- affluent borrowers, who are usually not favoured by big banks. SFBs are required to lend at least 75% of the loans to priority sectors as defined by the RBI and at least 50% of the loans need to be below Rs. 25 lakh.This makes their loan books riskier than those of mainstream commercial banks. However, these banks are regulated stringently by the RBI. SFBs, like commercial banks, need to follow Statutory Liquidity Ratio and Cash Reserve Ratio rules, which means setting aside 22.25% of their deposits. They are required to maintain a capital adequacy ratio of 15% and cannot lend more than 10% of their capital to a single borrower. SFBs are covered by deposit insurance, just like other banks, for up to Rs. 5 lakh per account holder. While these safeguards make these banks a reasonable parking ground in normal times, these are abnormal times. Financials of most banks in India are expected to come under stress owing to COVID-19 and the lockdown that has brought businesses to a standstill. Apart from the bad loans resulting from the cash crunch, the RBI has also required banks to grant a moratorium (facility to defer repayments) to their borrowers for six months from March 1, 2020 to August 31, 2020, which can lead to businesses and individuals skipping or delaying repayments. SFBs, which lend to low-income and self-employed folks, have seen the highest proportion (70-80%) of borrowers availing of this moratorium, as self-employed folks have seen the most job losses. The resulting bad loans may require these banks to create higher provisions, denting their profitability and capital ratios in the coming months. In light of the above, your neighbour should certainly not be putting all his eggs in one basket by depositing all his life savings in one SFB. To avoid risk, it would be best for him to use SFBs for diversifying (by investing 10%), while parking the bulk of his savings in systemically important banks or post office schemes. Large, systemically important banks today offer very low deposit rates, it is true, but given the risky times we live in, it would be best to prioritise safety over returns. You can stick to 6-month to 1-year deposits so that you can switch to better rates later. Post office schemes such as Senior Citizens Savings Scheme and the Monthly Income Account offer better rates than top banks; he can maximise his deposits in those.  Q.My monthly savings are Rs. 25,000 and I want to invest in an option where I can get monthly returns. I can add to the investment every month so that my returns increase. What would be the best investment option? Ranjeet Singh A.There are several options. If safety is your priority, you can consider investing in the Post Office Monthly Income Account. This government-backed scheme has a five-year lock in period with a maximum investment limit of Rs. 4.5 lakh and pays monthly interest at 6.6% per annum. Many banks and NBFCs offer fixed deposit schemes with monthly interest payouts. Opening FDs every month, though, may be troublesome as it will entail keeping track of multiple deposits. You could invest regularly in a 6-month recurring deposit and switch the accumulated lumpsum to an FD at regular intervals. NBFC deposits are riskier than banks’ or post office schemes and you will need to check the financials/ratings of the NBFC before investing. Your final, and most risky option is debt mutual funds, which invest your money in bonds from companies. You can invest in debt funds through monthly SIPs and use systematic withdrawal plans to receive regular cash flows. Returns tend to be volatile and your capital value can fluctuate based on market movements.
08 June 2020||June 08 2020 00:00 IST,||loose change||
08 June 2020||June 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Thinking caps on after the saliva ban||The perceived loss of swing in the wake of ICC Cricket Committee’s temporary recommendation to prohibit the use of saliva to polish the ball (to tackle COVID-19) and not allow any artificial material as a substitute has divided opinion sharply. The ball manufacturers, whose responsibility it will ultimately be to ensure that the cherry behaves as it should, seem to be taking divergent stands too, but only slightly. Different approach “A few days ago Anil Kumble spoke about how instead of playing around with the ball you should rework the pitches. I think that’s a great suggestion. This way I won’t have to do much (laugh),” said Paras Anand, director in Sanspareils Greenlands (SG) that supplies the SG balls for Ranji Trophy and Test cricket in India.  “On a serious note, we are looking at all ways to give bowlers some advantage. Without saliva, I doubt fast bowlers will be able to reverse swing. So we’ve made the seam more prominent to help in lateral movement; create a harder core so that the ball will bounce more; add one more layer of lacquer to extend the lifespan.” Dilip Jajodia, the owner of British Cricket Balls Limited that manufactures the Dukes ball used in England and the West Indies, is adamant that no changes are required. “Swing is not just about the shiny side; the ball has to keep its shape and hardness,” he explained. “In the hand-stitched Dukes ball, the shoulders drop down much more like a circle than other balls which go out like an apple. The latter is not the right shape for swing. Dukes doesn’t need saliva because we already have grease in the leather. Perspiration is allowed and if you give it a vigorous polish, it should be fine.” Immediate needs Jajodia felt that the initial call for introduction of artificial substances and the ensuing debate appeared to be responding to immediate requirements. “The fast bowlers are like ‘oh we can’t swing the ball...’ Why don’t you ask if there is a spinner who will be better off and might get wickets? Playing conditions shouldn’t be changed that easily. It’s okay if it is a universal problem, but it’s not!” Paras, on his part, said that he would wait for the BCCI to spell out its requirements. “Obviously, we can’t change the dimensions of the ball but we can tweak the making of it. But this is just us preparing for what ‘might be’. We will have to wait for the BCCI to come to us before we ‘standardise’ anything.”
08 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||IOA VP alleges irregularities by Batra||The internal politics in the Indian Olympic Association (IOA) has now gone international. IOA vice-president Sudhanshu Mittal has written to the International Olympic Committee (IOC) alleging irregularities and false declarations by IOA president Narinder Batra in his election to the post. “Reference is given to Article 10.3 of the Constitution of the IOA (which states) ‘...The representatives nominated by each unit must be members of the executive bodies of such units.’ Mr. Narendra Batra was a representative on behalf of Hockey India in the December 2017 elections of the IOA and voted as a representative on behalf of Hockey India. “Since he had already resigned from any office-bearer’s post with Hockey India in order to comply with the FIH Statute, there is no possible way that he could be in the executive committee of Hockey India, unless Mr. Narender Batra has given false declarations and information to the FIH and to everyone else that he has resigned from Hockey India,” Mittal has written. Series of mails The squabbling within the IOA has been on for a while now with a series of accusatory mails being exchanged between various factions. This is the first time, however, that the matter has been taken to the IOC. Batra has countered the charge saying he would respond after resuming office later this month (he is currently on home quarantine). Interestingly, it may be noted that Batra became IOA president in 2017 after his nomination for the post was cleared by the then election commission. ‘Under scrutiny’ However, according to Mittal’s letter, it is his inclusion in the electoral college as a Hockey India executive board member that is under scrutiny. It may be remembered that Batra had been elected president of the International Hockey Federation (FIH) on November 12, 2016 and, as required by FIH rules, resigned as Hockey India president two weeks later. That decision was ratified in the Hockey India Congress on July 25, 2017.
08 June 2020||Johannesburg,||Using saliva won’t pose any risk once you are in a bubble: Pollock||Cricket can resume normally and even use of saliva to shine the ball won’t pose any health risk if the matches are played in a bio-secure environment, reckons South African great Shaun Pollock. The ICC Cricket Committee recently recommended a ban on the use of saliva to shine the ball, but allowed sweat as an interim measure to counter the coronavirus threat. ‘No ban needed’ England will make bio-secure arrangements to host the West Indies behind closed doors for a proposed three-Test series, and Pollock said such environment would not require banning any activity. “I think the environment that’ll end up being created is almost going to be like a bubble. “People will get tested, they’ll go into a two-week camp where they’re just going to sit and monitor how the conditions of their bodies change,” Pollock told the ‘Following On Cricket Podcast’ “And if there are no symptoms, it doesn’t really matter about shining the ball then, because you’re in the bubble and no one you come into contact with will have coronavirus. So you can just get on with normal proceedings.” The England and Wales Cricket Board (ECB) is planning to put up safety measures to prevent spread of the disease. It includes limiting travel by picking venues with on-site hotels, mandatory 14-day quarantine period for the visiting team, doing regular check-ups. “I’d presume that there’d be no crowds in place, every single environment they go into would be cleaned down and sprayed, and everything along those lines,” said Pollock, who has has played 303 ODIs and 101 Tests for South Africa. West Indies pace great Michael Holding has echoed similar sentiments, saying it is illogical to ban saliva when cricket will be played in a bio-secure environment.
08 June 2020||Melbourne,||It will help if Pandya is available for India: Ian Chappell||Australian great Ian Chappell feels India should pick Hardik Pandya in the Test side when it makes the trip down under later this year as the temperamental all-rounder would be crucial in handling the challenge posed by a strong home batting line-up. Back injury Pandya hasn’t featured in Tests since 2018 and has only recently recovered from a career-threatening back injury. The big-hitting medium-pacer is a vital cog in India’s limited-overs set-up. India and Australia are set to clash in a full series, including four Tests, beginning October and lasting till January 2021. “It will help if Pandya is available. He gives India an extra bowling option to maintain the pressure when the leading fast bowlers need a rest,” Chappell wrote his column for ESPNCricinfo . Pandya had recently spoken about the challenge that Test cricket is for him now, given his injury-prone back which needed surgery last year. He said that he understands his importance in limited-overs format. Third seamer “This is Pandya’s chance to gradually build up overs in the three Tests before the SCG match, where he could act as the third seamer so that a second spinner can be included,” Chappell said. “Having Pandya at No. 7 would necessitate Rishabh Pant keeping and batting at six.” Chappell said India’s biggest challenge in the Test series will be navigating through a strong Australian batting line-up, which now doesn’t rely too heavily on David Warner and Steven Smith. Under Virat Kohli, India scripted history when it earned its maiden Test-series triumph down under in 2018-19, after trying for seven decades. Potent attack Chappell feels Australia’s potent bowling attack will keep a check on the dangerous Kohli and Cheteshwar Pujara, who was the star of India’s breakthrough 2-1 series win over last time. “Australia’s strong attack should restrict India’s scoring to reasonable levels despite the daunting presence of Kohli and Pujara.”  Having Pandya at No. 7 would necessitate Rishabh Pant keeping and batting at six Ian Chappell
08 June 2020||Mumbai,||Fortunate to have played with Kohli, says Kane Williamson||New Zealand captain Kane Williamson considers himself “fortunate” to have played the game along side Virat Kohli, and said he has been closely following his Indian counterpart’s journey from a young age. Both Williamson and Kohli featured in the 2008 ICC U-19 World Cup in Malaysia, which was lifted by India and since then went on to become modern day greats of the game. “Yes, we are fortunate to play against each other. It has been great to meet at a young age and follow his (Kohli’s) progress as well as his journey,” Williamson said on Star Sports show ‘Cricket Connected’ In fact, it was Kohli’s India that beat Williamson’s New Zealand in a close semifinal of the 2008 U19 World Cup, which also featured players like Ravindra Jadeja, Trent Boult and Tim Southee. Williamson, who led New Zealand to the 2019 ICC World Cup final, said he and Kohli have shared honest opinions about the game over the last few years. “It’s been interesting, we’ve had to play against each other for a long period of time,” he said.
08 June 2020||Berlin,||Schalke goes 12 games without win||Schalke 04 scored for only the second time in its last five Bundesliga games to rescue a 1-1 draw at Union Berlin on Sunday but equalled a club record by going 12 consecutive league games without a win. The Royal Blues have now failed to win since January 17 and stayed in 10th place on 38 points. Union climbs up to 13th on 32. The hosts got off to a strong start and had carved out three good chances before Robert Andrich was sent clear by Anthony Ujah in the 11th minute to beat keeper Alexander Nuebel. Union still had Schalke on the backfoot when the visitors equalised thanks to a low drive from Everton’s on-loan full-back Jonjoe Kenny.   The results: Werder Bremen 0 lost to Wolfsburg 1 (Weghorst 82); Union Berlin 1 (Andrich 11) drew with Schalke 1 (Kenny 28).   Saturday: Borussia Dortmund 1 (Can 57) bt Hertha Berlin 0.
08 June 2020||New Delhi,||Umesh was terrified to bowl to Dravid, Laxman||India fast bowler Umesh Yadav, on Sunday, revealed he was terrified when he got to know that he would be bowling to batting greats Rahul Dravid and V.V.S. Laxman in a domestic match early in his career. Umesh recalled the Duleep Trophy 2008-09 match between Central Zone and South Zone in which he was up against Dravid and Laxman. “When I went to play the Duleep Trophy match and got to know the team I would be playing against and I would be bowling against the likes of (Rahul) Dravid and (VVS) Laxman... I was terrified,” Umesh said on Cricbuzz’s Youtube chat show ‘Spicy Pitch’. In the match, Umesh, playing for Central Zone, dismissed Laxman for 13 and Dravid for seven in the first innings and bagged a five-wicket haul.
08 June 2020||Hong Kong,||Asian Tour golf to restart in September||Golf’s Asian Tour announced on Sunday plans to restart its 2020 season with three tournaments in September as travel restrictions begin to ease across Asia. The Tour, suspended since the Malaysia Open on March 7, told AFP it aims to tee off again at the Shinhan Donghae Open from September 10 to 13 in Incheon, South Korea. It will be the first of three to be played under strict COVID-19 protocols which could mean players have to travel alone and use local caddies. The $950,000 Mercuries Taiwan Masters from September 17 to 20 and the $1.4 million Panasonic Open in Japan from September 24 to 27 will complete the opening mini-swing in three countries where lockdown and travel restrictions have already been eased. Discussions are taking place for an event in South East Asia in October before an ‘Indian Swing’ with the Panasonic Open, the rescheduled Indian Open and a possible new event in New Delhi, though dates are yet to be confirmed.
08 June 2020||June 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Wizard of words||There are four types of poets: Asu kavi — the spontaneous poet; madhura kavi — one whose verses are pleasing; vistaara kavi — one whose poetry is elaborate and chitra kavi — one whose words come together to form an image. Thirumangai Azhvar could compose in all four genres and was, therefore called Naalu kavi Perumal. His Thiruvezhukoottrirukkai, in praise of Lord Aravamudhan, the deity of Kumbakonam, falls in the category of ratha bandham, and it is because of this work that he is considered a chitra kavi. In this work, he uses words that represent numerals, to form a chariot. He uses the numerals in ascending and descending order to build the ratha of words. Thirumangai Azhvar’s ratha of words, can be represented in a figure as a ratha with seven decks. He cleverly describes and praises the auspicious qualities and amazing exploits of the Lord, while all the while using only words that refer to numerals from one to seven, said V.S. Karunakarachariar, in a discourse. Often, he resorts to puns — the same word meaning a number but also meaning something else. In one case where he has to represent three, he talks of the three-fold fortification, which Ravana’s capital city of Lanka had. A capital city should ideally have three types of protections, to keep enemies at bay — a moat, hills and forests. Lanka is blessed in this respect, for instead of a moat, it has a sea, and of course, it has forests and hills too. When having to represent two, Thirumangai Azhvar says Rama’s arrow shot out of His bow, with the hiss of the forked tongue of a snake. Forked tongue can also be expressed as two tongued. Once, with His two feet, He measured the three worlds, and so on, using numerals up to seven, Thirumangai Azhvar’s work deals with philosophy, and also describes the Lord’s attributes.
08 June 2020||June 08 2020 07:20 IST,||Sudoku - June 8, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
08 June 2020||Shinjini Ghosh,||Takeaways from the lockdown||Staring at a bleak future, despite getting the green signal to open, the only way to fetch some revenue during the lockdown for restaurants has been through home deliveries and takeaway. Burdened by huge fixed costs, restaurants are going all out to quell customer sentiments by launching measures like contactless delivery, introducing hygiene ratings, and live streaming of kitchens among others to ensure that COVID-19 does not spread. Despite this, restaurant owners lamented that customers are still apprehensive and business is nowhere close to profitable. They realise that it would take a while before they see customers walking in. Their hopes now hinge on the delivery business improving. With most offices and educational institutions shut, many fast food joints and quick service restaurants have taken a hit as people no longer want to pick up a meal on the go. Jaspal Singh Sahni, owner of Kents restaurant in Defence Colony, said that during the initial phase of the lockdown, he could not open his restaurant as most of his staff were unable to commute from their homes. However, after restrictions were eased, he could garner 50% of the staff. “Business has been hit as it is only my regular customers from the residential colony who are ordering in and coming to pick up orders. But at least with takeaway, I have been able to pay the salaries of my employees. Something is better than nothing,” Mr. Sahni said. Staff maintenance Anmol Rampal, who runs a chain called Hungry Tau in Gurugram, admitted that diminished business over the last three months meant difficulty in maintaining the staff. “We have around 33 people and they were all given salaries during the lockdown period. However, the situation is becoming increasingly difficult. To add to this, support from the government has been nil with no benefits whatsoever for MSMEs,” said Mr. Rampal. Out of his four outlets in Gurugram, only one is operational to restrict the prospects of staff getting infected. “We do not want to take a chance as everyone is very scared at the moment. We have the same set of three people working for us every day and they even stay together. This arrangement has been done to limit the chances of getting infected. Full PPE kits are also provided to the kitchen staff and the entire restaurant is sanitised every third day,” explained Mr. Rampal. Live kitchen  In a bid to reduce customers’ apprehension, several outlets are developing user-friendly apps that would stream a live feed of the kitchens. Ashwin Jain, co-founder of Instapizza, an online pizza delivery platform said: “Due to the rapid spread of COVID-19, people have become more hygiene and cleanliness conscious, leading to less ordering of food from outside. To ensure customers can see what is done while baking the crusts, Instapizza has introduced #CrustFlix, where they can live stream what’s cooking in the kitchen.” With eight outlets operational in Delhi-NCR, Mr. Jain said that business had picked up marginally since Unlock 1.0 was announced. “Weekends are comparatively better than those in the lockdown. But it is nothing close to pre-lockdown days,” said Mr. Jain. Apart from partnering with online delivery partners, the pizza outlet also maintains its own fleet of delivery executives who carry extra pairs of gloves and sanitisers with each delivery, said Mr. Jain. “The delivery executives sanitise themselves before each delivery and they have been instructed to wear a fresh pair of gloves before opening the bag. We also provide a small sanitiser with each pizza box so that the customer can sanitise the box if they feel like. For delivery executives of other platforms, temperatures are checked each time and in case of any anomaly, it will be reported to the platform concerned,” said Mr. Jain. Dipping business For smaller takeaways like the one in Kalkaji, offering Chinese cuisine, has been difficult even after the relaxation of restrictions. “We do not have a dine-in facility and have always been only delivering food. We have been badly hit as people are very scared to order these days. Most of our regular customers are also preferring to stay away for some time. Every time we get a query we try to assure them that all kinds of precautions, including masks and sanitisers, are taken by everyone,” said a staffer of the joint. Suraj, a delivery driver with Swiggy, said that business had been terrible during the lockdown. “We used to get paid Rs. 500 a day regardless of the number of deliveries earlier, now it has come down to Rs. 300 a day,” said Suraj. Under the lockdown, the company had reduced their salaries, and with clients turning fearful, Suraj admitted that the number of orders had drastically fallen. Another delivery driver Raju, a resident of Khanpur, concurred. “It all went bad when that pizza delivery guy in Malviya Nagar fell ill,” he said. Prior to that case, which led to the quarantining of nearly 70 people, business was brisk. “Earlier, we would get paid Rs. 35 a delivery, that rate has been brought down to Rs. 15 a delivery since the beginning of June. Earlier, I would earn about Rs. 16,000-17,000 a month. Now I just hope to manage basic expenses like food,” he said. Steady growth Online delivery platform Zomato said that the number of restaurants and delivery agents who continued to operate at the beginning of the lockdown was very low as most people were trying to cope with the virus and measures to keep oneself safe. “However, the number has grown steadily since then and is already at about 50% for both restaurant partners and delivery fleet,” the company said in a statement. In the context of the pandemic, Zomato said that there had been a growing preference towards restaurants that followed safety protocols such as contactless delivery, temperature checks, sanitisation of kitchens and the mandatory use of the Aarogya Setu app. It added that restaurants which had a hygiene rating saw a 20% less impact on their business during the pandemic as opposed to those that didn’t. More the merrier While many restaurants had to temporarily shut down during this period, a spokesperson from Swiggy said that through the lockdowns one to four, there has been a consistent increase in the number of restaurants opening up along with an increase in the number of customers. Additionally, the company said that it has on-boarded hundreds of new restaurants that were earlier heavily focused on dine-in services and were not available for online delivery. “These include marquee hotels such as Marriott, Hyatt, and ITC Hotels to name a few,” the spokesperson added. To ensure safety standards, the company continues to encourage ‘no contact’ deliveries on all prepaid orders and highlights restaurants adhering to strict safety guidelines, it said. The National Restaurant Association of India (NRAI) said that it has been in talks with both Central as well as State governments seeking policy and liquidity support for the beleaguered Industry as it does not expect the volume of business in the post-pandemic period to be more than 30% to 40% of the pre-lockdown numbers. The association said that the lockdown had made it realise that it is important to take larger control of the digital world to provide ordering and billing solutions for the long-term well-being of the fraternity by identifying aggregator alternatives. It said that restaurants were being left at the mercy of aggregators which were the “new-age digital landlords” and it has started making efforts to come up with its own tech-solutions that would benefit restaurant owners instead of a few “digital giants”.
08 June 2020||New Delhi,||Places of worship in city take precautions before reopening||With the Delhi government granting permission to places of worship to open from Monday, many have prepared to ensure social distancing and sanitisation while others have decided to remain shut. At the Kalkaji temple, the local management has installed a sanitisation tunnel, which the devotees have to walk through before entering the premises. Apart from this, hand sanitisers have also been kept at various points inside the temple. The management has also placed stickers on the floor to make sure devotees keep distance from each other. “We won’t let more than 20 people at a time,” said Lokesh Bharadwaj, general secretary of the temple management committee, asserting that all guidelines laid out by the government would be followed. Only devotees wearing masks would be allowed inside and offerings would be disallowed, Mr. Bharadwaj said. Those entering the premises will also have to get their temperature checked at the entrance and anyone suspected of having an illness would not be allowed. “We will cooperate with the police... their help will be crucial to ensure there is no crowding,” Mr. Bharadwaj said.  ‘Avoid gatherings’ An advisory on the entry into the Jama Masjid has also been issued by Deputy Shahi Imam Syed Bukhari. Devotees have been requested to avoid large gatherings and ensure social distancing. People above the age of 65 and below 15 have been asked to take precautions. Stickers have been put on the floor and verandas to ensure people maintain a one-arm distance between themselves during namaz. Everyone will be required to wear masks, carry sanitisers and avoid standing shoulder to shoulder. The advisory also states that ablution before namaz must be carried out at home before coming to the mosque as services for the same will temporarily remain closed. Devotees have also been asked to bring their own carpets. The Church of Christ at Chittaranjan Park, on the other hand, is likely to remain shut for one more month at least, caretaker Ravinder Maurya said. “The government may allow places to open, but we all know there is a pandemic and we are not going to open any time soon” he said.
08 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Chargesheet filed in woman’s ‘murder’ during riots||The Delhi police filed a chargesheet before a court on Sunday against six persons in the alleged murder of an 85-year-old woman. She was choked to death when her house was torched during the communal violence in north-east Delhi in February. The Delhi Police Crime Branch filed the chargesheet before Metropolitan Magistrate Rakesh Kumar Rampuri against the six persons who were allegedly part of a mob that set on fire Akbari Begum’s house, eventually leading to her death. The court has put up the matter for consideration of the chargesheet on June 21. The chargesheet was filed against Arun Kumar, Varun Kumar, Vishal Singh, Ravi Kumar, Prakash Chand, and Suraj Singh for offences of rioting (147 and 148), unlawful assembly (149), murder (302), attempt to murder (307), dacoity with murder (396), mischief by fire (436), trespass (455), causing disappearance of evidence (201), disobedience of public servant’s order (188) and common intention (34) under the Indian Penal Code. All the accused are in judicial custody. The offences entail a maximum punishment of death penalty. The Crime Branch has so far filed 13 chargesheets in cases related to north-east Delhi riots. It was investigating 59 cases related to murder and rioting.
08 June 2020||June 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Reflections of a rainy day||
