08 November 2020||WILMINGTON/WASHINGTON,||Biden wins presidential race in a deeply divided United States||Democrat Joe Biden captured the U.S. presidency on Saturday, several major television networks said, as voters narrowly rebuffed Republican incumbent Donald Trump’s tumultuous leadership and embraced Mr. Biden’s promise to fight COVID-19 and fix the economy in a divided nation. When the former Vice-President enters the White House on January 20, the oldest person to assume the office at 78, he likely will face a difficult task governing in a deeply polarised Washington, underscored by a record nationwide voter turnout. His projected victory came after four days of nail-biting suspense over the outcome of Tuesday’s election, with the counting of votes in a handful of battleground states ongoing thanks to a flood of mail-in ballots. Mr. Biden said on Friday he expected to win but stopped short of giving a victory speech. A Trump adviser acknowledged on Friday that the race had tilted, but said the President was not ready to admit defeat. Mr. Biden had a 273 to 214 lead in the state-by-state Electoral College vote that determines the winner, having won Pennsylvania’s 20 electoral votes to put him over the 270 he needed to secure the presidency, according to Edison Research. To secure the win, Mr. Biden faced unprecedented challenges. These included Republican-led efforts to limit mail-in voting at a time when a record number of people were due to vote by mail because of the pandemic, which has killed over 2,35,000 people in the country. Mr. Trump showed no sign he was ready to concede, as his campaign pursued a series of lawsuits that legal experts said were unlikely to alter the outcome. “From the beginning we have said all legal ballots must be counted and all illegal ballots should not be counted, yet we have met resistance to this basic principle by Democrats at every turn,” he said in a statement released by his campaign.
08 November 2020||Washington DC,||Joe Biden elected 46th President of the United States||Democratic candidate Joseph Robinette Biden Jr., was elected the 46th President of the United States late on Saturday morning, beating incumbent U.S. President Donald Trump, by securing more than the required 270 of the 538 Electoral College votes needed to win the White House. Mr. Biden’s running mate, Kamala Devi Harris, a U.S. Senator from California, will become the first woman and the first Indian and African American Vice-President of the country. Mr. Biden will inherit, from President Trump, a deeply divided country, battered by the coronavirus pandemic, facing high levels of unemployment and fraying race relations. As news agencies such as CNN, the Associated Press, andThe New York Timesstarted projecting Mr. Biden as the winner, celebratory shouts, car horns and festive music was heard on the streets of Washington DC as Americans had waited more than three full days to hear who their next President would be. Similar celebrations were reported in other cities across the country, including New York. Pennsylvania taken The win came as Mr. Biden, who was at 253 electoral college votes going into Saturday, as per most news agencies, was projected to win Pennsylvania — a gain of 20 electoral seats. The Democratic candidate was ahead by over 34,000 votes in Pennsylvania late Saturday morning — too large a gap for Mr. Trump to bridge, based on the fact that the majority of mail-in ballots tend to be Democratic and based on the number of ballots Republican and Democratic counties had left to count. Mr. Biden was also leading Mr. Trump, who had 214 electoral votes going into Saturday, in other key swing States. Mr. Biden led Arizona (11 electoral votes) by more than 20,000 votes; Nevada (6) by over 25,000 votes; Georgia — which is likely heading for a recount — by over 7,000 votes. Mr. Trump led in North Carolina by over 76,000 votes. “America, I’m honoured that you have chosen me to lead our great country. The work ahead of us will be hard, but I promise you this: I will be a President for all Americans — whether you voted for me or not. I will keep the faith that you have placed in me,” Mr. Biden said on Twitter, in his first public reaction to the news. ‘Soul of America’  On Friday night, Mr. Biden had stopped short of giving a victory speech, but delivered remarks about the need to bring the country together. “This election is about so much more than @JoeBiden or me. It’s about the soul of America and our willingness to fight for it. We have a lot of work ahead of us. Let’s get started,” Ms. Harris tweeted. The Vice-President Elect posted a video of herself calling [apparently] Mr. Biden. “We did it…we did it, Joe. You’re going to be the next President of the United States,” she says in the video. Ms. Harris was born to Shyamala Gopalan, a biologist who immigrated to California from Chennai.
08 November 2020||New Delhi,||Mahagathbandhan ahead: exit polls||As the three-phase Bihar Assembly election drew to a close on Saturday, exit polls unanimously predicted a clear edge for the Mahagatbandhan, led by Rashtriya Janata Dal’s Tejashwi Yadav. The counting of votes is scheduled for November 10. A majority of the polls predicted a sharp drop in the number of seats for Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar-led NDA. The BJP, however, is likely to retain its 2015 tally, with some polls predicting a slight increase. For the Mahagathbandhan, polls have predicted a huge jump for the RJD and in particular, popular support for Mr. Tejashwi Yadav. The exit polls also predicted that the Congress is proving to be the weak link in the Mahagatbandhan and is unlikely to pull through its part of the bargain. The Lok Janshakti Party, which drew a lot of attention contesting alone outside the NDA, as per exit polls is not any where close to playing the king maker it had expected to. The polls have predicted just between 1-10 seats for Chirag Paswan’s outfit. Two of the polls — India Today-Axis and Chankaya-News 18 — predicted a clear sweep for the Mahagatbandhan. The India Today-Axis polls predicted a two-third majority for the Mahagatbandhan with 139-161 seats.
08 November 2020||Sriharikota,||Earth observation satellite launched||India successfully launched its latest earth observation satellite EOS-01 and nine international customer spacecraft on board a Polar rocket from the spaceport here on Saturday, in its first mission this year amid the COVID-19 pandemic. The Indian Space Research Organisation’s (ISRO) workhorse Polar Satellite Launch Vehicle (PSLV-C49) injected EOS-01, intended for applications in agriculture, forestry and disaster management support, and other satellites, one by one in orbit, around 20 minutes after lift-off from the Satish Dhawan Space Centre (SDSC), about 110 km from Chennai, at 3.12 p.m. This is ISRO’s first mission in 2020 after the COVID-19 pandemic induced lockdown disturbed 10 missions being planned by the agency. The nine customer satellites are from the U.S., Lithuania and Luxembourg. ISRO Chairman K. Sivan described the mission as a “success” and termed it as “unusual” for ISRO as a rocket launch cannot happen like “work from home” and all engineers and technicians had to travel from different centres and work together at Sriharikota for rocket launches. “Today, I am extremely happy to declare that PSLV-C49 successfully placed earth observation satellite EOS-01 as well as nine customer satellites precisely into 575 km orbit,” he said at the Mission Control Centre. Subsequent to the successful launch, the primary satellite commenced operating its own functions, including deployment of solar panels, Dr. Sivan said. ISRO made arrangements for the live telecast of the launch through various platforms.
08 November 2020||Hyderabad,||Constable runs to make way for ambulance||“Congratulations Daddy” — the message written on a piece of paper by his seven-year-old daughter moved a traffic constable to tears. His child was among the thousands who appreciated his response to a call of duty. Abids traffic constable G. Babji last week went the extra mile to save the life of a cardiac patient being transported in an ambulance, and it has earned him praise from Union Ministers and also ordinary folk who watched him on their televisions. For Mr. Babji, a resident of Hyderabad’s Lal Darwaza, it was but a dull day until he sighted an ambulance blaring its horn, seeking immediate road clearance on the busy Bank Street-Koti stretch during peak hours. As the siren was not heeded by the chock-a-block traffic, the 38-year-old constable started running in front of the ambulance, waving and gesticulating to other vehicles to give way for the emergency vehicle. The patient was admitted in time and his life saved within the golden hour, thanks to Mr. Babji’s efforts. The patient’s son, who was sitting in the front cabin of the vehicle, videographed the constable, who ran for almost 2 km. “I did not know I was being videographed. I was only focused on securing clearance for the ambulance,” Mr. Babji told The Hindu . He informed his inspector about the incident and went back home at night. Two days later, when the video went viral on social media winning hearts on the internet, he was hailed as ‘hero’.
08 November 2020||MANGALURU,||Traffic diversion in Hampankatta area from today||Police Commissioner Vikash Kumar Vikash on Saturday issued a notification diverting traffic in the Central Business District area for about two months from Sunday for enabling road development works on the main road from Hampankatta Junction towards Light House Hill. The diversion will be in force from November 8 to January 6, 2021. It is for laying underground drainage pipeline and concreting the main road under the Smart City Mission. Accordingly, traffic from Navabhart Circle to Hampankatta on the K.S. Rao Road has been banned. There will be one-way traffic from Hampankatta Junction to Navabharat Circle. Vehicles from Hampankatta Junction towards Light House Hill and Falnir should ply via K.S. Rao Road, Navbharat Circle, PVS Circle, Bunts Hostel, and Ambedkar Circle. Traffic from Ambedkar Circle to Hampankatta should operate via Balmatta Road, Milagres Cross Road, Government Wenlock Hospital Road (the one which passes above the hospital underpass), Central Railway Station, U.P. Malya Road, and A.B. Shetty Circle. Parking on the Milagres Road has been banned. Traffic from the Mangaluru Central to Hampankatta via Government Wenlock Hospital Road (the one which passes above the hospital underpass) has been banned. The notification said that two-way traffic has been allowed from Ambedkar Circle towards Light House Hill. The restrictions will not apply to emergency services and police vehicles, the notification added.
08 November 2020||Kolkata,||Cong. MLA, BJP leader join TMC in West Bengal||A Congress MLA on Saturday joined the Trinamool Congress (TMC) while a sitting ruling party legislator publicly expressed discontent against the party as political battle lines in West Bengal are being drawn and redrawn ahead of Assembly polls scheduled next year. Qazi Abdur Rahim, Congress MLA representing Baduria Assembly seat in North 24 Parganas joined the TMC in the presence of senior ministers Firhad Hakim and Partha Chatterjee at the party headquarters. Mr. Rahim said the reason for him switching sides was to strengthen Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee fight against the BJP. Others who joined TMC on Saturday included Moumita Basu Chakraborty, a senior functionary of BJP’s Mahila Morcha in the State, and over half a dozen retired police officers. However, the TMC faced some criticism on social media from one of its own MLAs — Mihir Goswami, MLA from Cooch Behar south. Mr. Goswami recently met the BJP MP from Cooch Behar Nitish Pramanik and attempts by the TMC to win him over have not worked.
08 November 2020||Srinagar,||Gupkar alliance to compete in DDC polls||Six constituents of the People’s Alliance for the Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) held a meeting on Saturday and decided to contest the upcoming District Development Council (DDC) polls jointly. “The PAGD has decided to fight the DDC elections unitedly. Despite the abruptness of the DDC elections in terms of timing, it is important that this sacred space in democracy is not allowed to be invaded and marauded by divisive forces,” PAGD spokesperson Sajad Lone said. The decision is significant in the backdrop of the National Conference and the Peoples Democratic Party, both part of the Gupkar alliance, boycotting the panchayat and urban bodies polls in 2018 over the issue of Article 370. The alliance meeting was held at NC president Dr. Farooq Abdullah’s house in Jammu. J&K Congress president G.A. Mir held a separate press conference to announce the party’s decision to contest the DDC polls.
08 November 2020||Mumbai,||COVID-19: Maharashtra adds 3,959 new cases, 150 deaths||Maharashtra on Saturday reported 3,959 fresh COVID-19 cases, taking its total case tally to 17,14,273, according to State Health Department. With 150 fatalities, the death toll has climbed to 45,115. A total of 6,748 patients were discharged, taking the tally of recoveries to 15,69,090, a health official said. The number of active cases has decreased from 1 lakh to 99,151. Mumbai reported 576 new cases and 23 more fatalities. With this, the cumulative case tally in the city has risen to 2,63,049, while the death toll has surged to 10,422, the official added. Mumbai division, which consists of Mumbai city and its satellite towns, reported 1,148 new cases, raising its total case tally to 5,94,259. A total of 18,002 people have succumbed to the virus so far in the region, the official said. “The number of cases in Pune division stood at 4,32,363 and deaths at 10,074,” he said. Nashik division’s cumulative case tally stood at 2,30,106 and the total death toll at 4,347, he said. A total of 93,78,531 tests have been conducted in Maharashtra so far.
08 November 2020||Mumbai,||Arnab fails to get relief from Bombay HC||In an unconventional hearing, the Bombay High Court on Saturday reserved the order in the interim bail plea filed by Editor-in-Chief of Republic TV Arnab Goswami, who is in judicial custody in connection with a 2018 case of abetment of suicide. A division bench of Justices S.S. Shinde and M.S. Karnik reserved the order after hearing the matter for an entire day. Once an order/judgment is reserved, the court can take up to three months to deliver it. However, the Bench said that it would try to give the order as early as possible. The court said, “We can’t pass any order today.” “We will clarify that pendency of the petition will not bar the petitioner from approaching the sessions court for bail and if such an application is filed, it should be decided within four days,” the court said. After Mr Goswami was arrested on November 4 by Raigad Police and was sent to judicial custody for 14 days by the chief judicial magistrate. He then moved the high court on November 6 seeking immediate release and quashing of the FIR against him. He along with Firoz Shaikh and Niteesh Sardaare charged with sections 306 (abetment of suicide) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code. They have been accused of not paying Naik Rs 5.04 crore. The court said all the petitioners can seek regular bail under Section 439 (special powers of high court or court of session regarding bail) of the Code of Criminal Procedure. The bench heard arguments by senior advocates Harish Salve and Aabad Ponda representing Mr Goswami, senior advocate Amit Desai for Maharashtra government, Advocates Vijay Agarwal for Mr Sarda for three days. On Saturday, Mr Desai argued that Mr Goswami is not under unlawful custody and he is under judicial custody.He said, “Arrest happens before a person is produced before the Magistrate. The moment your illegal arrest has resulted in a judicial remand, the question of arrest is not relevant later.” He added, “The issue of arrest is distinct from issue of custody. Questions of quashing FIR for not disclosing offence, question of illegal arrest and question of detention are different.”
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Biden’s team steps up transition plans||Joe Biden’s advisers accelerated their transition planning on Friday as election results showed him with an advantage in battleground States, well before Saturday’s victory for Mr. Biden. In Wilmington, Delaware, and Washington, Mr. Biden’s allies are ramping up conversations about who might fill critical posts.page 12
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Are media outlets ditching Donald Trump?||Fox News and the New York Post , magnate Rupert Murdoch’s main media outlets, appeared to distan-ce themselves from Donald Trump as the U.S. vote counting drama dragged on. On Thursday in Phoenix, Arizona, supporters of Mr. Trump bluntly shouted “Fox News Sucks” after the channel called Arizona for Joe Biden.Page 12
08 November 2020||New Delhi,||Record COVID deaths in Delhi, toll nears 7,000||The Capital recorded the highest single-day spike in deaths due to COVID-19 complications, with 79 fatalities reported in the past 24 hours. The death toll now stands at 6,912. The city also reported 6,953 new COVID cases in the past 24 hours, taking the total to 4,30,784. As many as 3,83,614 patients have recovered so far while there are 40,258 active cases.
08 November 2020||Bengaluru,||Task force suggests NEP be introduced from 2021||The task force that was constituted for the implementation of the National Education Policy (NEP) has recommended that it be introduced across schools in Karnataka from the next 2021-22 academic year in a phased manner. The final report was submitted to the State government on Saturday.
08 November 2020||MANGALURU,||Sridhar calls for waste segregation at source||Asking people to segregate waste at their house, Mangaluru City Corporation Commissioner Akshy Sridhar on Saturday said this is necessary to cut the government’s expenditure on waste management. A large portion of the tax collected is now being spent on waste management and there is little left for taking up development projects.
08 November 2020||Mumbai,||High Court issues notice to Mumbai police chief||The Bombay High Court on Saturday issued notices to Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh and other police officers in a plea filed by Hansa Research Group requesting that a probe in the Television Rating Points manipulation case be transferred to the CBI. A Division Bench was hearing a plea filed by the group that alleges harassment by police officers and others in the Crime Branch. The advocate representing the group said police officers were calling employees of Hansa every day to the Crime Branch office and forcing them to give statements that could implicate Republic TV.
08 November 2020||Chennai,||Tamil Nadu tops in water management||Tamil Nadu has bagged the first place in the best State (normal) category in the National Water Awards, 2019. The construction of 100 checkdams and anicuts is among the factors for the recognition, officials said.
08 November 2020||Chennai,||Active cases fall under 19,000 after five months||Even as the number of persons under treatment fell below 19,000 on Saturday after nearly five months, the State reported 2,341 new cases of COVID-19. Active cases in the State are 18,966. Another 2,352 persons were discharged, and 25 persons succumbed to the infection.
08 November 2020||Kolkata,||covid cases||West Bengal on Saturday recorded 3,928 new COVID-19 cases, taking the tally in the State to 4,01,394. The State also recorded 58 deaths in the past 24 hours taking the fatalities to 7,235. A record 4,339 people were discharged in the past 24 hours taking the discharge rate to 89.46%. The number of active cases also dropped to 35,088. Of the 58 reported deaths, Kolkata accounted for 20, taking the fatalities to 2,307. North 24 Parganas district recorded 15 deaths taking the toll in the district to 1,672. The percentage of positive cases out of samples tested rose to 8.24%. Kolkata also recorded 851 new cases taking the total infections to 87,387.
08 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||At 7,178, Delhi reports maximum COVID cases||The national capital has overtaken Maharashtra and Kerala to report 7,178 new COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours. There were 577 COVID-19 fatalities in the past 24 hours in the country. Over 27.9% of the new fatalities were reported from Maharashtra (161). Delhi and West Bengal followed it with 64 and 55 respectively.
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||A race against the clock to keep the planet cool||The U.S. could become the leader in the world’s quest to avert dangerous climate change under a Joe Biden presidency, marking a return to global cooperation and reversing President Donald Trump’s isolationist rejection of efforts to cut carbon emissions. On November 4, a year after serving notice, and three years after expressing its intent, the U.S., under Mr. Trump, formally exited the UN’s Paris Agreement on Climate Change. This concluded the repudiation of the vision outlined by President Barack Obama in the French capital in 2015 to over 150 country leaders at the UN climate conference. He had assured them that “the United States of America not only recognises our role in creating this problem, we embrace our responsibility to do something about it.” Mr. Biden, who worked with Mr. Obama to win acceptance for the climate accord, has vowed to return to the Paris Agreement on his very first day in office. Pressure from civil society is mounting on all countries to act on carbon emissions, in order to keep global temperature rise well within the goal of 2⁰C from pre-industrial levels, and to try and limit it to 1.5⁰C, as mandated by the Paris Agreement. The global compact works on the principle of voluntary national contributions to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and came into force on November 4, 2016. So far, 188 out of 197 parties to the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) have ratified it, but the U.S. is no longer a party after Mr. Trump's move. Under the Agreement, developed countries are required to help raise funds for developing countries, aid in efforts to mitigate and adapt to climate change, and help transfer clean technologies. But out of $100 billion dollars targeted to be raised for such climate funding by 2020, the latest assessed figure in 2018 was $78.9 billion, an OECD study says. Fund flows slowed after the U.S. decided to withdraw. The Paris Agreement also lays emphasis on transparency, requiring all parties to submit national emissions sources and removals of carbon dioxide, using good practices outlined by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC). These reports are to be technically reviewed, and the performance of countries compared with the emissions reductions they have pledged. As the second largest emitter of CO2, and a superpower with a wide body of research on climate issues, the U.S. has a major role in advancing global goals. Mr. Trump has spent a great deal of time undoing the measures taken by his predecessor to cut greenhouse gas emissions, focusing on high-pollution sectors such as outmoded coal plants and fossil-fuel-powered ground transport, and defunding enforcement. Over the past four years, Mr. Obama’s rules created impact, with the International Energy Agency estimating the fall in U.S. energy-related carbon dioxide emissions in 2019 at 2.9%, or 140 million tonnes, the highest for any country. The COVID-19 pandemic produced the temporary effect of sharply reducing emissions in all countries, including the U.S., exceeding even the years of the Second World War. The fall in emissions in the first half of 2020 globally may be of the order of 8.8% compared to the previous year, coinciding with the lockdowns, researchers report in Nature Communications . But as countries have opened up again, emissions have also begun to rise, turning the focus back on longer-term clean energy solutions envisaged in the climate accord. The Biden Plan This is where the Democratic leader hopes to make a mark. The Biden Plan for a Clean Energy Revolution and Environmental Justice, which he articulated during the presidential election campaign, vows to steer the U.S. back to its leadership position, after re-entering the Paris Agreement. The process requires only a notification to be sent to the UN. Within 100 days, he’s also promised to host a world summit on climate at which the leaders of the nations with the highest emissions [which would include China, the European Union and India] would be engaged, to collaborate and raise ambition on cutting greenhouse gases. Under the Paris pact, updated plans aimed at achieving enhanced goals are expected to be filed by ratifying countries every five years, and they are due in 2020, although the pandemic has slowed progress. If Mr. Biden gets the opportunity to put U.S. policy back on track, it will mean a return to the UN system’s scientific consensus on climate change and a progressive plan to come up with enforceable targets that will take America to net zero emissions by mid-century and achieve measurable progress on this goal by 2025. The Democratic plan also adheres to the vision of a Green New Deal, with its promise of good jobs. Mr. Biden sees a “huge opportunity to revitalise the U.S. energy sector, boost growth economy-wide, and reclaim the mantle as the world’s clean energy leader and top exporter”. His emphasis on multilateralism, which underpins the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change and the Paris Agreement, implies strong emphasis on arrangements to increase funding and transfer of clean technologies that innovation makes possible. These objectives are part of Articles 10, 11, and 13 of the accord. Mr. Biden would have to forge a difficult consensus on using prices and levies to move to a low carbon business path. In his climate plan, he has spoken of preventing other countries, including China, becoming “destination economies” for polluters. He also favours adjustment fees or quotas for carbon-intensive goods from other countries, aligned with steps to make domestic polluters pay. Policy rollback The opposite scenario, of continued policy rollback launched by the Trump administration, is expected to lead to a massive increase in emissions. One assessment by the Rhodium Group, cited by climate analysts, says1.8 gigatonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent could be added by 2035 by weakening regulations found in the Clean Power Plan, vehicular fuel efficiency norms and those on greenhouse gases from refrigerants and air-conditioning. So far, favourable market conditions for better fuels such as natural gas, solar and wind power, and efforts by State, city and municipal administrations to cut emissions have blunted the effects of Mr. Trump’s policy measures. For context, climate analysts say the world had a budget of 570 gigatonnes left to limit warming to 1.5⁰C in 2018. A wide chasm separates the two U.S. leaders on the climate question, with staggering implications. Leaders in all countries are under pressure to act on carbon emissions, in order to keep global temperature rise well within the Paris goals. Without far-sighted U.S. policy, which acknowledges the responsibility of the industrialised world to help developing nations, and its legacy of carbon emissions, valuable momentum to create a safer planet will be lost over the next four years. COVID-19 has come as a reset moment for development pathways, and the future course crucially depends on who leads the U.S.  In Focus The Paris Agreement came into force on November 4, 2016, and works on the principle of voluntary national contributions to reduce greenhouse gas emissions  It seeks to keep global temperature rise well within the goal of 2⁰C from pre-industrial levels, and to try and limit it to 1.5⁰C  So far, 188 out of the 197 parties to the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change have ratified it, but the U.S. is no longer a party after Donald Trump pulled the country out   As countries have opened up after lockdowns, emissions have begun to rise after a temporary fall, turning the focus back on longer-term clean energy solutions
08 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||House panel issues privilege notice to ED||The State Assembly Committee of Privileges and Ethics has asked the Enforcement Directorate (ED) to explain why the House should not deem its decision to summon the records of the LIFE Mission project in entirety as a breach of legislative prerogative. In a communique to Assistant Director of ED, Kochi, P. Radhakrishnan, the committee cited a complaint filed by Communist Party of India (Marxist) legislator James Mathew, who had alleged that the ED’s action had impeded the progress of the LIFE Mission project. The scheme is aimed at providing free housing to the poor. The ED should have limited its inquiry to the alleged money-laundering angle of the UAE Red Crescent-LIFE Mission deal to construct 140 dwellings for the poor at Wadakkanchery in Thrissur at an estimated cost of Rs. 20 crore. Instead, the ED tried to bring the entire LIFE Mission project under the ambit of its investigation. The agency overstepped its legal bounds and in the process infringed on the legislative privilege, Mr. Mathew had said. The committee has issued notice to the ED under Section 159 of the Kerala Legislative Assembly Rules of Procedure and Conduct of Business. The agency has a week to respond. The notice seemed to have laid the ground for another protracted bout of legal and political wrangling between the Centre and State over the "encroachment" of federal law enforcement onto the purview of the provincial government. Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala has reacted sharply to the move by stating that the committee's notice to the ED was a fig leaf intended to cover up high-level government corruption. In a letter to the Speaker, Mr. Chennithala said the committee had used the imprimatur of the Assembly to protect the selfish interests of the government.  ED should have limited its inquiry to the alleged money-laundering angle of the UAE Red Crescent-LIFE Mission deal
08 November 2020||KASARAGOD,||Legislator from Kerala arrested||A Special Investigation Team (SIT) of the Crime Branch on Saturday arrested Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) leader and Manjeswaram MLA M.C. Kamaruddin in connection with the Fashion Gold jewellery investment scam. Mr. Kamaruddin was arrested during an interrogation that started at 10 a.m. at the district police training centre. Mr. Kamaruddin is accused in 109 cheating cases registered in connection with the scam. Mr. Kamaruddin, as the chairman of Fashion Gold and three other companies, and co-accused Pookoya Thangal, who is the managing director, allegedly cheated investors after accepting money and gold from them. Mr. Kamaruddin has been arrested in the four cases that were initially registered at the Chandera police station. The MLA was taken to the Kasaragod General Hospital for COVID-19 examination and then produced before the Hosdurg Judicial Magistrate. Meanwhile, Mr. Pookoya was also summoned by the police and questioned for nine hours. It is learned that he was also arrested along with Mr. Kamaruddin. Many of the complainants in the case are IUML workers and supporters. This is the first time that an MLA is being arrested in the State for financial fraud. The arrest has come at a time when the State is preparing for the local body elections. The arrest is likely to have a major impact on the United Democratic Front and the IUML’s prospects. Earlier, the probe team also questioned Mahin Haji, the mediator appointed by the IUML to resolve the issue, for three hours. The investigation team will look into whether there are any discrepancies between the statements regarding the current assets and liabilities of the jeweller. Mr. Kamaruddin said there was a planned conspiracy behind the arrest. “I have no part in it. No offence is in my name. The only reason I am prosecuted is because I am the chairman,” he said. No notice was served on him before the arrest, he said adding that his case would be considered in Kerala High Court on Monday.
08 November 2020||NEW DELHI ,||Delhi reports most virus cases||There were 577 COVID-19 fatalities in the past 24 hours in the country, and of these, 10 States/Union Territories accounted for nearly 83% of the deaths, according to a release issued by the Union Health Ministry on Saturday. Over 27.9% of the new fatalities were reported from Maharashtra (161). Delhi and West Bengal followed it with 64 and 55 respectively. Also, 77% of the new cases were from 10 States and UTs. Delhi had overtaken Maharashtra and Kerala to report 7,178 cases in the last 24 hours. Kerala recorded 7,002 new cases. Active cases decline Active cases had been on a sustained decline and stood at 5,16,632 on Saturday. This figure translated to 6.11% of the total positive cases. The total recovered cases stood at 78,19,886, which pushed the national recovery rate to 92.41%. The gap between the recovered cases and active ones presently stood at 73,03,254, the Ministry stated. Maharashtra continued to have the maximum number of single-day recoveries. Over 11,000 recoveries pushed up its total recoveries to 15,62,342. “The last five weeks has seen a continuous decline in average daily new cases. The average daily new cases have declined to 46,000 cases from more than 73,000 average daily new cases in the first week of October,” the release noted. Seventy-nine per cent of the new recovered cases were concentrated in 10 States/UTs, it said. The country’s daily new recoveries have been exceeding the daily new cases since more than a month. “In contrast to 50,356 new reported cases, 53,920 cases have recovered in the last 24 hours. This trend has been observed for the last five weeks. This also played a pivotal role in pushing down the active caseload which is presently pegged at 5.16 lakh,” it added.
08 November 2020||Patna,||Bihar poll ends on a note of suspense||The three-phase Bihar Assembly poll amid the COVID-19 pandemic and consequent economic slowdown ended on Saturday with around 55% voting for the third and final phase with 78 seats at stake. Over the last month of relatively subdued campaigning due to the coronavirus outbreak, leaders of both alliances — the JD(U)-led NDA and RJD-led UPA — have addressed a series of public meetings every day. While the ruling NDA raised issues of Pulwama, the Ram Temple and CAA, the Opposition focused on development, a fight against corruption and jobs for unemployed youth in a State where nearly 58% of the population is below the age of 25. Winds of change While a month before the election, the prospects for the NDA was bright with the caste and class combination adding up in its favour, the arrival of RJD leader Tejashwi Yadav changed the scenario with his whirlwind campaign. Mr. Yadav addressed a marathon 247 public meetings, with an average of 19 a day. His speeches raising issues of employment and promising 10 lakh government jobs attracted and electrified huge crowds of young people. Mr. Yadav was the major campaigner for the UPA, addressing 51 public meetings for Congress candidates, and emerged as the face of change as opposed to three-time Chief Minister Nitish Kumar. In the process, the RJD leader also broke out of the party’s traditional Muslim-Yadav calculation. Despite his relative youth, the RJD leader kept his cool and did not react to aspersions and jibes from Mr. Kumar, who cast aspersions on him and his family, and Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who termed him “ jungle raj ka yuvraj (crown price of lawlessness)”. On the other hand, JD(U) president and Chief Minister Nitish Kumar was often seen losing his temper during public meetings — sometimes berating protesting audiences and sometimes attacking Tejashwi Yadav personally. At one public meeting at Harlakhi in Madhubani, onions were thrown at Mr. Kumar, apparently in protest against sky-rocketing prices of the kitchen staple, while at Parsa in Saran, his rally was interrupted by slogans of “Lalu Yadav zindabad”. Apart from corruption and prohibition, the NDA campaign was also marred by confusion with the exit of the NDA ally Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) led by Chirag Paswan. The party put up candidates against most JD(U) candidates while leaving the field for the BJP. Mr. Modi also slammed Mr Yadav, reiterating his epithet of “ jungle raj ka yuvraj ” in all his 12 public meetings and harping on “15-years of lawlessness of the previous RJD regime”. The Prime Minister and other BJP leaders also touted the scrapping of Article 370, the upcoming Ram temple at Ayodhya, the Citizenship (Amendment) Act and invoked Chhatee and Ganga (deities) to woo the voters. However, these issues may have failed to resonate with the voters, especially the youth for whom “unemployment, corruption and migration” were the core issues deciding their vote preferences. Results will be out on November 10.
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Black flag in Afghanistan||In June 2015, a few months after the Islamic State announced its Khorasan Wilayat (Province), the Taliban wrote a letter to the IS chief, Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, asking him to stop recruiting jihadists in Afghanistan. The letter, signed by the then political committee chief of the Taliban, Mullah Aktar Mansour (who would take over the insurgency’s leadership in a month), said there was room for "only one flag and one leadership” in the fight to re-establish Islamic rule in Afghanistan. But the IS faction, which came to be known as the Islamic State of Khorasan Province (ISKP), did not stop recruiting disgruntled Taliban fighters. Nor did it stop attacking the Taliban or launching terror strikes across Afghanistan, mainly targeting the Shias and other minorities. In the last five years, the ISKP has built an organisational network in Afghanistan from the eastern Nangarhar province, attracted followers from across South, West and Central Asia, and killed hundreds. In their latest attack, three gunmen stormed the Kabul University on November 2, killing at least 35. A week earlier, a suicide bomber struck an education centre in one of the capital’s Shia populated areas, killing 24, many among them teenagers. When the Islamic State announced the formation of the Khorasan Province — referring to an area encompassing Afghanistan, Pakistan and Central Asia — in January 2015, the group’s immediate strategy was to exploit the divisions within the jihadist groups operating in the region. It appointed Tehrik-i-Taliban Pakistan (TTP) commander Hafiz Saeed Khan as its leader and former Afghan Taliban commander Abdul Rauf Aliza as his deputy (both were killed in U.S. strikes). It attracted members from different militant organisations such as Lashkar-e-Taiba, Jamaat-ud-Dawa, the Haqqani Network and the Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan into its fold. The ISKP declared its allegiance to Baghdadi. In operational tactics and ideology, it followed its parental organisation. The key goal is to establish “Islamic rule” in the “province”. “There is no doubt that Allah the Almighty blessed us with jihad in the land of Khorasan since a long time ago, and it is from the grace of Allah that we fought any disbeliever who entered the land of Khorasan. All of this is for the sake of establishing the Shariah,” the ISKP said in a video message in 2015. Under pressure When the IS in Iraq and Syria came under pressure in 2015 and 2016, the core organisation shifted its focus to Afghanistan. The IS was losing territories to Kurdish militias in Syria and government forces and Shia militias in Iraq. In Afghanistan, a divided country with the government’s writ hardly reaching its hinterlands, the IS saw an opportunity to build a branch. Having built its base in eastern Afghanistan, the ISKP issued propaganda videos in which its militants appeared holding the group’s notorious black flags, and called on Muslim youth across Asia to join them. The IS came under pressure in Afghanistan as well. The Taliban did not like its monopoly over violent jihand being challenged by another organisation. The Taliban are a tribal, nationalist militant force whereas the ISKP doesn’t believe in national borders, and stands for a global Islamic Caliphate. The Taliban fought back. The U.S. carried out a number of targeted attacks, killing several of the ISKP’s leaders. In April 2017, U.S. President Donald Trump ordered troops to drop the ‘Mother of all Bombs’, the most powerful non-nuclear bomb, on IS caves in eastern Afghanistan. One of the terms of the U.S.-Taliban agreement, reached in February, was that the Taliban would not allow transnational terrorist groups such as al-Qeada and the IS operate in Afghan soil. But despite the U.S.’s targeted bombings and the Taliban’s counter-attacks, the ISKP has continued to expand its operations. While the Taliban have shifted the focus of its war to the police and security officials, the ISKP is waging a sectarian war on the Afghan public. As much of the country remains lawless, the conditions favour the ISKP to grow, like they did in Iraq and Syria in 2013-14. Also, when the Taliban are involved in direct talks with the Kabul government, the ISKP would try to wean the hardline factions away from the insurgency. When the Taliban want to be back in Kabul, the ISKP wants to be the new Taliban.
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||The cricketer-turned-heir apparent||Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader Tejashwi Prasad Yadav, who became the talking point of the Bihar Assembly elections with enthusiastic and almost delirious crowds thronging his round-the-clock rallies, will turn 31 on Monday. Born on November 9, 1989, four months before his father Lalu Prasad Yadav, at the age of 42, became the Chief Minister of Bihar for the first time, Mr. Tejashwi is now at the centre of the opposition campaign to unseat Nitish Kumar, who has been in power for 15 years.  Today’s media-savvy crowdpuller stands in stark contrast with the Tejashwi Yadav of May 2019, when the RJD suffered a big loss in the Lok Sabha elections. It was the first election of the RJD without Mr. Lalu Yadav in charge. Mr. Tejashwi’s elder brother Tej Pratap Yadav had formed the Lalu-Rabri Morcha. The youngest of Mr. Lalu Prasad’s nine children, Mr. Tejashwi faced criticism for “not accommodating” allies, especially the Communist Party of India’s rising star Kanhaiya Kumar, due to “insecurity”. There were reports of him not being “respectful” towards the RJD’s senior leaders. He did not cast his vote in the Lok Sabha polls, after suffering a ligament injury. For more than a month, he disappeared from the public eye, leaving it to others to explain the party’s humiliating defeat — the RJD drew a blank in the Lok Sabha election. So what has changed in 18-months? “Nothing,” says his close aide Sanjay Yadav. The ‘Delhi media’ have discovered Mr. Tejashwi only now, says Mr. Yadav. “False perception was created that he [Tejashwi] doesn’t have a connect with the party cadres or the voters. If that was the case, the party would have disintegrated after Nitish Kumar returned to the NDA in 2017.Did that happen?” The transition from being Mr. Lalu Prasad’s son to coming on his own took a long time for Mr. Tejashwi. Politics was not his first choice of career. He started out as a cricketer after dropping out of class 10. He was studying at Delhi Public School, R K Puram, in Delhi. A middle order batsman with good cover drive, he was in Delhi’s under-19 cricket team at the same time when Virat Kohli was playing. He also played a season for Jharkhand during a Ranji Trophy tournament. Later, he was picked for the Delhi Daredevils IPL team, where he had to stick it out on the reserve bench for four seasons from 2008. In 2012, he gave up on cricket and decided to focus full time on politics. First public address Mr. Lalu Prasad picked him over his elder brother, Tej Pratap Yadav, to be his political heir. Mr. Tejashwi’s first public address was in 2010 when he campaigned with his father for the Assembly election. The RJD then won only 22 seats in the 243-member Assembly. When Mr. Lalu Prasad was arrested in September 2013, the party was not ready to anoint Mr. Tejashwi as the heir. Ram Kripal Yadav, a Lalu aide, told reporters then that the polls were being fought under guidance of the party patriarch. “Tejashwi is very much involved in the party affairs. But he will be made a leading face of the party only in the long term,” he had said. A year later, Mr. Ram Kripal switched over to the BJP after Mr. Lalu Prasad chose his daughter Misa Bharati for the Pataliputra seat over him. At 26, Mr. Tejashwi contested his first election in 2015 from the Raghopur Assembly constituency and won as the RJD and Nitish Kumar’s Janata Dal-United (JD-U) were in an alliance. With 81 seats, 11 more than the JD (U)’s tally, it was a resounding victory for Mr. Lalu Prasad. Mr. Tejashwi was appointed Deputy Chief Minister under Nitish Kumar. Months before the alliance fell, a CBI case was registered against Mr. Tejashwi on State government’s consent for a ‘land for hotel” scam. Mr. Tejashwi accused the BJP of playing vendetta politics. The Mahagatbandhan collapsed in July 2017 when Nitish Kumar returned to the NDA. Now, when the elections are under way, Mr. Tejashwi is facing the biggest test of his career — unseat the NDA from power. Senior RJD leader and Rajya Sabha MP Manoj K. Jha, who has been associated with Mr. Tejashwi since 2012, claims that, he is a keen learner. “He has the ability to listen to everyone from people of Bihar to experts who closely study the State and then make his mind independently,” Mr. Jha said.
08 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Virtual launch control centre at VSSC to stay||After the successful 51st mission of the Polar Satellite Launch Vehicle (PSLV) from Sriharikota on Saturday, the new virtual launch control centre established at the Vikram Sarabhai Space Centre (VSSC) at Thumba here is likely to become a permanent arrangement for future missions. The facility has helped the space agency reduce movement of personnel to Sriharikota — given the COVID-19 scenario — and manage crucial aspects of the mission from Thiruvananthapuram, which is home to three critical India Space Research Organisation centres. A replica of the control centre at Sriharikota, the virtual facility had allowed the ISRO to remotely carry out system checkouts on the launch vehicle from Thiruvananthapuram in the run-up to the PSLV-C49 mission. On Saturday, the facility was manned by around 50 personnel from the VSSC and the ISRO Inertial Systems Unit (IISU), a VSSC official said. Objective While the actual launch operations on Saturday were carried out by a team of essential personnel in Sriharikota, many senior hands stayed back in Thiruvananthapuram for providing crucial advice and analysis of the various parameters through the facility. “Primarily, it helped to reduce movement of ISRO personnel and, consequently, travel expenses,” said VSSC Director S. Somanath, one of the few senior hands who travelled to Sriharikota for Saturday’s mission. The virtual facility itself had been in the works for some time, but the pandemic gave it momentum, Mr. Somanath said. Overall, the number of ISRO personnel customarily travelling to Sriharikota for a mission was slashed by one-fourth this time. The PSLV-C49 mission also proved how the ISRO has managed to adapt to the pandemic-induced new normal. Important reviews, such as the Mission Readiness Reviews (MRR), usually held at Bengaluru or Sriharikota, were held in videoconference mode to ensure minimal movement of personnel.
08 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Karnataka’s positivity rate at 2.12%||Tamil Nadu reported 2,341 new cases of COVID-19 on Saturday as the number of persons under treatment fell below 19,000 after nearly five months. The number of active cases in the State stood at 18,966. The fresh cases pushed the State’s tally to 7,41,488. Another 2,352 persons were discharged and 25 persons, including a 101-year-old man, died. This took the total number of persons discharged till date to 7,11,198 and toll to 11,324. Chennai accounted for 603 cases and six deaths, taking the overall tally to 2,04,258 and toll to 3,711. Kerala on Saturday recorded 7,201 new COVID-19 cases, maintaining the recent trend. It tested 64,051 samples and found the test positivity rate to be 11.2 %. Telangana’s incidence stood at 1,607 on Friday, and 44,644 people underwent tests. The new cases included 296 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation area, 124 in Bhadradri Kothagudem, 115 in Rangareddy, 113 in Medchal-Malkajgiri, 78 in Karimnagar, and 84 in Khammam. No case was registered in Narayanpet and nine were recorded in Jogulamba Gadwal. Andhra Pradesh’s new infections stood at 2,368 and deaths at 11 on Saturday. The test positivity rate of 79,601 samples was 2.97% and overall positivity rate 9.80%. The tests per million ratio crossed 1.6 lakh and reached 1,60,676. Six districts reported no new deaths, while Krishna reported three. Anantapur and Chittoor reported two deaths each. East Godavari, Kadapa, Visakhapatnam and West Godavari reported one death each. Karnataka on Saturday reported 2,258 new cases. With 22 deaths, the toll rose to 11,369. As many as 1,06,317 tests were conducted in a day, including 78,494 RT-PCR tests. With this, the total number of tests rose to 86,20,970. While the test positivity rate for the day stood at 2.12%, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) touched 0.97%. Bengaluru Urban reported 1,046 cases taking the tally to 3,47,748. With seven of the 22 deaths reported from Bengaluru, the toll in the district rose. Active cases in Bengaluru touched 17,978.  (With inputs from Hyderabad, Vijayawada, Thiruvananthapuram, and Bengaluru bureaus)
08 November 2020||GUWAHATI,||Blast in Assam school triggers fresh tension||A school on the Assam-Mizoram border was damaged in a bomb attack on Friday night, fanning fresh tension in areas caught in a boundary dispute between the two northeastern States. Officials in Assam said miscreants from Mizoram triggered a blast in the Upper Painom Lower Primary School in Assam’s Cachar district. This was the second school to have been bombed allegedly by miscreants from Mizoram in more than a fortnight. “We are trying our best to normalise the situation but the miscreants from Mizoram carried out the blast in the school in a forest area. We are strengthening our forces to avoid such incidents,” Assam’s Home Secretary G.D. Tripathi said. Central forces deployed He said Central forces were being deployed to maintain security and defuse tension. “We are also in touch with the Mizoram government.” Mizoram’s Chief Secretary Lalnunmawia Chuaungo said the State government was “making all efforts to ensure things do not flare up” . A local organisation on Saturday called a 12-hour shutdown across the three districts (bordering Mizoram) of southern Assam’s Barak Valley to protest the alleged custodial death of 48-year-old Intiaz Ali Laskar from Cachar’s Lailapur, in Mizoram. The Assam government had said the man, a firewood collector, had been abducted by miscreants from Mizoram. The Mizoram government claimed he was a drug peddler who succumbed to injuries while trying to flee capture by members of a Mizo NGO on November 1. On the brighter side, truckers’ unions of both States appealed together to both governments for “safe passage” for vehicles stranded on the border. Trouble in the decades-old border dispute began on October 17 when miscreants set some 20 shops and houses ablaze and 50 people were injured in attacks and counter-attacks. The resultant economic blockade against Mizoram imposed by Assam-based organisations was lifted on October 22 before flaring up again on October 28. Assam’s Forest Minister Parimal Suklabaidya claimed Mizoram was occupying 1.5 km of Assam land. Mizos say “illegal migrants” from Assam have occupied 10 km land from the border.
08 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Months after starting Chabahar rail project without India, Iran seeks help||India is not a part of the Chabahar-Zahedan railway at present, but as Iran begins the second phase of the 628-km project, Tehran hopes New Delhi will help it procure equipment to run the rail line from the Chabahar port to the Afghan border. According to a senior Iranian diplomat, Iran’s Port and Maritime Organisation (PMO) recently conveyed to India a request for cranes, tracks, switches and signalling equipment, as well as locomotives that it has had difficulty in procuring them directly due to the U.S.-imposed sanctions. Iran has also asked to activate a $150 million credit line that had been offered by India during Iranian President Rouhani’s visit to Delhi in 2018 to pay for the purchases. “We are still hopeful that the pledge for the line of credit India made in 2018 [will] pave the way for future cooperation,” Iran’s Deputy Chief of Mission Masoud Rezvanian told The Hindu in an interview, explaining that the 2016 MoU signed with the Indian Railway Construction company (IRCON) was no longer relevant as there had been no progress in talks, and Iranian construction companies have now taken over the project. According to the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA), IRCON completed the site inspection and feasibility report, and had been waiting for the Iranian side to appoint a nodal authority. Official sources said the real sticking point was that Iranian construction company Khatam Al Anbyar is under U.S. sanctions for its links to the Iranian Revolutionary Guards Committee (IRGC) and although the Chabahar project has secured a special waiver from the US, the government is hesitant to deal with the IRGC entity. On November 4, Iran’s Urban Development Minister Mohammad Eslami inaugurated the track-laying ceremony for the second of the three phase construction. Sixty per cent of the track-laying and about half of the entire project, including infrastructure and superstructure are now complete, and officials say they are on track to complete the whole line by June 2021, which will connect the Chabahar port to the Afghan border, but through the existing rail system, to Turkmenistan and Central Asia as well. The first phase was inaugurated in July last, leading to a controversy over the fact that India had been dropped from the project. “We think that we should look at the future instead of digging into the past, where there have been some sources of bitterness,” said Mr. Rezvanian, clarifying that Indian companies played “no role at present” in the railway project. In contrast, the Chabahar port Shahid Beheshti Terminal, operated jointly by India and Iran, had been running smoothly, and had processed more than 12 lakh tonnes of bulk cargo and 8,200 containers, according to the MEA. Gas field development Delays due to sanctions have also taken a toll on the Indian interest in developing the Farzad-B gas field, where ONGC Videsh made a discovery in 2008, Mr. Rezvanian explained, when asked about reports that Iran would now develop it through domestic companies. “Iran has frequently said that we cannot wait until sanctions are lifted to develop Farzad B...[] That’s why Iran recently said that we will hand over Farzad-B to an Iranian company, and we will complete exploration and development on our own,” he said. The issues over India-Iran cooperation are believed to have been taken up during quick stops by External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, in Tehran in September in transit to and from Moscow respectively, where they attended the SCO ministerial meet. U.S. poll results The U.S. election results projecting Mr. Biden as the next President are being watched in both India and Iran for the possibility that sanctions on Iran might ease, allowing India to increase its engagement with its traditional partner who used to be a major supplier of oil before the Trump administration forced India to “zero out” imports. New Delhi is also watching negotiations on a 25-year strategic cooperation agreement between China and Iran believed to be worth $400 billion, which could fund other parts of the Chabahar development, including a free trade zone along the Makran coast, and oil infrastructure projects. According to Mr. Rezvanian, however, the “umbrella agreement” would not impinge on India’s interests in any way.  (Full interview can   be accessed at bit.ly/MasoudInterview)
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Karnataka releases norms on sale of ‘green crackers’||The State government on Saturday released a set of guidelines for the sale and bursting only “green crackers” during Deepavali. In view of COVID-19 pandemic, guidelines have been framed as per the Supreme Court order in 2018 that only “green crackers” without barium salt would be allowed to be manufactured and sold in the country. Only traders having licences are authorised to sell “green crackers” from November 7 to 16 at identified locations. The guidelines were issued by Chief Secretary T.M. Vijay Bhaskar. The government, which had first announced a ban on crackers, has now scaled it down to say that only “green crackers” will be allowed. Authorities would grant permission to sell crackers at public grounds or vacant spaces. Shops should maintain a six-meter distance to ensure free flow of air. All shops have to display licences granted to them to sell crackers, according to the circular. Wearing masks and maintaining social distance have been made mandatory. Facilities such as sanitizer and thermal screening should be made available at each shop to prevent spread of COVID-19. On Friday, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa had appealed to the people of the State to celebrate Deepavali in a “simple manner” and refrain from bursting firecrackers.
08 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC reserves order on GST on lotteries||The Supreme Court has reserved its judgment on the constitutional validity of imposing Goods and Services Tax (GST) on sale of lotteries across the country. Petitions filed by lottery dealers, including Skill Lotto Solutions Ltd., argued that the Central GST Act of 2017 and notifications wrongly viewed lotteries as “goods” while they were only “actionable claims”. They said lottery tickets by themselves were only “valueless pieces of paper” and the GST Council was wrong to recommend the imposition of tax on them. A three-judge Bench led by Justice Ashok Bhushan would primarily heard and pronounce the verdict on charges of discrimination raised against the law for imposing 12% GST on lotteries sold within the same State and 28% GST for sale of tickets from other States. “Under the GST Act, there are two rates prescribed on the sale of lottery tickets. One is 12% if the lotteries are sold within the same State, and the other is 28% if a State sells the lottery tickets in other States. Arbitrary, discriminatory, unreasonable and clearly violative of Articles 14 of the Constitution,” senior advocate Ravindra Shrivastava and advocate Arjun Garg, for Skill Lotto, had argued. Several intervenors, represented by senior advocate Aryama Sundaram and advocate Rohini Musa, questioned the imposition of GST on the “face value” of lottery tickets. This “face value” includes prize money to be distributed to the winners of a lottery, margin of agents, retailers and distributors, etc. “In the earlier tax regime, in which no VAT was levied on lotteries, but service tax was levied, the rate of tax was 1.28% or.82% on the face value of the lottery tickets depending on the prize money payout. Thus the Legislature never intended to tax the prize money component in the lottery trade, as it did not form part of the income of lottery traders, but payable to the winner of the ticket prize. However, the notifications levy GST on the face value of the tickets without adjusting or taking into account the prize money component,” Mr. Garg had argued.
08 November 2020||MANGALURU,||Four more biodiversity heritage sites for Karnataka||The Karnataka Biodiversity Board has decided to declare four more areas in the State as biodiversity heritage sites. Chairman of the Board, Ananth Hegde Ashisara, told The Hindu that the board, at a meeting last month, passed a resolution to declare Antaragange Betta in Kolar; Aadi Narayana Swamy Betta in Chickballapur; Mahima Ranga Betta in Nelamangala, Bengaluru; and the Urumbi area on the Kumaradhara river basin in Dakshina Kannada as biodiversity heritage sites. Biodiversity heritage sites are considered unique and fragile ecosystems that can be marine ecosystems, coastal and inland waters, or terrestrial areas. Mr. Ashisara said Antaragange Betta has a unique and perennial water source flowing all through the year, and Aadi Narayana Swamy Betta in Gudibande taluk, Chickballapur, had many dry-belt species protected by locals. Mahima Ranga Betta is a prominent lung space surviving in Bengaluru. Urumbi area in Kadaba taluk of Dakshina Kannada has a fragile environmental system and is located on the banks of the river Kumaradhara. There was a move by a private company to set up a 24 MW hydroelectric power project across the river in the same area a decade ago. But environmental activists, including Kumaradhara Parisara Samrakshana Samiti and Vruksha Laksha Andolana, launched a series of agitations against it and ensured that the project did not come to fruition. The Centre for Ecological Sciences, the Indian Institute of Science (IISc), Bengaluru, too had recommended that the project be shelved.  Survey, document Mr. Ashisara said that notifying an area as biodiversity heritage site will help protect the rich and unique ecosystem in a particular area from further destruction. Now, the Forest Department will take necessary steps, such as a survey of the areas for earmarking the borders, and documentation, before issuing the notification of declaration.
08 November 2020||Kochi,||Customs dept. calls Jaleel for questioning tomorrow||The Customs Department has served a notice on Higher Education Minister K.T. Jaleel, summoning him for interrogation in Kochi on Monday. The Customs (Preventive) wing, which unearthed the diplomatic baggage gold smuggling case, has also been verifying details pertaining to the import, in 2017 and 2020 respectively, of some 18 tonnes of palm dates and 4.5 tonnes of the Koran by the United Arab Emirates (UAE) consulate in Thiruvananthapuram. In September, the agency had named Mr. Jaleel as a ‘person of interest’ in the cases pertaining to Customs duty evasion and alleged FCRA (Foreign Contribution Regulation Act) violation. While Dr. Jaleel had earlier been questioned by the Enforcement Directorate and the National Investigation Agency in connection with this, the Customs was verifying documents, including those obtained from the State Protocol Officer, pertaining to the imports. The agency had maintained that duty exemption provided to the diplomatic mission was conditional and since the imported items were subsequently diverted with the support of the State agencies, it amounted to a violation of the conditions.Dr. Jaleel and the government had maintained that there was no illegality in the way the State handled these imports. “It was part of a goodwill gesture by the consulate and the State only facilitated the same,” they had said.
08 November 2020||Bengaluru,||Bineesh’s custody extended by 4 days||A special court on Saturday extended the Enforcement Directorate’s (ED) custody of Bineesh Kodiyeri by four more days. The son of Kerala CPI(M) State secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan had been arrested on charges of funding a drug racket. The ED contended that it have unearthed three shell companies run by Bineesh through which he was operating benami transactions. According to officials, unaccounted transactions to the tune of Rs. 3.5 crore had been made through these shell companies. There is strong evidence from the search operation at his residence in Kerala which needs to be investigated in detail. Granting bail would hamper the investigations, the ED told the court. During the search operation, ED officials recovered a debit card of a bank in the name of Mohammed Anoop, but signed by Binesh. The agency has asked the bank to provide further details. Two of Bineesh’s associates who are reportedly part of the benami racket have been summoned but are yet to appear for questions. Officials said that if granted bail, Bineesh would influence his associates who are at large.
08 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Plea to free Indians held in Yemen||The Supreme Court has sought the government’s response on an urgent plea from a 33-year-old Tirunelveli resident to rescue her husband and other Indian workers held “captive” by Houthi rebels in Yemen. M. Velmathi from Tamil Nadu said there had been no response from officials despite repeated entreaties. She said the duty of the government to its citizens extends beyond the territories of the country to those struggling abroad for their families back home. A Bench led by Justice Rohinton F. Nariman heard the submission made by senior advocate S. Nagamuthu and advocates Paari Vendhan and Prabu Ramasubramanium for Ms. Velmathi and issued notice to the government. Centre to respond The Centre has to respond in three weeks. The petition in the Supreme Court said the lives of 40 Indians, including Ms. Velmathi’s husband, were in danger. The petitioner said these Indian had a right to life. Ms. Velmathi said the Indian are trapped or “entangled” with inadequate facilities and infrastructure while “inching closer to death”. The petition said the government, under Section 35 of the Disaster Management Act, has the power to coordinate with the United Nations, international organisations and even foreign governments for the well-being of its citizens abroad.
08 November 2020||New Delhi,||CPWD invites tenders for the redevelopment of Rajpath||The government has kicked off the second portion of its Central Vista redevelopment project, with the Central Public Works Department (CPWD) this week inviting bids from contractors for the “development/redevelopment of Central Vista Avenue” or Rajpath at an estimated cost of Rs. 463 crore. The CPWD has asked for bids in a two-phase process with the deadline for technical bids being December 1, according to the notice inviting tender (NIT) published on Wednesday. The project includes demolition of some existing structures and the construction of underpasses and a “Presidential dais”. The estimated cost of the construction work is Rs. 447.58 crore and maintenance for five years is Rs. 15.51 crore, according to the NIT, which also stated that this was a “rough” estimate. “The site of work is very sensitive from the security point of view. In view of security concerns at the site and the work itself, stringent access control measures shall be exercised for entry and exit of manpower, material and construction equipment in the area,” the NIT said. The project includes “large scale stone work, construction of underpasses, underground amenities blocks, stone furniture, horticulture work, electric substations, pumping rooms etc.,” the document said. During the construction, which was expected to take 10 months, the site should remain available to the public, it said. “Central Vista Avenue is visited by thousands of visitors daily, therefore, site for the work shall be made available in phased manner [as per agreed schedule] so that some part either in pre-development stage or post-development stage remains available to the visitors,” the NIT said. As a part of the larger redevelopment of the Central Vista, which stretches from Rashtrapati Bhavan till India Gate, the CPWD had awarded the contract to construct a new Parliament building to Tata Projects Ltd. in September at a cost of Rs. 861 crore. The Parliament construction work is likely to start in December, according to the architects of the project, HCP Design, Planning and Management.
08 November 2020||Hyderabad,||Constable runs to make way for ambulance||“Congratulations Daddy” — the message written on a piece of paper by his seven-year-old daughter moved a traffic constable to tears. His child was among the thousands who appreciated his response to a call of duty. Abids traffic constable G. Babji last week went the extra mile to save the life of a cardiac patient being transported in an ambulance, and it has earned him praise from Union Ministers and also ordinary folk who watched him on their televisions. For Mr. Babji, a resident of Lal Darwaza, it was but a dull day until he sighted an ambulance blaring its horn, seeking immediate road clearance on the busy Bank Street-Koti stretch of the city during peak commuting hours. As the siren was not heeded by the chock-a-block traffic, the 38-year-old constable pulled off his cap and started running in front of the ambulance, waving and gesticulating to other vehicles to give way for the emergency vehicle. The patient was admitted in time and his life saved within the golden hour, thanks to Mr. Babji’s efforts. The patient’s son, who was sitting in the front cabin of the vehicle, videographed the constable, who ran for almost 2 km. “I did not know I was being videographed. I was only focused on securing clearance for the ambulance,” Mr. Babji told The Hindu . He informed his inspector about the incident and went back home at night. Two days later, when the video went viral on social media winning hearts on the internet, he was hailed as ‘hero’.
08 November 2020||JAIPUR,||Gujjars threaten to intensify quota stir||Gujjars occupying the railway tracks in Rajasthan’s Bharatpur district with the demand for reservation on Saturday threatened to intensify their agitation from November 9. Gujjar supremo Kirori Singh Bainsla had earlier given an ultimatum to the State government to fulfil the demand for 5% quota in the most backward class (MBC) category. The blockade of the Delhi-Mumbai rail route at Peelupura village and the Bayana-Hindaun road near Chhonkra continued on Saturday, leading to diversion of many trains and cancellation of the Rajasthan Roadway buses in the region. Col. Bainsla addressed a meeting of the community leaders at Sikandra in Dausa district and announced that an indefinite protest would be launched and more highways across the State blocked from November 9. Contrary to earlier indications, Sports Minister Ashok Chandna did not reach Peelupura to meet the agitating Gujjars till Saturday evening. Some leaders of the Gujjar Aarakshan Sangharsh Samiti had met the members of a Cabinet Sub-Committee in Jaipur and signed an agreement comprising 14 points last week. However, there has been no headway on the issues of appointments to backlog posts and the benefit of 5% reservation in the ongoing recruitments. Rival faction’s appeal A rival faction of Gujjars and the traders in Bharatpur’s Bayana tehsil appealed to Col. Bainsla to call off the agitation and vacate the railway tracks in view of the inconvenience being caused to the public and local businesses. The candidates appearing in an ongoing police constable recruitment examination are also finding it difficult to reach their exam centres. Gujjar leader Vijay Bainsla said the ruling Congress had promised in its manifesto for the 2018 Assembly election to clear the backlog of vacancies, but no action was taken after it came to power.
08 November 2020||Srinagar,||Gupkar alliance to compete in DDC polls||Amid protests by right wing parties, six constituents of the People’s Alliance for the Gupkar Declaration (PAGD) held a meeting in Jammu on Saturday and decided to contest the upcoming District Development Council (DDC) elections jointly. “The PAGD has unanimously decided to fight the DDC elections unitedly. Despite the abruptness of the DDC elections in terms of timing, it is important that this sacred space in democracy is not allowed to be invaded and marauded by divisive forces,” PAGD spokesperson Sajad Lone said. The decision is significant in the backdrop of the National Conference (NC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), both part of the Gupkar alliance now, boycotting the panchayat and urban bodies polls held in 2018 over the issue of Article 370. The alliance meeting was held at NC president Dr. Farooq Abdullah’s house in Jammu. It was attended by the top leaders of the NC, PDP, People’s Conference, Awami National Conference, Communist Party of India-Marxist, and the J&K Peoples Movement. The alliance leaders also held a series of meetings with representatives of groups of Sikhs, Gaddis, Sippis, Kashmiri Pandits, transporters, Gujjars, Bakerwals, Scheduled Caste members and Other Backward Class (OBC) communities, IAS aspirants, and the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP), besides delegations from the Chenab and the Pir Panjal valleys. J&K Congress president G.A. Mir, who missed the alliance meeting for the third time, held a separate press conference to announce the party’s decision to contest the DDC polls.
08 November 2020||Bhopal,||Kamal Nath trying to lure BJP MLAs, says Chouhan||Ahead of the November 10 results of the bypolls held on 28 Assembly seats in Madhya Pradesh, the ruling BJP and Opposition Congress have accused each other of horse-trading MLAs and claimed respective victories. Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Saturday alleged that BJP MLAs were receiving calls from State Congress chief Kamal Nath who was trying to lure them. “The Congress and Kamal Nath are attempting unsuccessfully to contact and lure BJP MLAs. It was Nath who played the politics of horse-trading and effected manipulations. Nath has muddied the politics of Madhya Pradesh,” Mr. Chouhan told reporters. Horse-trading charges He was responding to a query on allegations raised by Mr. Nath on Friday that the BJP was again trying to lure away some legislators of the Congress. By-elections in the State were held on November 3 for 28 constituencies, 25 of which fell vacant due to resignations by Congress MLAs who joined the BJP earlier this year while the remaining three seats have been unrepresented due to demise of the sitting legislators. “Whenever the Congress resorts to this [horse-trading], it is termed as management, but when someone comes to us [join the BJP] on his own, it is called horse-trading,” Mr. Chouhan said. Holding Mr. Nath responsible for “political corruption”, the senior BJP leader said MLAs of the BJP would not fall prey to the attempts being made by the Congress to lure them. “Our MLAs work for principles and ideology,” he said. On Friday, Mr. Nath issued a statement accusing the BJP of luring its MLAs with “offers”. “The BJP is sensing a crushing defeat in the by-elections. They are now resorting to horse- trading [of MLAs],” said the former Chief Minister. In the 230-member Madhya Pradesh Assembly, the BJP currently has 107 members and requires nine more MLAs to attain a simple majority, while the Congress’s tally stands at 87. Among other members, the BSP has two legislators, while the SP has one member besides four Independents.
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Plea to rescue Indians held hostage in Yemen||The petitioner said these Indians had a right to life. She said the Indians are trapped or “entangled” with inadequate facilities and infrastructure while “inching closer to death”. The petition said the government, under Section 35 of the Disaster Management Act, has the power to coordinate with the United Nations, international organisations and even foreign governments for the well-being of its citizens abroad.
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||TS revenue shortfall pegged at Rs. 52,750 crore||It was Rs. 39,608 crore for the corresponding period last year. Actually, the budget proposals for this year were prepared on the assumption that the revenue growth rate will be 15%. But, not only did the growth rate take place, there was a negative collection of revenues compared to last year. The budget was prepared with an estimated Rs. 1,15, 900 crore revenue from taxes and non-tax sources. However, the collections were likely to be only Rs. 68,781 crore. Thus, the shortfall in State’s own revenue would be Rs. 47,119 crore. Mr. Rao asked officials to redraft the budget plan by rearranging the priorities of government keeping in view the overall shortfall of Rs. 52,750 crore.
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Mahagathbandhan ahead, say exit polls||The polls have predicted just between 1-10 seats for Chirag Paswan’s outfit. Two of the polls — India Today-Axis and Chankaya-News 18 — predicted a clear sweep for the Mahagatbandhan. The India Today-Axis polls predicted a two-third majority for the Mahagatbandhan with 139-161 seats.  The NDA, as per the Axis polls will be limited to 69-91 seats. The gamble of contesting alone is unlikely to pay off for the LJP. The exit polls gove the party only 3-5 seats. However, as per the polls, the LJP has impacted the NDA’s fortunes in at least 30 seats. The Chankaya-News 18 forecasts that the Mahagathbandhan could win up to 180 seats, far more than the majority mark of 122 for the Bihar Assembly. The poll also claimed that the NDA alliance will shrink to 55 seats. In 2015, BJP’s own tally was 53. At least three polls, however, indicated a close contest, suggesting a possible hung assembly. The Republic-Jan Ki Baat poll predicted 128 seats for the Mahagatbandhan and 104 for the NDA. Breaking down the numbers, the polls predicted 80 seat for the RJD, 71 for the JD(U) and 53 for BJP, which is identical to the tally that all these parties had in 2015 polls. The ABP exit polls also predicted a similar outcome, giving the Mahagatbandhan 108-131 seats and the NDA 104-128. As per the poll, the RJD will win 81-89 seats, JD(U) just 38-46 seats, shrinking down from 71 it won in 2015. The BJP, it says, will better its 2015 tally, winning between 66-74 seats. The News X-DV Research predicted 108-123 seats for the Mahagatbandhan and 110-117 seats for the NDA, predicting that the result could go either way. It also claims that the Lok Janshakti Party could win 4-10 seats. The poll from People’s Pulse , a group of academicians, has predicted 85-95 seats for the RJD, 65-75 for the BJP, and merely 25-35 for the JD (U). The poll also says the Congress fall from its 2015 tally of 27 to win only 15-20.
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Arnab fails to get relief from Bombay HC||In an unconventional hearing, the Bombay High Court on Saturday reserved the order in the interim bail plea filed by Editor-in-Chief of Republic TV Arnab Goswami, who is in judicial custody in connection with a 2018 case of abetment of suicide. A division bench of Justices S.S. Shinde and M.S. Karnik reserved the order after hearing the matter for an entire day. Once an order/judgment is reserved, the court can take up to three months to deliver it. However, the Bench said it would try to give the order as early as possible. The courtsaid, “We can’t pass any order today.” “We will clarify that pendency of the petition will not bar the petitioner from approaching the sessions court for bail and if such an application is filed, it should be decided within four days,” the court added. After Mr. Goswami was arrested on November 4 by Raigad Police and was sent to judicial custody for 14 days by the chief judicial magistrate. He then moved the High Court on November 6 seeking immediate release and quashing of the FIR against him. He along with Firoz Shaikh and Niteesh Sardaare charged with Sections 306 (abetment of suicide) and 34 (acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code. They have been accused of not paying Naik Rs. 5.04 crore. The court said all the petitioners can seek regular bail under Section 439 (special powers of high court or court of session regarding bail) of the Code of Criminal Procedure. The bench heard arguments by senior advocates Harish Salve and Aabad Ponda representing Mr. Goswami, senior advocate Amit Desai for Maharashtra government, Advocates Vijay Agarwal for Mr Sarda for three days. On Saturday, Mr. Desai argued that Mr. Goswami is not under unlawful custody and he is under judicial custody. He said, “Arrest happens before a person is produced before the Magistrate. The moment your illegal arrest has resulted in a judicial remand, the question of arrest is not relevant later.”
08 November 2020||New Delhi,||Punjab MPs meet Shah, seek restarting of trains||A delegation of Members of Parliament from Punjab met Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Saturday to seek the resumption of train services to the State stopped since September due to the agitation by farmers in protest against the three farm Bills passed by Parliament in the monsoon session. There has been a shortage of essential supplies in the State due to the train blockade. Railway Minister Piyush Goyal was present at the meeting. After the meeting, Congress MP Jasbir Singh Gill said they were hopeful that the train services on the affected routes would resume soon. The Punjab government would now hold discussions with the Railway Ministry, he told reporters. Committee likely Another MP, Gurjeet Singh Aujla, said the delegation briefed Mr. Shah about the entire situation and they got the assurance that the issue would be resolved soon. There is also a possibility of the formation of a coordination committee comprising representatives of the Central and Punjab governments for holding discussions with the farmers.
08 November 2020||Mumbai,||Bombay HC seeks police response in Naik case||The Bombay High Court on Saturday issued notice to the police officers who had filed the closure report in the suicide of interior designer Anvay and his mother Kumud Naik’s suicide in 2018. A Division Bench of Justices S.S. Shinde and M.S. Karnik was hearing a criminal petition filed by Anvay Naik’s daughter Adnya, 28, which sought the calling of records from the Chief Judicial Magistrate; shifting of the investigation to the Mumbai Crime Branch; and the conduct of an inquiry against all the officers involved in filing the ‘A’ summary report in the case. The plea relies upon an alleged suicide note found next to the bodies of the deceased that read: “We are committing suicide due to the following: our (Concorde Designs Private Limited)... we both directors Anvay M. Naik and Kumud M. Naik and money is stuck and following owners of respected companies are not paying our legitimate dues.” The note named Arnab Goswami of Republic TV as owing Rs. 83 lakhs for Bombay Dyeing studio project, Feroz Shaikh of IcastX/Skimedia owing Rs. 4 crore for a project at Andheri and Niteesh Sarda of Smart Works for not having paid Rs. 55 lakh for projects at Magarpatta and Baner. The suicide occurred on May 5, 2018. The matter will be heard in December, after the court’s Diwali vacation. (Suicide prevention helpline: Sanjivini, Society for Mental Health, Telephone: 011-4076 9002, Monday-Saturday, 10 a.m. -7.30 p.m.)
08 November 2020||Mumbai,||Court issues notice to Mumbai police chief||The Bombay High Court on Saturday issued notices to Mumbai Police Commissioner Param Bir Singh and other police officers in a plea filed by Hansa Research Group requesting that a probe in the Television Rating Points (TRP) manipulation case be transferred to the Central Bureau of Investigation. A Division Bench of Justices S.S. Shinde and M.S. Karnik was hearing a plea filed by the group that alleges harassment by police officers Sachin Vaze, investigating officer Prashant Sandbhor and others in the Crime Branch. Senior advocate C.S. Vaidyanathan, representing the group, said that police officers were calling employees of Hansa every day to the Crime Branch office and forcing them to give statements that could implicate Republic TV. He said if any documents were required, the officers could issue summons for the same. Senior advocate Devadatt Kamat, representing Mr. Singh, said, the petitioners were playing “hide and seek” and that the accusations and allegations made by Mr. Vaidyanathan were not fair. To which the court said, “The petitioners should not be called unnecessarily and they can be called in by the Crime Branch for two hours on two days of the week.” Mr. Kamat accepted the same and the matter will now be heard on November 25. On October 8, Mr. Singh said a TRP racket had been busted by the Crime Branch. The scam allegedly involved Republic TV, Box Cinema and Fakt Marathi.
08 November 2020||AHMEDABAD,||PM to flag off Ro-Pax Hazira-Ghogha ferry||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will on Sunday flag off a Ro-Pax (roll-on/roll-off passenger service) ferry service between Hazira and Ghogha and inaugurate a ferry terminal connecting South Gujarat with Saurashtra via the sea. The ferry will reduce the travel time between Ghogha and Hazirafrom 7-8hours by road to just two hours by sea.
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||India successfully launches earth observation satellite||ISRO Chairman K. Sivan described the mission as a “success” and termed it as “unusual” for ISRO as a rocket launch cannot happen like “work from home” and all engineers and technicians had to travel from different centres and work together at Sriharikota for rocket launches. “Today, I am extremely happy to declare that PSLV-C49 successfully placed earth observation satellite EOS-01 as well as nine customer satellites precisely into 575 km orbit,” he said at the Mission Control Centre. Subsequent to the successful launch, the primary satellite commenced operating its own functions, including deployment of solar panels, Dr. Sivan said. “Today, I am extremely happy to declare that PSLV-C49 successfully placed earth observation satellite EOS-01 as well as nine customer satellites precisely into 575 km orbit,” he said at the Mission Control Centre. Subsequent to the successful launch, the primary satellite commenced operating its own functions, including deployment of solar panels, Dr. Sivan said. In view of the pandemic, ISRO implemented precautions for COVID-19, and scientists, Mission Directors and Project Directors were seen with face masks, maintaining social distancing at the Mission Control Centre. There was no gathering of mediapersons and the public viewing gallery too was closed. ISRO made arrangements for the live telecast of the launch through various platforms, including its website and social media sites. In a textbook sequence, the four stage 44.5-metre tall PSLV-C49, in its 51st flight, blasted off from the first launch pad of SDSC at 3.12 p.m. at the end of a 26-hour countdown and soared into the sky. The launch, originally scheduled for 3.02 p.m., was delayed as the scientists, around 15 minutes before lift-off, “decided to put on hold following debris on the path of the rocket and inclement weather conditions”. After the 10 minute delay, the rocket blasted off amid heavy rain, leaving a trail of orange fumes before vanishing into thick clouds over the spaceport. After a flawless flight with all four stages performing as programmed, the rocket first injected the primary satellite EOS-01 into orbit around 15 minutes after lift-off, followed by the customer spacecraft, as the mood at the Mission Control Centre turned jubilant with scientists breaking into cheers. PSLV Mission Director S. R. Biju announced that all the 10 satellites were separated and were placed into desired orbits. “PSLV-C49/EOS-01 mission is fully accomplished,” he said amid loud cheers from fellow scientists at the centre. Noting that Saturday’s mission was “very special” and “very unusual” for ISRO, Dr. Sivan congratulated the ISRO team, who had to reach here from different centres amid the pandemic, and said the EOS-01 satellite team and those behind the nine satellites would now take care of the rest of the mission. Besides human resources, he also referred to availability of “hardware” for the launch as they had to be transported “carefully” from various parts of the country to Sriharikota.
08 November 2020||HYDERABAD,||‘Centre indifferent to TS flood woes’||Though the recent rains and floods left a huge loss, particularly in Hyderabad, the Centre did not release a rupee to the State. This was pointed out by finance officials at the meeting with Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao. There was widespread crop loss across the State. Since the preliminary loss was estimated at Rs. 5,000 crore, officials recalled Mr. Rao writing a letter to PM Narendra Modi on Oct. 15 to release Rs. 1,350 crore as immediate assistance. Mr. Modi, President Ramnath Kovind and Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu expressed dismay at the havoc and even called up Mr. Rao to update themselves about ground situation. A Central team also toured the State. After all this, some assistance from Centre was expected but not a rupee was released, officials told Mr. Rao.
08 November 2020||Special Correspondent,||TS revenue shortfall pegged at Rs. 52,750 crore||The State government has estimated its overall revenue shortfall at Rs. 52,750 crore in the current financial year under COVID-19 impact. Senior finance officials have suggested to government to alter or amend budget proposals for the year keeping in view the steep decline in revenues. The suggestion was given at a meeting presided by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao on mid-term review of the budget in the backdrop of a range of receivables of the government not happening due to COVID. Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar, Principal Finance Secretary K. Ramakrishna Rao and other senior officials were present. A release later said the tax and non-tax revenue of the State government for the seven-month period this financial year from April to October-end was a mere Rs. 33,704 crore. It was Rs. 39,608 crore for the corresponding period last year. Actually, the budget proposals for this year were prepared on the assumption that the revenue growth rate will be 15%. But, not only did the growth rate take place, there was a negative collection of revenues compared to last year. The budget was prepared with an estimated Rs. 1, 15, 900 crore revenue from taxes and non-tax sources. However, the collections were likely to be only Rs. 68,781 crore. Thus, the shortfall in State’s own revenue would be Rs. 47,119 crore. The share of State in Central taxes generated here will also go down drastically as a result. The Union budget had proposed State’s share at Rs. 16,727 crore which in effect meant that Telangana should have got Rs. 8,363 crore by now. But, Telangana got only Rs. 6,339 crore, a shortfall of Rs. 2,024 crore. At this rate, the receipts at the end of the year were likely to be only Rs. 11,898 crore. The State will end up losing Rs. 4,829 crore in Central taxes. In addition, the State was supposed to get Rs. 9,725 crore from Centrally sponsored schemes this year. Of the Rs. 5,673 crore due till October-end, the State got only Rs. 4,592 crore which was Rs. 1,081 crore less.
08 November 2020||Hyderabad,||Man arrested for posing as CM’s gunman||A 31-year-old man, who was impersonating as a sub-inspector working as Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao’s gunman, was arrested on Saturday. Acting on a tip-off that one Nandikonda Santosh from Rethibowli was cheating innocent people in the name of providing attender and outsourcing jobs in the Judicial department by introducing himself as a police officer, the Commissioner’s Task Force (west zone) apprehended him. They seized a safari suit, one toy pistol, duplicate police identity card in the name of N. Santosh, another card in the name of Mahankali Prakash, Sub-Inspector, AR-Cyberabad city, a mobile phone and Rs. 25,000 cash from his possession. “He hatched a plan to cheat innocent people in the guise of providing jobs in the Judicial department and other departments by taking money from them and also introducing himself as a SI, working as gunman at CM Camp Office,” Task Force Deputy Commissioner of Police (OSD) P. Radha Kishan Rao said. He said that the accused used to move by wearing a safari suit and informed locals that he had more influence in the department and he can arrange jobs by taking money from them. “He also used to take rented cars and move along with the said vehicle as his own car,” Mr. Rao said. A year ago, he came in contact with one Cheguri Narender of Kukatpally and cheated him by taking Rs. 30,000 and in October 2020, he duped one Musireddy Mahender Reddy from Warangal district and took Rs. 90,000. He was handed over to Langer Houz police for further investigation.
08 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Innovate on mass scale, PM tells students||Addressing the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT)-Delhi’s 51st convocation, Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Saturday said technology would be playing the biggest role in the post-COVID world and that virtual reality and augmented reality had now become the working reality. Mr, Modi also emphasised on innovations on a mass scale and focus on quality ensuring reliability and adaptability. “Focus on quality — never compromise, ensure scalability — make your innovations work at a mass scale, assure reliability — build long-term trust in the market and bring in adaptability — be open to change and expect uncertainty as a way of life. If we work on these mantras then it will reflect the country’s product and will get global recognition.” The pandemic has taught that while globalisation is important, self-reliance is equally important, Mr. Modi said. Speaking about the ease of doing business, Mr. Modi said, “You [students] have one job. If the government gives you ease of doing business, then you bring in new innovations to give the poorest people the ease of living. Be it the technology industry or the agricultural sector, innovations are happening in all sectors today.”
08 November 2020||Mumbai,||TV Today does not have to pay fine: HC||The Bombay High Court has granted relief to the TV Today Network Limited, and quashed and set aside an order passed by the Broadcast Audience Research Council (BARC) imposing a fine of Rs. 5 lakh on the network. A Division Bench of Justices Nitin Jamdar and Milind Jadhav was hearing a petition filed by the TV Today Network Limited that owns India Today , Aaj Tak and Headlines Today, challenging an order and warning dated July 31 by the BARC’s disciplinary council. On April 27, the BARC had issued a show cause notice to the group after the statistical data provided by the BARC’s measurement science team showed an abnormal increase in the viewership of the channels owned by the group. The India Today Group had argued that the BARC passed its order without an appropriate quorum and without presenting evidence.
08 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Third phase voter turnout over 57%: EC||Turnout in the third and final phase of polling in the Bihar Assembly elections on Saturday was over 57%, according to the Election Commission of India. Chandra Bhushan Kumar, Deputy Election Commissioner in-charge of Bihar, said the polling percentage had been 55.22% as he was speaking at the press conference and that the number was likely to increase. As of 8 p.m., the EC’s live turnout portal showed the third phase polling percentage at 57.27%. Turnout in the Lok Sabha byelection for the Valmiki Nagar seat in Bihar and the Assembly byelection in Manipur were 56.02% and 91.54% respectively as of 8.10 pm. Mr. Kumar said 52,000 senior citizens over the age of 80 and persons with disabilities had opted to vote from home, an option that was extended to them due to the pandemic. During campaigning for the three phases, 876 violations of the Model Code of Conduct and 156 violations of COVID-19 safety norms were seen, he said. Seizures of Rs. 66.84 crore were made.
08 November 2020||New Delhi,||‘Corruption diminishes public trust’||Supreme Court judge N.V. Ramana on Saturday said corruption drains out public trust in institutions. Nations struggle when decisions are made in power corridors to further one’s own self-interest, the judge said. He was speaking at the 17th Asian Law Institute conference on ‘Law and Justice in Asia’. “Corruption eats away at the roots of democracy and democratic institutions... Where corruption becomes the norm, public trust upon institutions is diminished, ultimately sacrificing the ethos of our democracy,” Justice Ramana said. The veteran judge referred to B.R. Ambedkar’s words that “however good a Constitution may be, it is sure to turn out bad because those who are called to work it, happen to be a bad lot”. Cyber law Justice Ramana spoke on laws against cyber crime and violation of privacy on the Internet. “The global citizenry is currently struggling with this challenge, with respect to the technological advancements being made — from social media and the Internet to automated vehicles. This area in my view requires a lot of work,” Justice Ramana said.
08 November 2020||GUWAHATI,||BJP lashes out at Assam ally in Bodoland||Addressing a series of rallies in Bodoland in Assam, State Finance Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma and State BJP president Ranjeet Kumar Das have lashed out at the party’s ally in Assam, Bodoland People’s Front (BPF), for its “reign of terror” and “favouritism” for over 16 years. The BPF is one of two regional parties that rule Assam in alliance with the BJP. But the upcoming elections to the 40-seat Bodoland Territorial Region (BTR) has made the BJP and BPF drift apart to set the tone for the Assembly elections by May 2021. The BTR, covering four districts, was born in February 2003 as the Bodoland Territorial Council under the Sixth Schedule of the Constitution. It was renamed BTR on September 28 according to the provisions of the Bodo Peace Accord signed on January 27 this year. “There have been allegations of large-scale misappropriation of funds during the rule of BPF under Hagrama Mohilary. The Bodoland council areas need change to end favouritism, ensure safety and security of the people and all-round development,” Dr. Sarma said at rallies in Udaliguri district. He also said the BJP was committed to ensuring equal rights for all.
08 November 2020||Bengaluru,||Task force suggests implementation of NEP from 2021 in phased manner||The task force that was constituted for the implementation of the National Education Policy (NEP) has recommended that it be introduced across schools in Karnataka from the next 2021-22 academic year in a phased manner. The final report, which was submitted to the State government on Saturday, calls for the provision of an ‘implementation fund’ under Samagra Shikshana (SSK) and establishment of Karnataka State Higher Education Council (KSHEC). Among the key recommendations are establishment of bodies like the Karnataka Shikshana Ayoga (KSA) and the Implementation Mission Establishment to ensure that the policy is adopted. C.N. Ashwath Narayan, Deputy Chief Minister and Minister in charge of Higher Education, after receiving the policy, highlighted the importance of coordination across departments for the smooth implementation of the NEP. “To address this issue, the task force has suggested creating the KSA, which should be headed by the Chief Minister,” he said. The Implementation Task Force (ITF) can review the progress of the implementation of the NEP every quarter for the next three years. The report recommended that other regulatory bodies such as State School Standards Authority (SSSA) and Karnataka Higher Education Regulatory Council (KHERC) be established. The task force, formed in March 2020, is headed by former Chief Secretary S.V. Ranganath. As per the final report, Phase 1 would have targets for 2023 beginning with 2020 as ‘year 0’ while Phase 2 will include targets for 2025 and Phase 3 will have targets for 2030. Curriculum and pedagogic revisions for schools should be undertaken by DSERT for Foundational and Preparatory stages of schooling, while middle and secondary stage can be taken up after NCF 2021 is released. Mr. Narayan said that deliberations with all the stakeholders concerned will be held before the implementation of the new policy. “There is a duration of 15 years to implement this policy. However, the State government has decided to complete the implementation process within 10 years,” he added.
08 November 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi Police registers case against Niira Radia, others for alleged loan fraud; her firm denies charges||The Economic Offences Wing of the Delhi police has registered an FIR against Nayati Healthcare’s Niira Radia and four others for alleged embezzlement of over Rs. 300 crore of bank loan, following a complaint filed by orthopaedic surgeon Rajiv Sharma from whom they had acquired two hospitals. Nayati Healthcare has rejected the allegations as baseless.
08 November 2020||New Delhi,||Yashvardhan Sinha sworn in as CIC||Yashvardhan Kumar Sinha was sworn in as the country’s new Chief Information Commissioner on Saturday by President Ram Nath Kovind. Mr. Sinha later administered the oath to the three new Central Information Commissioners: former Labour Secretary Heera Lal Samariya, former Deputy Comptroller and Auditor General Saroj Punhani, and journalist Uday Mahurkar.
08 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||ED conducts searches in Goa in illegal land allotment case||The ED has searched the premises of Agnelo C. Lobo, a former attorney of the Comunidade of Serula (Goa), and others in connection with alleged illegal allotment of plots and acquisition of land belonging to the association. The properties of Mr. Lobo’s brother Reginaldo, former official of Communidade of Serula Joseph D’Sa and ex-clerk Rajesh Suhas Veren-kar have also been seized.
08 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Active cases fall under 19,000 after five months||Even as the number of persons under treatment fell below 19,000 on Saturday, after nearly five months, the State reported 2,341 new cases of COVID-19. The number of active cases in Tamil Nadu stood at 18,966. The fresh cases pushed the tally to 7,41,488. Another 2,352 persons were discharged, and 25 persons, including a 101-year-old man, succumbed to the infection, taking the toll to 11,324. The total number of persons discharged stood at 7,11,198. Cases continued to dip, gradually, in Chennai, while the number of persons under treatment dropped under 6,000. The city accounted for 603 fresh cases and six deaths, taking its tally to 2,04,258 and toll to 3,711. With 213 new infections, Coimbatore’s tally rose to 44,889. Chengalpattu recorded 112 cases and five deaths, taking its total case count to 44,729. The active cases in Chengalpattu fell below 1,000. A total of 938 persons are currently under treatment in the district. There were 137 cases in Tiruvallur, 114 in Tiruppur, 108 in Erode and 106 in Salem.  Centenarian dies Among the deceased, the centenarian from Chennai was admitted to a private hospital on November 4. He died the next day due to acute respiratory distress syndrome and COVID-19 pneumonia. Two persons in their 30s also succumbed to the infection. These included a 35-year-old woman from Chengalpattu who had no co-morbidities. She was admitted to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital on November 4. She died on November 5 due to COVID-19 pneumonia and respiratory failure. A 30-year-old man from Villupuram, who had aplastic anaemia, was admitted to a private medical college hospital in Vellore on October 19, with complaints of abdominal pain, anorexia and nausea. He died on November 5 due to COVID-19 pneumonia. A total of 80,112 samples were tested in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of samples analysed to 1,04,86,338. One more private laboratory — Dr. Lal Pathlabs Ltd, KKR ENT Hospital and Research Building, Chennai — was approved for COVID-19 testing. With this, there are now 205 testing facilities in the State.  A total of 80,112 samples were tested in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of samples analysed to 1,04,86,338
08 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CSIR-SERC designs portable temporary shelter with lights||The CSIR-Structural Engineering Research Centre (CSIR-SERC) has designed a portable, foldable temporary shelter with a roof, doors, windows and lighting using steel and insulation material. The shelter with 180 sq ft floor space can be used at construction sites, remote areas or to create makeshift hospitals. The special and multifunctional structural laboratory of the CSIR-SERC in Chennai has designed this 2.8-metre tall module that can be folded into just one-foot making it easy to transport. “It has tubelights inside and can be folded with the lights. There are fixtures for fans. The walls are made with insulating material, frame with steel, doors are made from aluminium and windows with transparent plastic instead of glass. It has been designed to withstand earthquakes and heavy winds during cyclones,” said Saptarshi Sasmal, senior principal scientist, who led the team in designing the module. One module weighed about a tonne and can be made lighter if the roof is removed, provided it is to be used indoors. The fully folded modules can be taken to the site and erected after levelling the site and each module can be installed within 30 minutes. The CSIR-SERC recently signed an agreement for licensing of technology of the portable lightweight module, called PoliTal-M, with Larsen & Toubro Ltd. The agreement was signed in the presence of Shekhar C. Mande, Director General, CSIR, Santosh Kapuria, Director, CSIR-SERC, and M.V. Satish, Whole-time Director and Senior Executive Vice-President, L&T. Sources in CSIR-SERC said that this technology was available for licensing to other industries as well and that the institute was committed to promote this technology for its wider use and reach. L&T sources said the idea was to utilise it at construction sites or at sites like those affected by the calamities where construction might not be possible within a short time. “The immediate idea is to utilise these shelters in setting up of COVID-19 facilities,” an official said.
08 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DVAC seizes 519 sovereigns of gold, Rs. 4.29 cr. in cash in a month||Officials of the Directorate of Vigilance & Anti-Corruption have seized 519 sovereigns of gold, Rs. 4.29 crore in cash and other valuables in the past month from the office and residential premises of government employees. In the 54 searches conducted since October 1, special teams organised surprise checks in various departments, mostly Transport and Registration, resulting in the seizures ahead of Deepavali. Surprise checks In Vellore district, the anti-corruption police conducted a joint surprise check, along with officials of the District Inspection Cell, at three Tasmac shops and seized Rs. 60,990 in unaccounted cash. Preliminary enquiry revealed that the salesmen had sold liquor over and above the maximum retail price. The State-owned liquor shops do not display the brand and price list, which they are supposed to do, depriving consumers of the rates, investigators said. Vigilance officials investigating allegations against the Zonal Officer, Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board, Vellore, seized Rs. 3.25 crore in cash, 450 sovereigns of gold jewellery and 6.5 kg of silver articles from his residence. From the office and residence of the Deputy Inspector-General of Registrations, Salem, DVAC officials seized Rs. 3.2 lakh cash, 34 sovereigns gold worth Rs. 13 lakh, a property document worth Rs. 63.7 lakh and bank savings to the tune of Rs. 1 crore. Investigation is on to ascertain the source of income for these seizures. Registration tops The officer topped the list of surprise checks, resulting in seizure of unaccounted money, followed by Transport, Electricity, Rural Development and other establishments. “We are acting on every information, be it a specific written complaint or source information, when it comes to allegations of corruption in government offices. Where there is no valid justification to account for the excess money/valuables seized, a disproportionate assets case will be registered,” DVAC Director Jayanth Murali told The Hindu on Saturday. The agency, in an official release, said 16 government officials had been arrested on specific complaints of corruption between October 1 and November 6. They were accused of demanding and accepting bribes and booked under relevant provisions of the Prevention of Corruption Act, 1988.  In 54 searches conducted since October 1, special teams organised surprise checks in various departments, mostly Transport and Registration
08 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||A Thevaram for Christians||Veeramamunivar, the Jesuit priest, is known in the Tamil literary world for his epic Thembavani . However, few are aware that the Christian missionary also wrote minor literary works including a Thevaram , on the lines of hymns sung by Saivaite saints. “A few know about his achievements in other genres of Tamil poetry because they deal with religious and more specifically Christian themes. Moreover these works are confined to the Christian hymns,” said retired English Professor M. Dominic Raj, who had translated into English Thembavani . Veermamunivar, whose 140 birth anniversary falls on November 8, was attracted by the Bakhthi Movement that flourished in Tamil Nadu and the singing of the hymns of the Nayanmars and Azhwars , and composed a Thevaram . 25 editions “There are only 12 pathikams (stanzas). They are being preserved till now only because it finds a place as the last hymn of the most used prayerbook of the Catholics, namely, Thirukkutumba Bakhthi Malai ,” Mr Dominic Raj. The book is found in the house of almost every Catholic family. It is being sold by Nobili Book Store, Madurai, for nearly a hundred years taking it to 35 editions till 2018, he said. “The hymn deals with the merciful and loving nature of the Godhead who provides everything for mankind, and yet there exists the pitiable situation in which people do not adore Him. Each verse ends with the words: paniyavarenno karunambaram (what kind of sad state is this in which Your feet are not worshipped? Divine Mercy!),” explained Mr. Dominic Raj, who has translated the stanzas. His another work is Annai Azhungal Anthathi , a poetic form in which the last word of a stanza becomes the first word of the next stanza. This poem has been written in the pulambal or oppari — a genre dealing with the ‘Lamentation of Mary’ after the death of her Divine Son. Yet another work Thirukkavalur Kalampakam was composed in various metrical formats like venpa, akaval , and kalippa as an ‘Ode to Mary’ (as the Refuge of sinners). It is in praise of Adaikkala Madha, the deity of the Church at Thirkkavalur, built by Veeramanmuivar, whose original name was Constantine Joseph Beschi. Another work is Kitheri Ammal Ammanai . This poem has been composed in the genre of the Ammanai — sung as a song by girls playing with balls thrown at one another. “It has been composed by Beschi to honour St. Quiteria in whose name a church was built at Kuthankuly in Tirunelveli District. It can be called a ‘Ballad on St. Quiteria’,” said Mr. Dominc Raj.  A few know about his achievements in other genres of Tamil poetry because they deal with religious and more specifically Christian themes. Moreover these works are confined to the Christian hymns M. Dominic Raj Retired English Professor
08 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||High Court raps HR&CE department for failing to protect temple land||The Madras High Court criticised the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) department for having failed to protect temple properties which were either encroached by private individuals or used by government for other official purposes. Justice R. Mahadevan said: “Such callous attitude on their part cannot be countenanced.” He made the observation on Wednesday last after ruling against the government’s move to construct a Regional Transport Office on land in the possession of the Kottai Mariamman temple in Omalur Taluk of Salem district for more than 80 years. Passing common orders on a batch of cases, the judge also ruled against the move by the Fisheries Department to construct a modern fish market and fish eatery on land in the possession of the Sakthi Muthamman temple at Neelankarai near Chennai for more than 70 years. The judge ordered that the temple land should be protected. “This court has time and again observed that temples in Tamil Nadu are not only a source of identification of the ancient culture but also a testimony of pride and knowledge of the talent in the field of arts, science and sculpture, and a conduit for spiritual activities,” the judge said. “The properties of the religious institutions, more particularly the temples, have to be maintained properly in order to derive more income to spend for their betterment,” he said. He agreed with the petitioner’s counsel V.B.R. Menon, T. Kokilavane and B. Harikrishnan that the government had taken away the temple land without the HR&CE Department’s consent. Justice Mahadevan recalled that the Supreme Court in A.A. Gopalakrishnan Vs Cochin Devaswom Board (2007) had impressed upon the need for the government, members or trustees of boards/trusts and devotees to be vigilant and prevent usurpation or encroachment of properties belonging to religious institutions. The apex court had also observed that courts were duty bound to protect and safeguard the properties of religious and charitable institutions from wrongful claims or misappropriation. However, in the present case, the HR&CE Department had failed to protect the lands of the two temples in question, the judge lamented.
08 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Webinars on emerging from effects of COVID-19 to kick off||Conversations, a series of webinars being organised as a part of The Hindu Group’s ongoing campaign ‘Tamil Nadu Smiling’, will begin on Sunday. The first in the webinar series will be on “Putting the patients back at the heart of healthcare services.” ‘Tamil Nadu Smiling’ is aimed at bringing together the people of the State, its traders and retail organisations and government authorities to find ways to emerge from the effects of the pandemic. As part of this initiative, the series of webinars, in various formats and panning across industries, will bring together key stakeholders to create awareness among consumers and the trade fraternity. The first of the series will focus on how the COVID-19 pandemic has put the focus on providing healthcare services to the people. Efforts have been made to establish new healthcare structures, as in China, or upgrade existing infrastructure, as in India. Priority will be to ensure that new healthcare systems are accessible, equitable, affordable and patient centric, putting in place rules and systems that will continue to deliver these values, uninterrupted. J. Radhakrishnan, Health Secretary, Government of Tamil Nadu; Preetha Reddy, vice-chairperson of Apollo Hospitals; and Girdhar J. Gyani, director general, Association of Healthcare Providers (India), will discuss the topic along with Ramya Kannan, Chief of Bureau - T.N., The Hindu . To register for free, scan the QR code or Whatsapp “Conversations” to 89392 83283.  The webinars will bring together key stakeholders to create awareness among consumers and the trade fraternity
08 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tamil Nadu tops in water management||Tamil Nadu has bagged the first place in the best State (normal) category in the National Water Awards, 2019, presented by the Union Ministry of Jal Shakti, Department of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation. The construction of 100 check-dams and anicuts, the stabilisation of the command area to the extent of 2.85 lakh hectares through ‘kudimaramathu’ and the coverage of over 2 lakh hectares through micro-irrigation are among the factors in the recognition, officials said. The awards are presented in 16 categories, including best State, best district, best village panchayat, best urban local body, best research/innovation/new technology and best education. Each category has sub-categories in different zones of the country, a release said. The check-dams and similar storage structures were built at a cost of Rs. 1,000 crore during 2019-20. Various schemes led to the creation of about 3,650 hectares of command area. Performance in micro-irrigation, which was accomplished through the Agriculture and Agricultural Engineering Departments, was cited to support the State’s claim for the award, said an official of the Public Works Department (PWD). The implementation of the Athikadavu-Avinashi project, a long-standing lift irrigation and drinking water supply scheme to benefit Coimbatore, Tiruppur and Erode districts, also came in handy for officials to substantiate their claim. Nearly one half of the project has been carried out. The execution of the Therovy Kandigai reservoir on the outskirts of Chennai, which will be the fifth storage point for the city’s water requirements, was also cited. Now ready for commissioning, the reservoir will have a storage of 500 million cubic feet. Apart from local catchment, it can receive water from the Satyamurti Sagar in Poondi, through a newly laid canal, the PWD official said, adding that the presence of numerous roof-top rainwater harvesting structures, taken up with the help of local bodies, also supported the State’s application. Under the best district category in the south zone, Vellore and Karur were awarded the first and second spots respectively in the sub-category of revival of river. Perambalur came second in the water conservation category. The Sasthavinathur village panchayat, Thoothukudi, stood first in the water conservation category. The Madurai Municipal Corporation was awarded the first place in the best urban local body category. The awards distribution ceremony will be held on November 11 and 12 through virtual platform.  The check-dams and similar storage structures were built at a cost of Rs. 1,000 crore during 2019-20
08 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Over 6,000 retired transport workers await benefits||As many as 6,221 retired employees of the eight State Transport Undertakings (STUs) are awaiting settlement of terminal benefits since May 2019, according to trade unions. The lockdown, which brought bus operations to a grinding halt in the State, and the limited operations thereafter, did not just lead to a drastic fall in revenues, but dampened the hopes of retired staff and kin of those who died in service (after April last year) of getting provident fund, gratuity and commutation and leave encashment. According to trade unions, non-settlement of retirement benefits has remained an issue in the transport sector since 2013. However, the dues were settled by the State government, intermittently, following protests by employees’ unions. Besides operating losses, union leaders say the reason why terminal benefits are not disbursed to retiring staff is because the PF deducted from salaries is not credited to STU’s PF trust. The number of retired staff who died or fell sick rose during the pandemic. Many who planned marriages in the family, construction of houses and other investments too had to suffer. “This is a service sector, where the motto is to serve and not make profits. While other departments like education, health, food and electricity also provide services at subsidised rates, the State allocates sufficient funds to compensate the losses. We are operating at a loss of Rs. 12 per km — accumulating to Rs. 12 crore a day — but there is no budgetary allocation to compensate this loss,” said K. Arumuga Nainar, State office-bearer of the Centre of Indian Trade Union (CITU). Rural connect Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporations also operate buses to the rural pockets, benefiting farmers, students and daily wagers. “We may not be making profits. But the network benefits people at the grassroots, contributing to the overall economic growth of the State. A budgetary provision, compensating the subsidies/social obligations, is the only option to overcome the continuing losses,” Mr. Nainar said. According to S. Sampath, joint secretary, Tamil Nadu Government Transport Corporation Staff Federation, there were no retirements after May, since the State increased the age of retirement from 58 to 59. Though the Transport Department was better placed to settle terminal benefits, the pandemic came as a blow to bus operation and revenue generation. “I retired in May 2019, and was expecting a total settlement of Rs. 35 lakh. But not a single rupee has been paid…all my post-retirement plans stand deferred, indefinitely, since there is no clarity on when the PF, gratuity and other benefits will be settled,” Mr. Sampath said. The State’s transport system is among the largest in the country, with over 1.26 lakh employees, including one lakh drivers and conductors, and a fleet of 20,944 buses, transporting about 1.64 crore people, every day. The Transport Department needs Rs. 1,624 crore to settle the retirement benefits of the 6,221 employees.
08 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Causeways along the Cooum to be razed||The Water Resources Department plans to dismantle a few causeways along the Cooum as they are said to be obstructing the water flow and aggravating pollution. The stretch of the river along the Poonamallee High Road has several causeways linking different areas. However, the structures had proved to be disastrous for the river. The department is awaiting funds to dismantle causeways in various localities. Residents of Velappanchavadi and Thiruverkadu complained that low-level areas such as Shanmuga Nagar along the river faced the threat of flooding as thick cover of water hyacinth obstructed the flow and caused flooding in the neighbourhood. A.V. Mani, secretary, Thiruverkadu KRSA Residents’ Welfare Association, said vehicles often stopped at the causeways constructed at low level and dumped garbage or sewage into the river. The causeway next to Velappanchavadi bridge could be dismantled as most people stopped using it. Instead, the bridge could be extended for two-way traffic. Moreover, a compound wall was being built on both sides of the river from Kaduvetti. Causeway could be demolished and the wall fencing extended till Velappanchavadi bridge, he said. Officials said similar issues were common in causeways beneath the Maduravoyal grade separator and Nolambur too. The department plans Tiruvallur district administration and Greater Chennai Corporation to convert causeways into bridges across the river to discourage garbage dumping and discharge of raw sewage. Officials said similar problems faced in the Adyar near Jaffarkhanpet was resolved after the causeway was dismantled a few years ago.
08 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CMRL meets with govt. departments||To step up preparatory work before starting construction, Chennai Metro Rail Limited (CMRL) has begun making arrangements for acquiring government land for its phase II project. The project with three corridors, Madhavaram to Shollinganallur, Madhavaram to SIPCOT and Light House to Poonamallee, covers a total distance of 118.9 km and will cost nearly Rs. 60,000 crore. CMRL has been planning to start construction by early next year and tenders have been floated for tunnelling and station work. For this project, the firm will require a combination of both government and private land. While land acquisition from private owners has been on for several months now, CMRL has been taking measures to quickly acquire government land. According to the detailed project report, an estimated area of 93.79 hectares of government land will be acquired. The State government held a high-level committee meeting recently and CMRL officials listed out in detail the extent of land needed from various departments, sources said. “The land needed may be both temporary, which will be returned after the construction, and permanent. Each department will have to ensure that access is given at the appropriate time for construction,” a source said. During the meeting, CMRL informed both the Greater Chennai Corporation and the Highways Department about the various roads that will have to be taken over for construction, sources said.
08 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Light to moderate rain likely in the State for two days||A few places in Tamil Nadu may receive light to moderate rain till Monday, after which there may be a dip in rainfall activity till November 11, according to the Meteorological Department. On Saturday, many areas in and around Chennai experienced intermittent showers throughout the day. While this helped bring down the day temperature at Nungambakkam to close to the normal of 30.1 degrees Celsius, the weather station received only a trace of rainfall till 5.30 p.m. But Meenambakkam recorded nearly 2.3 cm. The presence of light to moderate north-easterlies and easterlies over the lower atmospheric level influenced the spell of rain over the region. While intermittent rain may continue in coastal areas, south Tamil Nadu has better prospects of fairly widespread rainfall on Sunday, according to officials of the Meteorological Department. In the last 24 hours, ending 8.30 a.m. on Saturday, many places across the State received moderate to heavy rainfall. Idayapatti in Madurai district recorded 7 cm, the highest amount in the State for the day. On Sunday, heavy rain, up to 12 cm, may occur in one or two places in Thanjavur, Tiruvarur, Ramanathapuram, Pudukottai and Nagapattinam districts. However, thunderstorms will be restricted to a few places in the State and Puducherry after Monday. Tamil Nadu has received an average of 13.2 cm of rainfall, 43% less than its seasonal normal, since October 1. The Meteorological Department has forecast that Chennai will experience a generally cloudy sky and light to moderate rain or thundershowers in some areas till Monday.
08 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rs. 1,000 cr. unaccounted for income detected||The Income Tax (I-T) Department has found Rs. 1,000 crore unaccounted for income during a search operation it conducted earlier this week on a Chennai-based information technology infrastructure group. The searches were conducted at five locations in Chennai and Madurai. “The search led to the detection of around Rs. 1,000 crore unaccounted for income, out of which, disclosure of an additional income of Rs. 337 crore has already been made by the assessee, besides actionable issues under Benami and Black Money Acts. Further investigations are on,” an I-T Department release said. Singapore connect The search led to the unearthing of evidence relating to investments in a Singapore-registered company. Its shares are held by two firms — one owned by the group searched, while the other is a subsidiary of a major infrastructure development and financing group. “It has been found that the company belonging to the searched group has invested a very nominal amount, although it has a 72% shareholding, while the other company, having 28% shareholding, has almost invested the entire money. This has resulted in a benefit/gain of almost Singapore $7 crore, that is, around Rs. 200 crore in the hands of the company belonging to the searched group. This was not disclosed by it in its return of income and in the FA schedule,” the press release said. Thus, there has been suppression of foreign income received in the form of share subscription, equivalent to Rs. 200 crore (present value Rs. 354 crore), which is taxable in India, in the hands of the shareholder. Proceedings will be initiated under the Black Money Act, 2015, for not disclosing foreign assets/beneficial interest in the FA Schedule of the income tax return. Shell companies During the searches, it was also found that the group recently acquired five shell companies to siphon out Rs. 337 crore from the main company, by raising bogus bills, without doing any real business in these firms. The siphoned money was transferred abroad and utilised for the purchase of shares, in the name of the son of the main assessee, the department’s press release added. “One of the directors has admitted that they diverted funds through these companies. Evidence has also been found regarding the allotment of preference shares worth Rs. 150 crore, in 2009, in the group company, by passing accounting entries, only to project inflated capital before banks and financial institutions to obtain finances. Allotment of another Rs. 150 crore-worth preference shares in 2015, from funds from group companies, who in turn took loans/entries, is being examined,” the release said. The group borrowed funds from banks, on interest, and diverted it to other group companies, free of interest, for investments in properties. The total interest disallowance on this count works out to around Rs. 423 crore. Further, the search also revealed that the group purchased about 800 acres of land, worth at least Rs. 500 crore, in the names of shell companies, from funds provided by the main group.  It has been found that the company belonging to the searched group has invested a very nominal amount, although it has a 72% shareholding Income Tax Department
08 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Denial of permission for ‘Vetrivel Yatra’ may not hurt AIADMK-BJP ties||The denial of permission by the Tamil Nadu government for the BJP’s Vetrivel Yatra may not damage the ties between the ruling AIADMK and the national party, according to functionaries of both. In August, the government did not allow either installation or procession of Vinayaka idols in public places to mark Vinayaka Chaturthi despite BJP State president L. Murugan leading a delegation to Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami and demanding that the celebrations be allowed. At that time, the authorities cited the prevalence of COVID-19 as the reason for denial of permission. This time too, the pandemic has been cited as the main reason. The factor of law and order has not been overlooked, a senior functionary of the AIADMK said. After all, the BJP’s programme, covering six abodes of Lord Muruga across the State, was to end on December 6, the day of the demolition of the Babri Masjid in 1992. The ruling party’s office-bearer said the likelihood of the State experiencing a second wave of infections was also being talked about generally. It was against this backdrop that permission was not given for the BJP’s event. However, the two parties will, in all possibility, go beyond such an irritant and strike a deal at the time of the Assembly election. “More than us, they [the BJP] are keen on having an alliance with us,” said the AIADMK functionary, adding that there were certain sections of the party that did not relish the prospect of their party aligning itself with the BJP.  ‘No differences’ BJP State spokesperson T. Narayanan said there were “no policy differences” between his party and the AIADMK. Whatever differences they may have were similar to what the constituents of the DMK-led front have among themselves. “Take the issue of quota for the economically weaker sections in the general category or the release of seven life convicts of the Rajiv Gandhi assassination case or the Sri Lankan Tamil question, the Congress takes one line, which is different from that of the MDMK or the Left,” he contended. He added that the considerations of electoral alliance were not influenced by the position of parties on a given issue. However, he termed the denial of permission for Vetrivel Yatra unfortunate and wondered why the BJP should be prevented from holding its programme when the DMK and the VCK had been permitted to conduct agitations. He also denied that his party had been raking up emotive issues and emphasisesd that only Opposition parties had been raising such issues at regular intervals.
08 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Hotels seek relief from high water charges||Members of the Chennai Hotels’ Association have complained that many hotels were billed exorbitant water charges by the Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (CMWSSB) after digital water meters were fitted earlier this year. Such abnormal charges would affect the industry that had been worst hit during the pandemic. Association president M. Ravi said digital meters were installed during March. Many hotels and restaurants in the city received notices to pay bills that were a minimum four times higher than the usual water charges. Bills were raised even for the months when the hotels were shut during the lockdown. “Many of us are able to do 30%-35% of sales only even after relaxations to operate provided by the government. Such additional charges would add burden to the hoteliers,” he said. The association has represented to Minister for Municipal Administration S.P. Velumani to waive off water charges. The water board had started installing digital water meters with automated readings in commercial buildings under the Smart City Mission. It had identified 12,708 properties were to be installed. According to the water board, those who use nearly 5,000 kilolitres of water every month were in the category of water-intensive consumers. Officials said digital meters had been installed in about 9,000 commercial establishments so far. Charges were levied according to the consumption and tariff for metered connections remained the same.
08 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Job portal launched for LGBTQ, veterans and the disabled||Chennai-based Avtar Group has come up with an exclusive job portal for women, people from the LGBTQ community, people with disabilities, millennials and veterans. Called ‘myAvtar.com’, the portal currently features more than 500 job opportunities from sectors such as information technology, manufacturing, healthcare, fintech and logistics among others. “Diversity hiring is increasing at most firms — there has been a 33% increase. And a lot of organisations are keen on hiring people from the LGBTQ community. This portal will help employers find the right candidates especially from under-represented communities who have immense potential,” Saundarya Rajesh, Founder-President, Avtar Group, told The Hindu . According to a report titled “2020 Working Mother and Avtar Best Companies for Women in India,” 39% of all positions closed in 2020 at 100 best companies were diversity positions. “This is a re-affirmation that best companies are pro-actively seeking out diversity in talent, including women on breaks,” Ms. Rajesh said. Diversity hiring is most prevalent in the consulting sector where almost 44% of all hires are diversity hires, followed by the IT/ITES Sector with 39% and the BFSI (banking, financial services and insurance) sector which hires 36%. The percentage of diversity hires is going up in industries such as manufacturing and pharma. In manufacturing, 29% of hires are diversity hires and in pharma, it is 18%. The portal will help women find work-from-home jobs. It will give special focus to veterans — the talent pool of ex-personnel from India’s armed forces. “For the valour, grit, resilience, focus and leadership qualities of this talent pool, we observe an increasing intent among companies to engage with this talent pool. At present, there is no portal catering to this segment of people,” said Ms. Rajesh. “There are so many women who lost jobs due to the COVID-19 pandemic. And many have taken breaks from jobs and are now looking for opportunities. This portal will focus on such women. There is an estimated size of 70 lakh women who are on breaks as per data available with us,” she added.  This is a re-affirmation that best companies are pro-actively seeking out diversity in talent, including women on breaks Saundarya Rajesh Founder-President, Avtar Group
08 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||19,157 applications registered for govt. quota medical, dental seats||A total of 19,157 applicants had been registered for MBB and BDS admissions under the government quota till Saturday. While 13,506 aspirants had paid registration fee, 9,492 had completed the application process. A total of 3,544 candidates had sought exemption from fee payment. Under the management category seats, 9,644 applications had been registered and 8,039 candidates had paid the initial registration fee while 3,804 candidates had completed the application process, according to the Directorate of Medical Education. The DME began issuing applications from November 3. The last date to apply is November 12 and the tentative date for release of merit list is November 16. In case a candidates makes mistakes while filling the application forms and wants to correct the same, he or she may e-mail the selection committee in the id provided in the prospectus. Candidates must mention their NEET roll number and class 12 registration number while sending correction. On Friday, the Medical Counselling Committee released the results of the first round of online counselling for All India Quota seats, the AIIMS, Jipmer, and seats in Central, ESIC and deemed universities.
08 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DMK MP urges Centre to intervene to lift ban on fireworks||DMK Parliamentary Party leader T.R. Baalu on Saturday urged the Centre to intervene to get the ban imposed by some States on bursting of fireworks on Deepavali day lifted. In a letter to Union Minister for Labour and Employment Santosh Kumar Gangwar, he said it was unscientific to ban crackers as they were manufactured as per the guidelines of the Supreme Court and contained no poisonous chemicals. Pointing out that the ban not only affected the livelihood of workers in the fireworks industry but also the future of the industry, he said the government should earmark funds to compensate workers and the industry in case the State governments were not ready to lift the ban.
08 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Maintenance of parks in Chennai to be privatised||The Greater Chennai Corporation has decided to hand over 50% of the parks for private maintenance by the end of November. More than 774 parks have been developed by the Greater Chennai Corporation in 426 sq km of the city, and 65 parks are already under private maintenance. “We have been spending Rs. 45 crore every year towards maintenance of parks. We have planned to hand over all parks for private maintenance and reduce expenditure,” said an official. The civic body is in the process of identifying about 250 major institutions and industries to start maintenance of the parks, permitting all residents free entry from 5 a.m. to 9 p.m. ‘Access denied’ While residents in a few localities reportedly complained about private managements denying access to parks, the Corporation officials said some portions of parks and playgrounds had been handed over for private maintenance after taking them over from welfare associations that were controlled by former MLAs and councillors. Many tennis courts had been taken over from welfare associations and given for private maintenance. The new operator had started paying money to the Corporation, officials said. Students of Corporation schools will be permitted in the playgrounds free of cost, they added. The Corporation has proposed to develop a modern sports complex at Kannappar Thidal. Affordable coaching Modern coaching facilities for cricket, tennis, badminton and all games would be provided in the area. The facilities would offer all modern services for sports and games. Coaching would be provided at an affordable cost. A tender would be floated shortly. Similar facilities would be developed in other parts of the city.
08 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Search on for BJP men who shoved Tiruvallur SP||The Tiruttani police have booked a case and launched a search for a couple of BJP men who pushed Tiruvallur Superintendent of Police P. Aravindhan when he went to disperse partymen who were squatting on a road. On Friday, BJP leaders, including L. Murugan and other cadre, were arrested by the police in Tiruttani when they attempted to take out ‘Vetrivel Yatra’ despite being denied permission by the authorities. They were detained at a wedding hall. Around 5 p.m., around 200 men came out of the hall and blocked the Chennai-Tirupatti Highway, alleging that they were not given adequate amenities. Mr. Aravindhan, who had come to the spot with the police personnel, asked them to disperse. Minor melee Protesters refused and attempted to rush at the police personnel. In the melee, a couple of them shoved the SP. Later, police officer-turned-politician K. Annamalai came to the spot and pacified the party workers. They dispersed from the spot. Later, a video of the incident went viral over social media. Village Administrative Officer Vel Kannan lodged a complaint against the BJP men. The Tiruttani police registered a case. They have also registered a separate FIR against BJP president L. Murugan and 508 others for taking out the procession.
08 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Seven-year-old falls to death||In a freak accident, a seven-year-old boy fell to his death on Thursday after a fibreglass ceiling suddenly collapsed while he was playing on the terrace of a 10-storey apartment in Vepery. The victim has been identified as Rishi Kataria, the son of Rohit Kataria and Narmada, natives of Rajasthan. Mr. Kataria runs an electric shop in Sowcarpet and his family lives on the eighth floor of an apartment on Jermiah Road. The apartment’s common area is covered with a fibreglass ceiling..When Rishi went to the terrace alone around 6.30 p.m., the ceiling collapsed under him and he fell. Residents alerted the Vepery police and the body was sent to the Kilpauk Government Hospital for a post-mortem examination.
08 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Undertake charitable works: Kamal||Makkal Needhi Maiam founder Kamal Haasan on Saturday celebrated his 66th birthday with party cadre and fans in Chennai. In a letter, Mr. Haasan urged his supporters to inform him about their charitable activities and avoid celebrations. “There are reports that some government hospitals do not have facilities to even give hot water to COVID-19 patients. Hospital toilets don’t have latches, poor students in colleges are unable to pay fees for the final year and folk artistes have lost their livelihoods. If you step onto the street, there are a million problems. So, help those in need,” he said. He urged his supporters to use ‘Maiam Connect’, a mobile application, to let him know of their activities on his birthday.
08 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Burst crackers in open spaces, says TNPCB||The Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB) has urged residential associations to burst crackers in open spaces as a group during the Deepavali celebrations. The Board said that associations could obtain permissions for the same from the Greater Chennai Corporation. This is how crackers are burst in countries, including Australia, the U.S. and Singapore. This will make the celebrations safer, and also make it easier for the local bodies to clean the waste left behind. In a press release, the TNPCB also said residents must ensure that they burst crackers that make less noise and do not cause too much smoke pollution.
08 November 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||PMK general body to decide on agitation for reservation||With the PMK deciding to revive its Vanniyar reservation agitation, its founder S. Ramadoss on Saturday said the party’s general body would meet on November 22 to decide the modalities of the “just and intense” agitation. He appealed to the cadre and members of the Vanniyar Sangam to reach out to the community in villages and explain the need for the agitation to seek 20% exclusive reservation for Vanniyars in education and government jobs. “The agitations should be in such a way that it should force the State government to invite the community to sign the agreement and request us to end it,” Dr. Ramadoss added. “In Tamil Nadu, the Vanniyar community forms 25% of the total population. Despite that, its representation in education and jobs has not surpassed 8%,” he said. According to Dr. Ramadoss, certain communities had four times more representation than their population in education and jobs.
08 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||BJP offers to limit yatra to 30 participants||BJP State general secretary K. Nagarajan on Saturday told the Madras High Court at a special sitting that only 30 persons in 15 cars will participate in the Vetrivel Yatra to cover the six abodes of Lord Murugan. Besides, the tour would be wound up much before the scheduled December 6, the Babri Masjid demolition anniversary. Justices M. Sathyanarayanan and R. Hemalatha were told by advocate Venkatachari Raghavachari that Mr. Nagarajan would make a fresh representation to the police on Sunday listing all details of the yatra. He hoped that there might not be any further objection on the part of the State in granting permission. The submission was made at the hearing of an urgent writ petition moved by the BJP leader after the police denied permission for the yatra that began on Friday when the participants including State unit president L. Murugan were detained. During the course of hearing, the senior judge on the Bench pointed out that the previous representations, made by the petitioner to the police, did not contain any details regarding the number of participants, vehicles and people above 60 years of age. Also baffled at an elaborate route planned across the State, the judge asked: “If your purpose is going to the six abodes of Lord Murugan, why do you want to tour through routes where there are no Murugan temples.” He said the litigant could not be allowed to pick the route especially when the threat of COVID-19 was still looming large. Revenue and police officers had to tackle problems due to the onset of the monsoon and also the law and order situation during the Babri Masjid demolition anniversary, the judge said. The police would be in a position to consider grant of permission for the yatra only if all material particulars were submitted to them. On her part, Justice Hemalatha wondered why the State government was opposing the yatra when thousands of devotees were allowed at major temples. Advocate-General Vijay Narayan submitted that the petitioner’s counsel was trying to oversimplify the issue. The A-G added that a majority of the participants of the yatra, which commenced on Friday without police permission, were not wearing masks. Though the petitioner had now told the court that only 30 participants in 15 cars would go on the yatra, there was a possibility of overenthusiastic party cadres and others congregating in large numbers to welcome the participants at district borders and at the temples, the judge said. Therefore, the Bench granted time till Tuesday for the petitioner to file an additional affidavit with all necessary particulars. The judges directed Additional Solicitor-General R. Sankaranarayanan to get instructions from the Centre by Tuesday on the binding nature of the guidelines issued by it to States on tackling COVID-19.
08 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Anna varsity supplementary exam from November 17||Anna University will conduct supplementary exams from November 17 to 21 for all the terminal semester candidates who had technical issues during the online exams held in September-end. The proctored online exam will be conducted for candidates in the university departments and the non-autonomous affiliated colleges. Technical glitches A few students had complained of poor internet connectivity and some students could not take the proctored exams due to power disruption. Absentee candidates and those whose results were withheld can write take the exam. The timetable for the same would be released shortly, the controller of examination said in a press release On Monday, the university will begin online induction programme for students who were admitted in the current academic year. The university has released the detailed schedule of the 10-day programme on its website.
08 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Govt. warns private e-service centres against fleecing people||The Tamil Nadu Arasu Cable TV Corporation on Saturday warned that the licences of private e-service centres would be cancelled without prior information if they were found to have collected more than the fixed rate from customers. In a press release, Animal Husbandry Minister Udumalai K. Radhakrishnan, who is also the Chairman of the Corporation, said people could call toll-free number 18004252911 to launch complaints against those who collect more than the fixed amount for various e-services.
08 November 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore teen’s organs harvested||Multiple organs were harvested from a teenager who died of injuries he suffered in an accident near Coimbatore recently. The heart, allotted to a private hospital in Chennai, and the lungs allotted to a private hospital in Secunderabad, were transported on chartered flights. According to a release issued by Kovai Medical Center and Hospital (KMCH), the heart, lungs, liver, kidneys, eyes, bone and skin were harvested from the deceased, G. Vaitheeshwaran from Santhosh Nagar near Ettimadai, on Friday. Vaitheeshwaran was admitted to KMCH after he was critically injured in an accident at Kovilpalayam on Pollachi Road on November 2. He did not respond to treatment and a medical team declared him brain dead on Friday, the release said. The hospital’s grief counsellor approached the boy’s parents, Gopal and Vimaladevi to discuss the possibility of organ donation and they consented to it. Approval The organs were harvested after getting the necessary approvals from the Transplant Authority of Tamil Nadu (Transtan). Transtan allotted the liver and two kidneys to KMCH. The eyes, skin and bone were allotted to a private hospital in Coimbatore.
08 November 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Residents resort to novel protest to highlight poor road condition||Upset at government agencies’ alleged failure to repair the road that they frequently used, residents of Urumandampalayam resorted to novel protest on Friday to draw the agencies’ attention. The residents, along with representatives of the Coimbatore District Road Safety Association, gathered at the Kongunadu Arts and Science College stretch of Udayampalayam road and conducted prayers to Mother Earth. The association president, M. Devendran, said their prayer was to stop people from falling into the trenches dug for laying drinking water pipeline. “After lighting camphor and offering betel leaves and bananas, we prayed for the safety of those crossing the damaged stretch, as a few motorists and pedestrians fell and sustained injuries.” Aside from conducting prayer, the protesters had also erected banners saying the road was missing and that there were wells on Udayampalayam Road. The Tamil Nadu Water Supply and Drainage Board had under the AMRUT scheme dug the road to lay drinking water pipeline to supply more water to the six added areas in the city’s north. Sources in the Board said the residents had protested even as the work was in progress. In deference to their demands, the Board had removed the dug earth to increase the carriage way. At the time of removing the earth, it had told them it was unwise as the dug earth was needed to compact the stretch. It had also told them that if the earth was removed, the road surface would sink again, more so during the monsoon season. Nevertheless, it removed the earth, the sources added. Mr. Devendran said the road was in such a bad condition that on the damaged stretch, the carriageway had shrunk from two lanes to one. Given the fact that more motorists used the road now to reach Ganapathy as the Kavundampalayam flyover work was in progress, the traffic had increased to only make the residents life miserable. He added that for the residents it did not matter if it was the TWAD Board or the State Highways Department that should repair the road; they only wanted a safe, motorable road. The Board sources said it was the Highways Department that should restore the road as the organisation had deposited Rs. 32 lakh to the Department for road restoration purpose. Officials in the Department said the organisation would begin work only after the Board completed its work and they hoped that that it would finish work after Deepavali.
08 November 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Consultation meetings on reopening to be held in around 750 schools||Consultation meetings on reopening of schools will be held in around 750 high and higher secondary schools in the district on Monday, Coimbatore Chief Educational Officer P. Usha said on Saturday. Having announced the reopening of schools for Classes IX, X, XI and XII, the State government has said that consultation meetings would be held with parents of students from these classes and also with representatives of parent-teacher associations on November 9. Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami also said recently that the government decided to hold these meetings amid concerns regarding spread of COVID-19 after reopening. Ms. Usha noted that all government, aided and private schools will conduct the meetings on Monday. All schools have been instructed to ensure adherence to COVID-19 precautionary measures, including mandatory wearing of masks and screening of parents using thermal scanner at the entrance. Only 20 parents must be allowed per classroom to maintain personal distancing during the meeting, she said. The headmasters will conduct the meetings in government and aided schools and the principals/correspondents will conduct in private schools. “Whatever remarks the parents say regarding reopening of schools will be recorded,” Ms. Usha said. Parents, who are unable to attend the meeting, may also choose to send a letter or e-mail containing their remarks to the school, she said. The schools will send the consolidated remarks to the Chief Educational Office on Monday evening, which will be sent to the Department of School Education, according to Ms. Usha.
08 November 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||MLA alleges irregularity in Smart Cities Mission work||Singanallur MLA and Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam Coimbatore east urban unit in-charge N. Karthik has alleged irregularity in the execution of lake development work, which the Coimbatore Corporation had taken up under the Smart Cities Mission. In a statement, issued here on Saturday after he visited a few tanks, he said that the way the Coimbatore Corporation had gone about implementing the lake development work suggested irregularity in execution. Mr. Karthik also questioned the Corporation’s urgency in having the lake development work in Ukkadam Big Tank and Valankulam inaugurated by the Chief Minister when the work was in progress in both the water bodies.
08 November 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||DVAC seizes unaccounted cash in raid||Officials from the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) conducted a surprise check at the office of the Second Joint Sub-Registrar on Raja Street on Saturday and seized unaccounted cash of over Rs. 1.7 lakh. DVAC sources said that a team led by Deputy Superintendent of Police (DVAC) T.H. Ganesh commenced the check at around 2 p.m. and seized the unaccounted cash. Following this, the DVAC registered a case against Sub-Registrar Karthikeyan and a document writer under sections of Prevention of Corruption Act, according to the sources. Man arrested for cheating investor The Economic Offences Wing (EOW) police arrested a director of a private firm at Udayampalayam on the charges of cheating an investor of Rs. 1.25 lakh on Friday. According to EOW sources, Rithu Varnanadvertised various schemes assuring returns for investment. Based on the complaint of a person who invested Rs. 1.25 lakh in July and did not get any returns, the EOW police registered a case and arrested Rithu Varnan on Friday. Remanded in judicial custody He was remanded in judicial custody, according to the sources. The EOW police suspect that the firm has cheated the investors of crores of rupees and are on the lookout for two of its directors who are absconding.
08 November 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||TNSTC to operate 436 special buses for Deepavali||The Coimbatore division of the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) is planning to operate 436 special buses for Deepavali from four districts. Official sources said on Saturday that 186 buses from Coimbatore district, 50 buses from the Nilgiris district, 110 from Erode district and 90 buses from Tiruppur district have been planned for operation to various destinations in the State. The buses will likely be operated from November 12 to 16. The number of special buses to be operated this year is fewer due to the COVID-19 pandemic and the reduction in demand, sources said. However, the final number of buses and other details such as destinations is yet to be announced officially by the TNSTC Coimbatore Division, according to the sources.
08 November 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Annapoorna Foods to expand to more markets||Coimbatore-based Annapoorna Masalas and Spices, which has relaunched the brand, aims at Rs. 200 crore annual turnover in three years. Vijay Prasad, Executive Director of Annapoorna Masalas and Spices, told The Hindu that 80% of the revenue will come from its retail sales in Tamil Nadu. About 10% will be from exports and another 10% from other States. “In Tamil Nadu, we will be present from kirana stores to super markets. In other States, we will be present in super markets. We will have a different set of products for these States,” he said. Annapoorna products are currently sold in Bengaluru, Hyderabad and Visakhapatnam and there are plans to expand to more cities soon. The company exports to the US and there are enquiries from European and West Asian countries. It is exploring these markets. Annapoorna’s products are sold through a few e-commerce portals too. “We want to be aggressive there. We are talking with more portals,” he added. The company has a strong presence in the western districts of Tamil Nadu. There is a gap in regional masalas and it will focus in catering to this need. It recently launched nine new blends of masalas.
08 November 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Police probe man’s death||A 48-year old self-immolated in front of a private stock-broking company near Avinashi Road here on Saturday. According to preliminary investigations, Dhanapal was an employee of the private stock-broking company and had allegedly incurred losses in the stock market. The police said they had found a note at his house in Nanjundapuram. Race Course. An investigation is on. ( Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050)
08 November 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Clothes distributed to needy||Chandrans Yuva Foundation distributed clothes to the needy on Saturday. A press release said, the beneficiaries were selected based on their economic background and included children from orphanages, conservancy workers, and the differently abled. Apart from clothes, school bags and stationery kits were also distributed to the needy children, jointly with SSVM Institutions. District Collector K. Rajamani and T. Rama Durai Murugan, District Revenue Officer, participated in a function held here on Saturday. C. Sivanesan, founder and Managing Trustee of the Foundation and S. Shasikala, its chairperson and CEO were also present.
08 November 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Erode Corpn. to implement ICCC system||With a focus to serve as a decision support for the administrators in day-to-day operations with real-time data from street lights to water supply, the Erode Corporation has decided to implement Integrated Command and Control Centre (ICCC) system at Rs. 10.25 crore Under the Smart City Mission projects, a command centre will be established at the Corporation office and real time data related to water supply, underground sewerage scheme, street lights, solid waste management, vehicle movement and assessment of smart city projects will be integrated and monitored. The centre will have giant screens in which real time data on issues related to leakages in pipelines, faulty street lights, traffic congestion on roads will be displayed that will help senior officials give instructions to their subordinates to rectify the issue. Currently, the civic body is implementing the Dedicated Water Supply Scheme that ensures water supply to residents in all the 60 wards in the city. The Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition is a system that helps technicians operate and monitor pumping of water to the tanks and for distributing to people. The system will be integrated to the centre and officials will be able to switch off and on the motors and also control the water distribution in all the wards. Also, in solid waste management, the system helps monitor movement of lorries, diesel usage and disposals at the compost yard. Corporation Commissioner M. Elangovan told The Hindu all the smart city projects would be integrated to the ICCC which helped rectification of problems, better planning and management and also for real time monitoring of services. A contractor would be appointed for implementing the system and maintaining it for five years. “The contractor has to collect and integrate all the details which will take one year after which the system will be implemented,” he added.
08 November 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Sweet manufacturers told to ensure quality||Sweet manufacturers have been asked to use only natural colours and ensure quality of sweets and other snacks for Deepavali. In a release, Collector C. Kathiravan said bakeries, sweet stalls, hotels, Deepavali sweet chit organisers, sweet makers and sellers should obtain licence from the Food Safety and Drug Administration Department for making and selling sweets, savouries and other snacks for the festival and they could apply onhttps://foscos.fssai.gov.in. He warned that action would be taken if persons were found making and selling sweets without licence. The Collector said good manufacturing practices like maintaining hygiene in the kitchens, use of natural and permissible artificial colours in the preparation of sweets and savouries should be ensured by the manufactures. Newspapers should not be used for packaging and the products should have a proper labelling with FSSAI licence or registration number, the name and address of the manufacturer, date of manufacturing and expiry date, ingredients. “If sweets are kept for retail sale, date of manufacturing and expiry date should be printed and kept on display,” he said and warned traders against violating the norms. The release also said that oil once used should not be reused and asked the public to purchase sweets only from licensed traders or establishments. Complaints related to poor quality of sweets could be taken up with the District Food Safety Authority at WhatsApp number 94440-42322, the release added.
08 November 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Cameras installed to track traffic violations across Erode city||In a bid to help the police to track traffic violations and also monitor vehicle movement, the Corporation had on a pilot basis installed a high resolution camera system on Cutchery Street. Corporation Commissioner M. Elangovan told The Hindu that the smart city mission focuses on comprehensive development by upgrading core infrastructure and a clean and sustainable environment to improve the quality of life of the residents. Safety and security of the residents is a key component and the civic body had proposed to install cameras at 350 locations at a total cost of Rs. 1 crore. The district police had already installed 310 cameras in the city and these cameras will be installed at places suggested by the police department, he added. The system, installed on Cutchery Street, has four cameras, each with five mega pixels, to monitor vehicle movement and detect number plates on all the four roads. The system is connected to the control room at the district police office and is being monitored round the clock. The system can store the footage for one month that helps the police to detect and register cases against persons for not wearing helmets, over speeding, triple-riding, stop line violations, speaking over the phone while driving and other violations. These cameras also function effectively during night hours as recording takes place only if there is vehicle movement on the roads.
08 November 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Subsidised onion not available at outlets in Erode||A week after the sale of onions at subsidised price of Rs. 45 a kg through the Cooperative Department’s Farm Fresh outlets commenced in the district, non-availability of the onion at the outlets has become a concern for people. They wanted the State government to ensure adequate stock in the outlets. Due to drop in arrival from other States, the price of onion sky-rocketed and was sold at Rs. 140 a kg at markets in the district in October. Hence, the Centre started importing onions from Egypt and is distributing to States for selling it to people at subsidised price through Tamil Nadu Co-operative Marketing Federation. On October 29, the sale of onion at subsidised price began at the Chinthamani Cooperative Farm Fresh outlet on the bus stand premises and also across the 52 Amma small cooperative special outlets and nine self-service centres in the district. Initially, one kg of onion was sold to a customer and officials said that based on the arrivals, it would be increased. People thronged the outlets on the first and second day. But, the stock was sold within 30 minutes on the first two days after which the arrival stopped. “Onion was sold only on the inaugural day,” said S. Vasanthi of Kallukadaimedu. She purchased onion in the market at Rs. 80 a kg, she added. P. Murugan of Palayapalayam said he had been visiting the outlet many times in the past one week and could find only the “no stock” board. He said the price of onion in the market continued to be over Rs. 80 a kg and wanted the government to ensure adequate stock during the festival season. When contacted, an official at the Cooperatives Department said nine tonnes of onion had arrived in the district so far and they expected another 10 tonnes in the coming days.
08 November 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Camp for name inclusion in electoral rolls||Special camps will be held at all the polling stations in the district for inclusion of names, correction and deletion in the electoral rolls. A release from the District Election Officer and Collector C. Kathiravan said the Election Commission of India had announced the special summary revision of electoral rolls with reference to January 1, 2021, as the qualifying date. Hence, youngsters, who complete 18 years on that day, could apply for inclusion in the electoral rolls while others could make corrections, if any. Forms The camps would be held on November 21, 22 and December 12 and 13 at all the polling stations and electors could submit forms to make inclusion, deletion, correction, and transposition in the existing entry by submitting form 6, 7, 8 or 8A respectively, the release added.
08 November 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Man held for sexual harassment||A 30-year-old man, who sexually harassed a Class IV girl, was arrested by the police here. The police said Deenadayalan married a woman, who already had an eight-year-old girl through her first husband. The girl was studying at a school and staying at the hostel. Due to COVID-19, the hostel was closed and the girl stays with her mother. When her mother went to work, he committed the crime and the girl informed her mother. Her mother lodged a complaint with the Erode South Police Station who registered a case under provisions of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 and arrested Deenadayalan.
08 November 2020||Hosur,TAMIL NADU||Ganja seized, two held||Ganja worth Rs. 2 lakh was seized from a farmland and two persons were arrested in Anchetty on Saturday. Based on a tip off, authorities raided a farm in Attapallam, where ganja crop had been raised clandestinely. The police arrested Govindan and Angamuthu and seized the substance.
08 November 2020||KARUR,TAMIL NADU||Mosquito nets sent to Odisha||The Business Development Unit of Salem Division of Southern Railway on Saturday transported medicated mosquito nets to Sambalpur in Odisha from Karur. The mosquito nets, loaded in 42 wagons and weighing 2,658 tonnes, would reach Sambalpur in a few days. A press release said it had fetched revenue to the tune of Rs. 51.20 lakh to the railways.
08 November 2020||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Meeting of Nehru Yuva Kendra held||The annual consultative meeting of Nehru Yuva Kendra was organised here under the aegis of Collector V. Jaya Chandra Bhanu Reddy on Saturday. The meeting sought to ascertain the interventions of Nehru Yuva Kendra jointly with the district administration during COVID-19 for the past five months. A training booklet was released by the Collector on behalf of UNICEF and the District Social Welfare Department on protection of child rights and abolition of child marriages. A signature campaign on awareness on Preamble to the Constitution was also flagged off.
08 November 2020||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Man kills wife||A woman was bludgeoned to death by her husband at Kallavi in Uthangarai here on Saturday. The victim, Rukmani (30) of Pallakoolakarai village, had been married to Thangaraj (36) for the last 12 years. Rukmani was employed in a shoe making unit in SIPCOT. The couple reportedly had domestic tussle with Thangaraj suspecting her fidelity. The accused, also an alcoholic, bludgeoned Rukmani on her head with a stone, while she was asleep. Thangaraj has been arrested.
08 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Online NEET classes begin tomorrow||The government-sponsored free online NEET classes for this academic year will begin from November 9, said Minister for School Education K. A. Sengottaiyan, here on Saturday. He was addressing the mediapersons, along with Revenue Minister R.B. Udhayakumar and Cooperation Minister Sellur K Raju, after issuing recognition orders for a two-year period to 450 private schools in Madurai, Sivaganga, Ramanathapuram, Virudhunagar, Theni and Dindigul districts. The Minister said that more than 15,000 students have registered for the online NEET classes for this academic year. A total of 303 government students from the state will get admissions in medical colleges this year, mainly due to the 7.5% horizontal reservation for government school students in undergraduate MBBS admissions announced by the State government, he said. “It has also been decided to start coaching classes from December for government students to clear competitive exams for engineering college admissions,” said Mr. Sengottaiyan. When questioned about extending the 7.5% horizontal reservation benefits to students from government-aided schools, the Minister said that the Government Order clearly mentions that only students who have studied continuously in government schools from Classes 6 to 12 will be eligible to apply under the 7.5% horizontal reservation. He said that an expert committee has provided suggestions to the Chief Minister regarding the 40% reduction in syllabus. ‘An announcement regarding the syllabus reduction will be made soon,’ he said.
08 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||A dull Deepavali for sweet makers||A week ahead of Deepavali festival, people usually throng the sweet shops across the city as it is customary to buy sweets and savouries for the festival. However, there has been a major dip in sales this year, mainly owing to the COVID-19 pandemic, say sweet makers. S. Ganaga Ram Singh, manager of Prema Vilas, says that sales have reduced by at least 30% this year. "Usually, industries, corporates and big companies place bulk orders for Deepavali festival to distribute sweet boxes to their employees. But, we have received very few orders this year from the companies," he says. Many organisations have not paid the Deepavali bonus for their employees and some companies have paid only half the amount of the salary, says M. Ramar, owner of a sweet stall in Karimedu. "This has reduced the purchasing capacity of the public. Every year, people used to buy many sweet and snacks packets for their friends and families during Deepavali. But, this year people buy very limited quantities of sweets and savouries," he says. S. Narasimhan, owner of Aathi Kalathu Original Nei Mittai Kadai on East Aavani Moola Street, which is functioning for the past four generations, says, "This has been a very dull Deepavali for us. The floating population around Meenakshi Sundareswarar temple has drastically reduced and this has directly impacted our sales," he says. The sales have been poor for nearly the past eight months since the outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic, says M. Vijayaraghavan, a partner of Jayaram Bakery. "The closure of schools and colleges has also impacted the business," he says. With the limited income, the sweet stall owners have to pay the wages for the staff, rent for the shops and electricity charges, says Mr. Raman. The labour cost and the raw material cost have also risen after the outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic, says Mr. Vijayaraghavan. "But, the shops have not increased the prices of sweets and savouries as the demand from the people is lower," he says. Due to reduced demand, the quantity of sweets and savouries produced by sweet makers has also been scaled down by 50%, says S. Azar, a staff at Sri Lakshmi Vilas on Netaji Road. M. Sailesh, owner of Sumangali stall on Netaji Road, says that he is hopeful for a swift sale of sweets in the next few days ahead of Deepavali.
08 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Number of positive cases crosses 19,000 mark in Madurai||Madurai recorded 39 new COVID-19 positive cases on Saturday, taking the total number of cases in the district to 19,016. A total of 30 persons got discharged and active cases were at 412. There was one death recorded on Saturday, taking the district’s death toll to 424. Virudhunagar district recorded 14 new cases that took the total number of positive cases to 15,553. However, after 16 patients were discharged, the number of total patients discharged till date has gone up to 15,242. The death toll remains at 222 and the number of active cases stood at 89. Theni saw 10 new cases taking the tally to 16,333. There were 19 discharges from hospitals. In Dindigul, the number of new cases stood at 17 and the total tally moved to 9,916. The hospitals discharged 18 patients after treatment. In Ramanathapuram, there were 11 fresh cases and the total tally moved to 6,077. The hospitals discharged eight patients. In Sivaganga, the number of new cases was 33 taking the tally to 6,013. There were 17 discharges from hospitals. Southern region While 110 new COVID-19 cases were admitted to hospitals in the southern districts on Saturday, 93 patients were discharged. In Kanniyakumari, 39 patients were admitted to hospitals that took the district’s infection tally to 15,188. While 249 patients are undergoing treatment in the hospitals, 37 persons were discharged. The district’s fatality stands at 247. Tirunelveli added 34 new cases on Saturday with 237 active cases even as the infection tally stood at 14,398. Four patients were discharged from hospitals. Tirunelveli district has so far lost 208 patients to COVID-19. Thoothukudi lost a patient to the viral infection on Saturday and the number of fatalities stood at 133. There were 31 new cases even as 45 patients were discharged from hospitals. The district’s total infection tally moved up to 15,294. Tenkasi, which has the lowest infection tally of 7,882 among the southern districts, saw six new patients on Saturday thuse there were 62 active patients while seven persons were discharged from hospitals. The district has so far lost 155 persons to COVID-19.
08 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Testing facility for electronic interlocking system||The Southern Railway has installed a factory acceptance test (FAT), a facility to test the equipment for electronic interlocking signal system at Dindigul. The new facility will help testing of the Medha-make electronic interlocking equipments. “Till date, officials from our department had to travel all the way to its factory to test the equipment. It is a laborious and time-consuming exercise. Since, EI is progressively installed at railway stations across the zone, this facility will be helpful in reducing time and travel,” said Principal Chief Signal & Telecommunications Engineer, Southern Railway, R. Baskaran. Mr. Baskaran said that Southern Railway has around converted the signals to EI around 60%. “The conversion to EI is being taken up in other areas too,” he added. EI would create a synergic relationship between signals and points to improve safety and punctuality of trains. “The testing used to take at least 10 days. Now, the travel time is reduced as it can be taken up in Dindigul,” he added. The EI alteration FAT was commissioned at the office of Senior Section Engineer, Signal at Dindigul. It comprises one personal computer for operating the station yard and another computer for simulation tool and both. FAT set-up at Dindigul is a pioneer work which will be used as a training module for railway engineers to perform circuit alteration and FAT testing thereby enriching their knowledge and capacity. It will be a model architecture for carrying out further alterations in Electronic Interlockig at various stations leading Southern Railway towards achieving Aatma Nirbhar Bharat, a statement said.
08 November 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Lift ban on fireworks’||Swadeshi Jagran Manch State convenor H. Adiseshan on Saturday appealed to the State governments, including Karnataka, Rajasthan, West Bengal and others, to lift the ban imposed on the fireworks. Speaking to reporters, he said that the directive by these governments may lead to thousands of workers, who had toiled all through the year, becoming jobless. The livelihood of the workers was already under threat due to various factors. The covid-19 pandemic and the subsequent lockdown too had led to losses in the sector. With just less than a week for Deepavali, the governments should allow the people to burst crackers and bail out the workers in the sector. The branded fireworks had adhered to the SC guidelines and there was no need for any apprehension. Only the Chinese crackers had high levels of Potassium Nitrate, he claimed and urged the governments to ensure that smuggling of those fireworks illegally into the country was stopped. In 2018, he said that the Supreme Court had directed fireworks units to ensure that the crackers were NEERI certified ones and did not pollute the environment. At a time, when there was a plenty of misconceptions about the fireworks, the ban on the crackers would only add more pain to the thousands of workers. He also said that the Swadeshi Jagran Manch had taken it up with the Centre and the respective State CMs to reconsider their decision quickly.
08 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||MKU offices shut down and disinfected||The main offices of Madurai Kamaraj University (MKU) were closed and completely disinfected after one staff from the Controller of Examination wing tested positive for COVID-19. The Vice-Chancellor M. Krishnan said that all offices visited by the COVID-19 positive staff were shut down from Friday afternoon and completely disinfected. The Vice-Chancellor said that all those who were in contact with the COVID-19 positive staff were instructed to isolate themselves at home. “All those who display any symptoms were asked to consult MKU’s doctor,” the Vice-Chancellor added. The offices will be opened on Monday, said the Vice-Chancellor.
08 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC seeks details of quarrying of ‘savudu’ and ‘ubari’ soil||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has directed the State government to furnish details on the number of licences / leases granted for quarrying savudu soil under Rule 17 of the Minor Mineral Concession Rules,1959 in the State for the past seven years. The court sought district wise and year wise data, in this regard A Division Bench of Justices M. Sathyanarayanan and B. Pugalendhi also sought details on the distance between the quarry sites and riverbeds / waterbodies and the seigniorage fee collected from these quarry sites. Similarly, the court has sought details on the quarrying of ubari soil in the State for the past seven years. The court wanted to know the mechanism available for the verification on the compliance of the conditions imposed by the State Environmental Impact Assessment Authority (SEIAA) for environmental clearance. Apart from these queries, the court also sought to know the number of vehicles / instruments / tools seized and confiscated for the past seven years. Additional Advocate General Narmadha Sampath submitted that 3,469 vehicles involved in illegal mining had been seized by the authorities concerned from April 2020 to September 2020. With regard to the implementation / enforcement of the guidelines for sand mining issued by the Centre, it was under examination by the government, she submitted. Savudu is a colloquial term of ordinary sand, which is a minor mineral and Rule 12(2) of the Tamil Nadu Minor Mineral Concession Rules,1959 permits quarrying of silt, savudu and gravel from river banks under the control of the Public Works Department or the Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Department and in private patta lands, the AAG submitted. Taking note of the submission, the court observed that the Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change had issued guidelines pursuant to the direction of the National Green Tribunal with an objective of identification of sand mining sources, replenishment of the riverbed material and for effective monitoring and enforcement mechanism for sand mining. The need for the replenishment study for riverbed sand is to nullify the adverse impact due to sand extraction and these guidelines also suggest standard practice for assessment of illegal mining and universal monitoring mechanism to control the illegal mining activities in the country, the court observed. Further, the court said that while constituting taluk-level task force, certain accountability has been fixed on the Village Administrative Officers, who were also members of the task force. The court sought details from the State on the action taken against such officers, in whose village, the illegal mining activities took place. The case was adjourned to November 11.
08 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Cheating case against postman||M. Balarathinam, 39, a postman of Mathur Post Office, has been accused to cheating of Rs. 59,000 by manipulating records. Based on a complaint lodged by Postal Assistant, Melur, Saravanan, the Appanthirupathi police have booked the postman for cheating and breach of trust after he manipulated the money belonging to 23 postal savings account-holders. The misappropriation took place in 2016. In another case of cheating, the Melur police have booked two persons, Arunpandian and Annamalai, of cheating a jeweler of Rs. 7 lakh. Police said Arunpandian, a friend of the complainant P. Ganesh Pandian (35), a jeweler of Melur, had taken a loan of Rs. 7 lakh. He had promised to recover his jewels pledged with a cooperative bank and sell the gold to the jeweler. However, after taking the money in September, he recovered the gold, but neither sold the gold nor returned the money.
08 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC seeks further reports||The Madurai Bench of Madras High Court has directed the State to send the artefacts samples excavated in Kodumanal in Erode district for carbon dating to ascertain the period to which they belonged to. A Division Bench of Justices N. Kirubakaran and B. Pugalendhi directed the State to send the samples to the Beta Analytic Testing Laboratory, USA. The court was hearing a batch of public interest litigation petitions on archaeological excavations in the State. Earlier, the court had sought a response on the possibility of establishing an Epigraphy Branch of the ASI in Tamil Nadu similar to the one in Mysuru, Karnataka. It was submitted that there was already a branch in Chennai. Further, it was submitted that estampages were stored at the centre in Mysuru and the same could not be done so in Chennai as the climate conditions were not conducive. Taking note of the submissions, the court sought further reports on the excavations in the State.
08 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Water level||Water level in Periyar dam stood at 124.05 feet (permissible level is 142 ft.), with an inflow of 962 cusecs and a discharge of 1,300 cusecs. In Vaigai dam, the level was 49.67 ft. (71 ft.), with an inflow of 1,320 cusecs and a discharge of 1,199 cusecs. Combined storage in Periyar credit was 4,683 mcft. Rainfall recorded in the region in the 24 hours ending at 6 a.m. on Saturday was (in mm): Idayapatti 65.2, Viraganoor 50.5, Gudalur 40, Veerapandi and Thaniamangalam 32 each, Kallandhiri and Chittampatti 27.2 each, Melur 26, Pulipatti 22.6, Peranai 21.4, Andipatti 19, Sothuparai dam 15, Manjalar dam 14, Shanmuganathi dam 11.3, Uthamapalayam 10.3, Kodaikanal 7.6, Mettupatti 5.2, Thekkadi 3.6, Periyar dam 2.
08 November 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||U.T. reports three COVID-19 deaths and 73 new cases||The Union Territory of Puducherry recorded three COVID-19 deaths and 73 new cases from testing 3,981 persons on Saturday. In a video released to the media, Minister for Health Malladi Krishna Rao said that a 73-year-old man from Ariyur near here with co-morbidity died at a hospital. The two other deceased persons, aged above 55, are from Karaikal and Yanam regions. With three more succumbing to the virus, the death toll has touched 601. There had been a steady decline in the number of active cases during the last few days. In the last 24 hours, 493 persons recovered when 73 new cases were recorded. The active cases now stand at 1,212. Of the active cases, 429 are at Indira Gandhi Government General Hospital and Research Institute and Jawaharlal Institute of Postgraduate Medical Education and Research and the remaining 783 under home isolation, according to statistics released by Health Secretary. All the other COVID care centres, including six private medical colleges are now free of any novel coronavirus infected patients. The recovery rate has increased to 94.93 %. In the last 24 hours, 3,981 people got tested for COVID-19 taking the total screened to 3,33,733. The Minister said people should not be complacent as there was every chance that cases may again spike due to the upcoming Deepavali festival. “People should follow the guidelines, especially on wearing masks and maintaining social distancing. For this Deepavali, major celebrations at home with large gathering should be avoided,” he said.
08 November 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||‘Govt. has given a free hand to the police to curb anti-social activities’||Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy on Saturday said his government has given a free hand to the police to curb the activities of anti-social elements. Interacting with reporters after holding a closed-door meeting with top police officers to review the law and order situation, he said the government had directed law enforcers to deal with extortionists, rowdy elements and land grabbers with an “iron hand.” “The government will not interfere in the functioning of police force and they are completely free to take necessary steps to further improve the law and order situation,” he said. There are complaints about accused persons lodged at Central prison using their accomplices for seeking ransom and other criminal activities, he said. “There are reports that these activities are done with the knowledge of certain officers,” he said without elaborating. Mr. Narayanasamy said land grabbing incidents had come down drastically in the recent times. But there was scope for further improvement, he added.
08 November 2020||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||He makes ‘army equipment’ with passion||Born into a family of farmers, R. Anantharaj, who aspired to join the army, makes cardboard models of army equipment such as tankers and helicopters as a hobby. “I wanted to join the Army but my parents did not allow it. To channel my passion for the armed forces into a way which was permitted, I began making 3D models when I was in school,” he said. While he would make models of tanks and jeeps initially, studying three different courses in 3-D modelling and designing helped him hone his skills. “After preparing for the courses, I was able to make planes and helicopter models with ease,” he said. Mr. Anantharaj, who has a diploma in mechanical engineering, had been working at a private company until he was laid off before the COVID-19 imposed lockdown. Unemployed during the lockdown, he decided to work on his craft. A total of 17 models, each taking at least two weeks, have been made so far. “I learned a software in 3-D modelling which had helped immensely,” he said. The 17 models were showed to Collector P. Uma Maheshwari. He requested the Collector to allow him to teach the art form to school students. He also plans to build circuits within the models to make them movable.
08 November 2020||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||Carcass of dolphin washed ashore||The carcass of an adult bottlenose dolphin was washed ashore at Sangumal in Rameswaram here on Saturday. Forest Range Officer of Mandapam G. Venkatesh said that the carcass was identified by the officials while patrolling along the seashore. The adult dolphin, measuring 130 cm in length and 52 cm in width, weighed around 120 kgs. “There were no scratches on the carcass of the dolphin. The dolphin could have died after being hit by a propeller of a boat,” said Mr. Venkatesh. The carcass was buried after an autopsy was performed.
08 November 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Salem police station gets library||The narrow lane that leads to Kitchipalayam police station will no longer feel intimidating for the common man. The station has set up a library and reading area for the public. The station located at one of the busiest areas has got a new look with paintings of inspirational leaders and greenery decorating the walls. The public will first see image of former President A.P.J Abdul Kalam and images of agricultural activities when they enter the lane which will lead to the library space set up outside the station building. A. Siva Kumar, Inspector, said he wanted those visiting the station to feel positive and hence, the drawings of inspirational leaders were done. Manikandan, Assistant Police Commissioner, Salem Town, launched the facility on Saturday. A senior official at the station said the library and reading area had been set up following instructions of City Police Commissioner T. Senthil Kumar. The library was set up with minimal means and books were contributed by the public as well. The officer said not just complainants, anybody could use the facility. “There are books both in English and Tamil. Comics and books on national leaders are also available. People can spend time here reading and we are also planning to subscribe to dailies,” the officer said. The station is also planning to maintain an archive of dailies for future reference.
08 November 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Will file defamation suit against MP if he fails to prove charges: Thangamani||Minister for Electricity P. Thangamani said that he would file defamation suit against Namakkal MP A.K.P. Chinraj if he fails to prove his charges on the collapse of structure at Namakkal Government Medical College Hospital. Talking to presspersons, Mr.Thangamani said, “Namakkal MP is spreading rumours that the structural collapse at Namakkal Medical College Hospital happened in the night itself and those injured were taken in ambulances to hospitals. A defamation suit would be filed against him if he failed to prove the charges.” “Also, DMK leader M.K. Stalin has issued a statement on the building collapse. During DMK regime, two residential complexes, one with 48 houses and other with over 150 houses at Ammankulam, Coimbatore, were demolished. A similar incident occurred during the construction of medical college at Dharmapuri. Unlike them, we are not interested in politicising this”, Mr. Thangamani said. He said that the structure at Namakkal Medical College Hospital was demolished after officials found issues in the supporting structure. “A team from Chennai inspected the building after the incident and they said that there are no issues in quality of construction and they have issued certificates on this regard”, he added.
08 November 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Submit report for new lake near Thalaivasal, Collector tells officials||Collector S.A. Raman on Friday conducted inspections at Thalaivasal on the possibilities of constructing a new lake in the area and advised officials from Public Works Department to submit Detailed Project Report in 15 days. Mr. Raman along with Gengavalli MLA A. Maruthamuthu, Chairman, Tamil Nadu State Apex Co-op Bank R. Elangovan, and other senior officials visited Siruvachur near Thalaivasal and studied the possibilities of forming a new water body in the area linking Elanthavari canal and Sampadi river. Officials said tthat he Elanthavari canal and Sampadi river originated at Sadya Koundanmalai and flowed into Thirumanitharu river after mixing with Thempadi river. Formation of a water body would meet irrigation needs of farmers and water needs of villagers in the area.
08 November 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Salem Corpn. collects Rs. 1.23 lakh as fine||The Salem Corporation has collected over Rs. 1 lakh as fine from commercial establishments in about a month for violating COVID-19 safety protocols. According to a release, the Corporation has formed eight monitoring teams with 42 officials from various departments to monitor adherence to COVID-19 safety protocols and standard operating procedures at commercial establishments in its four zones. There are over 16,000 businesses operating in the Ammapet, Hasthampatti, Sooramangalam and Kondalampatti zones. The monitoring teams have been conducting checks on business premises. The Corporation officials said that between October 16 and November 6, they had collected a fine of Rs. 1.23 lakh from 56 businesses for violating the safety norms. Corporation Commissioner R. Sadheesh requested the public to extend cooperation to the Corporation’s efforts to contain the spread of the disease.
08 November 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Temple hundi burgled||The hundi at a temple near Mulluvadi gate here was burgled on Saturday. The police said the Ellaipidari Amman temple was located near the Government Arts College on Cherry road and the priest found the hundi, which was placed near the gate, broke open on Saturday. The Hasthampatti police rushed to the spot and held inquiries. Fingerprint experts lifted samples from the place and CCTV footages from the cameras on the premises were collected.
08 November 2020||Sivaganga,TAMIL NADU||‘Farmers should be vigilant in protecting tanks’||Based on the requirements of the farmers in the respective locations, the PWD engineers and the revenue officials have executed the renovation works under the Kudimaramathu scheme, said K. Satyagopal, Chairman and Managing Director of the Tamil Nadu Water Resources Conservation and Rivers Restoration Corporation here on Saturday. Inspecting kudimaramathu works, accompanied by Collector J. Jayakanthan and other senior officials from the PWD and other departments, he said that the government had earmarked funds for renovation of the tanks. The engineers had offered their expertise. Thus, it was for the farmers in the respective regions to make use of it and preserve it. The farmers had the responsibility to protect the tanks from being encroached and should be vigilant. The more water was conserved, it would help the farmers have the resource with which they can carry on farm activities through out the year, he suggested. Expressing satisfaction over the works at the Saruganiaar tank, which had been renovated at a cost of Rs. 1.50 crore, Dr Satyagopal said that the bunds needed to be strengthened. By planting saplings, which give shade and palm trees can be ideal in the region. Both the tank and the trees would benefit. The officials also inspected Melanettur tank near Illayankudi, where the renovation works had been executed at a cost of Rs. 85 lakh. The capacity of the tank is so huge that it runs to about 5.5 kms covering three villages with 2200 acres of cultivable land benefiting from it. Commending the district administration for its effective coordination in completing the works ahead of the north-east monsoon, the CMD said that in all, 18 tanks had been renovated in the district at a cost of Rs. 13.70 crore. He also inspected the upcoming park at the Collectorate campus and discussed the sapling varieties to be planted in the park. Special Chief Engineer (PWD) Gnanasekaran, Executive Engineers Venkatakrishnan, Malarvizhi and Karthikeyan and among other officials from revenue department participated in the inspection.
08 November 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||TNSTC gears up to meet Deepavali rush||The Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation, Kumbakonam, has made elaborate arrangements to cater to the needs of people planning to visit their native places in view of Deepavali festival on November 14. According to a press release, the Corporation will operate bus services to Thanjavur, Kumbakonam, Tiruvarur, Nagapattinam, Pudukottai and Madurai from Tiruchi and from Madurai, Coimbatore and Tiruppur to Tiruchi, Thanjavur and Pudukottai from November 11 to 13. It had also been planned to operate bus services connecting important towns within the Corporation’s domain. These services are in addition to the buses to be operated from Chennai to Thanjavur, Kumbakonam, Pattukottai, Peravurani, Tiruvarur, Mannargudi, Nannilam, Thiruthuraipoondi, Nagapattinam, Vedaranyam, Vailankanni, Mayiladuthurai and Karaikal in the delta region. The Corporation will also run its services from Chennai to Tiruchi, Ariyalur, Jayamkondam, Karur, Pudukottai, Karaikudi, Ramanathapuram and Madurai on these days. It has also been planned to operate special services from the above said destinations to Chennai and between the important destinations from November 14 to 17 in order to help those returning to their places of origin after celebrating the Deepavali at their native places, the release added.
08 November 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Revolution Day observed in Thanjavur||Flag hoisting at Communist party offices and trade union offices in Thanjavur district marked the observance of Revolution Day on November 7. Senior office-bearers of Communist Party of India (Marxist), Communist Party of India, the Centre of Indian Trade Unions and All India Trade Union Congress units at Thanjavur and different parts of the district hosted the party and CITU flags at the respective office premises after raising slogans. They hailing the revolution led by Lenin, saying it was distinctive because it heralded an exploitation-free world that the humiliated, the exploited cherished and toiled for from time immemorial.
08 November 2020||Theni,TAMIL NADU||Sothuparai dam touches maximum level||With widespread rain along the Western Ghats, Sothuparai dam, near Periakulam in the district has received copious water over the last 48 hours alone. According to PWD officials, an inspection on Saturday indicated that the dam had an inflow of 90 cusecs. Steady rainfall had helped the dam reach its full level of 126 feet at 3 p.m., they added. As a precautionary measure, they have proposed to discharge 90 cusecs into Varaganadhi. Hence, people close to the riverbed in Periakulam, Vadagarai, Thenkarai, Vadugapatti, Melmangalam, Jayamangalam and Kullapuram have been told to keep away. Similarly, villagers were told to ensure that the milch animals were also under their safe custody. A senior PWD official said that with still rainfall being experienced in the western ghats, they may be constrained to release the surplus water into the tanks in Periakulam, Pappireddikulam, Thamaraikulam and among others. Meanwhile, the farmers and water users association in the region expressed happiness on the rains and the subsequent rise in storage levels in the reservoirs.  The PWD officials monitoring the Manjalar dam have issued the first flood warning as the dam crossed the 50 feet mark (total capacity 56 ft) early on Saturday morning. According to the officials, the second flood warning would be issued when the water level crossed 53 ft mark and the final warning at 55 feet. The inflow into the reservoir was 237 cusecs. The officials said that the catchment areas in Manjalar dam had been receiving copious rains over the last four days alone, from 45 ft, the storage level had risen beyond the 51 feet in a swift manner. Following the flood warning issued, villagers residing in Ganguvarpatti, G Kallupatti and Batlagundu close to the Theni-Dindigul district borders were asked to be vigilant. Revenue officials in Theni and Dindigul districts said that they were fully geared to shift people to safe locations. All the respondents were on full alert and the control room in the districts functioned round-the-clock, they added.
08 November 2020||Theni,TAMIL NADU||AIEEA rank list||K. Kalieswari, a student of Horticultural College and Research Institute, Tamil Nadu Agricultural University, Periyakulam, secured national first rank in horticulture discipline in the All India Entrance Examination for Admission (AIEEA) of undergraduate, postgraduate students in agriculture and allied subjects. The examination for postgraduate admissions, conducted by Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR), was held through an online platform in September and the results were announced on November 2. The rank list for each subject was released on November 7. Apart from Ms. Kalieswari, 30 more students from the college cleared the examination and are eligible to avail ICAR fellowships for PG programme, a press release said.
08 November 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19: Azim Premji highlights the role of volunteers||India is in dire need of volunteers to work on the field to assist and rehabilitate people affected by COVID-19, according to Azim Premji, founder Chairman of Wipro. Speaking at the 16th convocation of National Institute of Technology-Tiruchi on Saturday on virtual mode, he said the pandemic had left a devastated the life of many people. When the crisis struck, it was evident that volunteers were needed to work on the field to mitigate the sufferings of the affected people. Wipro Foundation deployed about 65,000 volunteers in 400 districts. Despire the risk, they worked day and night, he said. Since the pandemic had not ended even after eight months, the humanitarian work might continue for the next 18-24 months. “With our own members out in the ground doing everything that they can at great risk to themselves, I wanted to go out and be with these dedicated people on the ground, to see for myself what the people of our country were facing and how we were dealing with it. However, I was prohibited by my doctors and family from moving out of my house, as age is a high-risk factor in COVID 19,” Mr. Premji said. “This was an unacceptable situation for me, because one of the most important lessons I have learnt in life, and learnt repeatedly, is that the complete picture and total reality of anything can be best understood only by being in the frontline,” he said. “By June, we figured out the best possible solution in these circumstances was for my colleagues to start doing video calls from wherever they were. So I started getting a direct view into what people were facing. They would call me from the slums in big cities to some of the remotest villages of our country. What I see directly on the ground is not very different from what all of you know. It is just that the experience felt is very personal, and has strongly reinforced some of the important lessons that I have learnt in the past few decades,” Mr. Premji said. Welcomes NEP He welcomed the National Education Policy 2020. “It has a bold vision for transforming undergraduate education to have a multi-disciplinary and liberal character. NIT-T, one of the best higher learning institutes of the country, will take a lead role in promoting NEP. “Such liberal education is needed for our country. It creates good human beings who form a good society. Such education provides rigorous disciplinary understanding and it does a lot more,” Mr. Premji said. Bhaskar Bhat, Chairperson, Board of Governors, and Mini Shaji Thomas, Director, NIT-T, spoke.
08 November 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Family sells variety rice for Rs. 5 to help workers and students||A family of good Samaritans prepares and sells variety rice for Rs. 5 a serving in the city, to help labourers and students. C. Pushparani can be seen serving variety rice to her customers in Khajamalai Colony near the Government Law College campus. A signboard says a plate of rice costs just Rs. 5. While serving, Ms. Pushparani likes to ask her customers about their day, whether they work or if they are studying and if they are taking care of their health. “Many of them are so busy with their work that they forget to eat, forget to take care of themselves,” she says. The initiative to serve food was her husband R Chandrashekhar’s, she notes. Mr. Chandrashekhar works as a welder, and says he understood the struggle for food during the COVID-19 lockdown period. He was on duty welding at a site when the lockdown was announced, and was unable to get a bus home, or buy a meal. “I walked for an entire day to reach home and there was no food available anywhere. I decided on that day that I would serve food for anyone and everyone,” he says. With the support of his wife and his eldest son, he set up the affordable food stall in Khajamalai near the Anna Stadium in September. “We did not want to distribute for free but also did not want to price the food too high,” Ms. Pushparani, who looks after the stall, says. The menu includes sambar rice, lemon rice, pudina rice, tamarind rice, tomato rice, brinjal rice and curd rice. “We serve five varieties of rice a day. While the curd rice and sambar rice are available daily, the other varieties are made on a rotational basis,” Ms. Pushparani said. Food is served at lunch time from Monday to Saturday. Ms. Pushparani begins cooking at 6 a.m., before which the vegetables are chopped and the masalas ground to a paste. By 10 a.m., the food is prepared and ready to serve. “We set up our stall by 11.30 a.m. and by 2 p.m., we run out of all varieties,” she says. The food is not served to earn a profit but as a service to society, says Mr. Chandrashekhar. “We are also struggling to earn money but when one’s stomach is filled, one can take on the world,” says Ms Pushparani. Groceries used for preparing the food are purchased in bulk using the daily earnings. Shop-owners, wholesale vegetable vendors and grocery stores reduce the price when Ms. Pushparani goes shopping. This is their way of contributing to our cause, she said. On Friday, two more stalls, one outside the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital and another at the Palpannai junction, were set up. “We want to reach as many people as possible. Nobody should go to work or to sleep on an empty stomach,” Ms Pushparani says.
08 November 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Madurai Road bursting at its seams||A drive on the Holy Cross College Junction-Marakkadai stretch of Madurai Road is turning out to be a dreadful experience for motorists these days. Chaotic traffic conditions prevail on the road, especially during the peak hours, despite the best efforts of the highly-stretched traffic police. Indiscriminate parking of vehicles on the roadside, wrong-way driving, encroachments and ongoing construction of storm water drains have made the stretch a major traffic bottleneck. West Boulevard Road which runs parallel to Madurai Road is no better as work on construction of pavements under Smart Cities Mission programme is under way on certain stretches of the road. With the construction debris and trenches dug for the work shrinking the carriage space and the rise in traffic volume due to the festival season, the road is literally bursting at its seams, complain road users. Construction material and hardware shops line up along both the roads. A large number of goods vehicles load and unload material right through the day. Some of the shops have temporary structures extending to the road for display of wares. “Traffic is horrible on the stretch between Ramakrishna Theatre and Sophy’s Corner on Madurai Road,” rued R. Gopal, a resident. Customers visiting shops, banks and other commercial establishments invariably park their vehicles on the roadside. “Haphazard parking is the main reason for the congestion on Madurai Road. City buses heading towards Main Guard Gate can also be diverted via West Boulevard Road, which is wide enough, after removing encroachments and preventing parking of goods vehicles such as mini vans,” said N. Jamaluddin of Thennur.  Right in the middle Compounding the problem, city buses halt right in the middle of the road at Ramakrishna Theatre and Raja Theatre bus stops, often leading to a pile up of vehicles behind them. With the Ramakrishna Theatre bus stop located close to Thennur Road overbridge, buses halting on the descent of the bridge pose a danger to motorists. Several motorists can be seen driving on the wrong side towards Marakkadai from Thennur road overbridge, except when a traffic constable is on duty on the T. Junction of the bridge. The city police, in the recent days, have posted personnel on the two roads to regulate traffic. But the few policemen and women struggle to cope up with the situation.
08 November 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||238 fresh cases in central region||The central region on Saturday recorded 238 fresh cases for COVID-19. It recorded two deaths - one each in Nagapattinam and Tiruchi. A 50-year-old man from Nagapattinam and a 45-year-old man form Tiruchi, both suffering from Acute Respiratory Distress Syndrome, died of the viral infection. Thanjavur continues to record the highest number of COVID-19 cases in the region, with 47 patients testing positive for the infection. Meanwhile, Tiruchi reported 41 new cases. Some of the patients in Tiruchi hailed from existing containment zones, primary contacts, inter-district travellers and patients with a history of respiratory illnesses. Tiruvarur recorded 37 new cases and Karur 35. In Karur the patients included residents of Kulithalai, Puliyur and Thanthonrimalai. In Nagapattinam, 33 fresh cases were reported, while Pudukottai registered a sharp decline with 27 cases. Among them were local index cases and patients with symptoms of Influenza-Like Illnesses and Severe Acute Respiratory Illnesses. In Ariyalur, 11 patients tested positive among which seven people two hailed from Jayankondam while one each belonged to Thirumanur and Sendhurai. These addition have increased the number of COVID-19 recorded in the district to 4,439. Meanwhile, in Perambalur, two each hailed from Veppanthattai, and Veppur and Alathur while one hailed from Perambalur block. Meanwhile, a total of 471 throat swabs were lifted at the government hospitals and primary healthcare centres in the district and sent for processing.
08 November 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Age no bar for research||There is no age limit for learning and intellectual quest. To add value to his journey of life-long learning, an octogenarian, a practising general physician, has obtained a Ph.D. degree for his research on “breast cancer and low back pain” from the National Institute of Technology-Tiruchi. G. Ganapathy, 81, received the degree from Bhaskar Bhat, Chairperson, Board of Governors of NIT-T, at its virtual convocation in Tiruchi on Saturday in the presence of its Director Mini Shaji Thomas. Dr. Ganapathy did the research under the supervision of N. Sivakumaran, a professor in Instrumentation and Control Engineering of NIT-T. Dr. Ganapathy, who retired from government service in 1997 as Joint Director of Health Services, still runs a clinic and treats patients in Thillai Nagar in Tiruchi. After his superannuation, he had worked in various State and Central institutes as a physician. Moved by the plight of young women who suffered from cancer, he registered for a research programme at NIT-T a few years ago and obtained a degree. “In my career spanning about 40 years and 20 years after retirement, I have come across a number of young women suffering from breast cancer. Many could prevent it if they took notice well in advance through self-examination. There is still no adequate awareness among women. It was with the aim of devising a strategy on diagnosing breast cancer and creating awareness among the women I did the research,” Dr. Ganapathy told The Hindu . Despite the old age, Dr. Ganapathy never failed to do the research assignments. He was prompt in data submission and analysis, said Mr. Sivakumaran.
08 November 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Agriculture officials urge maize farmers to guard against attack by aphids||Farmers who have raised maize as rain-fed crop have been urged to guard against aphid attack due to dry weather conditions. According to Agriculture department, maize has been raised on 19,057 hectares during kharif and rabi seasons in Tiruchi district. It has been raised as a rain-fed crop in Pullampadi. Manachanallur, Thottiyam, Musiri, Uppilliyapuram, Thathaiyengarpet, Vaiyampatti and Manapparai taluks. Due to dry weather and absence of rains, incidence of aphid attacks had been reported, especially in Thappaai, Malvaai and Sirukalappur in Pullampadi taluk, AR. Periyakaruppan, Joint Director of Agriculture,said. Aphids feed on the sap of plants. At his request, a team of scientists from Tamil Nadu Agricultural University Sirugamani Krishi Vigyan Kendra and officials carried out field inspections. Crop-friendly insects The team also found the presence of other crop-friendly insects in the fields which are natural deterrents against aphids. If pesticides were sprayed, these friendly insects would also be destroyed, affecting the food chain. With the dry weather conditions expected to change soon with the onset of monsoon, farmers had been advised to wait for some time. Once there is rainfall, the aphids would be destroyed naturally. In case of very heavy aphid attack, farmers may opt for pesticide use, Mr. Periyakaruppan said.
08 November 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||History-sheeter hacked to death||A 20-year-old history-sheeter was hacked to death at Vamadam in the city on Saturday. According to sources, a seven-member gang attacked Vijayan near his house on Sappani Street with deadly weapons. He died on the spot. Previous enmity between the deceased and Guna of the same area was said to be behind the reason for the murder. Thillai Nagar police have registered a case and are investigating.
08 November 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Mettur level||The water level at Mettur dam stood at 95.33 feet on Saturday against its full level of 120 feet. The inflow was 16,266 cusecs and the discharge 11,879 cusecs.
08 November 2020||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Good response to NEET coaching, says Minister||Even as 303 government school students will get admission in medical colleges this year, thanks to the 7.50% reservation ensured by the State Government for them, more than 15,000 students have registered their names in the government NEET coaching centres, Minister for School Education K.A. Sengottaiyan has said. “While 15,497 students have already registered their names in the government’s NEET coaching centres, we expect 2,000 more students to enrol their names shortly to take this number close to 18,000,” Mr. Sengottaiyan told reporters here on Saturday after handing over recognition orders to 336 matriculation schools in four southern districts. The minister said the Tamil Nadu government, by ensuring 7.50% reservation to the government school students in undergraduate medicine admission, had made a historic achievement which would benefit poor rural students. Consequently, the government had ensured that 303 government school students would become doctors. Encouraged by this historic feat, 15,497 students had already registered their names to join the government’s NEET coaching centres and this number would become richer by adding another 2,000 students. The State government, which was creating ‘smart classrooms’ in phased manner in the government schools to make the classroom communication more effective, had proposed to add 7,600 more classrooms to this elite band before December this year. Moreover, 868 laboratories in the government schools would be modernised. “Since we’re taking sincere efforts to create well-equipped classrooms and laboratories, it has attracted 5.18 lakh students towards the government schools during this year alone,” Mr. Sengottaiyan said. While asserting that appointment of teachers in government schools and their promotion were being done in transparent manner, the Minister said recognition for matriculation schools was being given if the managements concerned had created all mandatory infrastructure including adequate building facilities. Moreover, the ‘period of annual recognition’ for schools had been relaxed to two years from one year. On the reopening of schools that remain closed since March last due to the pandemic, Mr. Sengottaiyan said any final decision in this connection would be taken by the Chief Minister after the consultation with the parents to be held on November 9. The minister honoured class 12 student S.G. Devi Maharasi with Rs. 2 lakh cash award for having represented Tamil Nadu in the 64th National School Under-19 Swimming Championship Meet held in Delhi and bagged third place in 4x100 metre freestyle relay and 200 metre individual medley. Ministers Kadambur C. Raju and V.M. Rajalakshmi, and Collector Shilpa Prabhakar Satish were present.
08 November 2020||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Online quiz contest on November 10||Russian State Atomic Energy Corporation, ROSATOM, will be conducting an online nuclear quiz contest for school and college students in India, and across the world. The contest will be conducted on November 10 on the occasion of ‘World Science Day’ and in celebration of the 75th anniversary of the Russian nuclear industry. The objective of this event was to raise public awareness and curiosity in nuclear science, underline its importance in improving daily lives and highlighting the role nuclear industry plays in making human presence on this fragile planet more sustainable. With the pandemic restrictions that has led schools and colleges to move to virtual learning platforms, the contest provides an opportunity for students to participate in a fun knowledge activity from the comfort of their homes. The quiz consists of 25 questions ranging from how to obtain gold from mercury to comparing solar power and nuclear power. The quiz will be available in 11 languages including Tamil, bringing together participants from all over the world. “We hope this contest will help in raising awareness among younger generation about the importance of nuclear power, its role in advancement of science and the latest technological achievements. We hope that the knowledge they gain will inspire them to consider nuclear engineering as a career option, as well as give them a platform to get the knowledge about a variety of scientific facts on the nuclear energy industry,” said Rosatom South Asia CEO Andrey Shevlyakov in a statement. The students will also receive certificates of participation and with the option to share the certificate on their social media pages or download it on their devices. Website for the quiz - http://quiz.myfuture.energy/ -is available in several languages including Tamil. The quiz will be available for 24 hours on Nov. 10 on the website, the statement said.
08 November 2020||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Convict dies of heart attack||An inmate of Palayamkottai Central Prison, serving life sentence in a murder case, died on Saturday of suspected heart attack. Sources in the prison said S. Varghese, 45, of Thadikkaarankonam near Nagercoil was serving life term in Palayamkottai Central Prison after being convicted in a murder case in 2011 . As he complained of uneasiness on Saturday morning, he was rushed to the Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital (TVMCH). However, he died on the way to the hospital. Perumalpuram police have registered a case and are investigating.
08 November 2020||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Water level||The water level in Papanasam dam on Saturday stood at 102.65 feet (permissible level 143 feet). The dam had an inflow of 803.94 cusecs and 1,404.75 cusecs was discharged. The level in Manimuthar dam stood at 75.70 feet (permissible level 118 feet). The dam had an inflow of 66 cusecs and 35 cusecs of water was discharged.
08 November 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Monitoring officer conducts inspection||Monitoring Officer for Tiruppur district K. Gopal inspected the drainage works and other projects in the district on Saturday. He then chaired a review meeting presided by District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan where he instructed the officials to ensure that necessary safety measures are implemented for the northeast monsoon season, a release said.
08 November 2020||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||Over 100 mobile PDS outlets for Tiruvarur||Ration commodities would be distributed through mobile public distribution shops to 16,428 family cardholders in Tiruvarur district. Disclosing this at the launch of mobile PDS facility at Paththiniyapuram in Nannilam taluk on Friday, Food Minister R. Kamaraj said that the State government had sanctioned 125 mobile PDS units to Tiruvarur district and the service would be made available to the family cardholders attached to 106 PDS outlets run by 64 societies.Stating that the objective of this service was to mitigate the sufferings of ration cardholders in accessing the PDS outlets / part-time PDS outlets functioning in far-off destinations from their dwelling places. Since the mobile PDS units would be delivering the goods at the doorstep of the cardholders they need not have to walk long distances or by using personal transport to cross railway tracks, rivers or rivulets. This service would be made available to the cardholders living in areas where the possibility of setting up part-time PDS outlets was remote, he added. The Food Minister launched the mobile PDS facility at Paththiniyapuram, Thiruppanipettai, Kammangudi, Thenkudi, Kollumangudi, Thevur, Thirumeignanam, Paavattakudi, Manali, Ubayavedhanthapuram, Kalakkudi, Vaarakuppam and Koothanur on Friday. Collector V. Santha and District Revenue Officer S. Ponnammal participated in the mobile PDS outlet launching events.
08 November 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Leopard dies after getting trapped in snare||A five-year-old female leopard died after getting trapped in a snare laid to hunt wild game near Selas in Coonoor. The carcass of the animal was discovered on Saturday morning. Forest department officials said that the animal was found dead in a private tea estate by locals, who informed officials. Following a preliminary investigation which found the cause of death of the animal to be due to getting ensnared, District Forest Officer D. Guruswamy instructed Forest Range Officer, Coonoor, Sasikumar to conduct an investigation and apprehend the people responsible for laying the snare. Two arrested Following a tip-off, forest department officials narrowed down the suspects to two persons, identified as Murugan, 38, and Selvan, 40, from Kil Kakkuchi. The two had allegedly been laying snares over the last few months and hunting wild game. The forest department arrested the two men on Saturday, with investigations ongoing. The carcass of the leopard, following the completion of a postmortem was destroyed.
08 November 2020||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Perarivalan undergoes tests at hospital in Villupuram||A.G. Perarivalan, one of the life convicts in the Rajiv Gandhi assassination case and currently on parole, was brought to a private hospital in Villupuram on Saturday for a medical check-up. Perarivalan, accompanied by his mother T. Arputhammal, was escorted from his house in Jolarpettai in Tirupathur district with heavy police cover that shielded him from media persons who had camped at the private hospital on Puducherry Road from 9 a.m. onwards. Hospital sources said that he was treated as an outpatient and tests were taken following complaints of a urological ailment. He was later taken to another private hospital on Tiruchy Road for a general check-up.
08 November 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||Modern milk processing plant to come up near Sivakasi||Aavin would soon set up an ultra-high temperature milk processing plant near Sivakasi that would produce milk that would be exported to foreign countries including Malaysia and Singapore, said Minister for Dairy Development, K.T. Rajenthra Bhalaji, said. Reviewing the functioning of Aavin in Virudhunagar district here at the Collectorate in the presence of its Managing Director M. Vallalar and Collector R. Kannan, on Saturday, Mr. Bhalaji said that the new facility has been proposed on 3.5 acres at Injaar. “The work at a cost of Rs. 70 crore would begin very soon,” he said. Besides, a plant to produce milk fermented by-products would be set up at Rs. 25 crore on Srivilliputtur Aavin premises. The plant would come up with a capacity of 10,000 litres. Aavin is also constructing Rs. 10.90-crore plant to produce milk by-products like butter, ghee, badam milk, gulfi and paneer. Mr. Bhalaji said that a cattle feed plant at a cost of Rs. 10 crore would be constructed to produce 50 tonnes a day on Virudhunagar Milk Chilling Centre premises. In order to increase milk production and sale in the district, new Aavin hi-tech milk parlours are being constructed in Sattur, Kariyapatti and Aruppukottai. Similar facilities would also be constructed in Rajapalayam, Sivakasi, Virudhunagar. Similarly, 50 mini parlours would be constructed in the district. The Minister distributed orders to three differently-abled persons to become milk sales agents and certificate of appreciation to three best milk producers. Earlier, the Minister distributed battery-operated wheel chairs to 17 differently-abled persons through Department of Differently-Abled Welfare, walking equipment to 10 persons, special well chairs to 15 persons and foldable white canes to 20 persons, all at a cost of Rs. 18.40 lakh. Srivilliputtur MLA, Chandra Prabha, District Revenue Officer, R. Mangalaramasubramanian were among those who were present.
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||The State’s dilemma: to reopen schools or not||On Monday, parents from across Tamil Nadu will participate in an exercise organised by the schools their children study in to contribute towards an important decision — when schools can be reopened in the State. It has been nearly eight months since schools and colleges in the State were shut down after the first national lockdown was announced in an attempt to prevent the spread of COVID-19. This has heralded sweeping changes in the functioning of educational institutions, and the evolution of teaching and learning. Debates on when educational institutions in the country can reopen began sometime around June. But it was in October that the Ministry of Education issued guidelines for the reopening of schools in a graded manner. Tamil Nadu’s subsequent announcement to reopen schools for students of Classes 9 to 12 to seek guidance from their teachers was soon rolled back. A fresh announcement was made early November to reopen schools for Classes 9 to 12. Soon after, however, the State government directed schools to hold consultations with the parents of students and the representatives of parent-teacher associations on November 9 for their feedback, based on which a decision is expected to be taken on the reopening of schools. The World Health Organization (WHO) has said that data suggests children under the age of 18 years represent about 8.5% of the reported cases, with relatively fewer deaths compared to other age groups and usually milder symptoms. However, their role in transmitting the disease to older and senior citizens at home cannot be ignored. Getting schools to reopen has also been a long-standing demand of several institutions, who believe that students from senior classes in particular need some form of direct interaction with their teachers in a year that is crucial to their future. The digital divide among students from different backgrounds, too, is real. The Annual State of Education Report (ASER) survey, 2020, indicated that only one in 10 rural children had access to live online classes. While the government is expected to take a decision for schools based on parental feedback, both schools and colleges need to look at a host of important aspects with regard to campus infrastructure, safety norms to be implemented and a standard operating procedure (SOP) to be followed. UNICEF’s advisory The United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) prioritises four major aspects — physical distancing at schools, practising health and hand hygiene, cleaning and disinfecting classrooms, and the action to take if a student appears sick. Infrastructural changes in particular were taken up by several private schools across the State over the last few months. School principals said this ranged from installing handwashing facilities at all entrances to a school, procuring single-seater furniture as well as stocking up on sanitiser dispensers and masks. “Many government schools do not have access to sufficient running water to ensure that the students can wash their hands frequently,” S. Murugan, district secretary of the Tamil Nadu Graduate and Post Graduate Teachers Association, said. When an announcement was initially made in October to allow students of Classes 9 to 12 on campus for guidance work, several schools began to disinfect their campuses. But it was put off. In the absence of a governmental direction on this, some schools decided to innovate to inspire confidence among parents. In order to reassure parents about the measures in place, Vishnucharan Paneerselvam, correspondent, Shree Niketan Group of schools, said they had sent detailed information and invited them to the campus to see the changes made — something that many schools are hoping to do on November 9. How students will travel to their campuses and whether it will be possible to ensure that safety protocols are followed is the big question now. Prince Gajendra Babu, general secretary, State Platform for Common School System - Tamil Nadu, noted that students in several districts often travelled long distances in public transport systems to reach their schools. M. Senthilnathan, president of the Private Schools Correspondents Confederation, Madurai, too, said a major concern among heads of schools was students’ adherence to physical distancing norms outside of schools, especially when they travel to the campus. The Ministry guidelines have so far specified that attendance on campus should be voluntary. In Andhra Pradesh, when schools and colleges reopened on November 2, attendance was varying across institutions and most schools stuck to half a day of classes. More recently, cases of teachers testing positive have become a matter of concern. There are several restrictions to keep in mind before drawing up a schedule. Rev. Arul Suganthi, headmistress of the St. Ignatius Convent Higher Secondary School in Palayamkottai, shared how they had planned to divide each section of each standard (from Classes 9 to 12) into four batches and seat them in separate classrooms. “To tide over the shortage in the number of teachers, we’ve planned to utilise the services of teachers from lower classes but with higher educational qualifications,” she added. S. Arumainathan, president of the Tamil Nadu Student Parent Welfare Association, said the biggest concern now was that schools reopening on November 16 would be right after Deepavali. “Even if schools can guarantee safety on campus, children will be coming in after having visited crowded shopping hubs or gatherings with their families.” Mr. Prince Gajendra Babu also pointed out that a consultation exercise should be backed by necessary information. “On what basis will parents and teachers be making a decision? They should be given access to information from the Directorate of Public Health on the current situation with respect to COVID-19,” he said.  UGC guidelines  On Thursday, the University Grants Commission (UGC) issued guidelines on the reopening of universities and colleges. Heads of institutions, however, await guidelines from the State government as well. State universities are planning to implement staggered timings and for online and regular classes to be conducted simultaneously. “The feedback from the heads of colleges is that it will not be difficult to plan a staggered schedule for students at all levels. The idea is that two batches of students could be asked to attend classes in turns on alternate weeks,” said P. Manisankar, Vice-Chancellor (V-C), Bharatidasan University. Manonmaniam Sundaranar University V-C K. Pitchumani said they would accord highest priority to the students from the science stream to come in as they would have to attend practical sessions. University of Madras V-C S. Gowri, too, said it was important for them to ensure access to labs for science students. Affiliated colleges, meanwhile, are awaiting the university’s directions. Principal of Sindhi College K. Sathyanarayana said enforcing physical distancing in his college with a student strength of 2,000 would be “practically impossible”. Though a Senate member of the university, he stayed away from the meeting for safety reasons. Only half of the members of the Academic Council and the Senate attended the recent meetings, he said. These are common concerns raised by college principals. Madras Christian College principal P. Wilson said that he wasn’t comfortable reopening the college. “We have 8,000 students and they come from abroad, from Kerala, the north and the northeastern States. We cannot invite students without opening the hostels. There is no guarantee that they will not pick up the infection during travel,” he said. Anna University V-C M.K. Surappa said: “We need guidelines before opening. We have delayed so much, we can wait for some more time. For laboratory work, we could get the students in batches for a period of three weeks... We could augment a virtual reality laboratory also,” he said. “We still have a week’s time to arrive at a decision. On November 9, the university will start the induction programme for first year students,” he added. Both schools and colleges now await a comprehensive set of guidelines on the norms to implement as well as protocols to follow in case of an emergency.  (With inputs from P.A. Narayani and S. Sundar in Madurai, R. Akileish in Coimbatore, P. Sudhakar in Tirunelveli and R. Krishnamoorthy in Tiruchi)   On what basis will parents and teachers be making a decision? They should be given access to information from the Directorate of Public Health on the current situation with respect to COVID-19 Prince Gajendra Babu General secretary, State Platform for Common School System - Tamil Nadu
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore district reports 213 cases, one death||Coimbatore district reported one COVID-19 death and 213 new cases on Saturday, taking the district’s overall tally to 44,889 cases. A 67-year-old man died at the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital on Friday, the media bulletin said. Government Medical College and ESI Hospital said that a 10-year-old girl from Tiruppur, who was diagnosed with multi-system inflammatory syndrome in children (MIS-C) along with COVID-19, was discharged on November 4. The girl was admitted to the ESI Hospital on October 25 and was treated using intravenous immunoglobulin procedure worth nearly Rs. 1.25 lakh, a release from the hospital said. MIS-C is a rare disease which affects multiple organs in children, according to the release. Out of 44,889 cases, 1,000 were active cases. On Saturday, 213 patients were discharged from various hospitals. Tiruppur district reported one death and 114 fresh cases, taking the overall tally to 13,559 cases. A 79-year-old man from the district died at a private hospital in Tiruppur on Friday. Out of 13,559 cases, 1,037 were active cases. As many as 106 patients were discharged from various hospitals on Saturday. In the Nilgiris, 33 people tested positive. The total number of confirmed cases in the Nilgiris stands at 6,900. The death toll in the district stands at 39, while the district administration said that 283 people are undergoing treatment. Erode district reported 108 new cases, taking the district’s tally to 10,983. While 108 persons were discharged, 799 persons continue to be under treatment. In Salem, as many as 106 cases were reported. According to health officials, 78 cases were indigenous and about 28 persons returned from Dharmapuri, Krishnagiri, Namakkal, Karur, Chennai and Erode. 57 cases were reported in Namakkal. Five persons have returned from Salem, Karur, Uttar Pradesh and Karnataka. As per bulletin, a 77-year-old man died at a private hospital. Krishnagiri recorded 44 new cases and 33 persons were discharged on Friday. As of date, there are 329 active cases in the district. A total of 6,805 cases has been reported so far in the district. In Dharmapuri, 21 cases were reported with 11 persons discharged. As of date, Dharmapuri has 209 active cases and total infections of 5,748.
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||BJP offers to limit ‘Vetrivel Yatra’ to 30 participants||During the course of hearing, the senior judge on the Bench pointed out that the previous representations, made by the petitioner to the police, did not contain any details regarding the number of participants, vehicles and people above 60 years of age. Also baffled at an elaborate route planned across the State, the judge asked: “If your purpose is going to the six abodes of Lord Murugan, why do you want to tour through routes where there are no Murugan temples?” He said the litigant could not be allowed to pick the route especially when the threat of COVID-19 was still looming large. Revenue and police officers had to tackle problems due to the onset of the monsoon and also the law and order situation during the Babri Masjid demolition anniversary, the judge said. The police would be in a position to consider grant of permission for the yatra only if all material particulars were submitted to them. On her part, Justice Hemalatha wondered why the State government was opposing the yatra when thousands of devotees were allowed at major temples. Advocate-General Vijay Narayan submitted that the petitioner’s counsel was trying to oversimplify the issue. The A-G added that a majority of the participants of the yatra, which commenced on Friday without police permission, were not wearing masks. Though the petitioner had now told the court that only 30 participants in 15 cars would go on the yatra, there was a possibility of overenthusiastic party cadres and others congregating in large numbers to welcome the participants at district borders and at the temples, the judge said. Therefore, the Bench granted time till Tuesday for the petitioner to file an additional affidavit with all necessary particulars. The judges directed Additional Solicitor-General R. Sankaranarayanan to get instructions from the Centre by Tuesday on the binding nature of the guidelines issued by it to the States on tackling COVID-19.
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||At a snail’s pace||
08 November 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Race on for chairmanship of DCC Bank||With the hotly contested elections to the board of directors of the Belagavi District Central Cooperative (DCC) Bank over, the race for the chairmanship of the cooperative body is now on. The 16-member board has 12 candidates backed by the Bharatiya Janata Party and four owing allegiance to Congress leaders, like Satish Jarkiholi and Laxmi Hebbalkar. Anjali Nimbalkar, who had entered the fray on the last date of filing nominations, lost to Aravind Patil, former MES MLA, in a close contest. Mr. Satish Jarkiholi has accused the BJP of politicising the DCC Bank polls. “As per law, it should be a non-political election. That is how it is conducted in all districts. But the BJP completely politicised the DCC Bank polls in Belagavi,” he said on Saturday. He also accused the BJP of engineering cross-voting to ensure the victory of its candidate in Khanapur. “The Congress will take an active role in the election of the chairman too,” he said. Congress leaders say that unabashed politicking by the BJP led to Laxman Rao Chingale, former bank director and Congress leader, withdrawing from the contest. D.T. Patil Karagaon, senior cooperative leader who regularly fielded his followers in the DCC Bank elections, refused to nominate his candidates. The nonagenarian leader has been a board member in the past and has acted as an adviser to successive chairpersons of the bank. Generally, it is assumed that incumbent chairman Ramesh Katti, former MP and brother of former Minister Umesh Katti, will continue in his position. He has been the chairman for over 20 years now, when different parties were in power in the State. This was also the agreement between BJP leaders who participated in a meeting convened by State party president Nalin Kumar Kateel in Hubballi, party sources say. The other point that they all agreed upon was to elect Laxman Savadi, Deputy Chief Minister, as the State representative to be sent to the apex bank in January. An interesting factor is that though none of the five Jarkiholi brothers contested in the polls, they succeeded in getting nine of their supporters elected. These persons may act as a block despite the political affiliations of the brothers, sources said. They may end up supporting Mr. Ramesh Katti if the Gokak brothers agree on that, said a bank director.
08 November 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Vijayapura gang war: Five more held||The Vijayapura police have arrested five more people in connection with the gang war resulting in two deaths near the city on Tuesday. The arrested have been identified as Yaseen Dandaragi Atalatti, 25, Kareppa alias Gooli Mahadev Sonnad, 25, Siddu Bommanagjobi, 34, Sanju alias Sachin Manavar Aliabad, 28, and Ravi Dhareppa Bandi Chadachan, 20. The police have recovered a machete, two home-made pistols, five rounds of bullets, four mobile phones, and an autorickshaw from the accused. This took the total arrests to seven.
08 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC comes to the aid of medical students||Coming to the aid of medical students affected by the delay in getting degree certificates in view of convocations not being held owing to the COVID-19 pandemic, the High Court of Karnataka has directed the Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences (RGUHS) to immediately give a provisional degree certificate to an MBBS student with a specific note that it is “on a par with the award of degree concerned, for all practical purposes”. The court also expressed hope that the RGUHS authorities, when so requested by students/alumni, would address appropriate communication to other universities/colleges/employers for easing the difficulty or doubt, pending the award of degrees in the ensuing convocation ceremonies. It observed that such graceful acts, if carried out timely, would add to the stature and grandeur of the university. Justice Krishna S. Dixit passed the order while allowing a petition filed by Lanson Brijesh Colaco of Mangaluru, who had complained about the delay in award of MBBS degree by RGUHS. “Some viable alternative has to be devised by the universities in their accumulated experience and wisdom for mitigating the likely hardship/difficulty their students/alumni are put to, in circumstances like the present COVID-19 pandemic that result in delays in holding the ceremonial convocation,” the court observed. Though it was contended on behalf of RGUHS that the university’s statute does not authorise award of degree sans holding convocation, the court said that “students cannot be asked to wait in militant silence for an indefinite period of time” as that would have many repercussions, such as a time bar on admission to any course, non-compliance with conditions of recruitment, and age bar for employment, etc. During the hearing, the counsel for the university told the court that RGUHS can consider including a note or appending an annexure to the provisional degree certificate indicating that it has to be treated on a par with award of degree. “This fair stand of the university will ease the difficulty faced by students, like the petitioner, who at times have to indefinitely await the convocation ceremony,” the court observed.  Cost of delay  While giving two weeks for the university to issue a provisional certificate to the petitionerwith the specific note that it was on a par with the award of degree, the court said that the university would have to pay a cost of Rs. 5,000 per week to the petitioner for a delay beyond the two weeks and recover such costs from the officials concerned.  The HC said students can’t be asked to wait in militant silence for an indefinite period of time to receive their degree certificates
08 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||C.T. Ravi’s resignation accepted||Governor Vajubhai Vala on Saturday accepted the resignation of Tourism and Kannada and Culture Minister C.T. Ravi, who was recently appointed as a BJP national general secretary, following Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa’s recommendation. Mr. Ravi had tendered his resignation to Mr. Yediyurappa on October 3. The resignation being accepted will create one more slot in the State Cabinet ahead of the proposed expansion.
08 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||2,258 new cases, 22 deaths in Karnataka||Karnataka on Saturday reported 2,258 new cases taking the total number of cases to 8,44,147. With 22 deaths, the toll rose to 11,369. This is apart from 19 non-COVID-19 deaths. As many as 2,235 persons were discharged on Saturday taking the total number of recoveries to 7,99,439. Of the remaining 33,320 active cases, 887 patients are being monitored in ICUs. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 2.12%, Case Fatality Rate (CFR) touched 0.97%. Bengaluru Urban reported 1,046 cases taking the tally to 3,47,748. With seven of the 22 deaths from Bengaluru, the toll in the district rose to 3,945. Active cases in Bengaluru touched 17,978. As many as 1,06,317 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 78,494 RT-PCR tests. With this, the total number of tests rose to 86,20,970.
08 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Surjewala condemns former Minister’s arrest||Randeep Singh Surjewala, AICC general secretary in charge of Karnataka, said Congress leader Vinay Kulkarni’s arrest by the “puppet CBI” reflects the blatant conspiracy and malicious intent of Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and the BJP leadership. The CBI arrested Mr. Kulkarni in connection with the murder of BJP zilla panachayat member Yogeshgouda Goudar in Dharwad in June 2016. In his tweet, Mr. Surjewala said: “Yediyurappaji should know that Congress leaders will not be cowed down by such cowardly attacks of BJP & its pawn, the CBI.”   His arrest by the puppet CBI reflects the blatant conspiracy and malicious intent of Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and the BJP leadership. Randeep Singh Surjewala AICC general secretary in charge of Karnataka
08 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Turvihal likely to join Cong.||Bharatiya Janata Party leaderBasanagouda Turvihal, who lost in the 2018 Assembly election from Maski, is likely to join the Congress. He lost the election by a margin of 213 votes against Prathapgouda Patil of the Congress. Mr. Turvihal is likely to change the party after the BJP poached Mr. Patil, who won Maski and was disqualified later. Mr. Patil is likely to be the BJP candidate for the bypoll, which is yet to be announced.
08 November 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Intermittent power supply||There will be intermittent power supply on Sunday from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. in view of the erection of 66 KV towers. According to a Bescom release, the areas that will be affected are Balagere village, Gunjurpalya village, Panathur Dinne, BWSSB plant, Kachamarana Halli and surrounding areas.
08 November 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Sigandur temple will remain out of Muzrai Dept.’||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Saturday assured a delegation, including seers of the Idiga community, that the government has no plans to bring the Chowdeshwari Temple at Sigandur in Sagar taluk under the jurisdiction of the Muzrai Department of the State. Nearly a dozen seers called on the Chief Minister and discussed recent developments in the management of the temple. Seers urged Mr. Yediyurappa not to bring the temple under the jurisdiction of the Muzrai Department and allow the trustees to manage the temple affairs. Many organisations had appealed to the State government to bring the temple under the Muzrai Department, citing financial irregularities in the administration. The meeting assumed significance in the wake of Shivamogga Deputy Commissioner K.B. Shivakumar issuing an order two weeks ago constituting committees to look after the temple, which was in the news recently over differences between trustees and the priests. Mr. Yediyurappa had held a meeting on the issue during his recent visit to the district.
08 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BDA withdraws draft RMP 2031||The Bengaluru Development Authority (BDA) has withdrawn the draft Revised Master Plan (RMP) - 2031, with the aim of reviewing it. In a gazette notification issued on Thursday, the BDA has asked the public for suggestions that will be considered for revision. The State government, in June 2020, had asked the BDA to revise the draft RMP by integrating various aspects, including Transit Oriented Development policy. Sources in the BDA told The Hindu that new zonal regulations would also be framed.
08 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||V-Cs appointed||Vice-Chancellors were appointed to four cluster universities on Saturday. Gomathi Devi L., of Bangalore University, has been appointed as the first Vice-Chancellor of Maharani Cluster University, Bengaluru. While Harish Ramaswamy, professor at Karnatak University, Dharwad, has been appointed as the first V-Cof Raichur University Shrinivas S. Balli, professor at Basaveshwar Engineering College (Autonomous), Bagalkot, has been appointed as V-C of Nrupathunga University, Bengaluru. Puttaraju, principal, SJB Institute of Technology, Bengaluru, will be V-C of Mandya University.
08 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Hike condemned||The State committee of Socialist Unity Centre of India (Communist) on Saturday condemned as “anti-people” the decision of the Karnataka Electricity Regulatory Commission to clear the proposal of State-owned companies to hike electricity tariff from 20 paise to 40 paise per unit.
08 November 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Make wearing khadi mandatory once a week: Neeralakeri||Emphasising the need to make wearing of khadi once a week compulsorily for government employees and degree students, KPCC media analyst P.H. Neeralakeri has urged the State government to immediately release pending grants to the tune of Rs. 55 crores to various khadi production centres across the State. Addressing presspersons in Dharwad on Saturday, Mr. Neeralakeri said the State government should take a policy decision to promote khadi products and make wearing khadi once a week mandatory for all the government employees and degree students. He said that khadi and village industries provided employment opportunities at local levels that too by making use of local resources, which was crucial in strengthening the local economy. The government should first focus on strengthening the khadi and village industries, which were facing several problems due to the changed market scenario. He urged the government to come out with a revival package for the khadi and village industries. “To begin with, the State government should first release the pending grants of Rs. 55 crore to various khadi production centres in the State. Five khadi sanghas in Dharwad district too have not been released pending grants of Rs. 7 crore,” he said. Setting a deadline of one week for release of the pending grants, Mr. Neeralakeri said the Congress would be forced to launch an agitation if the government failed to release the grants. Another KPCC media analyst Shailaja Hiremath from Koppal said that because of changed market scenario, khadi and village industries had been severely affected and there was need to ensure proper market for the khadi products. Apart from ensuring that a proper marketing network was in place, the government should support the khadi sector through regular procurements of khadi products, she said. Congress leaders Bangaresh Hiremath, Veena Mahanthesh, and others were present.
08 November 2020||Hubballi,KARNATAKA||Vinay Kulkarni’s birthday adds to drama amidst questioning||A day after the district court handed over Congress leader and former Minister Vinay Kulkarni to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and the investigating officers brought him to Hubballi for further questioning, dramatic scenes were witnessed both in Hubballi and Dharwad as his followers celebrated their leader’s birthday at different venues. Mr. Kulkarni, who was lodged at Hindalga Jail in Belagavi, was brought to the new campus of the City Armed Reserve (CAR) Police near Hubballi Airport on Saturday morning, where they questioned him further. They also brought Somashekhar Nyamagouda, who was Mr. Kulkarni’s personal assistant when he was the Minister, for questioning. However, as the news spread, scores of his followers started gathering outside the CAR premises on Gokul Road and some of them came with bouquets. The police had made elaborate security arrangements and blocked entry to the premises. However, people continued to gather and in the afternoon, led by Congress rural district unit president Anilkumar Patil and others, a birthday celebration was held by the roadside. Amid questioning, the CBI officials permitted the family members who arrived with a cake to greet Mr. Kulkarni. While minority wing of the Congress held prayers at the Fateh Shah Wali Dargah in Hubballi, at Murugha mutt in Dharwad, the birthday celebrations were held in the presence of the mutt’s seer Mallikarjun Swami. In the programme organised by ‘Sarva Samajagala Swabhimani Balaga’, the birthday celebrations of the former Minister, who is also president of the administrative body of the mutt, were held. During the celebrations, the speakers said that Mr. Kulkarni would soon walk free.
08 November 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Hubballi Nagarika Horata Samiti condemns power tariff hike||Conveners and members of the Hubballi Nagarika Horata Samiti have condemned the State government’s decision on hiking electricity tariff and have demanded an immediate rollback. Members of the Samiti staged a demonstration in front of the Mini-Vidhana Soudha here on Saturday and condemned the hike in strong terms. Leading the protest, conveners of the Samiti Mahesh Pattar and Imrut Ijari said that at a time when the people of the State were yet to recover from the hardships induced by COVID-19, the BJP government had allowed the hike adding to the burden on the common people. All sectors Mr. Pattar said that the BJP-led government had continued its practice of unnecessarily burdening the common people and added that the power tariff hike would adversely impact all sectors trying to recover. Mr. Ijari said that at the same time the Union government headed by Prime Minister Narendra Modi continued to fleece the common people by introducing continuous hikes in fuel prices. “The BJP waited till the completion of the polling, which showed how the party was deceiving people,” he said.  Memorandum submitted The Samiti members submitted a memorandum to the Hubballi tahsildar urging the State government to immediately withdraw the power tariff hike and take steps to provide COVID-19 relief to the affected people. They also urged the government to increase the person days under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Act Scheme.
08 November 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||103rd anniversary of November Revolution||The 103rd anniversary of November Revolution was observed at the district office of the Socialist Unity Centre of India (Communist) in Dharwad on Saturday. Member of the district secretariat of SUCI-C Gangadhar Badiger hoisted the flag, while another member Laxman Jadagannavar offered tributes to Vladimir Lenin and Joseph Stalin. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Badiger said Vladimir Lenin and Joseph Stalin were able to establish a socialist society free of exploitation and oppression for the first time in history through the November Revolution. With the establishment of socialist government, Soviet Russia was able to achieve economical, social, political and cultural progress. All types of inequalities were alleviated and people were provided free education, healthcare, housing, and other basic amenities, he said. Mr. Jadagannavar said that now across the globe capitalism had affected the public and SUCI-C was trying hard to build a social revolution. The November Revolution was a source of inspiration for all those who believed in socialist values, he said. Members of district secretariat Bhuvana, Deepa, Sharanabasava Gonawar, Ramesh Hosamani, Madhulata Goudar, Bhavanishankar, and others were present.
08 November 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||A mother’s open letter to seer||Amid the Panchamasali seers taking exception to the arrest of former Minister Vinay Kulkarni, Tungavva Goudar, the mother of murdered ZP member Yogeeshgouda Goudar, has released an “open letter” addressed to the seer of Panchamasali Peetha at Koodalasangama, Basava Jaya Mrutyunjaya Swami. Yogeeshgouda also belongs to the Lingayat Panchamasali community like Mr. Kulkarni. In the letter, she has expressed surprise over the seer’s statement on injustice to Mr. Kulkarni and reminded him that she too belonged to the same community and he should also look at the suffering she had undergone due to the murder of her son.
08 November 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Awards for two senior journalists||Senior journalist Hanumanth Hugar has been chosen for the Lifetime Achievement Award instituted by the Dharwad District Union of Working Journalists (DDUWJ). The award comprises a purse of Rs. 11,000 and a citation. It will be presented during the annual award presentation ceremony to be held by the month-end. Earlier, DDUWJ has honoured senior journalists Narayan Ghalagi (2017), D.V. Mutalik Desai (2018) and P.R. Phandari (2019) with the Lifetime Achievement Award. In a press release, DDUWJ general secretary Sushilendra Kundaragi said that another senior journalist Jayashree Walwekar has been chosen for the Avva Award for woman journalists. This award comprises a purse of Rs. 5,000 and a citation. Hanumanth Hugar has served as journalist for over four decades in various Kannada publications, including Netaji, Vishala Karnataka, Kutumba and Vishwavani. Jayashree Walwekar has served as reporter and sub-editor in Karmaveera and Samyukta Karnataka for 23 years and has translated several short stories from Hindi to Kannada and English articles to Kannada.
08 November 2020||Kalaburagi,KARNATAKA||COVID-19 testing lab set up on CUK campus||A molecular biology laboratory to test samples for diagnosing COVID-19 has been set up at Central University of Karnataka (CUK) at its main campus near Kadaganchi village in Aland taluk, about 45 km from Kalaburagi city. As for the information provided by the CUK authorities, the laboratory has been approved by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), New Delhi, and the National Institute of Mental Health and Neuro-Sciences (NIMHANS), Bengaluru. “We are very happy and proud that CUK is going to contribute to the nation during this pandemic. The lab is going to strengthen the testing capacity in the district. I have a dream that this lab should become an advanced diagnostic and research lab in the future which can to contribute sustainable human health,” District Heath and Family Welfare Officer Rajshekar Malli said after inaugurating the laboratory on Friday. “The laboratory has been set up with financial support of Rs. 84 lakh from the State government. The lab is capable of conducting RT-PCR tests as per ICMR guidelines. It has TrueNat, RNA isolation machine, biosafety cabinets, and others in place as per ICMR guidelines. Initially, the lab will run in one shift from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. daily with a capacity to analyse 200 samples. Presently, the university will not collect any samples on its premises. It will only test the samples sent by the district government hospital. One research associate and two research assistants along with three assistant professors will work for the lab,” H.M. Maheshwaraiah, Vice-Chancellor of CUK, said. Pro Vice-Chancellor and Dean of School of Life Sciences G R Naik, Nodal Officer for the COVID-19 testing lab Rakesh Kumar, and others were present during the inauguration.
08 November 2020||Kalaburagi,KARNATAKA||CM assures help in tackling floods||BJP State executive member Suryakant Nagamarapalli has urged Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa to extend financial assistance to take up relief measures for the flood-hit Bidar district. Mr. Nagamarapalli, who met Mr. Yediyurappa in Bengaluru on Friday submitted details on the losses and damages caused by the recent floods in the district. As per the joint survey conducted by the Revenue and Agriculture departments, the standing crop on 2,49,258 hectares was damaged. The devastating floods also damaged 1,673 houses and claimed 63 head of cattle and nine lives in the district. In Bidar taluk alone, the standing crop on 33,359 hectares of land was damaged. This included soya bean on 16,265 hectares, black gram on 3,161 hectares, green gram on 3,681 hectares, red gram on 7,535 hectares, jowar across 1,325 hectares and sugarcane crop of 1,704 hectares. Mr. Yediyurappa said he would direct the Revenue Department and the Disaster Management Division about the financial assistance to take up relief measures immediately and assured of every possible help to the flood-affected victims.
08 November 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||CDPO held on charge of accepting bribe||Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) sleuths trapped Child Development Project Officer (CDPO) Shobha Katti while allegedly accepting a bribe in Humnabad taluk of Bidar district on Saturday. According to ACB officials, the CDPO allegedly demanded Rs. 50,000 from Ambika S. Dange for transferring her from Sitalgera village anganwadi centre to Ghodwadi village anganwadi centre. Ms. Ambika agreed to pay the amount in two instalments. A team led by ACB Superintendent of Police Mahesh Meghannanavar laid a trap and caught Shobha Katti red-handed while she was allegedly receiving the first instalment of Rs. 30,000 from Ms. Ambika at her office on Saturday afternoon.
08 November 2020||Kalaburagi,KARNATAKA||Rajyotsava awardee donates cash prize for farmers’ relief, temple construction||Siddaramappa B. Patil Dangapur, who won the Rajyotsava Award for his contribution to farming, has donated his cash award of Rs. 1 lakh and an additional Rs. 50,000 to flood-hit farmers and for the construction of a temple in the region. Mr. Patil, who received the award at Bengaluru on Saturday, in a release thanked Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and Minister for Kannada and Culture C.T. Ravi. Of the Rs. 1 lakh award, Mr. Patil donated Rs. 50,000 to the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund and the other Rs. 50,000 for the work of the Sharnbasaveshwar temple at Dangapur village in Aland taluk. He donated an additional Rs. 50,000 for the development of mutts and temples in the taluk.
08 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||MCC Commissioner pushes for waste segregation at source||Asking people to segregate waste at their house, Mangaluru City Corporation Commissioner Akshy Sridhar on Saturday said this is necessary to cut the government’s expenditure on waste management. A large portion of the tax collected is now being spent on waste management and there is little left for taking up development projects. The expenditure on waste management can be reduced if people turned wet waste into compost in their houses and establishments, he said. Launching a wet-waste treatment facility of Mangaluru Resource Management Limited at Inland Eon Apartment in Matadakani here, Mr. Sridhar said as the city is growing, waste management has become an issue. “It is really a gigantic task to handle the wet waste of 5.5 lakh,” he said. “If people put in more effort in processing waste at their end, then the tax payers’ money can be diverted for development works,” he said. The MCC, he said, is aggressively working on waste collection and processing. The garbage slip at the Pachchanady dumping yard last August and the resultant orders by the Karnataka High Court, which was followed by directions by State Government on waste management, has led the MCC to expedite things on the matter. The damage caused from the slip of garbage dumped for over 30 years in Pachchanady has led the State government to pay Rs. 20 crore as compensation. Another Rs. 16 crore is being spent on processing the dumped waste. A large amount is now being spent now on handling waste at the site, he said. While the MCC has taken up enforcement of waste management rules, it is good to see citizens coming forward to ask the corporation of the ways they can process their waste. “This change in the thinking of people goes a long way in addressing the issue,” he said. Earlier, Mr. Sridhar launched the facility at the apartment by pouring wet waste into earthen pots. The complex with about 40 flats is the 17th in the city that is serviced by start-up Mangaluru Resource Management Limited, which is guided by the Ramakrishna Mission. “We are showcasing an eco-friendly model of processing wet waste. We should not rely on the government to process the waste generated by us,” said Swami Ekagamyananda of the mission. The president of the Inland Eon Apartment Owners’ Association Krishnadas Prabhu also spoke.
08 November 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||MSCL proposes to develop 8.5 km cycling route in city||To promote the concept of safe cycling, Mangaluru Smart City Limited (MSCL) has proposed to the Directorate of Urban Land Transport (DULT) of the State government to develop, on pilot basis, a 8.5 km cycling route that passes through narrow lanes of the city. Representatives of various cycling clubs in the city had urged MSCL and the Mangaluru City Corporation to create a cycling route in the city during the recent ‘Cycles4Change’ challenge, organised by the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs here. Mangaluru is among nine cities in the State which participated in the event held recently. The DULT has committed to fund all the pilot plans of the nine cities. Talking to reporters here on Saturday, MSCL in-charge Managing Director and Commissioner of Manglauru City Corporation Akshy Sridhar said that the route will start from Lalbagh and end at Jeppu. “Except at a few places where the route goes through narrow lanes, the route in general is relatively wide and safe for cycling,” he said. As it connects a number of schools and colleges, this route can be used by students to cycle to their institutions. “This route goes well with our dream of making students cycle to schools and colleges,” he said. Except for residents of the area, others can be asked to use cycles for commuting on this route, he said. Mr. Sridhar said MSCL made this proposal following feedback received during an ongoing ‘Cycle for Commute’ survey. MSCL has proposed improvement of bicycle infrastructure on the route. A detailed project report will be sent to DULT on Monday, he said. Architect and adviser to MSCL Niren Jain said the route has been proposed after considering feedback that narrow roads are safe for cycling. MSCL is working with a vision to promote cycling and walking and lessen carbon footprint. The MCC and the city police will be largely involved in developing safe bicycle routes, he added. Lauding the MSCL’s proposal, Ganesh Nayak, secretary of Mangalore Bicycle Club, said this is a positive development in the city where the number of cyclists is gradually increasing. Having safe cycling routes will develope confidence in parents to allow their children to use cycles. “It will help to get back to the good old days when people cycled a lot,” Mr. Nayak added.  Except at a few places where the route goes through narrow lanes, the route in general is relatively wide and safe for cycling. Akshy Sridhar, MSCL in-charge Managing Director and Commissioner of MCC
08 November 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Police accused of harassing minor girl||A 16-year-old girl has accused three women police personnel from Bajpe Police Station of assaulting her when she had gone to the police station regarding a complaint filed by her father. In a complaint with the Women Police on November 5, the girl said she had gone to Bajpe police station on October 4 in connection with the complaint of her father against the boy whom she came to know through Facebook. The girl’s father had complained that the boy was harassing his daughter. In the guise of an inquiry, Rakshita and two other women police constables hit her on her legs, hands and waist in the police station. They also abused her, the girl alleged. The Women Police registered her complaint for offences under Sections 323, 324 and 504 of the Indian Penal Code. Meanwhile, the girl filed another complaint accusing the boy of sexually harassing her. A delegation of Congress activists led by former MLC Ivan D’Souza met Police Commissioner Vikash Kumar Vikash on Saturday and demanded action against the police personnel concerned. Minor couple traced In another incident, a minor boy and a girl, who were missing since October 28 from Hiriyadka police station in Udupi, were traced in Belka village of Uttara Kannada on November 5. A complaint was filed with the Hiriyadka police on October 28 accusing the minor boy of kidnapping the girl. A team of policemen including Circle Inspector Anantha Padmanabha, Inspector Manjappa and Sub Inspectors Sudhakar Tonse and Raghavendra, was formed to trace the couple. The police said the minor boy has been accused under the provisions of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act.
08 November 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||M.R. Vasudeva Samaga, Yakshagana artist, dead||Yakshagana artist M.R. Vasudeva Samaga passed away on Saturday. He was 72 and is survived by his wife and a son. Mr. Vasudeva Samaga lived in Koteshwara, near Kundapur in Udupi district. As he was ailing for some days, he had been admitted to a hospital in Manipal, where he died at about 3 a.m. He hailed from a family of Yakshagana artists. His father, the late Malpe Ramadasa Samaga, was also a well-known artist and orator. His paternal uncle, the late Malpe Shankaranarayana Samaga, was a noted Yakshagana performer and talamaddale ‘arthadhari’. An accomplished artiste, Mr. Vasudeva Samaga was well versed both in the Badagu Thittu and the Tenku Thittu schools of Yakshagana. As a professional artist, he had toured in a number of Yakshagana ‘melas’, including in the over 100-year-old Dharmasthala Yakshagana mela. Yakshagana artist S.N. Bhat Bayar recalled that Mr. Vasudeva Samaga had an exceptional oratory skill and he used to completely involve himself in the roles, especially during talamaddale performances. He was comfortable in exhibiting all ‘rasas’ of Yakshagana including the ‘hasya rasa’. He had formed his own talamaddale troupe called ‘samyamam’. Mr. Vasudeva Samaga used to perform many ‘stree veshas’ [women roles] that required additional skills to perform. Yakshagana teacher Mambady Subrahmanya Bhat said that the involvement of Mr. Vasudeva Samaga in all his roles was his exceptional quality. According to Murali Kadekar, secretary, Yakshagana Kala Ranga, Udupi, he had introduced talamaddale, a variant of Yakshagana theatre, in different parts of the State through his ‘samyamam’ troupe. He had edited 80 Yakshagana prasangas, which are suitable for talamaddale.  He was the recipient of the Karnataka Yaksahgana Academy Award. The Kala Ranga condoled his death.
08 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Make use of medical reimbursement, pension facilities’||Chairman of the Karnataka Yakshagana Academy M.A. Hegde said on Saturday that Yakshagana artists who have received various State-level awards instituted by the academy are eligible to get medical reimbursement from the government. Many are not aware of it and they should make use of this facility. He was speaking at a function organised by the academy at Kollur in Udupi district to present its annual Parthi Subba, honorary, and Yakshasiri awards for 2019. The chairman said that Yakshagana artists in general are also eligible to get monthly pension of Rs. 2,000. The eligible artists should avail themselves of both facilities through the Department of Kannada and Culture, he said. The Parthi Subba award, a top honour by the academy, was presented to eminent Yakshagana playwright and talamaddale interpreter Ambathanaya Mudradi (Keshava Shettigar). It carries a Rs. 1 lakh purse. The academy presented its honorary award which carried a purse of Rs. 50,000 to Ramakrishna Gundi. The Yakshasiri annual award, which carries Rs. 25,000 in its purse, was presented to Argodu Mohandas Shenoy, Mohammed Ghouse, Mururu Ramachandra Hegde, M.N. Hegde Haluvalli, and Haradi Sarvottama Ganiga. Nalluru Janardhana Acharya was presented the Yakshasiri award posthumously and his wife, Sharada, received it. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Mudradi said that probably there is no other art form other than Yakshagana which has subjected itself to many experiments, praise, and criticism. Expressing his concern over the reducing number of talamaddale, a variant of Yakshagana theatre, ‘arthadaris’ (interpreters) in the recent years he said that the performances of Badagu Thittu and Tenku Thittu forms of Yakshagana should spread to all districts in the State. Mr. Mudradi suggested that the authorities of Kollur Mookambika Temple relaunch the Kollur Yakshagana Mela.  Mr. Mudradi was born on June 4, 1935. A resident of Mudradi village in Hebri taluk of Udupi district, he started his career as a primary school teacher. He received the Karnataka Rajyotsava award in 2008.
08 November 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||COVID-19: Two dead, 90 new cases in Udupi, DK||A COVID-19 patient with co-morbidity died, while 72 new cases were reported in Dakshina Kannada on Saturday. With 169 patients discharged, the number of active cases stood at 1,029. A fine of Rs. 12.46 lakh has so far been collected in 11,406 cases of not wearing masks. A 72-year-old COVID-19 patient with co-morbidity died, while 18 new cases were reported in Udupi on Saturday. With discharge of 66 patients, the number of active cases stood at 377. A fine of Rs. 15.72 lakh has so far been collected in 14,134 cases of people not wearing masks and violating social distancing norms.
08 November 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Tension prevails at fishing harbour||Tension prevailed for a while at the Koderi fishing harbour near Byndoor in Udupi district on Saturday following a clash between fishermen from Koderi and Uppunda over the auction of the catch. The fishermen from Koderi were protesting against shifting the auction venue to the western part of the Koderi fishing jetty. As fishermen from Uppunda started to come towards the jetty with their catch, the Koderi fishermen reportedly placed boats to stop their entry. It was in the evening that the Uppunda boats entered the jetty and unloaded their catch. Soon after the fish was unloaded, the two groups clashed with each other. The police had to use force to disperse them.
08 November 2020||mangaluru,KARNATAKA||No power supply||There will be no power supply to some areas in the city on November 10 from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. The areas are Kudroli, Alake, Car Street, Kodialbail, Besant College area, PVS Circle, Dongarakery, Durgamahal area. It is for maintenance works.
08 November 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||COVID-19 fallout: Wedding hall owners seek property tax waiver for one year||The owners of wedding halls in Mysuru have sought full waiver of property tax for one year in view of COVID-19 and took objection to the apparent warning to file criminal cases against the halls in case of any violation of guidelines issued by the government for controlling the pandemic. The meeting was attended by former Minister and MLA S.R. Mahesh, former MLA M.K. Somashekar, K.R. Sathyanarayan, President, Mysuru Choultry Owners’ Association, C. Narayana Gowda, member of the association, and others. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Mahesh sought waiver of property tax of the marriage halls which had been hit by the pandemic and have ran out of revenue following restrictions on the conduct of functions engaging large gatherings. “All kinds of taxes that the marriage halls are supposed to pay to the government should be waived for a period of one year,” he demanded. He took objection to the apparent warning of legal action against the marriage halls in case of any violation in complying with the fixed rules over COVID-19. “Reconsider the decision on action against the marriage halls as the owners are ready for corrective steps in case of any errors in adhering to the rules. But it’s not correct to warn of filing criminal case against them.” He also took objection to the classification of marriage halls as “super” commercial properties and imposing two per cent additional tax on them by the Mysuru City Corporation. Mr. Mahesh told the marriage hall owners not to panic if any notices were served on them for clearing the tax dues, and added that he and former MLA Somashekar would support their cause. “We shall write to the government seeking waiver,” he told the meeting. Referring to the recent police order, he said the wedding halls should not be “threatened” in connection with the enforcement of rules as they have already taken steps for containing the spread of the pandemic. “There might be some instances of slip-ups since there is constant movement of people during weddings,” he argued. Mr. Narayana Gowda, who is also the president of Hotel Owners Association in Mysuru, said no other city in the State has the system of imposing “super commercial tax” other than Mysuru. Hotels, marriage halls and cinema halls are told to pay two per cent additional tax whereas this tax does not apply to other commercial properties. “Why the MCC has singled out these three commercial properties for the additional tax,” he asked. Despite several appeals, there is no relief from the super tax which is being imposed since 2007, he claimed. Mr. Gowda, who also runs a marriage hall, said the owners are planning to move to court seeking relief from the super tax in case the MCC does not consider to withdraw and impose uniform tax on all commercial properties.
08 November 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Nearly a million saplings planted in Mysuru region||Nearly 1 million saplings have been distributed for planting in the Mysuru territorial division so far during the current year (2020-21) which is expected to shore up the green cover of the region significantly. This includes 20,000 saplings that were planted across different parts of the city so as to ensure that the green cover quotient of Mysuru did not dwindle despite its expansion. Deputy Conservator of Forests (Territorial) .K.C.Prashanth Kumar told The Hindu that the bulk of the saplings were distributed ahead of monsoon and have already been planted by the farmers along tank bunds or embankments, open spaces on their land not taken up for cultivation and other places. Within Mysuru city, the target for greening initiative is about 70 km of road length at the rate of nearly 280 to 300 saplings per km depending on the terrain, bulk of which have been covered. Open spaces belonging to government offices and vacant lands are also being brought under tree cover. Mr. Prashanth Kumar said the Forest Department does not have funds for their maintenance from next year and hence has written to the Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) and the Mysuru Urban Development Authority (MUDA) to help finance to safeguard the saplings. It is expected to cost around Rs. 50 lakh to safeguard the saplings by installing tree guards around them. These saplings were raised in the nursery of the Forest department and the authorities have given emphasis on nurturing indigenous varieties that can withstand the vagaries of local climatic conditions and do not require much water. Some of the species that are raised and nurtured in the nurseries include Hebbevu, Srigandha, Honge, and Mahogany. Mr. Prashanth said the survival rate of the saplings range from 90 per cent to 95 per cent and those that wither away will be replaced by the Forest Department. He said demand for saplings from rural side began soon after the pre-monsoon rains hit the region and this was when the bulk of the seedlings were also distributed. The increase in moisture content in the soil and rains during monsoon ensures that the saplings don’t need watering for at least six months but need protection. For the farmers the plantation drive has dual benefits as they can supplement their income protecting the saplings they plan on their land. The Forest Department’s Krushi Aranya Protsaha Yojane (KAPY) encourages the farmers to protect the saplings for three years and they receive cash incentive for their efforts. There is a cap of 400 saplings per hectare and protecting. The scheme entails upon the Forest Department to pay the farmers Rs. 30 for every surviving sapling at the end of the first and second year and Rs. 40 per surviving seedling at the end of the third year. The financial incentive is apart from the returns from the mature trees that the farmers accrue by way of fruits, seeds, fodder, firewood, timber etc. In view of the substantial income accruing to the farmers, they take initiative in protecting the saplings and the survival rates are high.
08 November 2020||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Jubilant receives environmental clearance for expansion||Pharmaceutical company Jubilant Generics Ltd. has receivedclearance from the State Environment Impact Assessment Authority (SEIAA) for expansion of its manufacturing facility at Nanjangud near here. Jubilant Generics Ltd., a subsidiary of Jubilant Life Sciences Limited, will be spending Rs. 864 crore. The company, which employs about 1,200 people, is expected to add another 1,000, taking the total number of confirmed employees to 2,200. The company will be also adding about 400 temporary employees to the existing 400 temporary workers, according to documents make available to the environment regulatory bodies. The temporary employment will be mostly in the logistics that involves the movements of drugs and raw material. Jubilant Generics had come under a cloud after an outbreak of COVID-19 earlier this year and had even suspended production for more than two months before resuming in June. Meanwhile, Jubilant entered into an agreement with Gilead Sciences, USA, for manufacture and sale of Remdesivir, an investigational anti-viral drug for treatment of severe COVID-19. In August, the Jubilant launched the drug in the Indian market under the brand name JUBI-R, which requires to be administered intravenously in a hospital setting under the supervision of a medical practitioner. The annual production capacity of Jubilant, which had gone up from 987 tonnes to 1,395 tonnes after its earlier expansion in 2016-17, is expected to reach 1,614 tonnes post-expansion. The production capacity of by-products is expected to go up from 5,631 tonnes to 6,348 tonnes.
08 November 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Music university embarks on outreach programme to widen its footprint||The Karnataka State Dr. Gangubai Hangal Music and Performing Arts University has identified 18 institutes across the State for its outreach programmes in a bid to expand its footprint and popularise fine arts courses by taking them to the doorsteps of aspiring students. The initiative is reckoned to be a win-win situation for the existing students enrolled with these institutes under their respective teachers. While the university will see an immediate increase in the number of institutions affiliated to it, the students already being trained by these affiliated institutes will receive a certificate from the music university which will shore up their academic credentials. This arrangement is also expected to widen the catchment area of the varsity for admission to its offline regular classes conducted on the Mysuru campus. Acting Vice-Chancellor Nagesh V. Betkote told The Hindu that the MoU was in the final stage of being drafted and signed and if the outreach programme is successful the music varsity will replicate the initiative with other institutions as well. He said at least two of the institutes which will sign the MoU with the music university teach classical music and dance online and they have over 800 students each. ‘’The role of the varsity is restricted to conducting the examination and issuing certificates while the teaching part will be the responsibility of the institutions concerned’’, said Mr. Betkote. “This initiative will help expand the music university’s footprint while the students can take pride in the certificate issued by a recognised varsity. Besides, the offline teaching in the classrooms is restricted to a limited number of students and this arrangement will see a surge in the varsity’s brand image and student strength’’, he added. Meanwhile, the music varsity itself is set to offer online courses in classical dance and music and has submitted a proposal to the government. The pandemic has delayed the clearance process and once approved there are plans to roll out six-months’ and one-year certificate and diploma courses in Bharatanatyam, and Carnatic and Hindustani music for beginners. Mr. Betkote said the varsity has also tied up with the theatre repertoire Rangayana. The latter will impart training while the university will conduct the examination and issue certificates, he added. The varsity was founded in 2008-09 with the objective of bringing music and fine arts to the mainstream academic activity and broadbase its patrons. It functions from a government school building leased out to it in the heart of the city. Efforts are on to transfer the property to the varsity.
08 November 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||First time in many weeks, cases drop to two-digit mark in Mysuru||For the first time since many weeks, COVID-19 cases in Mysuru have fallen to the two-digit mark, giving a long awaited breather to the district administration and the frontline workers. After a brief phase of Mysuru becoming “COVID-19-free” with zero cases a few months ago, the cases peaked, turning Mysuru a COVID-19 hotspot with the district having second highest cases after Bengaluru. Mysuru became the focus of attention since the fatalities too were highest in the State after Bengaluru. At one point of time, the highest 15 deaths were reported on a single day in Mysuru, putting the administration and the healthcare workers on their toes, to control the case fatality rate and also the positivity rate. As many as 79 cases were reported on Saturday, lowest since many weeks. Also, the recoveries were more than the active cases as 199 persons were discharged on Saturday, bringing the number of recoveries to 46,643. Mysuru has reported 48,620 cumulative positive cases and two deaths were reported on Saturday, taking the death toll to 972 since the outbreak. Also, thanks to rapid recoveries and steady drop in cases, the number of active cases has come down to 1,005 on Saturday. The number of patients in home isolation has fallen below 500. Meanwhile, the liquid handling system for early RT-PCR results was launched at the VRDL in K.R. Hospital here on Saturday. Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri inaugurated the newly-introduced testing system at the Viral Research and Diagnostic Laboratory at the Microbiology Department of Mysore Medical College and Research Institute. The equipment was supplied to MMCRI on a special request to the government over rapid rise in cases in Mysuru until last month. With the launch of the new testing system, results on the swab samples can be found in less than 24 hours. The MMCR hopes to ramp up testing with the launch of the advanced testing device and take daily PCR tests from 2,500 to 4,000 tests a day.
08 November 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Forest Dept. told to safeguard farmers||Former Speaker and Government Land Protection Committee Chairman K.G. Bopaiah on Saturday told the Kodagu forest authorities not to cause any inconvenience to farmers of the district until the joint survey of lands categorised in ‘C’ and ‘D’ class was done. Speaking at the taluk KDP meeting in Madikeri, the MLA said he had received complaints that small farmers cultivating coffee in “Paisari” lands since many decades are now facing hurdles in pursuing their profession. “Such complaints should not persist. We should imagine the plight of such farmers in Bhagamandala, Sampaje, Kalooru, Birunani, and other places which had been hit by successive floods.” Veena Achaiah, MLC, said many paddy fields in Makkandur, K Nidugani and Madhe gram panchayat limits had been affected in the 2018 floods and added that sand, mud and uprooted trees had collected in the lands. A special package should be announced for these places. Mr. Bopaiah told the Kodagu ZP engineers to complete the bridge construction work in Korangala and Chirangala.
08 November 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||CM urged to bring villages off ORR under MCC||A delegation led by Minister in charge of Mysuru district S.T. Somashekar met Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa in Bengaluru on Saturday and presented a memorandum to him for bringing the villages outside the Outer Ring Road (ORR) here into the limits of Mysuru City Corporation. Horticulture Minister Narayana Gowda, Mysuru MP Pratap Simha, former Minister G.T. Deve Gowda, MLA L. Nagendra and MUDA Chairman H.V. Rajeev were present. The delegation urged the CM to include the subject in the next Cabinet meeting and get it approved. The delegation also had a meeting with Minister for Urban Development B.A. Basavaraj.
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Citizens should voluntarily give up bursting crackers this year, say experts||Even as Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa retracted his earlier announcement banning the sale of firecrackers during Deepavali and urged people to use “green crackers”, doctors and COVID-19 experts say communities should voluntarily refrain from bursting crackers this year in the interest of health. After Rajasthan, Odisha, West Bengal and Haryana banned the sale of firecrackers during Deepavali, Health and Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar had consulted the State’s COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee (TAC) and expert committee. They had batted for a ban and the Health Minister had placed the proposal before the Chief Minister, who announced a ban before calling upon people to use “green crackers”. Self-imposed restrictions Doctors, who said firecrackers can badly impact the health of those who have already been infected and even those who have recovered, asserted that the government should have banned it this year as COVID-19 affects lungs the most. “However, in the absence of government restrictions, there should be community consciousness and people should be kind to each other by imposing self restrictions,” a doctor said. V. Ravi, senior professor and head of Neuro Virology at NIMHANS, who is part of the State’s COVID-19 expert committee, said, “It would have been better if a complete ban was imposed. Patients with COVID-19, asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease already have swollen and sensitive lungs. Smoke from firecrackers can affect their lungs further.” C.N. Manjunath, Director of Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences, who is the nodal officer for labs and testing in the State’s COVID-19 task force, said, “People should refrain from bursting crackers this year, and instead light oil-based lamps. Cracker smoke can generate suspended particulate matter (SPM), which can increase transmission of COVID-19 as well as affect those with other respiratory problems,” he said. Dr. Manjunath said manufacturers should innovate and manufacture environment-friendly crackers that emit less smoke. C. Nagaraj, Director of the State-run Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Chest Diseases (RGICD), said, “Those suffering from chronic obstructive pulmonary diseases and asthma are more susceptible to COVID-19. Cracker smoke will further aggravate their infection.” Satyanarayana Mysore, head of the department of pulmonology and respiratory medicine at Manipal Hospitals, said it is known that high PM 2.5 levels in the air are responsible for a rise in respiratory diseases. PM 2.5 refers to tiny particles or droplets in the air that are two-and-a-half microns or less in width. “Particles in the PM 2.5 size range can travel deep into the respiratory tract, reaching the lungs,” he said.  People should refrain from bursting crackers this year, and instead light oil-based lamps. Cracker smoke can generate suspended particulate matter, which can increase transmission of COVID-19 as well as affect those with other respiratory problems C.N. Manjunath, Director, Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||‘Clean Air Street’ pilot launched||Church Street wore a festive air on Saturday with street musicians playing for pedestrians and artists beautifying the walls and street cafes at the launch of the Clean Air Street pilot project that will see the popular road closed to vehicles every weekend from November 7 till the end of February. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa launched the pilot, which is being implemented by the Directorate of Urban Land Transport (DULT), Indian Institute of Science and the UK technology innovation platform Catapult Network. Businesses on the street will be allowed to extend their seating outdoors temporarily, in line with social distancing norms.
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Potholes on major roads to be filled by Nov. 15||The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has promised to take up the pothole menace on a war footing after a slew of complaints over the deteriorating quality of roads in the core and outer areas of the city. However, restoration of dug-up roads will not be taken up immediately due to financial constraints. BBMP Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad on Saturday announced that a deadline of November 15 has been set for filling up potholes on 1,300 km of arterial and sub-arterial roads. Those on other roads will be filled by the end of November. The civic body has commissioned the hot mix plant at Kannur, which will be used to fill craters. Around 10 truck loads of asphalt were being produced at the plant every day. “Over the next 10 days, the production will be increased to 20 truck loads, and 10 days after that, it will be increased to over 30 truck loads of asphalt/hot mix,” said Mr. Prasad. Labour shortage Though restrictions have eased, migrant labourers who left their hometowns during the lockdown are yet to return. According to Mr. Prasad, labour remains a problem and efforts are being made to convince them to return to the city. The civic body has 10 teams, each with 25 personnel, working across the city. “More teams will be constituted to attend to bad reaches. While the five outer zones will have 15 teams, six teams will be dedicated for the three core zones,” he added. With repeated complaints about slow execution of work on underpasses, flyovers, white-topping, grade separators, the Commissioner admitted that this was due to delay in clearing bills of contractors executing these projects. Bills had not been cleared for nearly one year. “We have begun clearing bills of contractors,” he said and added that work on the flyover at Shivananda Circle will be completed in four months. Dug-up roads Several roads, mainly in the outer zones, are in deplorable condition as they have been dug up by various agencies. The Bangalore Water Supply and Sewerage Board (BWSSB) had dug up nearly 3,113 km of roads for drinking water and underground sewage pipelines. BBMP Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad said, “Earlier, the board would give Rs. 6 lakh per km for road restoration. However, this has stopped. The BBMP cannot restore roads owing to financial constraints. We will now focus on filling potholes.”
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||BBMP posts details of works online||Unhappy with the quality of road that was recently asphalted in your neighbourhood? Has the footpath not been repaired? You can visit the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) website and leave feedback as part of a new initiative called Citizen View. With the aim of bringing in transparency and collecting feedback, details of all works taken up since June 2015 with BBMP funds will be available on the civic body’s portal. The initiative was launched by BBMP Administrator Gaurav Gupta and Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad on Saturday. Mr. Prasad said that, in the second phase, works taken up under the Nagarottana Scheme, with funds from the Centre and State governments, and those under progress will also be made available. “Through this initiative, we will be able to account for utilisation of funds. The BBMP receives several RTI applications with regard to fund utilisation. We are putting all the information in the public domain,” he said. To access details of works, visit https://bbmp.gov.in/Citizenview.html. The section has three options – road history GIS view, BBMP works bill view and administrator proceedings. Citizens can search for details based on name of work, ward, division or contractor. They can get payment details of works taken up in any ward, apart from accessing complete details of the work, including approvals, photographs and documents. Feedback, along with photographs, can be given for each work bill.
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Six Rohingya youths kidnapped for ransom||The Amruthahalli police are on the lookout for a Rohingya youth who was allegedly kidnapped by a group of men for ransom after his family failed to pay a ‘hafta’ for living in a slum in Dasarahalli. According to the police, the kidnappers had allegedly taken six youths from the colony, but released five of the victims after receiving Rs. 40,000 from their family members. “The money was transferred online, but one of the youths, Dil Mohammed, is still missing,” said a police officer. The prime accused has been identified as Hilal, who is yet to be arrested. According to the victims, he resides in Kadugodi and would regularly harass Rohingya families living in Dasarahalli. “There are around 40 families living in the Dasarahalli colony. They work as ragpickers for a civic contractor. Hilal and his associates would often extort money from them and harass the women,” said the police, adding that the accused were also ragpickers operating in and around Whitefield. On October 31, Hilal and the others went to the slum and started collecting money from the families. “They attacked those who objected to the extortion or were unable to pay. They took mobile phones and valuables, and assaulted a pregnant woman and children before bundling the six youths in a van,” said a police officer. Hilal later called the families of the abducted youths demanding Rs. 40,000 for their safe release. The five youths, who were released after their families paid up, said that they had been kept in Kadugodi. Relative files complaint Based on a complaint filed by a relative, Syedullah, the Amruthahalli police on Thursday filed an FIR against the kidnappers. The prime accused, Hilal, along with his associates, have been charged for wrongful confinement, extortion, assault or force to outrage the modesty of women, and unlawful assembly. On Saturday, the police went to Kadugodi where the victims had been held captive for two days. The police are trying to track down the accused who are absconding.
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Enrol in pension scheme, MP tells workers||Mandya MP Sumalatha Ambareesh on Saturday called upon unorganised workers in the district to register themselves under the Pradhan Mantri Shram Yogi Maandhan Yojana and a get an assured pension of Rs. 3,000 a month after attaining 60 years. Speaking after launching an awareness campaign for the scheme and enrolment camp at Besagarahalli village in Maddur taluk, she said the voluntary and contributory pension scheme had been launched for the financial security of the unorganised workers. Those in the age group of 18 to 40 years are eligible to enrol. Besagarahalli had been adopted by Ms. Sumalatha as a model village or “Adarsha Grama”. The scheme is being implemented jointly by the Union Ministry of Labour and Employment and the Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare. The Central government gives a matching aid to the monthly contribution of the workers under the scheme. At Besagarahalli, the MP flagged off a publicity vehicle to educate the workers about the scheme. Ms Sumalatha later inaugurated an RO drinking water plant at Besagarahalli, built under the MP Local Area Development funds. She also inaugurated the development programmes taken up by FICCI FLO at Nodekoppal village by planting a sapling. The village has been adopted by the organisation.
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||ACB raids residence of KAS officer||Officials with the Anti Corruption Bureau (ACB) on Saturday morning raided the residence of KAS officer Dr. B. Sudha in Kodigehalli in connection with a disproportionate asset case. Raids were also conducted in five other places across Karnataka, including the residences of her friends in Mysuru, Bengaluru and in Udupi district. Officials said they recovered property worth several lakhs of rupees which is “disproportionate to her known source of income”. A private case had been registered based on the court’s direction. “The accused officer Sudha, who is currently serving in the Department of IT, BT, was earlier Special Land Acquisition Officer, Bengaluru Development Authority (BDA). The majority of irregularities took place during her tenure in the BDA,” said a senior BDA official. The ACB has seized the documents related to properties, along with gold valuables and bank account details, from her house in Kodigehalli for further investigation.
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Five arrested for selling elephant tusks||The V.V. Puram police on Saturday arrested five men and recovered a pair of elephant tusks from them. The accused have been identified as Govindaraju (28), Prabhakaran (35), Tamilselvam (25), all three from Thirupathur, and Rajesh Dorai (28) and Naveen Gopal (29) from Vellore. They were caught while waiting for their clients, said the police.
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Winners all||
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||For sale||
08 November 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||696 test positive in Alappuzha||In a slight increase in daily COVID-19 cases, 696 people tested positive for the disease in the district on Saturday. Of the fresh cases, 683 patients contracted the virus through local transmission, while the source of infection of another two persons remains unknown. Six people who came from abroad, three from other States, and two health staff were also diagnosed with the disease. The district also recorded four COVID-19-related deaths, taking the official death toll 113. The 696 cases include 136 logged from Alappuzha, 60 from Punnapra North, 48 from Cherthala South, and 34 from Thycattusserry. Meanwhile, 549 people who were undergoing treatment for the disease tested negative. The active COVID-19 caseload in the district stands at 9,048. The police have registered 44 cases and arrested 15 people for violating the restrictions imposed to check the spread of COVID-19 in the district. Action was taken against 295 people for not wearing face masks and 1,012 for not maintaining physical distance. Another five cases were registered for violating prohibitory orders imposed in the district under section 144 of the Cr.PC. Action was taken against 76 people in connection with the five cases. Ward 8 in Pandanad along with parts of ward 11 in Thakazhi, ward 14 in Mararikulam South, and ward 6, 7 and 10 in Thanneermukkom grama panchayat, were declared as containment zones.
08 November 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Move to decommission transmitter shelved||A day after issuing an order to decommission the 200-kW Medium Wave (MW) transmitter of the All India Radio (AIR) in Alappuzha, the Prasar Bharati on Saturday put the decision on hold following protests from various quarters. A.M. Ariff, MP, who visited the AIR Alappuzha station on Saturday said that the decision to close down the 200-kW Alappuzha MW transmission (relay) station had been deferred by the Prasar Bharati for a week. Mr. Ariff held a telephonic conversation with Prakash Javadekar, Union Minister for Information and Broadcasting, and Shashi Shekhar, chief executive officer, Prasar Bharati. On Friday, an order was issued for decommissioning of “old and outlived 200 kW MW transmitter” in Alappuzha with immediate effect. The move has since been met with widespread opposition. Mr. Ariff also wrote a letter to the Union Minister for Information and Broadcasting citing far-reaching consequences of the move. Extended area  The Alappuzha MW station was established in 1971 with an initial capacity of 100 kW as a relay station of the Thiruvananthapuram AIR station. It was later upgraded to 200 kW. Although it is not a broadcasting station, the 200kW transmitter in Alappuzha is responsible for the transmission of signal to an extended area. “Transmitter attached to the Thiruvananthapuram broadcasting station of Akashvani is of mere 20kW and its coverage is limited to a small area. The 200-kW transmitter in Alappuzha is thus responsible for the transmission of signal to an extended area covering 93% of the territory of Kerala and faraway places such as Lakshadweep, Tirunelveli, and Madurai outside the State,” Mr. Ariff said. In the letter, the member of Parliament noted that the transmitter was the sole media available for conveying messages to fishermen on voyages to the Arabian Sea at the time of disasters. He said that it had come handy during the unprecedented floods that devastated many parts of Kerala in 2018 with round-the-clock broadcasting of news and directions on rescue operations when mobile and Internet-facilities were cut off for days. He threatened to launch strong agitations if the decision was not withdrawn. Jayakrishnan B., organising secretary, Association of Radio and Television Engineering, affiliated to the Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh, has urged the Prasar Bharati to replace the old transmitter in Alappuzha with a new one. Janata Dal (S) district secretary P.J. Kurian urged authorities to withdraw the order.
08 November 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Mannarasala Ayilyam fete to be held sans pomp||In view of the COVID-19 pandemic and prohibitory orders in place, the famous Ayilyam festival at Mannarasala Sree Nagaraja temple, Haripad, will be held sans pomp and festivities this time. On Sunday, Ayilyam day, only rituals related to the festival will be held in the presence of a maximum of 50 people.
08 November 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Farmers protest against ‘discrimination’ in MSP||Wayanad Samrakshana Samiti, a collective of farmer organisations in the district, has urged the government to stop discrimination meted out to the farmers in the district in fixing the minimum support price (MSP) for the “nendran” variety of plantain. In a letter to Agriculture Minister V.S. Sunil Kumar, the collective said that it welcomed the decision of the government in fixing the MSP for 16 varieties of vegetable produce in the State. But when the MSP was fixed for “nendran”, the government had discriminated against the farmers in Wayanad, a major nendran cultivating area in the State, P.M. Joy, general convenor of the organisation, said. While the price for 1 kg of nendran was fixed at Rs. 30 a kg in the 13 other districts of the State, the government fixed only Rs. 24 a kg for the variety in Wayanad. The quality of the fruit was same in all district and there were no different variety of Wayanadan nendran, he said. Thousands of farmers are engaged in plantain cultivation after the massive destruction of cash crops like pepper and ginger owing to various diseases. According to the available data of the agriculture department, plantain is cultivated in over 12,000 hectares. The total production of the variety in the district is over 3 lakh tonnes a year, Mr. Joy said. The discriminatory pricing of the produce would adversely affect thousands of farmers. Hence, the government should fix a common MSP for the produce in the entire State, he said. The organisation urged the government to declare wild animal which raid crops as vermin. The organisation would stage a dharna in front of the offices of civic bodies and Krishi Bhavans in the district on November 11 raising its demands, he said.
08 November 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||When tribes are in demand||As the State gears up for local body polls, political parties have started focussing on tribal people in Wayanad district, a major tribal-populated area in the State. The Left Democratic Front, United Democratic Front, and the National Democratic Alliance are eyeing tribal communities, which constitute around 19% of the population and can influence the outcome in a significant number of seats. According to a recent survey, the tribal population of Wayanad consists of 11 tribes and accounts for 1,51,443 people of the total population of 8,17,429. The tribal population comprises 69,116 Paniyas, followed by 25,266 Kurichyas, and 20,983 Mulla Kurumas. The Kurichyas and Mulla Kurumas, more socially and economically advanced among the tribes, are able to dictate their stance and act as a pressure group, thanks to the comparatively higher literacy rate and standards of living among the tribes. Moreover, most of the contestants are from either of the sects. However, tribal sects such as Paniyas, Kattunayakkas, Oorali Kurumas and Adiyas are still in an ‘identity crisis’ owing to the their plight and low illiteracy rate. Hence, political parties focus on them, especially the Paniyas, during elections. Earlier, colony pidutham (influencing voters in a tribal colony providing money or liquor ) was a usual scene, but with more tribespeople becoming politicly aware after agitations for land, the practice has disappeared in tribal hamlets. The stringent steps adopted by the Election Commission have also helped to eradicate the practice. Lack of facilities According to the Tribal Development Department, more than 3,000 tribal families are landless and 5,000 families homeless. Hundreds of tribal families in remote areas of the district are still deprived of basic amenities such as roads, drinking water, and electricity connection. These issues will be highlighted once again during the elections. Candidates of independent tribal organisations such as the Adivasi Gothra Mahasabha are not contesting this time, M. Geethanandan, State coordinator of the organisation, said. “However we are planning to support tribal candidates who will contest independently,” he said.
08 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Major projects in West Kochi in limbo||Most large projects proposed for the West Kochi area have been stuck in a limbo despite the current council’s term having arrived at its end. Deputy Mayor K.R. Premakumar said the resumption of work on the Rajiv Awas Yojana (RAY) housing tower for landless beneficiaries at Thuruthy could be seen as a plus. Cochin Smart Mission Limited (CSML) is implementing a few road and drain projects, but its work on a sewage treatment plant had stalled, he added. The current financial year’s budget has a Rs. 700-crore worth project for West Kochi, aiming for the area’s development, he said. In five years, only a few superficial changes were made to the West Kochi area, and status quo was mostly maintained, according to Opposition Leader K.J. Antony. “The sewage treatment plants under the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT) project have not yet materialised. The Rameswaram-Kalvathy boundary canal still lies in a filthy state, and the Mattancherry slaughterhouse, which has remained defunct for several years, has not yet been renovated. The RAY project hit hurdles and has not been completed. The divisions of West Kochi have mostly been neglected,” he said. People in the vicinity of CSML’s proposed sewage treatment plant could not be taken into confidence, he added. Shyamala S. Prabhu, BJP councillor representing Cherlai, said, “The last five years saw the corporation bearing a huge financial burden. From 2017 onwards, work under the division fund has not happened. With the Plan fund, small work was launched. Some things like water supply and street lighting have improved, and several families have benefited from the PMAY project,” she added. But divisions like hers were left out of major projects, she said. K.K. Kunjachan, Congress councillor representing Thoppumpady, said some work on cleaning canals and laying slabs over them had been completed in his division.  The last five years saw the corporation bearing a huge financial burden Shyamala S. Prabhu BJP councillor
08 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||55 new-generation courses for MGU||The government has sanctioned 55 new generation interdisciplinary programmes in 48 affiliated government and aided colleges under the Mahatma Gandhi University. These courses figure among the 197 new undergraduate and postgraduate courses that received the nod from the Higher Education Department on Friday. The courses will commence from this academic year. 120 recommended The varsity had recommended 120 innovative undergraduate and postgraduate programmes in 62 of its affiliated colleges for the academic year 2020-21. However, only 55 new generation interdisciplinary programmes were sanctioned by the government in 48 affiliated government and aided colleges. The proposals submitted by 14 colleges did not meet the requirements set by the Higher Education department. The department had taken into account the infrastructural facilities and the National Accreditation and Assessment Council (NAAC) score while sanctioning the new courses. The varsity had constituted a committee comprising members of the Syndicate and subject experts to assess the infrastructure and academic facilities available on the campuses to launch these programmes. Govt. colleges Among the government colleges, Maharaja’s College, Ernakulam, has received the nod to start five-year integrated M.Sc in Psychology and M.Sc Geology programmes. The Govt. Arts College, Thripunithura, got the permission to offer M.Sc in Economics and Data Science while the Govt. Colleges in Nattakom and Manimalakunnu received the permission to offer M.Sc in Industrial Chemistry and M.A Econometrics respectively. The Govt. College in Idukki received the nod to start Master in Commerce and Taxation while Govt. Arts and Science College, Elanthoor, Pathanamthitta, was offered M.Com course. The Govt. College, Kattapana, can start an integrated programme in English (five years) from this academic year. Some of the new generation courses sanctioned under the aided colleges in Mahatma Gandhi University include Computer Science (Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning); Econometrics; Space Science; Data Analytics; Business Economics; Data Science; Bachelor of Financial Markets; Sports Management; Development Economics; and Industrial Chemistry. The university departments received the nod for starting M.Tech in Nano Science and Technology; Integrated Master of Science; and Integrated Master of Social Science programmes.
08 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Love for canines pits them against the public||Asked to vacate her rented house near Chottanikara in less than a month, 43-year-old Manjusha has no clue what to do with her 40 stray dogs, half of them puppies. Reluctant to dump them back in the streets, her desperation to find takers for her dogs, many of them badly injured, has borne little result so far. “I am planning to ask for an additional month’s time to vacate,” said Manjusha. She brought home the first stray four years ago estranging her own family, forcing her into the rented house. Having started feeding dogs seven years ago, she still continues the work across Chottanikkara, Thripunithura, and Mulanthuruthy, thanks to the benevolence of traders at the Thripunithura market who give her leftover chicken, and the community of similarly passionate people. Prasanna Kakkassery, a resident of Kadavanthra, feeds around 80 strays a day notwithstanding the financial constraints of retired life. “These dogs have become so friendly and keep waiting for me at the feeding points at regular hours without fail,” said Ms. Kakkassery who has hired an autorickshaw for her two-hour-long feeding spree across the city. Fifty-six-year-old Mohana Nandakumar from Thripunithura has been into it for 14 years and cooks 4 kg of rice daily and splits it into 30 packs for as many strays at different feeding points across the town. “Their excitement on seeing us and their chase after our scooter is a sight to behold,” she said. All these feeders bemoaned in unison the hostility of the community towards strays and to the ones feeding them. “Even cops stopped me from feeding a few hungry stays near the railway station,” said Ashwini Prem, another avid feeder.
08 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||FACT records profit despite lockdown||Fertilisers and Chemicals Travancore has made record profit of more than Rs. 83 crore during the quarter ending September this year. “This is an all-time high operating profit reported in a quarter by the company,” said a communication from the public sector fertilizer company. FACT also reported a turnover of Rs. 1,047 crore for the quarter as compared to Rs. 931 crore during the same period last year. During the quarter ending September 30, production and sale of Factamfos, the company’s flagship product, and ammonium sulphate surpassed previous levels and touched the highest level during any past quarter. FACT imported two shipments of muriate of potash (MOP) and one shipment of NPK fertilisers during the first half year. All-time high production The highlights of the quarter include the all-time high quarterly Factamfos production of 2.36 lakh tonnes; all-time high ammonium sulphate production of 0.69 lakh tonnes; and Factamfos and ammonium sulphate sales level of 2.77 lakh tonnes. MOP sales stood at 0.46 lakh tonnes and imported NPK sales stood at 0.26 lakh tonnes. The first six months of the current fiscal also saw an all-time high half-yearly Factamfos sales of 4.63 lakh tonnes even as the company launched the dispatch of fertilisers through coastal shipping route during the second quarter. FACT has also entered the markets in West Bengal and Odisha as part of its efforts to extend its reach. FACT was severely constrained by financial difficulties, but the “big performance” had come despite those limitations, added the communication. It said that COVID-19 protocol, prescribed by the Union and State governments, was being observed on the factory premises and in production units.
08 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Ernakulam records 1,042 COVID cases||With 1,042 people testing positive on Saturday, Ernakulam has recorded the highest number of COVID-19 cases in the State. As many as 1,010 people tested negative for the disease and the district’s active caseload stands at 11,412. Nineteen health workers have newly been infected and the source of infection of 253 people could not be traced. Cases of the infection were reported from areas including Payipra, Kadungalloor, Kumbalangi, Palluruthy and Thripunithura. As many as 28,809 people are in quarantine in the district. For testing, 6,645 samples were collected. Six patients have been admitted at the newly set up COVID-19 treatment facility at the Fort Kochi taluk hospital, 50 patients are being treated at PVS Hospital, 219 patients are at the Government Medical College Hospital and 8,181 people are recovering at home. At first-line treatment centres, 1,041 people are being monitored, while 124 patients are at second-line treatment centres.
08 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Award for best PhD thesis||Asha Das, former PhD scholar of Cochin University of Science and Technology, has been awarded the Innovative Student Projects Award 2020 for the best PhD thesis instituted by the Indian National Academy of Engineering (INAE), New Delhi. The award is in recognition of her contributions in the field of cancer diagnosis. Ms. Das, Assistant Professor at the Department of Computer Science in Union Christian College, Aluva, received the award for developing an automated breast cancer grading technology harnessing artificial intelligence and machine learning. It can automate the time-consuming pre-diagnostic steps that pathologists perform manually and can help make diagnosis accurate and cost-effective, said the release.
08 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Separate allotment process for courses||The colleges that received the nod to launch the new generation courses will not be able to create new faculty posts for the subjects concerned till 2025. The Higher Education Department has directed that the courses have to be offered utilising the services of guest faculty members. The government will provide the salary for the such members. The decision not to sanction new faculty positions came in view of the financial liability on the government for running the programmes which were sanctioned under the Chief Minister's 100-day projects. The posts can be created can be done after five years. A separate allotment will be held for admission to the new generation interdisciplinary programmes. An expert committee headed by Sabu Thomas, Vice Chancellor of Mahatma Gandhi University, had suggested that the universities may be asked to list out some optional minors to be introduced along with the next immediate revision of the syllabus. Steps may also be taken to award a major degree and a minor degree for those who opt for additional minor degree programme leading to a dual degree, it said. The expert committee had suggested a Statewide committee consisting of representatives of all the universities concerned to monitor the implementation of the new programmes. It had recommended a centralised admission process for the academic courses. Internship The universities may prepare the scheme and syllabus for the programmes chosen by the government on an immediate basis to avoid any possible delay. It is also recommended that internship may be made mandatory for all programmes, according to the committee.
08 November 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||All fronts in seat-sharing talks||With political fronts entering the last round of discussions on seat sharing, the district is all set for local body elections scheduled to be held next month. Apart from Kollam Corporation with its 55 divisions, the district has four municipalities, 68 grama panchayats and 11 block panchayats. The district panchayat has a total of 26 divisions. According to UDF leaders, seat sharing in nearly all wards are over. “We have reached the final stage of pre-election negotiations with coalition partners. Informal discussions had been going on for some time now and the formal round will begin this Sunday,” said DCC president Bindu Krishna. The UDF has formed an election committee that will be in charge of coordinating election activities. “We have almost finalised the ward-level list of candidates. All disputes will be considered in the meetings to be held on Sunday and Monday and we are planning to come out with the final list by Wednesday,’’ she said. While the LDF has completed all ground-level discussions and candidate list is expected within a week. “Social networking platforms will be extensively used for campaigning, but in certain pockets focus will be on door-to-door visits,” said a senior CPI(M) leader. The NDA has finalised candidates for 70% of seats and the leaders say the front will be ensuring maximum representation of youth and women. Women will be given preference in seats in general category along with youngsters. There are some disputes which will be settled within a couple of days and the final picture will emerge early next week. In Kollam Corporation, the Mayor post has been reserved for women (general), but the next Kollam district panchayat president will be from the general category. Paravur and Punalur municipalities too will elect women chairpersons. The wards in Kollam Corporation reserved for women include Maruthadi, Kureepuzha West, Kureepuza, Neeravil, Anchalumoodu, Kadavoor, Mathilil, Vadakkumbhagam, Asramam, Uliyakovil East, Kadappakada, Arunnootimangalam, Chathinamkulam, Karicode, College Division, Palkulangara, Vadakkevila, Punthalathazham, Manacaud, Kollurvila, Kayyalakkal, Akkovil, Bharnikkavu, Thamarakkulam, Thirumullavram, Munlankadakam, Alattukavu and Kannimel. Among this, Chathinamkulam and Bharanikkavu have been reserved for Sheduled Caste women. Meenathucheri and Kaikulangara are the wards reserved for scheduled caste category.
08 November 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||574 new cases, two deaths, 562 recoveries in Kollam||The district reported 574 new cases of COVID-19, two deaths, and 562 recoveries on Saturday. While 565 patients contracted the infection through contact, others include two NRIs, three persons with no known source, one health worker, and three persons who had travelled from other States. The Health Department also confirmed that the deaths of a 64-year-old Karunagappally resident and 75-year-old Kollam resident were owing to COVID-19. Cases with no known source include a 65-year-old Punalur resident and 48-year-old Soorand South resident. The health worker who tested positive is a 50-year-old Mynagappally resident. The district currently has 17,586 persons under observation and the total number of samples collected is 3,73,912. While 1,541 persons completed home quarantine on Saturday, the Health Department has traced 91,165 primary and 7,668 secondary contacts of the positive cases. At present, the number of active cases in Kollam is 6,382.
08 November 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Post-COVID clinics at all government facilities||The Health Department will set up post-COVID clinics in the district for recovered patients who continue to experience a slew of complications. “Anxiety, palpitation, chest pain, breathing trouble, insomnia, dizziness, stroke, depression, cardiac issues, and problems related to brain, liver, and kidneys are seen in recovered patients. The clinics will be opened in all government facilities to address such problems,” said District Medical Officer (DMO) R. Sreelatha. In Kollam, all primary health centres (PHCs), community health centres (CHCs), taluk hospitals, district hospital, and the Government Medical College Hospital (MCH), Parippally, will have post-COVID clinics. While the clinics at PHCs, CHCs, and the MCH will be functioning on all Thursdays, the service will be available at taluk hospitals on all Fridays. The clinic at Kollam District Hospital will be functioning on Tuesdays and Thursdays. The timing of the clinics at all hospitals will be from 12 noon to 2 p.m. Kollam has four control units to provide tele-consultation and eSanjeevani telemedicine service.
08 November 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Pravesanolsavam held||Cardinal Mar Baselios Cleemis inaugurated the higher secondary Pravesanolsavam of St. Mary’s Higher Secondary School, Kizhakketheruvu, here on Friday. Principal Fr. Roy George presided over the function. Local manager Fr. Geevarghese Nediyath delivered the message on the occasion.
08 November 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||BA English course sanctioned for college||The University of Kerala has accorded administrative sanction for starting BA English course at Sree Narayana College of Technology, Vadakkevila. Students can register their options online or contact the college office. For more details contact principal on 9447800292.
08 November 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Application for scholarships||Children of members of the Kerala Motor Transport Workers’ Welfare Fund Board can apply for various education scholarships from high school level to postgraduation (including professional courses). Applications can be submitted at the district office till December 31. Application form is available at the office and the website www.kmtwwfb.org. For more details contact 0474-2749334.
08 November 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Stakes high for Jose K. Mani||The upcoming local body elections will determine not only the parties that will govern the State at the grassroots but also the future of the Kerala Congress (M) led by Jose K. Mani. The election, coming on the heels of the decision by the regional party to break its nearly four-decade association with the United Democratic Front, will be fierce in the central Travancore region as the stakes are high for Mr. Mani to prove his worth within the Left Democratic Front. The Congress, on the other hand, is set to take on its estranged ally in its bastion with support of veteran Kerala Congress (M) leader P.J. Joseph. In fact, the hectic political activity that has engulfed the region following the sudden shift in political equations is evident from the continuous flow of workers at the grassroots level between the Kerala Congress splinter groups, to the Congress, and in the reverse direction. Key to gauging the impact of this phenomenon will be the results from the local bodies that fall in the five Assembly constituencies of Pala, Kaduthuruthy, Kanjirappally, Changanassery, and Poonjar. The battle, however, is expected to be most intense in the Pala municipality, the home town of K.M. Mani, founder leader of the KC(M). In the previous election, the UDF had won 20 of the 26 wards in the civic body, with the KC(M) winning 17 seats. The UDF counts on staging a tough fight under Kuriakose Padavan, a KC leader owing allegiance to the Joseph group, in Pala. Seven councillors led by Mr. Padavan had shifted loyalties to the Joseph group after the party’s split last year. The UDF is hopeful that the traditional vote base of the Kerala Congress — a cross-section of farmer, Christian, and upper class communities — will keep its distance from the LDF. The Mani group, on the other hand, counts on wooing voters on the back of a few government decisions, including the approval granted to appointments of schoolteachers in aided schools. “Our shift to the LDF marks a change in the voting culture of central Travancore. However, we have initiated campaigns at the grassroots level to explain to our voters the factors that necessitated this change, which also included back-stabbing by a section in the Congress,” Thomas Chazhikadan, MP, senior Mani group leader, said. The Congress, however, is confident that the chaotic exit of the Mani group has created an unbridgeable fissure in the Kerala Congress vote base. “This indeed presents us a golden opportunity to overcome the discontentment among its workers about playing second fiddle to a regional party in the district,” a Congress leader said.
08 November 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Primary testing of EVMs held||The authorities on Saturday completed the preliminary testing of voting machines used for elections to local bodies in Kottayam. As many as 2,450 control units and 7,350 ballot units of multi-post machines to grama panchayats and 400 control units and ballot units of single-post machines used in municipalities were inspected during the drive, held at the EVM warehouse in Ettumanur. To ensure the accuracy of machines, a mock poll using 1% of the machines that completed the test was conducted.  Training The mock-election, held in the presence of representatives of various political parties, was presided over by Deputy Collector Geo T. Manoj. Technicians from the Electronic Corporation of India carried out the proceedings. Meanwhile, the forms, including the nomination papers for the elections, were brought to the District Collectorate. The training for block- and municipal-level election trainers will be held here on November 9 and 10. On competition of training, they will impart training to those on election duty at different levels.
08 November 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||500 cases in Kottayam||As many as 500 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kottayam on Saturday. Of these, all but three contracted the virus through local contact. The new cases also included 69 children and 77 persons aged above 60. With 45 cases, Kottayam led the tally, followed by Changanassery and Erattupetta (33 cases each) while Madappally reported 25 cases. With 612 recoveries during the day, the district currently has 4,814 active cases.
08 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||971 fresh cases in Kozhikode||Despite the dip in the number of fresh COVID-19 cases in Kozhikode, the district administration has proposed to continue the vigil against the infection anticipating a spurt in cases ahead of and during the upcoming local body polls. Meanwhile, 971 people tested positive for the district on Saturday. The test positivity rate jumped to 13.27% when 7,315 samples were tested on the day. Only 649 recoveries were reported. There were 931 cases of local transmission of the infection and the source of infection of 19 others was not known. Kozhikode Corporation continues to have a high number of locally acquired infection (302), followed by Feroke (55), Cheruvannur Avala and Olavanna (37), Kunnamangalam (33), and Chorod and Maniyoor (26). A 57-year-old man from Pantheerankavu in Kozhikode died at the Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode. A medical bulletin from the hospital also recorded five more deaths on the previous day. ‘TPR brought down’ District Collector S. Sambasiva Rao claimed during an online review meeting that the daily TPR could be brought down from 18.21% to 10% due to beefed up surveillance activities. The weekly TPR, which was 14.42% in October first week, declined to 11.24% in November first week. Mr. Rao pointed out that Kozhikode figured among the districts which conducted the highest number of daily tests. Though the Health Department had advised to conduct 6,500 tests a day, in accordance with the population of the district, around 10,000 tests were being conducted here on some days. The district administration had also appointed a large number of sectoral magistrates to enforce the COVID protocol. As many as 24,962 cases had been registered in the district, he added. In Wayanad A total of 113 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Wayanad district on Saturday. Of the new cases, 105 patients were infected through local contact and eight persons came from other States. The district has so far reported 7,870 COVID-19 cases. Of these, 6,835 have recovered. The total number of active cases in the district is 964. As many as 9,542 persons are under observation.  (With inputs from Wayanad bureau)
08 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Disquiet among hill farmers in Kozhikode||If infrastructure development is the barometer to assess growth, farmers, especially those in upland villages of Kozhikode, should be the luckiest lot. On the contrary, the majority of them are disgruntled thanks to a host of issues plaguing them for years. Caught are they in a struggle to save their land from unending land disputes and for a permanent solution to the wild animal menace. Of the 70 grama panchayats, the problem is of particular concern in upland areas, where many farmers are now part of farm movements to flag their concerns. The presence of such groups is now visible even in the 12 block panchayats. Anti-quarry movements led by farmers are also gaining strength in such areas. Though the wild boar menace has been partly addressed with the empanelling of licensed gun holders, farmers claim their numbers are low and do not meet the requirement. They also argue that a proposal to declare wild boars as vermin still remains on paper, lacking the required support from local bodies. Sensing the discontentment, political parties and candidates are on the lookout for a better strategy to win over this sensitive section of the electorate by addressing their concerns. They will also have to face the likelihood of farmers fielding their own representatives. LSGI stance crucial Apart from the wild animal menace, the row over classification of the buffer zone around the Malabar Wildlife Sanctuary has unsettled many farmers who hold several acres adjacent to forest borders. For them, the local body’s stance, especially the favourable voice of local body representatives, will be crucial in any dispute in future. They are also eagerly awaiting the election manifesto and candidate selection of parties.
08 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Private medical labs see red over Clinical Bill||Owners of private medical laboratories in the State are stepping up their opposition against the draft proposals to ensure minimum standards for laboratory services under the Kerala Clinical Establishments (Registration and Regulation) Act, 2018. The move to classify labs into three levels and the insistence on appointment of highly qualified staff would render a large majority of the existing technicians jobless, says A. Gireesan, State treasurer, Medical Laboratory Owners’ Association. The draft proposals published on the government website say the labs ‘are broadly classified into Level I, Level II and Level III,’ according to the available facilities, with the third one ‘being the highest category.’ Waiting area All labs should have a proper waiting area and facilities for seating, drinking water, and toilet, and proper lighting. They should also have adequate space with designated areas for registration and sample collection, besides space for pre-analytical, analytical and post-analytical tests. Level I lab should have an area of 500 sq ft, Level II 1,500 sq ft, and Level III 2,000 sq ft. Level I lab should have at least one technician with a diploma in Medical Laboratory Technology (MLT), Level II a medical postgraduate doctor qualified in pathology, and Level III should have medical postgraduates along with either graduates or postgraduates in MLT as scientific officer. Mr. Gireesan says almost 70% of private labs in the State function out of commercial complexes in single rooms spread across 200 sq ft to 300 sq ft. Most of the existing staff are not graduates or postgraduates in MLT either. “Also, appointing medical postgraduates will turn out to be a costly affair for a large majority of the labs. We will have to either hike the charges for tests or shut shop,” he says. Members of the association observed ‘Private Lab Protection Day’ on November 5 to highlight their plight. Qualification exams The lab owners’ association leaders claim that the Ordinance presented in the Assembly during the tenure of P.K. Sreemathy as Health Minister for the formation of the paramedical council had a proposal to conduct qualification exams for existing lab technicians to make them eligible for the job. The Ordinance, however, lapsed as it could not be passed in the House, they added.
08 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Kudumbashree launches ‘employment exchange’||With a large number of people losing jobs in the COVID-19-induced crisis, finding a job, however small, has become a priority and necessity. “She Jobs” is a first-of-its-kind endeavour in the district that connects job seekers with job providers in an informal way. This “mini employment exchange” is managed by four women, Sony, Rijisha, Raseena, and Dhanya, from the north CDS of Kozhikode Corporation Kudumbashree. It was launched on Friday by Mayor Thottathil Raveendran by handing over appointment letters to three job seekers. “She Jobs” works with the help of the National Urban Livelihood Mission and utilises its training programmes to help the job seekers registered under them attend the required skills for different kinds of jobs. “At present, we are focusing on small jobs in the private sector. Improvisations will be made depending on the success rate,” said T.K. Prakashan, Kudumbashree Project Officer of the corporation. Registration The members of She Jobs identify various openings in the private sector across the city and shortlist the capable candidates from those registered under it. So far, one was placed in the IT sector, another as a pharmacist and yet another in a petrol pump. Both job seekers and job providers may register under She Jobs by contacting Sony (8137901774) or Rijisha (7560961196).
08 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Women to lead 4 major local bodies in Kozhikode||Women will lead four major local bodies in Kozhikode district after the upcoming local body polls. The Kozhikode District Panchayat, Kozhikode Municipal Corporation, Vadakara and Koyilandy municipalities will have women chairpersons this time. The district had witnessed emergence of women leadership in local bodies in 2010. A woman at the helm was an alien concept for the district panchayat and the two municipalities before the passage of 73rd and 74th amendments to the Constitution in 1993, which provided 33 per cent quota for women in panchyati raj institutions and urban local bodies. However, the Kozhikode Corporation, the oldest corporation in the State, had a woman as Mayor much before the reservation came into place. So far, three women have been in the position — Haimavathi Thayat, M.M. Padmavathi and A.K. Premajam. M.K. Nalini, who was in power from 2000 to 2005, was the first woman chairperson of the Kozhikode District Panchayat. Her successor Kanathil Jameela (2010-2015) had made quite a mark as an administrator with her innovative projects. Vadakara and Koyilandy were the only municipalities in Kozhikode district for a long time before the recent addition of Ramanattukara, Feroke, Payyoli, Mukkam and Koduvally. Incidentally, Ramanattukara is the only new municipality to have its top position reserved for women this time, besides the older ones. V. Thankamani, who came into power in 2000, was the first woman chairperson of the Vadakara Municipality. After the gap of a term, she was followed by Ranjini.P.P, who assumed power in 2010. Koyilandy was quick to vote a woman to its helm soon after it assumed the status of a municipality in 1994. M.P. Shalini came to power in 1995. However, there was a gap of two terms before another woman, K. Shantha, came to power in 2010. This time, political parties have launched a talent hunt to find fresh and able candidates to lead the major local bodies in the district.
08 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Tougher competition for seats at Kozhikode NIT||An excellent placement record and impressive ranking at the national level are attracting better students to the National Institute of Technology, Calicut, (NIT-C), as was evident when the allocation process on the penultimate and fifth round ended on Friday. The closing ranks in the Computer Science and Engineering branch in the home quota and outside State quota were 8,815 and 3,105 respectively. Last year these were 10,920 and 4,481. Similarly, the closing ranks in the Electronics and Communication Engineering branch in the home and outside State quotas were 15,300 and 6,035 respectively. Previously the ranks were 15,644 and 7,062. Likewise, closing ranks in the five-year BArch course were 376 in the home quota and 518 in the outside State quota. The seat allocation in the final and sixth round for IITs was notified at 5 p.m. on Saturday. Sunil Jacob John, chairman, UG Admissions and Centre in-charge of the Central Seat Allocation Board Verification Centre at the NIT-C, attributed the reason for the differences in the closing ranks to the NIT-C securing the 23rd rank at the national level. Also, in the architecture category, the NIT-C is ranked third behind the Indian Institutes of Technology at Kharagpur and Roorkee. Besides, the NIT-C has bagged the eighth position at the national level in the Atal Ranking of Institutions on Innovations Achievements (ARIIA) of the Ministry of Education. Placement record Despite the COVID-19 situation and the economic slump, the NIT-C had the best placement record in its history with 650 students getting offers from India and abroad and with an average salary of Rs. 11.58 lakh per annum. The highest annual compensation was Rs. 50 lakh per annum. The average package for 120 Computer Science students was Rs. 15 lakh. About 130 companies had visited the campus and the overall placements in BTech branches were above 85% and with an average salary of Rs. 10 lakh.
08 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||City of Rafi-lovers gets a museum to immortalise him||For Kozhikode, Mohammed Rafi is a household name. The legendary playback singer has such a huge fan base in the city that almost every ‘Rafi Nite’, whether at Town Hall or Tagore Centenary Hall, is houseful. The town hall even has a photograph of the singer placed amongst the cultural icons after he visited the city in 1966 and 1973. Hence it may not come as a surprise to many that the city will soon have a Rafi Museum. The initiative for the museum has come from the Mohammed Rafi Foundation, which has been keeping the memory of the singer alive for decades through a wide variety of programmes round the year, with the support of the Kozhikode Corporation. The Rafi Museum is coming up on a 4.6-cent plot owned by the Corporation on Arabind Ghosh Road, close to the Fourth railway gate. “It is a huge dumping yard in the heart of the city where vehicle spare parts and rejects have been piled up to around 8 ft high. We plan to transform it into a space for music lovers,” says T.P.M. Hashir Ali, president of the foundation. Garden-cum-museum The foundation has undertaken complete responsibility for the project, including clearing the garbage and converting it into a garden-cum-museum. A Thumboormuzhi model waste treatment plant will be set up at one end of the plot while the rest will be used for a music room-cum-museum, toilet, and an open garden space. The entry to the garden will be from 3 p.m. to 8 p.m. every day during which classic film songs in Hindi and Malayalam will be played there. There will also be small musical programmes and gatherings occasionally. “The museum will feature old photographs of Mohammed Rafi, his records, and, hopefully, a life-size replica of the singer,” Mr. Hashir Ali says. Mayor Thottathil Raveendran laid the foundation stone for the museum on Friday in the presence of Town Planning standing committee chairman M.C. Anil Kumar and health standing committee chairman K.V. Baburaj. Charity activities The Mohammed Rafi Foundation is also known for its charity activities and encouragement extended to upcoming talents. Singer Saurav Kishan, one of the protégés of the foundation, had recently made headlines after his song went viral on social media. The foundation made a mark recently by providing aid to 40 ailing musicians during the observation of the 40th death anniversary of Rafi.
08 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Rape accused bids to end life, say police||A 32-year-old man who was arrested by the Balussery police in connection with a rape case attempted to end his life on Friday night. Nelliparambil Ratheesh, the accused, reportedly made the attempt while he was being quizzed by senior officers. The man, who sustained serious injuries in the late-night incident, was admitted to Kozhikode Medical College Hospital. Police sources said his condition was stable and he had not suffered any severe internal injury. Ratheesh allegedly raped a six-year old girl. The police were on the lookout for him. The incident leading to his arrest took place at Unnikulam on November 4. According to the police, the youth sexually abused the minor girl when her parents were away from home. She had suffered serious injuries in the incident and had been put under intensive care for several hours. Though a migrant labourer in the area was initially suspected of having involvement in the incident, the police ruled out the possibility on the basis of strong evidence. The squad zeroed in on Ratheesh following tip-off received from local residents. Panel visits victim Meanwhile, members of the Kerala State Commission for Protection of Child Rights visited the victim at the medical college hospital on Saturday and spoke to her mother. They said the condition of the child was satisfactory. They also said they would visit the girl’s house on Monday for deciding further legal action.  Those in distress or having suicidal tendencies may seek help and counselling by calling IMA’s ‘Thanal’, a Kozhikode-based centre, at 0495-2760000.
08 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Man held with 8 kg of ganja||The Mavoor police on Saturday arrested a Nilambur native with 8 kg of ganja. Mohammad Swalih, the accused in the case, was arrested during a vehicle checking near Koolimadu. A car used for smuggling the weed was also impounded.
08 November 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||147 fresh cases in Pathanamthitta||As many as 147 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Pathanamthitta on Saturday. Of the fresh cases, 134 contracted the disease through local contact and among these, the contact source of 24 people were yet to be ascertained. With 17 cases, Thiruvalla reported the highest number of cases among the local bodies, followed by Kallooppara with 11 cases. Meanwhile, a 72- year-old Kuttapuzha native, who had tested positive for the disease on November 1, died at the Kozhencherry District Hospital on Saturday. This, however, was yet to be included in the State list. With 230 recoveries during the day, the district currently has 1,887 active cases.
08 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Austerity steps come into effect||A slew of measures cleared by the Cabinet in September to mobilise additional revenue and the austerity measures to overcome the financial crisis due to the COVID-19 pandemic-induced lockdown on public finances have come into effect. A 22-point guideline prepared on the basis of a report of the two expert committees headed by former Chief Secretary K.M. Abraham and Director, Centre for Development Studies, Sunil Mani was notified by the Finance Department on November 5. Leave surrender Leave surrender that has been put on freeze will be merged in the PF and be allowed from November 2020. But, it can be withdrawn only from June 1, 2021. In next financial year, leave surrender for all classes of employees will be allowed only from June 1. Leave without pay that is available for 20 years has been reduced to five years.  On failing to report If the employee fails to report after five years, it will be considered deemed resignation, as per an order issued by the Additional Chief Secretary, Finance. The practice of reporting posts and promoting the next person in the hierarchy after the employee goes on leave for 90 days has been scrapped. Instead, additional responsibility will be given to the employees. New posts of college teachers will be allowed from June 2020 by taking into account minimum 16 hours of teaching in a week. Rules will be amended within one month by the Higher Education Department. Appointments But, appointments made till May 31 with the participation of the government nominee on the selection panel and Public Service Commission-recommended posts will be given approval. The existing rule of creating a post of schoolteacher with an increase of one student has been scrapped. The government will be the final authority to create posts of teachers in aided schools and protected teachers will get priority in postings. Excess posts of typists in offices using e-software for handling files and having computers will be shifted to other posts. The posts of office attendants will be redeployed to local bodies. The excess posts of typists and clerical staff in the Public Works Department, Kerala Water Authority, Water Resources, and Technical departments where computer is being used will be shifted after carrying out assessment. The government has banned sprucing up of government buildings and purchase of furniture and cars next year. Official meetings, conferences, training, and workshops should be held online, it has been decided.  Leave without pay that is available for 20 years has been reduced to five years.
08 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Leaders take stock of work done||The ruling Left Democratic Front (LDF) at the city Corporation has had a rather comfortable five years despite being in a minority with 43 members in a 100-member council. Outgoing Mayor K. Sreekumar, who took over from V.K. Prasanth last October after his victory at the Vattiyurkavu byelections, says the work done by the civic body in various sectors is there for all to see. ‘We have worked’ “We have managed to close all waste dumps in the city with our successful waste treatment at source measures. The garden at Erumakkuzhi is the biggest symbol of our efforts and its results across the city. We have focussed on providing succour to the poor, right from distribution of welfare pensions to more people to providing housing for many and even free dialysis treatment and free medicines for cancer patients from poor families. As for developmental projects, we have managed to tender and start work on all projects under the Smart City scheme and managed to complete five of those. The smart roads and traffic systems as well as the Integrated Command Control Centre and other projects will change the face of the city. We also addressed parking issues in the city,” says Mr. Sreekumar. He says that the Corporation, in addition to achieving a major jump in tax revenues, also found new sources of revenues through a licencing system for septage collection (Rs. 4.53 crore in one year) and licencing for drinking water supply (Rs. 3.11 crore). These measures also improved services and also cut down on corruption and gave new revenue sources for the Corporation, he says. ‘LDF fooling people’ Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) Parliamentary party leader M.R. Gopan says that the past five years for the LDF in the Corporation has been one of fooling people. “They have not been able to build even a single flat complex for people in the past five years, even though announcements were made. Several people who have submitted applications have been waiting for their houses for so long. As far as Smart City projects are concerned, they have taken only preliminary steps. It has not progressed much. They have been unable to bring out a master plan for the city too. The Corporation has been a failure in road development and pipeline extension works,” says Mr. Gopan. ‘Failed campaigns’ United Democratic Front (UDF) leader Beemapally Rasheed says that the LDF, which has been holding power in the Corporation for decades, has failed to take the city forward in any sector. “They organised such a huge campaign for the Smart City project, involving even people in a voting process to choose the projects. But they have failed to implement it properly. Though they were in the minority, they escaped many a time due to the UDF’s stand to keep distance from the BJP and to walk out rather than vote with them against some proposal,” says Mr. Ra
08 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Sabarimala pilgrimage only through 2 corridors||Devotees will be allowed to move along the Vadaserikkara-Pampa and Erumely-Pampa corridors for undertaking the pilgrimage during the two-month Mandala-Makaravilakku pilgrimage season of the Lord Ayyappa temple at Sabarimala from November 16. Chairing a meeting of Devaswom Ministers and officials of South India through videoconference on Friday, Devaswom Minister Kadakampally Surendran said devotees undertaking the pilgrimage will not be allowed to move through other traditional trekking paths through the forest. Requirements COVID-19 negative certificate, health insurance card and registration on the virtual queue portal had been made mandatory for undertaking the pilgrimage. Only pilgrims in the age group of 10 to 60 years will be allowed to proceed to the hill shrine and the antigen test should be taken 24 hours before reaching the base camp at Nilackal. The Minister asked his counterparts to give wide publicity to the mandatory requirement of a COVID-19 negative certificate registration on the virtual queue portal. Number of pilgrims Arrangements will be made at Nilackal, Pampa and en route places in the districts for the devotees to undergo the test. A maximum of 1,000 devotees will be allowed darshan during the first five days of the week, 2,000 on Saturdays and Sundays and 5,000 on the days of Mandala Puja and Makaravilakku. Mr. Surendran said more pilgrims would be allowed to undertake pilgrimage if the Kerala High Court gave approval. The Minister briefed his counterparts and officials on the arrangements, restrictions like ban on bathing in Pampa and ban on taking to rest along with others (viri) in the premises of the hill shrine and stay in the guest houses and other dwelling units in Sannidanam. Heavy vehicles will have to drop the pilgrims at the base camp in Nilakkal and move to the parking area while those below 15 seater will be allowed to go to Pampa to drop the pilgrims and return to Nilakkal. Tamil Nadu Minister for Hindu Religious and Charity Endowments Sevvoor Ramachandran; Additional Chief Secretary, Tamil Nadu, Vikaram Kapur; Devaswom Secretary, Karnataka, Maheswara Rao; Secretary, Telangana, Anil Kumar; Secretary, Andhra Pradesh, Girija Sankar; Secretary, Puducherry, Mahesh; Principal Secretary, Devaswom, K.R. Jyothilal; and Travancore Devaswom Board president, N. Vasu attended.
08 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||A keepsake to remember a legendary auteur||When legendary Argentine filmmaker Fernando ‘Pino’ Solanas bid goodbye to Kerala last December, after a fruitful week at the International Film Festival of Kerala (IFFK), he handed over a valuable gift to Kerala State Chalachitra Academy. The filmmaker, who passed away owing to COVID-19 on Saturday at the age of 84, presented the original reel of his much acclaimed film The Hour of the Furnaces to the officials. Cult film The film already had a cult status among the film societies in the State, having been screened many times ever since it was made in 1968. That he thought that the original reel should be preserved here became a cause of joy for his fans here. IFFK award Solanas was invited here to receive the IFFK’s Lifetime Achievement Award last year. “Solanas was very happy to be here. He dedicated his entire time here to the festival, for interactions and to even watch some Malayalam films. He delivered an inspiring G. Aravindan memorial lecture. This was also the first time we managed to have a retrospective of his major films,” says academy vice chairperson Bina Paul. Searing document A vocal critic of the right-wing military dictatorship in Argentina right from the 1960s, Solanas’s The Hour of the Furnaces is a searing document of the years of exploitation and pillage of Latin America. It is to cinema what Galeano’s Open Veins of Latin America is to literature. In the 1970s, he along with other filmmakers launched the leftist Liberation Film Group to push a politically charged third world cinema. The manifesto — Toward a Third Cinema — which he co-wrote, became a guiding light for many a filmmaker even outside Latin America. In Kerala, he spoke about the struggle of producing his first two films under censorship. It was extremely hard to book screens for projecting films. To overcome this, directors would show films at labour party offices and in the privacy of their homes. Political worker An active political worker, who survived an attempt on his life, Solanas was elected to the Argentine National Senate and represented Buenos Aires till 2019. In between, he ran unsuccessfully for the Argentinian Presidential election too.  Solanas’s ‘The Hour of the Furnaces’, which he presented to IFFK, is a searing document of exploitation and pillage of Latin America.
08 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||COVID graph continues to plateau||Kerala’s COVID-19 case graph which hit a plateau in the last week of October continues to remain there with the State registering between 7,000 and 9,000 cases on a daily basis for the past two weeks and the test positivity rate stabilised between 12% and 14%. On Saturday, the State registered 7,201 new cases when 64,051 samples were tested in the past 24 hours, taking the cumulative case burden of the State to 4,80,669 cases. The test positivity rate on Saturday was 11.2 %. The State also reported 7,120 recoveries on the day, a good recovery rate, with as many or more recoveries than new cases on a daily basis being another trend that became evident over the past two weeks. The cumulative recoveries till date have been 3,95,624. The active case pool of the State which went up to 97,000 plus cases on October 24 has been steadily going down and on Saturday stood at 83,261. The number of critically ill COVID-19 patients now being treated in ICUs in the State is 821, with 208 on ventilator support. 28 deaths The addition of 28 more deaths to the official COVID death list on Saturday takes the State’s cumulative COVID toll to 1,668. Of these, Kannur reported five deaths, Ernakulam and Alappuzha four each, Malappuram, Thrissur and Pathanamthitta three each, Kollam and Thiruvananthapuram two each and Kottayam and Kozhikode one each. Of the new cases reported on Saturday, 7,105 cases (98.6 %) are locally acquired infections, with 728 cases remaining untraced to a known source of infection. The number of health workers who contracted the infection is 61. Among districts, Ernakulam reported 1,042 cases, Kozhikode 971, Thrissur 864, Thiruvananthapuram 719, Alappuzha 696, Malappuram 642, Kollam 574, Kottayam 500, Palakkad 465, Kannur 266, Pathanamthitta 147, Wayanad 113, Idukki 108 and Kasaragod 94 cases.
08 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Both fronts fancy chances in Varkala||‘Development’ is going to be an oft-used word in Varkala in the weeks ahead as the ruling LDF prepares to battle it out with the UDF and the BJP to retain its control over the 33-seat-strong municipal council. A municipality that has revealed a tendency to swing between the LDF and UDF every five years, Varkala was captured by the LDF in 2015, winning 18 of the 33 wards. The LDF is hoping to buck the trend this time and stay in power on the strength of the development activities carried out in the municipality.  ‘Fully confident’  “We are fully confident of a victory,” says Bindu Haridas, the CPI(M) chairperson of the municipality. “Over the past five years, the LDF has been successful in ushering in development on multiple fronts, including sanitation, housing, education, and healthcare,” she says. The LDF can claim robust achievements on the sanitation front which include the introduction of material recovery facilities, shredding unit and the formation of a Haritha Karma Sena, Ms. Haridas said. “We have introduced smart classrooms in schools and much-needed infrastructure development at the Taluk Hospital. As many as 771 houses were constructed by mobilising Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (PMAY), municipality, and State government funds,” Ms. Haridas says. The LDF was also instrumental in curbing unauthorised constructions, particularly in the tourism belt in the coast, she added.  ‘Cosmetic changes’ On its part, the Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF), which lost the fight in 2015, is confident of winning back the municipality. “The LDF cannot claim to have done anything on the development front,” says S. Jayasree, the Leader of the Opposition in the outgoing municipal council. “They have confined themselves to making cosmetic changes. The LDF, for instance, has done nothing to improve the roads in the municipality. Even the much-hyped renovation of the town hall has reached nowhere,” she said. BJP aspiration This time, the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) is hoping to improve its score from the three seats it won in 2015. The BJP also echoes the UDF mantra that the LDF did little to improve the lives of the people of Varkala municipality. “The LDF has not even fulfilled the promises that were included in their election manifesto in 2015. What little they have done has been with the support of the BJP-led Central government, such as PMAY and the Swachh Bharat Mission,” says G. Sunil Kumar, the BJP parliamentary party leader in the municipal council.
08 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||CPI(M): livelihood issues guide voters||A crucial meeting of the State committee of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) here on Saturday felt the attempts by the Congress and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) to vilify the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government would not dent the electoral prospects of the ruling front in the local body elections in December. CPI(M) State secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan, who chaired the committee, said the political climate at both the State and Centre was conducive to an LDF win. Kerala was the nucleus of the groundswell of opposition against the pro-corporate and anti-labour policies pursued by the Centre. Campaign against CAA The State was also the heartland of the secular campaign against the patently anti-Muslim Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) law. The new education policy had galvanised teachers and students against the Centre. The LDF government had made a qualitative difference in the lives of the people. It had insulated the population against the worst ravages of the COVID-19 pandemic.   Support for Kodiyeri The committee also rallied behind Mr. Balakrishnan and rejected calls for his resignation. Mr. Balakrishnan's son Bineesh Kodiyeri did not represent the party or government. The CPI(M) was not responsible for Bineesh's conduct as a private individual. His arrest and questioning by the Enforcement Directorate was a personal matter and not a political issue. Mr. Balakrishnan had distanced the party and himself from the case. He told the committee that the party's interests prevailed over all else. However, the CPI(M) felt strongly about the ED’s alleged harassment of Bineesh's family and his two-year-old child. The party backed the family's right to seek legal recourse.
08 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Textbooks not available: schools||Second term textbooks are still not available to many State syllabus students, the Kerala Recognised School Managements’ Association has alleged. In a statement here on Thursday, the association alleged that distribution of second term textbooks was to begin in August. However, these were still not available. Distribution had not begun even in one government recognised unaided school in the district. Such delays would push students studying under the State syllabus to other school boards, association general secretary Anand Kannasa said. The department’s textbook officials, however, said distribution of textbooks to unaided schools in the district by the Kerala Books and Publications Society would begin on Saturday. Release orders had been issued. Distribution of second volume textbooks to government and aided schools had been completed. Though the distribution to unaided recognised schools was to begin on Wednesday, it had been pushed back owing to closure of the textbook hub here for a week after a couple of employees tested positive for COVID-19. Distribution in other districts was under way. Textbooks to unaided recognised schools would have to be distributed at one go. They also said that with delayed start to textbooks printing in May in the wake of the lockdown and other hurdles such as fewer hands in shifts owing to COVID-19, textbook availability was bound to be affected. Second volume The second volume textbook distribution would be completed in a few days. They were also targeting completion of distribution of the the third volume, which had already been printed, by November 20.
08 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||CPI declares candidates for local body polls in district||The Communist Party of India (CPI) on Saturday declared its candidates to all of the 17 seats it will contest in the elections to the Thiruvananthapuram Corporation. Seven women candidates, including two in general wards, and six newcomers have been fielded by the party. While Deputy Mayor Rakhi Ravikumar will contest from her sitting seat in Vazhuthacaud ward, the other CPI candidates include Binu M. (Chanthavila), Asha Babu (Njandoorkonam), Nanda B.S. (Thuruthummoola), N. Ajith Kumar (Anamukham), P.K. Raju (Pattom), V.K. Lalithakumari (Chettivilakom), G. Happy Kumar (PTP Nagar), S. Vijayakumar (Sreevaraham), C. Harikumar (Thampanoor), Irene Teacher (Valiyathura), Jespin Selvadas (Shangumugham), V.M. Rajesh (Poojappura), Ashwathy Prasad (Nemom), V.S. Sulochanan (Ambalathara), Panathura P. Baiju (Vellar) and T. Nelson (Kottappuram). The party also declared its candidates for the district panchayat polls. Geetha Naseer, Binsha B. Sharaf, B. Radhika, and Vilappil Radhakrishnan will contest from the Chemmaruthy, Kallara, Poovachal and Pallichal divisions respectively. The party has declared 325 candidates to the 73 grama panchayats, 11 block panchayats, four municipalities, city Corporation and district panchayat, party district secretary G.R. Anil says. The Left Democratic Front (LDF) has gained an early advantage in its campaign from declaring its candidates’ lists in every local bodies in the district. According to the seat-sharing arrangement finalised by the coalition, the Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] will contest in 70 seats, while the CPI has fielded candidates in 17 seats in the Thiruvananthapuram Corporation. The other parties include Janata Dal (Secular) [JDS] and Loktantrik Janata Dal (LJD) (two each); Congress (S), Indian National League (INL) and Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) (one each). The remaining six seats will be split among Janadhipathya Kerala Congress, Kerala Congress (M), and Janathipathiya Samrakshana Samithy (JSS). While the CPI(M) will contest in 19 out of the 26 divisions in the district panchayat, the CPI will have four candidates and JDS, LJD and Kerala Congress (M) one each. CPI(M) district secretary Anavoor Nagappan and State committee member V. Sivankutty, who addressed a joint press conference of district LDF leaders a day ago, has said the party has fielded 46 women for the prestigious city Corporation polls. This is the highest representation to be ever given to women leaders during elections to the local body. There were 22 candidates who were aged below 40 years. Barring five sitting councillors, all the others were newcomers. They were yet to finalise the chairperson-candidates for the Corporation and district panchayat that will have women at their helm. During the 2015 local body elections, the LDF won in 10 out of 11 block panchayats, all four municipalities, a majority of grama panchayats, the Corporation, and the district panchayat. The coalition is confident of bettering its performance riding on the performance of both the State government and the local bodies. Awards While the Thiruvananthapuram Corporation and the district panchayat have won several national and State awards for governance during the period, the Nedumangad block panchayat has won the Deen Dayal Upadhyay Panchayat Sashaktikaran Puraskar for the best performing panchayat in the country thrice on the trot since 2018.  Left coalition is confident of bettering its performance riding on the performance of the State government and local bodies
08 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Capital has 719 more cases||The capital district reported 719 more COVID-19 cases, while 761 people recovered from the illness as active caseload stood at 8,085. Among those who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2, 554 people acquired the infection through local transmission. Four health-care workers also are among those who have been diagnosed with the infection. The pandemic claimed two more lives with the deaths of natives of Kattakada (55-year-old) and Kanjiramkulam (60-year-old) being attributed to COVID-19. As many as 1,605 people were placed under quarantine on the day, taking the count of people being monitored for any COVID-19 symptom in the district to 25,518 in houses and 214 in various institutions. Meanwhile, the district administration continued its crackdown on violations of the COVID-19 protocol and prohibitory orders. Sectoral magistrates initiated action against 310 people. While cases were registered against 17 cases for flouting the protocol, 70 people were fined by the sectoral magistrates and the police in several operations. As many as 22,237 have faced action for various offences since prohibitory orders were clamped in the district on October 4. The district authorities declared the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) quarters, Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) quarters, and Station Kadavu area in Pallithura ward of Thiruvananthapuram Corporation as micro-containment zones following the detection of COVID-19 cases in these areas. Containment zones Several places were removed from the list of containment zones. These included Kadinamkulam, Padinjattumukku, Puthenthope North and Puthukurichi North in Kadinamkulam grama panchayat; Kottaikkam and Mulluvila-Pathankara area in Parassala grama panchayat; and Thrikkannapuram, Karamana and Attukal-Padasseri area in Thiruvananthapuram Corporation.
08 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Slaughterhouse to be modernised||City Corporation Mayor K.Sreekumar on Friday inaugurated the modernisation work of the slaughterhouse in Kunnukuzhy, which has remained close for years. The Kerala Electrical Limited (KEL) will be carrying out the modernisation work at a cost of Rs. 9.57 crore out of which mechanical works constitute Rs. 6.32 crore, civil works at Rs. 1.68 crore and other works at Rs. 1.55 crore. The Kunnukuzhy slaughterhouse, the only such facility under the city Corporation, was closed in February 2013, as it failed to manage the waste generated in a scientific way in the absence of a centralised waste treatment plant. PCB orders closure The Pollution Control Board (PCB) ordered its closure for non-compliance in setting up plants to treat slaughter waste. It is after several repeated attempts to revive the slaughterhouse that the work is taking off now. Another inauguration on Friday was of the Corporation's Ananthapuri medical store for providing medicines at affordable rates. The medical store has been opened at the Saphalyam complex in Palayam and will function from 10 a.m to 6 p.m. The medical store has been set up at a cost of Rs. 25 lakh from the Corporation's annual plan. The Mayor also inaugurated the live web streaming of last rites ceremonies at the Shanthikavadom electric crematorium in Thycaud. The live streaming will be available in the Smart Trivandrum webpagewww.smarttvm. corporationoftrivandrum.in COVID curbs The facility was introduced in view of the restrictions on participation of relatives during cremation of those who died due to COVID-19. Shanthikavadom now has eight furnaces including two newly introduced gas furnaces, two electric furnaces and four wood furnaces. An online reservation system has been implemented for the furnaces. The booking will be through the Smart Trivandrum mobile application and web portal. For bookings Bookings can also be done through the Corporation’s call centre (contact - 9496434488) which will function round-the-clock. Cremation certificates will also be made available online.
08 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||World travel mart award for Kerala Tourism||Kerala Tourism has bagged the coveted ‘Highly Commended’ Award by World Travel Mart London for the exemplary activities aimed at promoting Responsible Tourism during the COVID-19 pandemic. Responsible Tourism (RT) Mission received this recognition in the category of ‘Meaningful Connections’ for its innovative work on ‘Work at Home’ videos and storytelling audio and video series produced and presented by its various units. The ‘Work at Home’ videos have been developed by the mission entrepreneurs with a message to stay home safe during the lockdown and to adopt measures to effectively prevent the spread of COVID-19. The videos showcased the activities of the units. “It was the most popular intervention in the world to give confidence to entrepreneurs and tourists who are reeling under the effects of the epidemic. The move sends a message that any crisis can be overcome by working with one mind,” the award jury has noted. Innovative ideas “The award proves that the RT Mission is becoming a driving force in sharing innovative ideas and ensuring public participation in the sector,” Tourism Minister Kadakampally Surendran said. There are currently 20,017 units under the Mission with more than one lakh beneficiaries as part of its activities.
08 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Technopark firm certified as ‘Great Place to Work’||Guidehouse India, the Technopark-based Indian subsidiary of the leading advisory, consulting, outsourcing, and technology services firm Guidehouse, has been certified as a ‘Great Place to Work’ among other reputed workplaces in the country between November 2020 and October 2021. The certification was based on a Trust Index Survey and a culture audit by Great Place to Work (GPTW) Institute, a release here said. Every year, more than 10,000 organisations from over 60 countries partner with the ‘Great Place to Work Institute’ for assessment, benchmarking and planning actions to strengthen their workplace culture. The institute’s methodology is considered as the gold standard for defining great workplaces across business, academia and government organisations. Indian subsidiary Guidehouse India is the Indian subsidiary of Guidehouse, a global organisation with more than 8,500 employees in over 50 offices worldwide. Guidehouse India currently has 2,500 employees across its various facilities.  Every year, more than 10,000 organisations from over 60 countries partner with the ‘Great Place to Work Institute’ for assessment
08 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||AAP to contest local body elections||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) will contest local body elections wherever the party has winnable candidates in panchayats and municipalities. A State-level committee has been formed and will draw up the list of wards and panchayats where such candidates can be fielded, AAP south India in-charge Somnath Bharti has said. “Aam Aadmi Party Kerala will not lapse in its duty from stopping communal and corrupt forces and occupying any political space in Kerala and will give the option of opting for honest politics on the lines of Kejriwal politics in Delhi,” Mr. Bharti said in a statement.
08 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Moot court winners||Vijayakrishnan R.P. and Sruthi M. of The Tamil Nadu Dr. Ambedkar Law University, Chennai, have emerged winners of the 20th National Client Consulting Competition that was held virtually by the Kerala Law Academy Moot Court Society on Saturday. The winners were presented with the Justice P. Govinda Menon Memorial Ever Rolling Trophy and a cash award of Rs. 50,000. Sagar Roshan and Adarsh V. of The National University of Advance Legal Studies (NUALS), Kochi, bagged the runners-up trophy and were presented with Rs. 30,000. High Court of Kerala lawyers Krishnanunni, Sethumadhavan, Ramdas R., and Nagaraj Narayanan, who is also chairman of the moot court society, attended the virtual event, a statement here said.
08 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||TVM party to field candidates||The Thiruvananthapuram Vikasana Munnettam (TVM), a party floated by a collective of capital-based social media groups, professional organisations, Vyapara Vyavasayi organisations, residents' associations and alumni associations, has decided to field around 30 to 36 candidates, from out of applications its received for contenders in 41 wards. Applications have been invited for the remaining wards too. The fledgling party aims to win five seats, which it hopes would become a foundation for its further growth. It is also considering local leaders of major political parties and residents' association representatives as candidates.
08 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Murder attempt: man arrested||The Thumba police on Saturday arrested a habitual offender for an alleged attempt to murder his neighbour over a dispute. The police identified the accused as Rajan Netto, alias Rajankutty, 44, of Valiyaveli. He was accused of attacking his neighbour Aji, a fish worker, at South Thumba junction during an altercation around 8 p.m. on Friday. He purportedly hit Aji on his head with an iron rod. Rajan went absconding and was apprehended by a police team led by Thumba station house officer Ajesh on Saturday. Previously, the Thumba police had registered five cases against him. The accused was remanded in judicial custody after being produced at a local court.
08 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||New guidelines for display of campaign materials||District Collector Navjot Khosa has asked political parties and candidates to adhere to the new guidelines on campaign materials published by the State Election Commission for the upcoming local body polls. The election ads should carry the name and designation of the person who authorises them. The guidelines prohibit election campaign materials that are offensive, vulgar, provocative or defamatory. Hoardings should not be placed on footpaths, turns in the road or on bridges in a manner that causes inconvenience or danger to motorists and pedestrians, the Collector said. Once the voting is over, candidates and political parties are responsible for removing the posters and hoardings.
08 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Plus One: second supplementary tomorrow||Results of the second supplementary allotment for Plus One admission will be published on Monday. Of the 40,620 applications received for 13,058 vacant seats in the second supplementary allotment, 36,354 were considered. As many as 1,175 students who had received admission under various quotas after applying for the supplementary allotment and 3,091 applications that did not have options or were not eligible for other reasons were not considered for the allotment. Admission as per the allotment will be held from Monday to Tuesday. Details will be available on the link ‘Supplementary Allot Results’ in the candidate log-in on the websitewww.hscap.kerala.gov.in Vacancies remaining after the second supplementary allotment will be published on November 12. Students who are yet to get admission despite applying for various allotments can apply for these vacancies the same day.
08 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Interview scheduled for today postponed||An interview scheduled to be conducted for the post of Assistant Engineer (Civil) in Kerala Tourism Development Corporation on Sunday morning has been postponed in view of the declaration of local body elections here. The new date would be informed later, an official statement here on Saturday said.
08 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Assembly to bring out book on Chandy||The Assembly will bring out a book on veteran Congress leader Oommen Chandy to celebrate his completion of 50 years as an MLA, Speaker P. Sreeramakrishnan has said. He was speaking after releasing 'Snehamaam Jananaayaka,' a video album by musician M. Jayachandran dedicated to Mr. Chandy at the Press Club here on Saturday. Mr. Sreeramakrishnan said that he was often taken by surprise by the friendly demeanour by Mr.Chandy, even after stringent criticism from their side in the Assembly.
08 November 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||864 test positive in Thrissur||Thrissur reported 864 COVID-19 cases on Saturday. While there are 10,109 active cases in the district, 423 patients recovered on Saturday. As many as 101 patients from Thrissur are undergoing treatment in hospitals in other districts. So far, 45,832 COVID-19 cases have been reported from the district and 35,376 people have recovered. Of the new cases, 840 contracted the infection through local contact. The patients include 121 people above the age of 60 and 63 children below the age of 10. Seven health workers too were infected. As many as 6,730 people are under home observation. On Saturday, 344 people were admitted to hospital for COVID-19 treatment. In all, 7,862 samples were collected on Saturday. So far 3,42,425 samples have been tested. Palakkad district registered 465 new COVID-19 cases on Saturday. While 300 of them got the infection through direct local contacts, the source of infection could not be ascertained in 162 cases. Two cases came from across the border. Officials said a health worker was among the positive cases on Saturday. As many as 286 infected people recovered from the disease in Palakkad on Saturday. The district has 6,473 cases under treatment, most of them at home.
08 November 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Greens, tribes at odds with Anakkayam project||Environmentalists and Adivasis in the Vazhachal forest division are up in arms once again as the Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB), after its unsuccessful bid for the Athirappilly project, is all set to implement a hydroelectric project at Anakkayam. The Anakkayam small hydroelectric project, coming up in the buffer zone of the Parambikkulam Tiger Reserve, is conceived as a tail-race scheme of the existing Sholayar power project. The outflowing water after power generation at Sholayar will be made to pass through a tunnel and a turbine to produce power for which, the KSEB claims, there is no need for additional storage facilities. Though small, the environmental impact of the Anakkayam project is huge, says M. Mohandas, convener, Chalakudy River Protection Forum. A vast stretch of evergreen forest, home to rich varieties of mammals, birds, reptiles, and amphibians, has to be cleared for the project. Extensive blasts have to be carried out for making a five-km-long tunnel in the highly eco-sensitive area, which witnessed many landslips during the floods in 2018. Both the Madhav Gadgil and K. Kasthurirangan committees have noted these forests as environmentally sensitive areas, the greens say. Forest rights violation “First of all, the project blatantly violates the forest rights of the Adivasis who have community forest rights over these areas. The project has been planned without their consent. Secondly it is an unscientific, uneconomic, and unnecessary project. The State is not facing any power crisis now. It sells power to other States on many occasions,” says Mr. Mohandas. The project is coming in 20 acres of dense evergreen forest. Around 2,000 huge trees and 6,000 small trees have to be felled. The construction of the tunnel will destabilise the eco-sensitive area, notes People’s Movement against Anakkayam HEP. Sarat Chelur, a coordinator of the movement, says the project, with an installed capacity of 7.5 MW, would cost of Rs. 150 crore. “That means, one MW of power has a production cost of Rs. 20 crore,” he adds. If vast stretches of forest will be destroyed and blasts will be conducted for the tunnel, wild animals will stray into human habitations in large numbers, causing threat to standing crops and human life, noted environmental activist Vaxerin Pereppadan at a meeting of the Tribal Resources Enlighten Ecology Society here recently. It is learned that a contract has already been given for felling trees. Authorities expect that protests will be feeble in the wake of COVID-19. But the joint protest committee has decided to intensify its stir in the coming days. The Adivasis and local people have started protests and legal battles against the project. The grama sabhas of the tribal settlements have passed resolutions against the project.
08 November 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||KSFE will open 100 branches: Isaac||The 51st anniversary celebrations of the Kerala State Financial Enterprises (KSFE) and lucky draw for selecting winners of the golden jubilee chits 2019 was held at the KSFE headquarters in Thrissur on Friday. Speaking after inaugurating the event through videoconferencing, Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac mentioned the turnover of Rs. 50,000 crore made by the company even during the pandemic. A mobile app and portal would be launched soon to enable customers to pay chits amount and repay loans. The Minister announced the KSFE’s plans to open 100 branches, including 18 opened over the last two months, in the ongoing financial year. He stated that the company had filled 1,000 vacancies mentioned in the government’s 100-day programme. Aimed at providing employment for youth and Gulf returnees, the company had decided to appoint 3,000 business promoters on contract basis as sales associates, the Minister added. KSFE chairman Philipose Thomas explained the gold loan scheme for non-resident Keralites at 3% interest. P.P. Subramanyan, managing director, KSFE, spoke on its future plans. Lucky draw winner The lucky draw was conducted by the Directorate of Kerala States Lotteries. Shameer S., a customer of KSFE’s Venjaramoodu branch, won the first prize of 50 sovereigns of gold at the lucky draw.
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Cong. campaign on anti-graft platform||The Political Affairs Committee (PAC) of the Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) on Saturday decided to fight the coming local body elections on an anti-corruption platform. KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran said “an vote against corruption” was the rallying cry of the Congress. The leadership of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) and the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government were up to their necks in a morass of corruption and organised criminality. It had allowed economic offenders and anti-nationals to use the heft of the Chief Minister’s Office (CMO) to abet gold smuggling, money laundering, and racketeering in foreign currency. Overlapping inquiries by Central agencies into the scandals had come awkwardly close to the CPI(M) leadership, its kin, and the CMO, he said. The Congress leader said the government had ruined COVID-19 pandemic management. Mr. Ramachandran also accused the government of depriving local bodies of plan funds and halting grassroots development. The Congress would reflect the aspirations of all social groups. For one, it had opened discussions with the Dheevara Sabha. However, Mr. Ramachandran did not elaborate whether the PAC had approved an electoral alliance with the Welfare Party of India, the political arm of the Jamaat-e-Islami. By one account, the PAC was cold to the overtures by Kerala Janapaksham (Secular) leader P.C. George. It also felt that the UDF did not require another Kerala Congress splinter group as a coalition partner. If P.C. Thomas was interested in working in tandem with the UDF, he was welcome to try his prospects in the Kerala Congress headed by P.J. Joseph.
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||It’s poll season||
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Campaign under lights||
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||High-tension work||
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||No lull here||
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Rituals on, minus pomp||
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Restoration of equilibrium||
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Preparations on||
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Blooming with beauty||
08 November 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Central varsity takes up a survey on the impact of ‘Balike Bhavishyathu’||The Central University of Andhra Pradesh has taken up a survey on the impact of “Baalike Bhavishyathu (Girl Child is the Future)” programme organised by Anantapur district administration by making a girl child head of each government office, including the District Collector. Thirteen students of the university visited all the 63 mandals in the district and conducted a survey for three days contacting 1,100 students — both who had participated in the programme and non-participating students from the same schools to assess the impact of the one-day effort. The district administration had taken up the programme on October 11 as part of International Girl Child Day, and within three weeks, the students went to parents, teachers and students to get their feedback in a collaborative project. Three non-government organisations had been roped in now to take care of the mentoring exercise in the future.
08 November 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘e-Lok Adalats need of the hour’||Virtual Lok Adalats would go a long way in weeding out a plethora of encumbrances in delivering speedy justice to the clients, and especially in the prevailing pandemic times, the exercise would receive greater cooperation from public, said District Legal Services Authority (DLSA-Chittoor) secretary and senior civil judge I. Karuna Kumar. Mr. Karuna Kumar said that about 2,500 cases were expected to be disposed of during the one-day Adalat, thanks to the technology. “Except for cases with grave nature of crimes, the virtual Lok Adalats are need of the hour to provide speedy justice to the clients, besides saving their expenditure and travel time,” he said. The DLSA secretary said the virtual mode, which came up on trial basis propelled by the pandemic, had started giving positive results at all the benches set up across the district and elsewhere. Mr. Karuna Kumar also observed that the number of cases of petty nature could be brought down to the maximal level by way of counselling before going for registration of cases. The DLSA would also focus on launching public awareness programmes to highlight the efficacy and importance of the virtual lok adalats in a phased manner.
08 November 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Picnickers cautioned as forests turn treacherous in Chittoor||As several waterfalls in Chittoor district have turned alive with copious rains since June, they have been attracting groups of youth and picnickers from several parts of Chennai and neighbouring Nellore district. The rains also led to a dense growth of forest cover, obscuring the regular jungle trails used by occasional visitors and forest personnel. The recent incident of about 20 youth from Nellore ‘losing their way’ in the forest terrain atop the Sadasiva Kona hill near Puttur prompted the police and forest personnel to mount vigil at places frequented by picnickers. Except for the Talakona tourist spot nestled on the western side of the Seshachalam hills, almost all the picnic spots in the district are left without surveillance. Batches of youth from Chennai keep venturing atop Sadasiva Kona, 25 km from Puttur, round the year. About half a dozen waterfalls too are nestled deep in the forests in Puttur, Narayanavanam, Nagalapuram, Varadaiahpalem, Yerpedu, KVB Puram and BN Kandriga mandals. During the rainy season, the Ubbalamadugu and Bhupateswara Kona waterfalls are known for casualties among youth, with over a dozen cases in recent years, mostly from Tamil Nadu. Slippery terrain The COVID-19 lockdown since March followed by rains resulted in thick growth of vegetation along the trails frequented by visitors. The paths have also turned slippery and vulnerable to fall of boulders. The gush of waters at the picnic spots is also considered forceful in recent years. It is observed that several youth who prefer to make night halts at these scenic locations often consume liquor, making them vulnerable to mishaps. Waterfalls not open yet Forest Range Officer (Satyavedu) J. Prasada Rao told The Hindu that though the Ubbalamadugu waterfall (also known as Tada falls) is yet to open to tourists, several youth from T.N. and Nellore were entering the forest area. Deputy SP (Puttur) D. Murali Dhar said that police personnel were asked to keep a vigil on the movement of youth towards the hillocks and waterfalls.
08 November 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man jumps from first floor||A Chittoor-based lawyer created a flutter by jumping from the first floor of a building and running away after allegedly being caught with another woman by his wife at Padmavathi Nagar in Tirupati on Saturday. According to information, the man had reportedly been living with a woman at Tirupati, after developing intimacy with her. His wife, also a lawyer at Chittoor, arrived here to unravel the suspicious movements of her husband. In the morning, she along with her relatives stormed the building and knocked the door of a portion where the presence of her husband with another woman was detected. However, the man with the help of a sari scaled down the first floor through the rear window and fled the scene. In the process, the man jumped from a height of about 25 feet.
08 November 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bamboo products made by tribals launched||East Godavari Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy and Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA) Project Officer Praveen Adithya here on Saturday launched five value-added bamboo products produced by tribal women for Deepavali. At least 300 members of the Self Help Groups have recently set up a Van Dhan Kendra at Devarapalli under the PM Van Dhan Yojana (PMVDY), manufacturing a range of lighting products using bamboo at Devarapalli in Rampa Agency. The ITDA has extended financial aid under the PMVDY, apart from providing them training in value addition to the minor forest produce with an assurance of marketing the final product. The tribal women from the villages of Nurupudi, Ramannavalasa, Sunnampadu, Devarapalli and Turruru have produced 10,000 bamboo products of five varieties, including candles, the cost of which ranges from Rs. 80 to Rs. 100. “At least 10,000 products are now available for sale during the Deepavali season. Those interested can contact our staff on 94910-53920, 94913-99205 and 94910-53933,” said Mr. Praveen Adithya. ITDA has provided Rs. 15 lakh input cost to each SHG that is part of the Van Dhan Kendra in the tribal area.
08 November 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Watchman at guest house found dead||A 42-year-old watchman of the guest house of the Roads and Buildings Department on Saturday allegedly committed suicide in the guest houses in Peddapuram town in East Godavari district, reportedly due to family problems. Ambati Mohan Kumar, native of Samarlakota town, was found hanging to a fan hook in the guest house. The apparent reason for the extreme step is said to be the family problems. The body has been sent to the government hospital in Peddapuram for post-mortem, the police said. Mohan had been living separately from the family for over a year and recently joined as watchman on temporary basis at the guest house. Those suffering from suicidal tendencies could dial 100 for counselling and guidance.
08 November 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||14,600 litres of jaggery wash destroyed||About 14,600 litres of jaggery wash and 17 stoves used for making ID liquor were destroyed during a joint raid conducted by the Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB), Forest and Police Departments in the Coringa Wildlife Sanctuary (CWS), nine-km from Gadimoga village on the Kakinada coast. SEB East Godavari ASP Sumit Garud said this was the biggest raid in the State as well as in the Coringa Wildlife Sanctuary, in which the locals reportedly set up ID liquor units by destroying the mangrove cover. Seventeen stoves were found in the location, with a capacity to produce 5,000 liters of ID liquor a day. However, no one was nabbed during the raid on Saturday morning. They teams deployed in the raid ventured deep into the mangrove cover following a three-hour journey through the backwaters and mangrove forest. The forest department joined the raid for the first time on Saturday. Mr. Garud said the teams destroyed at least 40 empty drums found on the site for the transportation of liquor. “We suspect that the production of the ID liquor is going on a large-scale in the sanctuary, reportedly by the local communities around the sanctuary,” he said.
08 November 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Central team to assess flood damage coming on Tuesday||A six-member Inter Ministerial Central Team, headed by Saurav Ray, Joint Secretary, Ministry of Home Affairs, will visit East Godavari district on November 10 to assess the damage to crops, roads and various infrastructure facilities due to Godavari floods and rains reported since August. An official release said the team would inspect the fields of agriculture, horticulture and various commercial crops in the mandals of Ravulapalem, Ramachandrapuram, Uppada-Kothappalli, Kirlampudi and Peddapuram during its one-day visit. The team would also interact with farmers, officials and other stakeholders on the damage caused due to the floods in East Godavari district.
08 November 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Seema samithi begins stir for Siddheswaram Barrage||The Rayalaseema Saguniti Sadhana Samithi (RSSS) on Saturday began afresh a peaceful agitation by meeting leaders of all political parties in Kurnool district and urging them to fulfil the long-pending demand for construction of a barrage at Siddheswaram, which can store 60 tmcft of water, to meet the drinking water and irrigation needs of the region. RSSS president B. Dasaratharami Reddy said the samithi now revived its decades-old agitation in view of the permission given by the Central government for the construction of the Kalawakurthy-Nandyal National Highway. While building this infrastructure, the alignment can be combined and made more useful to store water and also provide road access, he said. The samithi members led by Mr. Dasaratharami Reddy on Saturday met Nandyal and Allagadda MLAs Shilpa Ravi Chandra Kishore Reddy and Gangula Bijendranath Reddy. The team also met former Minister Bhuma Akhila Priya and MLC N. Md. Farooq. “All political parties from Rayalaseema had participated in the several agitations/programmes organised by the RSSS in the past and had helped take this issue to the notice of those in the power,” the samithi president said. The RSSS had held awareness programmes for the farmers on the utility and benefits of Siddheswaram Barrage. With the proposed construction of a bridge across River Krishna at Sangameswaram, all the people’s representatives must put pressure on the Centre and State governments to take up the construction of the barrage also to right the wrongs meted out to the Rayalaseema region, he opined.
08 November 2020||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||237 test positive in South Coastal A.P.||The health situation improved further in south coastal Andhra Pradesh as no deaths were reported in SPSR Nellore and Prakasam districts in the last 24 hours. The death toll due to the pandemic remained unchanged at 574 in Prakasam district and 487 in SPSR Nellore district, according to a health bulletin released by the State Government on Saturday night. However, fresh cases outnumbered patients getting cured by 82 during the period. As many as 237 persons tested positive for the disease, taking the cumulative confirmed cases to 1,22,247 in the two districts. The number of active cases rose marginally to 2,198 as 155 patients were discharged during the period. With 153 fresh cases, the total number of positive cases rose to 61,842 in SPSR Nellore district. The number of active cases rose slightly to 1,382, as only 103 patients recovered from the illness. So far, 60,460 patients had been cured of the disease. In Prakasam district, the cumulative confirmed cases rose to 60,405 with 84 persons contracting the disease during the period. As many as 52 patients returned home on recovery, bringing down the case load to 816. So far, 59,015 patients had been cured of the disease in the district.
08 November 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Farmers’ interests mattered most for N.G. Ranga’||Farmers’ organisations and leaders cutting across partylines paid floral tributes to Acharya N.G.Ranga and recalled his contribution to the Kisan movement in the country, marking his 120th birth anniversary on Saturday. At a meeting at the Ranga Bhavan here after tributes to the leader, N.G.Ranga Kisan Samastha general secretary Ch.Seshaiah recalled the yeoman service rendered by Prof. Ranga to strengthen the farm sector and rural economy all through his life, including as a Parliamentarian for 50 years. The three anti-farmer pieces of legislation would not have been enacted if we had any leader of Prof.Ranga’s stature now, said All India Kisan Sangarsh Coordination Committee Prakasam district convenor Ch.Ranga Rao.
08 November 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Factory staff demand wages||Employees of the GMR Ferro Alloys and Industries Limited (Ravivalasa-Tekkali), which has been closed for a few years now, alleged that the management had failed to pay wages and follow Labour Laws before its closure. Technical Employees Association president P. Gangayya and other leaders submitted a memorandum to BJP Tekkali In-charge Hanumanthu Udayabhaskar, urging him to take the issue to the notice of Union and State governments. They said nearly 600 families lost livelihood with the unexpected closure of the factory, the only major factory in Tekkali Assembly constituency. Coming down heavily on both TDP and YSRCP governments for ignoring the matter, Mr. Uday Bhaskar said: “We will now take the issue to the notice of Union Minister of Commerce and Industries Piyush Goyal and Union Minister for Labour and Employment Santosh Kumar Gangwar. We hope the factory will be revived soon and the issues are resolved at the earliest.”
08 November 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Stop pay to pastors enjoying quota benefits’||Andhra Pradesh Backward Classes Association leader Birlangi Umamaheswara Rao on Saturday urged the State government to stop Rs. 5,000 payment being given to pastors who were still having SC and ST certificates of Hindu religion. Speaking to reporters at a press conference here, he said that many pastors and their family members were enjoying reservation benefits while getting Rs. 5,000 honorarium from State government. “Many SC and ST families are denied reservation due to mischief of some pastors. The persons who opted Christianity as their religion should not be given reservation facility. It leads to injustice to many families,” said Mr. Rao.
08 November 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD plans to revive ‘Kalyanamastu’||TTD Chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy on Saturday instructed the officials to work out modalities for the revival of ‘Kalyanamastu’, a free mass marriage programme intended to benefit the poor. The programme was an instant success when it was introduced in 2007 with more than 25,000 couples entering into the nuptial knot. A gold ‘mangalasutram’, ‘mettalu’ and wedding dress were provided to the new couples under the programme, which was discontinued in the following years with the change of guard in the State. Mr. Subba Reddy, who reviewed the activities of Hindu Dharma Prachara Parishad (HDPP) along with Executive Officer K.S. Jawahar Reddy, instructed the officials to chalk out an action plan for taking up the activities of the parishad. He also underlined the need for striking a better coordination with the Sri Venkateswara Bhakti Channel (SVBC) and identifying devotees with a dharmic bend of mind for extensive promotion of the activities taken up by the HDPP. ‘Kartika Deepotsavam’ The meeting also resolved to light lamps along the mada streets on the auspicious day of ‘Kartika Deepotsavam’ under the banner of ‘Kartika Deepa Neerajanam’. Tirupati JEO P. Basanth Kumar and HDPP secretary Acharya Rajagopalan were present.
08 November 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||e-buses examined||TTD Chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy on Saturday examined the operation of electric buses that are likely to be pressed into service on the ghat road connecting Tirumala and Tirupati. APSRTC has been engaged in organizing the trial run of e-buses for the past two days They are likely to be included in the fleet of APSRTC buses as part of conserving the environment.
08 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rate of recovery highest in Kurnool, lowest in Krishna||The State’s COVID-19 tally crossed 8.40 lakh with the registration of 2,368 new infections and 11 deaths in the 24 hours ending Saturday morning. The total tally reached 8,40,731 and the toll rose to 6,779. The mortality rate remained at 0.81%. With 2,747 recovering during the period, the recovery rate increased to 96.64%. The total recoveries also increased to 8,12,517. The number of active cases stood at 21,435. The positivity rate of 79,601 samples tested in the last one day was 2.97%. The overall positivity rate stood at 9.80%. So far, 85.80 lakh samples were tested. The test per million ratio crossed 1.6 lakh and reached 1,60,676. There were no new deaths in six districts. Krishna district reported three fatalities, the highest among the districts. Anantapur and Chittoor reported two deaths each and East Godavari, Kadapa, Visakhapatnam and West Godavari reported one death each. The district-wise new cases are as follows: East Godavari (386), West Godavari (361), Krishna (358), Chittoor (255), Guntur (226), Nellore (153), Visakhapatnam (135), Kadapa (131), Srikakulam (102), Prakasam (85), Vizianagaram (78), Anantapur (61) and Kurnool (37). The overall tallies are as follows: East Godavari (1,18,401), West Godavari (88,297), Chittoor (80,437), Guntur (69,232), Anantapur (65,469), Prakasam (60,406), Nellore (60,276), Kurnool (59,698), Visakhapatnam (56,667), Kadapa (53,030), Srikakulam (44,564), Krishna (41,527) and Vizianagaram (39,832). The recovery rate in Kurnool was the highest at 98.69. The district has 300 active cases. Similarly, Vizianagaram and Nellore have a recovery rate of more than 98%. Prakasam, Anantapur, Srikakulam and Kadapa have a recovery rate of more than 97%. West Godavari, Chittoor, Visakhapatnam have more than 96% recovery rate. East Godavari and Guntur have more than 95% recovery rate. Krishna is left behind with 90.33% recovery rate, the lowest in the State.
08 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Reduce sand price to give a boost to realty sector’||The Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Associations of India (CREDAI), Andhra Pradesh chapter, has welcomed the new sand policy, but has asked the government to reduce the price to help the construction sector recover. Chapter chairman K. Subba Raju, president Ch. Sudhakar and general secretary K. Subhash Chandra Bose have, in a release, appealed to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to consider reducing the per-tonne price of sand. “Lakhs of construction workers, skilled workers, daily wagers, and their families are dependent on the construction sector in the State. We welcome and support the new sand policy,” Mr. Bose said. The COVID-19 pandemic had come as a death knell to the construction sector, which had already been fighting against odds, he added. “The per-tonne price of sand, which was Rs. 225 earlier, now costs Rs. 375, excluding the additional transportation charges,” Mr. Bose said. “We request the government to reduce the price further, which will lessen the burden on the industry to an extent,” they said, and added that the benefit could be passed on to the builders as well as the people.
08 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Freezing of DA is uncalled for: APTF||Leaders of the Andhra Pradesh Teachers’ Federation (APTF) have taken exception to the YSRCP government’s decision to freeze Dearness Allowance (DA) for employees till June 2021. In a statement on Saturday, APTF president and general secretary K. Bhanumurthy and P. Panduranga Varaprasad said that in view of the outbreak of COVID-19 pandemic and the subsequent lockdown, and floods in the State, the prices of essential commodities and vegetables had gone up. “The looming threat of the virus makes good diet mandatory. Those who have contracted the virus need to buy medicines. At this crucial juncture, freezing the DA and Dearness Relief (DR) is uncalled for,” they said. The anti-people policies of the State and Central governments were adding to the existing problems of the common man, the leaders alleged, and saw the need for launching a united battle against the policies that were detrimental to their interests. The Finance Department, in its order on Friday, attributed the decision to the outbreak of COVID and the resultant lockdown, which led to businesses shutting down and steep fall in government’s revenue. The order is applicable to teaching and non-teaching staff working in government and aided educational institutions and polytechnics, and employees under local bodies, and those governed by the UGC/AICTE payscales.
08 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘BJP rule replete with communal violence, unemployment’||The Communist Party of India (Marxist) Polit Bureau member B.V. Raghavulu on Saturday said the BJP-led NDA rule at the Centre was replete with incidences of communal violence and unemployment and deaths due to starvation had plagued development. The CPI(M) launched ‘Praja Chaitanya Bheri’, an awareness campaign to educate people on the banes of supporting the BJP government at the Centre. Earlier, the party leaders took out a rally from the Lenin Centre to the Dharna Chowk amid slogans against the ‘anti-people’ policies of the Centre. Addressing the protesters, Mr. Raghavulu criticised the ruling YSR Congress Party and the opposition TDP, for supporting the BJP at the Centre. Mr. Raghavulu alleged that the Modi government had failed to contain the coronavirus spread. Scores of workers, unable to return home and in the absence of a source of livelihood, were dying due to starvation. The prices of essential commodities had gone beyond the reach of the common man and the nation faced a serious economic downturn. He alleged that the BJP government had failed on all fronts and, as a diversionary tactic, it had been creating communal tensions and attacking the minorities. Taking an undue advantage of its brute majority in Parliament, the party had got Bills detrimental to the interests of the working sections passed, ‘sold away’ public sector units and made changes in the Right to Education Act. Polavaram About the Polavaram irrigation project, the CPI(M) leader said the YSRCP and the TDP were engaged in a slugfest, ignoring the welfare of the State and its people. In the name of reforms, the Centre had imposed restrictions and did away with subsidies, but both the ruling and the opposition parties in the State did not feel the need to question it, he said. About the promised projects to the State, he said there was no headway in the Visakha railway zone, the State was yet to receive funds for development of the capital and electricity meters were being installed in farmers’ fields and yet nobody questioned the government. Mr. Raghavulu said the TDP did not do a sincere job of developing a capital on practical lines leaving ample scope for the Jagan government to make it a complex issue. Mr. Jagan, who was then in the Opposition and supported the government decision, now went back on his word, he said, adding that his three-capital formula was anything but practical. He accused the Chief Minister of misleading the people of the State on the introduction of English as a medium of instruction in government schools, the capital issue and development of backward areas. The party’s State executive committee member Ch. Baburao, State committee member Donepudi Kasinath, leaders M. Krishna Murthy, V. Umamaheswara Rao, D.V. Krishna, K. Sridevi and others participated.
08 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Government neglecting critical issues plaguing power sector employees: JAC||Employees of the power utilities staged a demonstration at the office of the SPDCL, near Swaraj Maidan, in the city on Saturday under the aegis of the AP State Power Employees’ Joint Action Committee (APSPE - JAC) in protest against the government’s alleged negligence in resolving critical issues faced by the power sector and the problems being encountered by the regular and contract employees. The JAC leaders said relay hunger strike would be staged from November 9 to 14 if the government continued to shirk from its responsibility to sort out the issues. In a press release, JAC office-bearers P. Chandrasekhar, M. Veda Vyasa Rao and B. Sai Krishna said the record of discussions furnished by the management was one-sided and it did not state the facts, and several assurances made by Energy Minister Balineni Srinivasa Reddy were missing from the minutes of the meeting. They alleged that the employees were threatened in the guise of COVID-19, and it indicated the intentions of the management. “The management is not making sincere efforts to restore industrial peace and harmony,” the JAC insisted and demanded urgent action.
08 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rs. 143 crore disbursed under phase two of Kapu Nestham||An amount of Rs. 143 crore was on Saturday credited into the bank accounts of 95,245 beneficiaries under the second phase of YSR Kapu Nestam scheme. Speaking on the occasion, Minister for BC Welfare Ch. Venugopala Krishna said the government was committed to ensuring the welfare of women from the Kapu, Balija, Ontari and Telaga communities. Under the scheme, each beneficiary will receive Rs. 15,000 as financial assistance. Though the scheme was launched in June, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy gave one month more time for those who had been left out to apply, and now all the eligible women were being provided the assistance. With this remittance, 3,30,605 women benefited to the tune of approximately Rs. 496 crore. Kapu Corporation chairman Jakkampudi Raja said Mr. Jagan had fulfilled 90% of poll promises in 16 months of forming the government, with priority to welfare of Backward Classes, Kapus and minorities.
08 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Praveen to tour N. Andhra||Principal Secretary, General Administration, Praveen Prakash will tour five north-coastal Andhra districts on November 9 and 10 to make a personal assessment of the implementation of various schemes, as directed by the Chief Minister. Mr. Prakash will visit Srikakulam, Vizianagaram, Vishakhapatnam, East and West Godavari districts.
08 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRHU inks pacts with four national research institutes||Dr. YSR Horticultural University (YSRHU) in West Godavari district exchanged four memorandums of understanding with ICAR-Directorate of Floriculture Research, Maharashtra; National Research Centre on Banana, Tamil Nadu; National Research Centre for Seed Spices, Rajasthan; and National Research Centre for Pomegranate, Maharashtra, in the presence of Indian Council of Agriculture Research Deputy Ddirector-General Dr. A.K. Singh, during in a webinar “Horticulture Ability- Favourable Conditions” organised by the university on Saturday. Through the MoUs, YSRHU and the respective institutions will be able to work together and provide an opportunity to students to learn effectively. Research work Speaking on the occasion, Dr. Singh said that any research work in collaboration with farmers would yield results and also help farmers in terms of yield and income.  ‘Our Village-Our University’ YSRHU vice-chancellor T. Janakiram said the University had efficient scientists and professors and with their contribution, several initiatives such as ‘Our Village-Our University’ and others in collaboration with Rythu Bharosa Kendram were taken up. YSRHU Registrar K. Gopal and others took part in the webinar.
08 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Date extended to apply for RGUKT entrance test||The last date for the last phase for submission of the Rajiv Gandhi University of Knowledge Technologies (RGUKT) Common Entrance Test (CET) online application has been extended up to November 13, and with a fine of Rs. 1,000, up to November 16. A statement issued by the university on Saturday said based on the advice of the A.P. State Council of Higher Education (APSCHE), the academic year 2020-21 had been started, following a blended learning approach as teaching-learning strategy in the first semester. Students would enter and leave the campus in a staggered way such that one third of the total student strength would only be on the campus at any point of time. Semester exams Online classes were being held for Pre-University Course (PUC-2) students from November 2 at all the four campuses of the university. Students were currently on the campus to appear for PUC-2 exams of semester-2, the result of which would determine branch allocation in the first year of engineering. All measures were in place and the students who tested positive for COVID-19 in the last one month and the students with potential signs of the virus infection were not allowed to enter the campus. The hostellers would be screened at the entrance gate and again before they enter their allotted hostel room. The rooms that were earlier shared by four and six persons, would now be shared by only two students. If a student/parent was not willing to come to the campus to appear for the PUC-2 exams scheduled in the first week of December, the university would provide them another opportunity, said the statement.
08 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Governor, CM hail ISRO scientists||Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan has hailed the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) scientists for successfully launching PSLV C-49 from the Satish Dhawan Space Centre at Sriharikota and for placing 10 satellites, including the earth observation satellite of India, in space orbit. In his message on Saturday, the Governor said the launch of PSLV C-49 was a demonstration of the dedication of the scientists to the country’s space programme and wished them more such successes in the future. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy congratulated the scientists for the successful launch of PSLV C-49, and wished the ISRO success in all its future endeavours.
08 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||230 cases disposed of in e-Lok Adalat||The High Court Legal Services Committee (HCLSC) conducted e-Lok Adalat on Saturday as per the instructions of the national and State legal services authorities. High Court Chief Justice and State Legal Services Authority (SLSA) patron-in-chief J.K. Maheswari, High Court judge and SLSA executive chairman Justice Rakesh Kumar, and High Court judge and HCLSC chairman Justice A.V. Sesha Sai monitored the programme. Three Benches headed by Justices C. Praveen Kumar, Mr. Sesha Sai and M. Ganga Rao disposed of 230 out of 340 cases, involving a sum of approximately Rs. 1,816 crore.
08 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Social worker Nau Gora dead||Social worker and women’s rights activist Nau Gora died in the early hours of Saturday. The ninth child of social reformers Goparaju Ramachandra, popular as Gora, and wife Saraswathi Gora, Ms. Nau died of septicemia. As secretary of Arthik Samata Mandal (ASM), she worked extensively and relentlessly for the uplift of the marginalised sections. A believer in Gandhian, humanist and secular values, she dedicated 40 years of her life to reach out to people in need of help in various forms. After earning a graduation from Maris Stella College, Vijayawada and a post-graduation from Sri Venkateswara University, Tirupati, she went to the U.S. to undertake a course in ‘Peace and Non-Violence’. After marriage with Veeraiah, a Gandhian, she lived in Delhi for six years. In 1977, when tidal wave struck the Divi taluk in Krishna district, she came rushing to contribute her mite in the relief and rehabilitation works taken up on a massive scale. Prabhakarji, an associate of Mahatma Gandhi in Sevagram, organised a ‘Shav Sena’ of volunteers to remove the dead bodies of humans and carcasses. Ms. Gora, along with her spouse Veeraiah, took active part in it.
08 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Gang exchanging demonetised Turkish currency busted in city||The city police busted two gangs and arrested six persons for allegedly trying to cheat people with invalid foreign currency and coloured stones in two separate cases in the city on Saturday. In one case, the police busted a two-member gang who were allegedly trying to sell demonetised Turkish currency, claiming it to be genuine currency. The accused were identified as L. Vimal Kumar (31), a resident of Chittoor district, and V. Siva Prasad (30) of Vizianagaram district. The police seized demonetised 100 Turkish lira currency, each of 5,00,000 denomination. Addressing a press conference here in Visakhapatnam on Saturday, Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (Special Enforcement Bureau), V. Ajitha said that the accused Vimal Kumar and Siva Prasad were negotiating a deal with some persons by claiming that the demonetised Turkish currency notes were genuine ones. The accused had allegedly procured the currency from some unidentified gang in Chittoor district for Rs. 70,000. These bank notes were actually banned since 2005. The duo were negotiating the deal with some persons and trying to sell it for Rs. 5 lakh in Indian currency. “The gang was luring people by saying that they could sell the same currency to others for even higher prices. They were claiming that the currency was originally worth around Rs. 45 crore in Indian currency,” said ADCP (Crime) V. Suresh Babu. In another case, the police arrested four persons for allegedly trying to sell coloured gem stones. The accused were identified as N. Giri Babu (31) of Srikakulam, said to be the kingpin in the case, and mediators G. Sai Krishna (34), S. Babu Rao (52), and S. Dasavatharam (47). Police said that Giri Babu had allegedly purchased the stones from some persons at Rampachodavaram in East Godavari for about Rs. 70,000. On November 6, the gang was allegedly in search of parties to sell the coloured stones. Further investigation is on in both the cases.
08 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘NTPC staff played key role during lockdown’||The National Thermal Power Corporation (NTPC) has been the flagbearer for the power sector in the country in the last 45 years. From its current power producing capacity of 62 GW, NTPC plans to become a 130 GW company by 2032, said NTPC Simhadri executive director V. Sudarshan Babu on Saturday. Speaking at the 46th Raising Day of NTPC, he said its employees worked round the clock during the lockdown to ensure uninterrupted power supply. “Availability of 24x7 supply during the lockdown proved critical in providing seamless emergency services and facilitating the smooth working of lifesaving equipment. Everyone has been rightfully applauding frontline COVID-19 warriors including medical professionals and essential service providers, but the pandemic showed that power engineers are also heroes,” he said. NTPC is working towards utilising agro residue for power generation to discourage in-field crop residue burning. NTPC has pioneered co-firing of biomass pellets along with coal in the boilers, he said, adding that the shift towards renewables is part of NTPC’s commitment towards sustainable power generation and safeguarding the environment.
08 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ganja worth Rs. 1 crore seized near Araku; 12 persons nabbed||In a major catch, Araku police arrested 12 persons who were allegedly trying to shift 1,000 kg ganja worth over Rs. 1 crore, at Dumbriguda area in Visakhapatnam district on Saturday. Araku police station inspector Pydaiah said that of the 12 accused, nine are from Odisha while three are from Pittaguda village in Dumbriguda mandal. The ganja smugglers were heading to Hyderabad from Odisha in a van. Based on credible information, Araku police arranged a special police team at Dumbriguda, where they intercepted the vehicle and seized the ganja. Police said that the smugglers packed the 1,000 kg of ganja in 35 gunny bags and loaded it in a vehicle. The main accused in the case, who hails from Odisha, is said to be absconding. Cases have been booked against the smugglers and an investigation is on. Major hauls This is the second major ganja case busted by the Araku police within a week’s time. On November 3, the Araku police seized 750 kg of ganja worth nearly Rs. 80 lakh from a man. Police learnt that the consignment was being taken to Bihar. Another person involved in the case is yet to be nabbed. In this case, in order to evade the police, the smugglers had placed a load of sweet potato on the ganja packets in the vehicle. However based on concrete information, police searched the vehicle and found the contraband.
08 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Indian biotech cos. have huge opportunities, says Biocon chief||The present global pandemic brought huge healthcare challenges but it has also opened up a huge number of opportunities in every part of the world and the Indian biotech sector saw many startup companies rising with huge investment flow, observed Biocon Limited founder Chairperson Kiran Mazumdar Shaw. She was delivering the keynote address online on Saturday at the 11th convocation of GITAM Deemed to be University here. Many startup companies in the Indian biotech sector that could not even attract venture capital or any funding in the past had now suddenly found a large number of investors. Many more startups would come in the near future. The textile industry repurposed its plants into developing PPEs and today India was a major exporter of PPEs to the world, she said. “Initially there was a shortage of ventilators in the country but our companies rose to the challenge and started developing ventilators of various types and today it’s become a big export opportunity for that sector.” Many companies, including Indian entities, had developed very important drugs that could manage the disease better and prevent deaths, she said and advised the present generation to face challenges and failures to create opportunities. GITAM Chancellor Prof. K. Ramakrishna Rao said that the institute would prepare students to face all kinds of challenges. Vice-Chancellor Prof. K. Sivaramakrishna informed that GITAM was developing its own learning management system to address its expanding needs.  New school He announced that GITAM had established Kautilya School of Public Policy with a mission to empower leaders through rigorous public policy education. Their faculty had filed 25 patents during the year and published 1,783 research papers in international journals. Pro-Vice-Chancellor Prof. Jayasankar Variyar conducted the oath-taking ceremony. Registrar Prof. D. Gunasekaran informed that a total 6,135 undergraduate and postgraduate students and 140 Ph.D students had successfully completed their courses to receive the convocation degrees. He announced the names of 46 gold medallists. GITAM Institute of Pharmacy faculty P.M. Krishna Prasad received the best thesis award and Mechanical Engineering associate professor Balla Srinivasa Prasad received the best researcher award. GITAM president M. Sribharath, vice-president Prof. M. Gangadhara Rao, governing body members and board of management members participated in the programme.
08 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Woman police constable ‘murdered’ by husband||A 26-year-old woman police constable was allegedly murdered by her husband at her residence at Police Quarters at Nakkapalle in Visakhapatnam district in the wee hours of Saturday. The accused also allegedly tried to disguise the murder as a suicide. The deceased was identified as Ch. Durga Bhavani (26) of Payakaraopeta mandal, who worked as a receptionist at Nakkapalle police station. She lived at Police Quarters, just opposite the police station. According to preliminary information, late on Friday night, there was a fight between Durga Bhavani and her husband Ch Simhadri after which Simhadri allegedly strangled Durga Bhavani to death. However, in the morning, he tried to disguise it as a suicide and informed the police as well as family members that Durga Bhavani ended her life by hanging herself. However, after a tip-off, police ascertained that it was a murder. Police are yet to arrest the accused. It was learnt that Simhadri and Bhavani were married 12 years ago. The couple has two children aged 11 and nine. Nakkapalle police have registered a case and an investigation is on.
08 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||PLCF receives good response from citizens||The ‘Pre-Litigation Counselling Forum’ which was initiated by the district administration to address issues and complaints of people with regard to civil disputes is receiving a good response from the public. Since last Wednesday, the forum has received 55 petitions from various police station limits in the city. Out of them, 11 complaints were received from Pendurthi, five from III Town, four from One Town, four from MVP Colony and the rest from other police station limits. Many complaints were settled between the parties. The forum, a brainchild of Commissioner of Police Manish Kumar Sinha, consists of three officers — Special Deputy Collector Ch.Rangaiah, GVMC city planner A. Prabhakar, and Assistant Commissioner of Police, Dwaraka Sub-Division, R.V.S.N.Murthy. The officers sit in Room 15 in the premises of Swarna Bharathi Indoor Stadium on all Wednesdays and Fridays. Mr. Murthy said that the response to the forum is very good. “Out of the complaints which we received, most of them are land disputes and house-site related disputes,” he said. “We have three personnel from Revenue, Town Planning of civic body and the police. In a large number of cases, citizens come with money or property disputes which require resolution. If we need any help from the other bodies like Revenue or GVMC, we can immediately take it up with them. Once the petitioner approaches us, we summon both the parties and resolve the issues and forward them to Lok Adalat for passing a final judgement,” he added. The officials said that citizens who wish to avail the services of the forum can approach police stations.
08 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tribal varsity admission schedule released||Officials from the Directorate of Admissions (DOA), Andhra University, released a tentative admission schedule of the Central Tribal University (CTU), Kondakarakam, Vizianagaram, here on Saturday. In a release, Convenor of DOA, Prof. D.A Naidu said that admissions for various courses offered by the CTU would be conducted based on merit in the qualifying examination for the academic year 2020-21. The admission process would be conducted online due to the COVID situation. The registered candidates for CTUAPCET-2020 should upload their original certificates for online admission counselling between November 9 and 14. Provisional allotment lists would be placed on AU websitewww.ctu.audoa.inon November 19. Students should pay the fee (online) between November 21 and 23. The online classes for the first semester would begin on November 25.
08 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID-19 recoveries cross 55,000||The district has reported 145 new COVID-19 infections and one death in the last 24 hours, taking the cumulative tally to 57,179 and death toll to 484. Meanwhile, as many as 157 persons who were undergoing treatment for COVID-19 have been discharged from hospitals or have recovered completely. As per the COVID-19 bulletin released by the district administration on Saturday evening, the number of active cases stands at 1,690. The number of recoveries crossed the 55,000-mark and now stands at 55,005. Among the total 319 clusters, six are very active, 19 are active. 294 clusters are said to be dormant.
08 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Woman ‘ends life’ over health issues||A 25-year-old woman allegedly ended her life at Sri Ram Nagar under Gajuwaka police station limits on Friday. Sources said that the woman’s family tried to perform her final rites without informing the police. After coming to know about the case, police rushed to the spot and sent the woman’s body for post-mortem. A case has been registered. Police said that according to the statement given by her parents, the woman resorted to the extreme step allegedly due to health issues. Those struggling with suicidal thoughts are urged to call the 100 helpline for counselling.
08 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Trio held for posing as food safety officials||The Duvvada police arrested three persons for allegedly threatening and collecting money from several shopkeepers by masquerading as officials from the Food Safety Department, in the city on Saturday. The main accused in the case was identified as V. Srinivas Kumar, a resident of Rajamahendravaram. According to Duvvada police, Srinivas impersonated a food safety officer along with two others who posed as his driver and assistant, and were allegedly conducting raids on several pan shops and grocery stores in Duvvada. They were allegedly collecting money from the shopkeepers. Police said that the public grew suspicious about the trio and caught them and informed the police.
08 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Workshop held on constitutions||A two-day workshop organised by Bala Vikasa Social Service Society on ‘Comparing American and Indian Constitutions’ to increase awareness on better civic engagement between government bodies, concluded here on Saturday. The workshop was aimed to train and enable youth from marginalised communities understand the shared traditions of constitutional democracy between India and the USA. The workshop covered salient features of Indian and American Constitutions and informed participants about the rights and duties guaranteed under respective Constitutions. Seventy students from across A.P. participated in the workshop held at MSFS Dhyanasramam, Visakhapatnam.
08 November 2020||VIZIANAGARAM/SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP sets sights on regaining lost ground in North Andhra||The Telugu Desam Party is trying to win back its former glory in Vizianagaram and Srikakulam districts by giving top priority to leaders of the region in its Polit Bureau and party committees. The backward classes of the two districts were the backbone of the party till the 2014 elections, but the tide turned in favour of the YSR Congress Party in the 2019 elections. The YSRCP swept all nine Assembly seats in Vizianagaram districts and eight out of 10 in Srikakulam district. TDP leaders K. Atchannaidu won from Tekkali and Bendalam Ashok from Itchapuram constituency. Although the party had lost a majority of Assembly seats, Mr. Rammohan Naidu managed to win the Srikakulam Lok Sabha seat. Heavy cross-voting in favour of him helped TDP win at least one Lok Sabha seat in North Andhra region. As the YSRCP is trying to consolidate its vote bank among backward classes by announcing many new corporations for sub-castes, the TDP is trying to come up with its own strategy to woo the community by offering top posts. Mr. Atchannaidu was made president of the A.P. unit of the party while Mr. Rammohan Naidu was given the post of National General Secretary. Party leaders such as Boina Govinda Rajulu, L.L. Naidu and others were also accommodated. As for Vizianagaram district, former Union Minister of Civil Aviation P. Ashok Gajapathi Raju and MLC Gummadi Sandhya Rani were made members of the Polit Bureau. For the first time, a tribal woman named Sandhya Rani has been given a chance in the TDP Polit Bureau, the highest policy-making body of the party. MLC Dwarapureddy Jagadish has been made the official spokesperson of the party. He has been directed to strengthen the party both in Vizianagaram and Araku Parliament constituencies. Both Ms. Sandhya Rani and Mr.Jagadish thanked former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu for providing them an opportunity in State committees. “Vizianagaram district is always a backbone for the party. The party will reclaim its glory within no time as people are fed up with the YSRCP Government,” Mr. Jagadish told The Hindu . Ms.Sandhya Rani said that the appointment of a tribal woman in the party’s Polit Bureau sent a positive message among women and tribal people. Former Minister Kimidi Mrinalini’s son Kimidi Nagarjuna, who was made Vizianagaram Parliamentary party president, said that he was honoured to given the post at a young age and said that he would strive hard to strengthen the party across the district. Former Minister Sujaykrishna Rangarao, vice-president of the party, said that the TDP had a strong base in the district which will prove itself when local body elections are held.
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Divya Tejaswini murder case: police produce suspect in court||The Disha Mahila Police produced B. Nagendra Kumar, suspect in Vankayalapati Divya Tejaswini’s murder case, in the court on Saturday. An engineering student, Divya Tejaswini (22), resident of Kristurajupuram in the city, was stabbed to death at her residence on October 15.  The Machavaram police registered a case and later transferred the case to Disha Mahila Police station. Nagendra Kumar, who was suspect in the case too suffered injuries and was admitted in Guntur Government General Hospital (GGH). Police arrested him, after he was discharged from the hospital on Friday. Medical tests Disha Mahila Police Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP), V.V. Naidu said Nagendra Kumar was produced in First Additional Chief Metropolitan Magistrate (1st ACMM) court, which remanded him in judicial custody for 14 days. The suspect was shifted to Machilipatnam district jail. Earlier, police conducted medical tests for Narendra Kumar in Vijayawada GGH, Mr. Naidu said.
08 November 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Plans afoot for a makeover of museum||The mini-tribal museum housing an array of tribal artefacts and other objects of paramount cultural significance in Telangana’s Adivasi heartland and the famous temple town of Bhadrachalam is poised for a makeover. Plans are afoot to upgrade the mini-museum located at the YTC centre on the premises of the Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA) headquarters building under the aegis of the Regional Centre of the Tribal Cultural Research and Training Institute (TCR&TI), ITDA sources said. The expansion of the range of exhibits and creation of separate galleries at the mini museum among other measures were envisaged under an ambitious plan to showcase the diverse cultural traditions, traditional wisdom and rich heritage of aboriginal tribes. An amount of Rs. 10 lakh has been sanctioned to upgrade the infrastructure at the mini-museum, sources added. Efforts are on to collect more tribal artefacts from the tribal areas of the State and also from the neighbouring Andhra Pradesh and Chhattisgarh to expand the range of exhibits at the mini-museum, curator of the mini-museum Veeraswamy said. The facility currently has an array of exhibits, including the traditional musical instruments, agricultural implements, bamboo-based handicrafts of both utility and decorative value, among others, Mr. Veeraswamy noted. The mini-museum should be relocated to the children’s park at the entrance of the temple town near the bridge across the Godavari river to enhance its visibility and attract more visitors, suggested Adivasi Samkshema Parishad ( ASP) coordinator M. Nehru. Such a move would help the travellers passing through the temple town stretch of the National Highway 30 make a quick stop to catch a glimpse of the eco-friendly lifestyle of tribal communities, their symbiotic relationship with nature, unique customs, vibrant festivals and traditional wisdom, he added. This will provide the impetus to promote the glorious cultural heritage of Adivasis.
08 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Living a nightmare amid sewage and sludge||D. Balamani looks hopelessly at the sewing machine occupying the centre of her house divided between a room and a kitchen, in Ayyappa Colony of Nagole division. “I was working as a domestic help before coronavirus hit my livelihood. Unable to find work, I bought a sewing machine, spending Rs. 5,000. Now, it has been damaged,” she says, despairing at the dirt-covered machine. All her household articles, including a television set, a wooden couch, stove, clothes, and utensils are under inch-deep dirt. Every corner bore the brunt of the calamity about a month ago, when floodwater gushed into the locality drowning every home and hearth. “After taking shelter at relatives’ place in Ramanthapur, we returned only yesterday, and started with cleaning the floor. It will take a week more for this place to even resemble our home,” she says with tears in her eyes. Several houses in her neighbourhood are still under water and sludge, and empty. It will be weeks before the owners can return to normal lives. Sewage mixed water spouting from the end of a drain marks the beginning of the Ayyappa Colony. A car is helplessly mired in waist-deep sludge a little away. One would wonder why the drain ended amid a residential area, if not aware that the colony occupied a portion of the Bandlaguda lake. Several residents seem oblivious to this fact. “All sewage water from areas as far as Mansurabad are let into our colony through this drain, making our lives miserable,” fumes Brahmachari, a carpenter from the locality. Bandlaguda Cheruvu is part of a chain link of lakes, which begins with Pedda Cheruvu of Mansurabad. Pedda Cheruvu empties into another Chinna Cheruvu, from where the surplus water is carried to Bandlaguda Cheruvu. From here, the water flows to Nagole Lake, and thence to Musi River. Right from Pedda Cheruvu, the water is thick with sewage from thousands of households. As long as the water bodies received only sewage and no water, it remained contained within the respective FTLs. Once the lakes began to overflow under the impact of heavy rain on October 13, sewage mixed rainwater raced through the drain into Bandlaguda Cheruvu, where the Ayyappa Colony stands. “We had experienced inundation earlier too. But that night, we cannot forget. Within seconds, the water rose neck-deep. We waded to a three-storey house opposite to us to stay safe,” recalls B.Harikrishna, another resident. The family had to rent a house in a neighbouring locality for a month, before returning home. While GHMC officials have made efforts to drain out the water, they evidently could not do a thorough job. “We used heavy machinery to remove most of the water, but were hampered by thick layers of sewage mixed sludge. We are, however, ensuring that all the localities are thoroughly sprayed and fogged to prevent diseases,” shared an official.
08 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Registrations on Dharani getting streamlined||Registration and mutation of land transactions of agricultural lands through Dharani, the integrated land record management system portal, are stabilizing fast even as uncertainty continues on the launch of operations for non-agricultural properties. After initial hiccups on day one, transactions on Dharani portal have registered impressive increase over the next four days. As against 470 registrations on the first day which saw technical problems like servers not responding in time, the number of registrations reached 1,472 on November 6 with the government receiving payments to the tune of Rs. 10.77 crore. The number of hits to the portal enhanced significantly reaching 63.63 lakh and as many as 38,132 persons signed up to the portal. Following a series of complaints, the Income Tax department took up rectification measures altering the configuration of the software allowing 5,000 users to log on simultaneously. Alterations Alterations made to the software, coupled with other rectification measures like utilization of secondary broadband connection, brought down the complaints significantly and the department is now gearing up to roll out additional services and modules like mortgage deeds, module for banks and non-agricultural land assessment tax. On the flip side, concerns continue over the scope for irregularities in the new system which was launched without updating the existing land records fully. Substantiating these concerns was the incident in Nalgonda where a woman was arrested after she registered a land which was already sold to other party last year in the name of her daughter in Dharani portal. The woman was subsequently arrested and three Revenue officials who colluded with her were suspended. Questions Questions are also being raised about the manner in which the officials are collecting information of the owners relating to the non-agricultural properties and doubts are being expressed over privacy of information. The High Court which took up the matter stayed the process of registering non-agricultural properties through Dharani and asked the Government to file counter affidavit on information safety. Questions are being raised over the government’s action in asking the property owners to upload the data on a public website on the ground that the exercise is not supported by any law or regulations. Moreover, the reported operation of more than one website in the same name has become a cause of concern for many as this could result in uploading confidential data on wrong website.
08 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Largely unblemished by the curse of urban sprawl||The waters are serene, with a fish or two springing from time to time, and an occasional bird swooping down on them. An angler or two meditate over the fishing rod, while a washerman thumps away on the farther end of the water spread. The lake in Fathullaguda, recorded as Pathulguda Cheruvu, has mostly retained its charm despite the rapidly rising metropolis around it. With flood flows brought by the recent rains, the lake happily brims providing the much-needed reflective space. Hemmed in on one side by the burgeoning colonies of Fathullaguda and Mattuguda villages, the threat of encroachments, however, is real for the water body. While agriculture is still on in bits and pieces, the farm lands are isolated entities amid developing concrete jungle, and do not depend on the lake any more. “This is the only water body which has retained its shape in the entire Nagole division,” says Corporator Sangeetha Prashanth Goud, smiling as she, along with GHMC Entomology officials, releases Gambusia fish into the lake for arresting mosquito larval spread. It is also the only lake which is not cursed with the bane of urban sewage, which keeps the water pristine even during dry months. Ms.Goud elaborates that the lake is not part of any chain link of water bodies, which is one of the reasons why it has retained its character. Irrigation maps show that the lake derives its inflows from the barren lands of Autonagar. “We, the residents, have refrained from letting our sewage into the lake. Initially, we had constructed a large sump where the sewage would be deposited, and later, we got proper connection from the water board,” explains P. Srinivasa Murthy, a resident of the neighbouring Ketana Avenue who owns a house here since 2004. During the heavy rains of October, the residents did encounter flooding, as water from an unknown source upstream was blocked by structures. “A function hall premises was flooded, and the owner broke the compound wall to let the water out. The gushing flows entered homes, while finding their course towards the lake,” says Mr.Murthy. Local residents spent sleepless night watching the bund, but no untoward incident had taken place, as the weir and surplus channel were not obstructed. Nevertheless, structures are slowly sprouting inside the full tank level (FTL) area with impunity. Two double-storey buildings which exist within the FTL even have permissions from the municipal authorities, and the wire mesh demarcating the FTL circumvents them cleverly. Remnants of displaced FTL boundary lie in an open plot, together with those of the demolished boundary wall, which speak for the ongoing tussle between Town Planning officials and the plot owner. There is no scope for encroachment from the foreshore side, thankfully, owing to the presence of the Mahaveer Harina Vanasthali National Park.
08 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Tungabhadra Pushkaralu to be on low key||The Tungabhadra Pushkaralu will be held from November 20 to December 1 by following COVID-19 norms but without any fanfare, Minister for Endowments A. Indrakaran Reddy stated on Saturday. Speaking after reviewing the arrangements being made for the event that recurs every 12 years at Alampur in Jogulamba-Gadwal district along with Minister S. Niranjan Reddy (Agriculture) and V. Srinivas Goud (Excise), officials and others, Mr. Reddy said there was no scope for holding the Pushkaralu on grand scale this time due to COVID-19 norms. However, the event would be held by following COVID-19 safety norms at all the five pushkara-ghats at Alampur, Veni Sompur, Rajoli, Pullur and Kalugotla in the district. The district administration had been instructed to make arrangements so as not to cause any inconvenience to the devotees/pilgrims. The Ministers told the district officials to focus on sanitation and cleanliness at all the five pushkara-ghats keeping in mind the pandemic situation. The officials were told to make elaborate arrangements for bathing, changing rooms for women, toilets, drinking water facility and parking for vehicles of devotees/pilgrims. Further, the Ministers told the administration to ensure that children and aged persons are allowed into the pushakara-ghats for bathing and care be taken that all visitors sanitise themselves and maintain social distancing while taking the holy dip in the river. The pushakara-ghats be kept clean round-the-clock and bleaching powder be sprayed frequently, the Ministers suggested. To avoid over-crowding at pushakara-ghats, the pilgrims should be given time slots for the holy dip in the river. The Ministers asked the officials to arrange spinklers and showers for bathing/holy dip as a measure of safety since the flow of water in the river is good. Other safety norms such as thermal screening of every devotee/pilgrim be made mandatory at all the pushkara-ghats and in the event of any suspicion they be asked to undergo rapid test for COVID screening. Ample number of rapid testing kits should be kept available at all the ghats, the Ministers said. Zilla Parishad Chairperson K. Saritha, legislators Dr. V.M. Abraham (Alamapur), A. Venkateshwar Reddy (Devarakadra), Chairman of Panchayat Raj Tribunal Bandari Bhaskar, District Collector Shruti Ojha, Superintendent of Police Ranjan Ratan Kumar, Commissioner of Endowments V. Anil Kumar and others attended the meeting.
08 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Construction and demolition waste recycling plant inaugurated||Municipal Administration Minister K.T. Rama Rao has announced that a state-wide comprehensive policy for management of all kinds of waste will be released in the coming days. Launching the 500 metric tonne construction and demolition (C&D) waste recycling plant at Jeedimetla on Saturday, Mr. Rama Rao said that special programmes have already been initiated for treatment of liquid waste, bio waste, sewage waste, and C&D waste. Daily, the city generates 2,000 metric tonnes of construction debris, of which the plant at Jeedimetla could process 500 metric tonnes. Another plant with same capacity is to be inaugurated at Fathullaguda soon. An exclusive system has been set in place for transportation of construction debris in city, and people may call the toll free number 1800-1200-72659 if they seek to get any debris removed, he said, lauding the Jeedimetla plant as the largest and the most modern in entire South India. Mr. Rama Rao has also informed that the waste to energy power plant in the solid waste processing facility at Jawaharnagar will be launched very soon. The plant will use up 6,000 tonnes of solid waste arriving at the dump per day. Labour Minister Ch. Malla Reddy said the C&D waste processing plant is the second biggest in the country. Mayor Bonthu Ram Mohan, who presided over the event, said four C&D waste recycling plants will be set up on all sides of the city. The plant at Jeedimetla, set up by the concessionaire agency Ramky Enviro Engineers in PPP mode in 15 acres, has so far received 6.81 MT of C&D waste, of which about 65,000 MT of waste has been recycled. So far, a total 13.14 MT of debris, including 1.14 MT from Secretariat demolition, has been collected and transported to the four designated points at Jeedimetla, Fathullaguda, Kotwalguda, and Jawaharnagar. Users need to pay Rs. 342 per MT for collection and transportation of the C&D waste for scientific disposal, and Rs. 85.5 per MT if their own transportation is used.
08 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Speed up Yadadri works: CM||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has asked officials to speed up works on reconstruction of Yadadri temple with the aim to reopen the temple in two to three months. At a meeting to discuss the progress of works with officials and temple authorities, he wanted beautification of surroundings to shower peace on devotees and reverberate to chanting of slokas. A release said Mr. Rao recalled devotees expressing keen interest across world over reopening of the temple. The State was recovering from COVID conditions and the government was funding temple works without hindrance. In these circumstances, the works should be speeded up to be able to reopen the temple in two to three months. He ordered allotment of seven acres to the bus stand of road transport corporation in the temple town as the government had taken the existing land of bus stand and the adjoining RTC depot for temple construction works. Another eleven acres should be set apart for a parking lot of over 3,000 cars. Food courts serving vegetarian food should be constructed. North and south Indian dishes as also continental food for foreign devotees should be made available. He wanted plantation of trees in the surroundings at all vacant spaces. The existing tank in the town should be beautified with landscaping and fountains. He also wanted 250 well designed donor cottages in spacious locations filled with greenery. Clusters of fifty cottages should be given distinct names. The dome of the temple should be coated with gold. A ninety acre campus should be constructed to provide seating for lakhs of devotees hearing religious speeches.
08 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Double-decker buses may return to capital roads||The State government is exploring the possibility of re-introducing double-decker buses in Hyderabad. The move came after a Twitter user, Shaker Hussain, on Saturday posted an image of the famed green double-decker buses traversing the Tank Bund stretch, and requested Minister for Administration and Urban Development K.T. Rama Rao, requesting him to bring back the buses on city streets.Mr. Rama Rao responded, and recollected his experience of taking a double-decker to school, even as he sought to know from Transport Minister Puvvada Ajay Kumar whether they can reintroduced. “I have many fond memories of riding the double-decker bus on my way to St. George’s Grammar School at Abids. Not sure why they were taken off the roads. Any chance we can bring them back Transport Minister@puvvada_ajayGaru? (sic),” he replied. The Transport Minister said he would consult in-charge TSRTC managing director Sunil Sharma to explore possibilities.
08 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Residents on a nostalgia trip||Soon after it came to light that the Telangana government was considering reintroduction of double-decker buses, residents on Saturday reminisced the era when they could enjoy a ride on the giant vehicles. Mohammad Saleem Ahmed, a 50-year-old resident of Banjara Hills who works with a private company, said many commuters preferred travelling on the upper deck. “I remember there were not many double-decker buses, but many youngsters and children wanted to sit on the upper area to enjoy a good view, especially on the Tank Bund road,” he said. Another resident Sangamitra Malik tweeted, “Travelled countless times on these double-decker buses & the other ones with the trailer. Not just myself but my children too loved travelling in them sitting upstairs. These should be reintroduced on Hyd roads on some important routes (sic).” Officials said at the peak of Telangana Road Transport Corporation (TSRTC), the fleet strength of the double-decker buses was less than 100. But, due to practical issues, such as increased need of manpower deployment, low fuel efficiency and changing road conditions, the buses had to be phased out in the early 2000s. There were plans to re-introduce them in 2003, but it didn’t materialise. “We had double decker-buses at the Kukatpally, Mehdipatnam and Ranigunj-1 depots. They used to ply on the 7 route (Secunderabad towards Zoo), the 5 route (Mehdipatnam to Secunderabad) and 65 (Mehdipatnam to Charminar). There was an issue of personnel. Regular buses had one driver and one conductor, whereas the double-deckers had two conductors. In terms of fuel efficiency, ordinary buses yield around 4.5 km per litre (kmpl) and the double-deckers ran around 2 kmpl. They were made by Leyland company and the fabrication was done by Allwyn, a company which closed down in the mid-1990s,” an official said. Another official said after calculating the cost benefit, the buses were either scrapped or auctioned. “In terms of route, the buses could not be redeployed on any route. There was the issue of maneuverability given overhead electrical lines and sharp curves on roads. Back then, standees on the upper deck were not allowed. But overall, people enjoyed the ride,” he said. Meanwhile, TSRTC trade unions welcomed the move. K Raji Reddy of TSRTC Employees’ Union said, “Double-deckers can help in tourism and are a part of the city’s heritage and culture.”
08 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TSRTC, GMR cargo ink deal for export, import||TSRTC and GMR Hyderabad Air Cargo on Saturday signed a memorandum of understanding to promote international export and import of vaccines, pharmaceuticals, and edibles, among other items, through First Mile and Last Mile Cargo Bus Feeder Service. This will connect GMR Hyderabad Air Cargo Terminal to other parts of Telangana and its neighbouring states. The MoU was signed at RGIA in the presence of Transport Minister Puvvada Ajay Kumar. TSRTC in-charge MD Sunil Sharma and CEO, GMR Cargo, Saurabh Kumar were the signatories. “This is a great beginning of a wonderful partnership between TSRTC and GMR. It is a stepping stone for both the organisations to grow and prosper. This partnership will provide a seamless connectivity in logistic services at economical rates in Telangana and neighbouring states,” he said. According to the MoU, TSRTC will be the first pick-up and deliver service to GMR Hyderabad Air Cargo Terminal. It will then provide last-mile connectivity to international imports landing at the airport from where these will go to different parts of the State, AP, Maharashtra and TN.
08 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||No clarity on non-agricultural transactions||Uncertainty prevails over the launch of registration/mutation of non-agricultural properties through Dharani, the recently launched integrated land records management system portal. The launch of the software facilitating transactions of non-agricultural properties has encountered problems with questions raised on the data privacy side. Concerns were expressed over similar websites in operation that could result in people uploading personal information on one of these sites mistakenly that could have an adverse impact on data privacy. Dealing with the petitions filed in this regard, the High Court had stayed the process of uploading records of non-agricultural properties on Dharani for the time being and asked the government to file a counter affidavit on the measures taken to ensure privacy of information. Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao announced during the launch of Dharani on October 29 that transactions of non-agricultural properties through Dharani would necessitate a new software as the operations were expected to be different from that of agricultural land transactions. The software, according to him, was under preparation and was expected to be launched within 15 to 20 days. Uploading details of agricultural lands on Dharani was relatively an easy affair for the government thanks to updation of records pertaining to 1.43 crore acres for distributing benefits under the Rythu Bandhu scheme to over 59 lakh accounts. The same is not the case with non-agricultural properties as there will be multiple owners on the same properties, for instance, individual flat owners in residential complexes and apartments. There would be several people, particularly those settled abroad, who would not be willing to disclose their property details for security reasons. Meanwhile, teething problems continue to haunt the operations of Dharani, the integrated land records management system portal, in spite of rectifications made by the IT department. The IT department had taken measures to ease problems that were witnessed on the technical side, but several other problems are said to have cropped up in operation of Dharani. Market values pertaining to certain lands and survey numbers are yet to be uploaded on the website while societies/organisations were facing problems on account of Aadhar being made mandatory for transactions. This apart, delays in mutation in spite of completion of registration process were making it difficult for the land owners to carry out their transactions.
08 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Jangaon deputy EE caught taking bribe||The Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) officials on Saturday arrested a deputy executive engineer with the I&CAD department of Jangaon sub-division for demanding and accepting bribe for an official favour. Ch. Ravinder Reddy was caught red-handed in his chambers while accepting Rs. 50,000 from Guguloth Komurelli, a contractor from Kusunbai Thanda of Raghunathpalli mandal. “He took bribe to process the work of M-Books and bills pertaining to restoration work of Jellivarikunta Cheruvu and Ghori Mallannakunta Cheruvu executed by Komurelli under Mission Kakatiya phase-IV and forward them to the EE, Jangaon, for sanction of bill amount,” ACB officials said. He was produced before Special Judge for ACB cases.
08 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Water receding from Osman Nagar, but at a snail’s pace||Over three weeks after hundreds of homes in Osman Nagar were inundated due to heavy rainfall, the water level has started to recede. The patience of residents is, however, being tested as the draining process is slow. Locals say that Osman Nagar has suddenly garnered too much attention as politicians, government officials, journalists and social workers, have been visiting the area in the past three weeks. “But no one tells us when this water will be drained out completely,” says Mohd. Irfan, sitting in an autorickshaw parked a few metres from a row of homes filled with stinking water. One look at the algae growth around sticks and plastic bottles floating on the roads, and it is easy to guess that water has been stagnant for long. Jalpally Municipal officials estimated that it will take around a week to clear out the water. They are currently using three motors to pump out water into Gurram Cheruvu. “Although more machines can be used, drained water might enter other localities. So, we are being careful,” said a municipality official. They said water had entered only around 10-15 homes in September. The heavy rain on October 13 inundated the entire locality. The restlessness among residents is palpable as many of them who shifted to rented accommodations in the aftermath of the flooding are finding it difficult to pay rent. They are demanding that effective measures be taken to ensure that water is cleared out at the earliest and that flood flows from Osman Nagar do not enter their locality again. Though water will be drained, the residents will not be able to immediately get back to their normal lives; they will have to deal with the problem of clearing silt and garbage which got carried into their homes. Officials from the Irrigation department did not respond to multiple calls and messages. Health problems A health crisis arising out of this situation is inevitable. Volunteers of Helping Hand Foundation (HHF) who have held medical camps there said several people in flood-hit localities are suffering from fungal infections, upper respiratory tract infections, diarrhoea and even nausea. “Most of them suffered from cold and cough. Rashes or itching is another issue that people complained of,” said Zainab Fatima, a volunteer of HHF and final year student of Bachelor of Unani Medicine & Surgery, adding that urinary tract infection is another issue that was recorded. Syed Mustaq, who was attending a health camp, showed cracks on his soles because of excess and unavoidable exposure to water. For him, the floods came as a second blow this year. Mr Mustaq had lost his job during the pandemic. “I am the breadwinner of my family. After the floodwater entered our home, we were forced to shift to another place to stay on rental basis,” he said.
08 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Exploring new markets key to MSMEs’ growth’||Making effective use of digitalisation, exploring new domestic and export market and collaboration among themselves would hold the key to sustainable growth for MSMEs post COVID-19, Principal Secretary IT and Industries Jayesh Ranjan has said. Speaking at a conference on “empowering MSMEs and bringing the growth back amidst the changing trade dynamics” organised by the Confederation of Indian Industry (CII) here on Saturday he stated that there were evident signs of economic recovery with the way the manufacturing sector was rebounding and the GST collection was increasing. There was a definite opportunity for MSME sector to start riding on this economic revival, he noted. “This unprecedented scenario requires coordinated and genuine effort from within the sector to overcome supply chain challenges, although there are solutions available. But, the need of the hour is to change mindset and attitude and make technology adoption easy,” the Industries Principal Secretary said. He mooted the idea of encouraging industry associations, particularly MSME bodies, to adopt and work very closely with ITIs to overcome the challenges of skilled professionals.
08 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||1,607 more test positive for COVID in State||Telangana recorded more than 1,600 cases for the third day this week. On Friday, 44,644 people underwent tests and 1,607 have tested positive for coronavirus. Results of 535 are awaited. Six COVID patients succumbed to the virus. The new cases include 296 cases from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) limits, 124 in Bhadradri Kothagudem, 115 in Rangareddy, 113 in Medchal-Malkajgiri,78 in Karimnagar,84 in Khammam. No case was registered in Narayanpet and only nine were recorded in Jogulamba Gadwal. Of the 44,644 who underwent tests on Friday, 41,849 opted government health facilities and 2,795 got examined at private labs. From March 2 to November 6, a total of 45,75,797 samples were tested and 24,8891 tested positive. Out of the total cases, 19,936 were active cases, 2,27,583 have recovered, and 1,372 have died. At the 61 State government hospitals, 4,619 oxygen beds and 1,367 ICU beds were available on November 6. And in the 225 private hospitals, 2,918 oxygen beds and 2,251 ICU beds were vacant.
08 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||HC notices to Centre, State over RERA rules||Telangana High Court issued notices to the Central and State governments in a writ petition challenging the Telangana State Real Estate Regulation and Development Rules-2017. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy, after hearing the plea filed by two persons, posted the matter after four weeks. The petitioners stated that some clauses of the TS RERA rules-2017 exclude registration of projects for which building permissions were secured before January 1, 2017. Registration of project under the Act gives protection to buyers from the builders and empowers the government to initiate action against erring project operators. However, the TS RERA rules-2017 framed by the State government had exempted registration of projects for which building permissions were granted before January 1, 2017. Many builders and developers are claiming that they had secured permission before January 1, 2017 and hence their ventures would not fall in the purview of the RERA rules. As as a result, the buyers were losing all the protection extended to them under the Real Estate Regulation and Development Act-2016 brought out by the Central government, the petitioners’ lawyer K. Lakshmi Narasimha contended. He requested the court to declare the RERA rules-2017 excluding registration of projects which got permission before January 1, 2017 as unconstitutional.
08 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||ACB advisory for cracker vendors||The Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) asked firecracker vendors to lodge a complaint if officials of the State Disaster Response and Fire Services department demanded bribe for issuing licence or renewing it ahead of Diwali. The ACB issued the advisory after it came to know that “some corrupt officials are indulging in collection of bribe from firecracker vendors”. Shopkeepers can lodge a complaint to Ranga Reddy Range Deputy Superintendent of Police S. Suryanarayana (94404 46140), Inspectors B. Gangadhar (94404 46143) and Y. Ramalinga Reddy (94408 08109).
08 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Cinemas to open, film shoot to resume||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has ordered reopening of cinema theatres and resumption of film shootings in view of unlock process against COVID getting under way. He also declared allotment of 1,500 to 2,000 acres of land on Hyderabad outskirts for the construction of a film city of international standards. For the purpose, he wanted a delegation of film personalities and officials to visit Bulgaria to study the renowned film city there. The delegation should come up with proposals for film city in Hyderabad on similar lines. Mr. Rao made the observations when actors Chiranjeevi and Nagarjuna called on him on Saturday. They discussed the development of film industry and expansion on the occasion, a release said. Cinema City Mr. Rao informed them that the government proposed to construct Cinema City of Hyderabad aided by the positive attributes of film industry for development and expansion here. The government will acquire 1,500 to 2,000 acres of land and give it to film production units for construction of ultra modern studios keeping future requirements in view. The government will provide an air strip and other basic infrastructure in the film city, he added. Mr. Rao told them that about 10 lakh people were directly or indirectly dependent for livelihood on film industry in the State. A number of them lost employment and got into financial problems as shootings stopped and theatres were closed due to COVID. Since normal conditions were returning, shootings should resume observing COVID precautions. Thereby, all those dependent on film industry could be bailed out of crisis. Chiranjeevi and Nagarjuna told Mr. Rao that shootings had already resumed with government permissions. Arrangements to reopen theatres were in place.
08 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||4 pub managements booked||Management of four pubs was booked by the Jubilee Hills police on Saturday for violating COVID-19 guidelines. Following complaints that the management allowed large gatherings on their premises and failed to adhere to the pandemic guidelines, the Commissioner’s Task Force (West zone) team raided the premises. The officials found that the pubs opened dance floors for consumers.
08 November 2020||Miryalaguda,TELANGANA||Millers’ association issues alert to farmers||With heavy inflow of paddy (sannalu rice variety) stocks for procurement at rice mills, leading to thousands of vehicles in queue, the Nalgonda District Rice Millers’ Association – Miryalaguda (NDRMA-M) on Saturday issued an alert to farmers. “Farmers should not bring their harvest on Monday and Tuesday, as it would take about four days to clear the present pendency. All our grain storage silos are also filled to the maximum levels now,” association’s president Karnati Ramesh said in a statement. He said the millers had received grain in thousands of vehicles in the past 10 days, filling most storage capacity, and harvest from farmers would be accepted only Wednesday onwards. And hence, there will be no fresh procurement on Monday and Tuesday, he said.
08 November 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||‘Indian Biotech start-ups stood against pandemic’||The present global pandemic has thrown up huge healthcare challenges but it has also opened up a huge number of opportunities for every part of the world and the Indian biotech sector saw many start-up companies rising with substantial investment flow, observed Biocon Limited founder chairperson Kiran Mazumdar Shaw here on Saturday during the 11th convocation of the GITAM Deemed to be University that was conducted virtually. She observed that many start-up companies in the Indian biotech sector which could not even attract venture capital or any funding in the past are now suddenly finding a large number of investors. She expressed hope that many more start-ups will emerge in the coming days. The textile industry re-purposed its plants into developing PPEs.
08 November 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Timely police response saves two girls||In a daring action, police personnel broke the roof of a shed and saved two girl children from their father who was about to kill them at Chittapur village in Dubbak mandal on Saturday. Appreciating the police for their timely response Finance Minister T. Harish Rao promised to extend all the required assistance to the children and bear expenses till they got cured. According to Dubbak Circle Inspector Hari Krishna Goud, the police of Bhumpally police station received a call from a villager Santosh, that one Nizam Deredi Mohammad had locked himself up in a shed with his two daughters — Anjayan and Alina — and was trying to kill them by slitting their throat. Bhumpally Sub-Inspector Sardar Jamil, constables Balraj, Raji Reddy, Ramesh rushed to the spot and appealed to Mohammad to release the children. As did not respond, the police broke open doors and the roof of the shed and rescued the two girls. By the time police entered the house, Mohammad had already slit the throat of Alina and was trying to slit the throat of the other girl. Two police constables — Balraj and Ramesh — received minor injuries while overpowering the accused. The police shifted the girls to Government Hospital at Siddipet where they are undergoing treatment and are stated to be out of danger. The constables who were injured in the rescue were also admitted in the hospital. “Mohammad is native of Khandari village in Nanded district of Maharashtra and migrated to Mothe village about 15 years ago. He has two wives Jamdri Bi and Merege. He has two daughters and a son from first wife and a son from his second wife. His second wife with their son left to Maharashtra. He shifted to Chittapur three days ago and rented the house where the incident took place. For the past three days he has been drinking liquor and quarrelling with his wife. On Saturday he tried to kill his daughters and the police saved their lives with a daring action,” said Mr. Hari Krishna. Commissioner of Police D. Joel Davis congratulated the police personnel for saving lives of two children.
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Hasish oil seized||SANGAREDDY The excise police conducted raids and seized hashish oil and arrested three persons. The raids took place on Friday. K.A.B. Sastry, Deputy Commissioner, said the officials seized hashish oil, 11.5 kg of ganja, one two-wheeler and one car.
08 November 2020||GUWAHATI,||BJP lashes out at Assam ally ahead of Bodoland council polls||Addressing a series of rallies in Bodoland in Assam, State Finance Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma and State BJP president Ranjeet Kumar Das have lashed out at the party’s ally in Assam, Bodoland People’s Front, for its “reign of terror” and “favouritism” for over 16 years. The BPF is one of two regional parties that rule Assam in alliance with the BJP. But the upcoming elections to the 40-seat Bodoland Territorial Region (BTR) has made the BJP and BPF drift apart to set the tone for the Assembly election by May 2021. “There have been allegations of large-scale misappropriation of funds during the rule of BPF under Hagrama Mohilary. The Bodoland council areas need change to end favouritism, ensure safety and security of the people and all-round development,” Dr. Sarma said at rallies in Udaliguri district. He also said the BJP was committed to ensuring equal rights for all communities living in areas under BTR. The council has had a history of conflicts between the Bodo community and non-Bodos, who together are a majority. The BJP would, for the first time, be contesting most of the seats in the BTR polls to be held by December 15. It is the third largest — and the most politically crucial — tribal council after Karbi Anglong and Dima Hasao, both of which are ruled by the BJP.
08 November 2020||New Delhi,||Record deaths in Delhi, toll nears 7,000 mark||The Capital recorded the highest single-day spike in deaths due to COVID-19 with 79 fatalities reported in the past 24 hours, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Saturday. The death now stands at 6,912. The city also reported 6,953 new COVID-19 cases in the past 24 hours, taking the total to 4,30,784. Of the total cases, 3,83,614 patients have recovered and there are currently 40,258 active cases in Delhi. Earliers in the day, Health Minister Satyendar Jain said the Capital is currently reeling under a “third wave” of COVID-19 infections but cases should begin to come down soon. He also said that the Delhi government has filed a special leave petition (SLP) in the Supreme Court after the High Court did not allow reserving 80% ICU beds for COVID-19 patients at several private hospitals here. The number of daily cases had crossed the 6000-mark for three consecutive days from November 3-5. “On Friday, we issued an order to add 1,185 beds for COVID patients in both Delhi government hospitals and many private hospitals. 500 beds are to be augmented at city government-run COVID facilities, including 110 ICU beds,” said Mr. Jain. On the spike in cases, Mr. Jain said Delhi saw the first wave around June 23, second wave around September 17 and this is now the third wave of infections, adding that cases should begin to dip as there has been a spell of rising cases in the last five-six days.  Asked about factors behind the third wave, Mr. Jain said the spike could be due to easing of restrictions and the “festive season”, while reiterating the importance of wearing masks. Meanwhile, the Indian Medical Association on Saturday said that 13% increase in COVID-19 infections in Delhi was due to air pollution and stated that masks and air purifiers may not provide full-time protection. Mr. Jain, however, said that pollution was not a reason for the spike. “The biggest reason for the increase in infections is our lax behavior,” he added.
08 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Eight arrested in fake credit cards racket||Delhi Police has arrested eight people, including four women who allegedly procured credit cards from several banks using fake documents, the police said on Saturday. Joint Commissioner of Police (Economic Offences Wing) O.P. Mishra said that the accused have been identified as Ajay Kshatriya, Manish Kshatriya, Kawal Raj, Arun Sharma and their wives. The police said that Manish is the mastermind and was instrumental in arranging fake IDs. He used photos of his family members to create different identities with different names and address, the police said. Probe began after a complaint from a private bank stating that 36 customers, who got their savings account opened under different names and addresses, availed the limit and didn’t pay the amount.
08 November 2020||New Delhi,||Campaign helped us witness no deaths due to dengue: CM||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Saturday congratulated the people of Delhi for their participation in the anti-dengue campaign10 Hafte 10 Baje, 10 Minute.Sunday is the last day of the campaign. He said that the campaign had managed to bring dengue cases to 489 this year, from 15,867 in 2015. Compared to 60 dengue-related deaths in 2015 there have been no such deaths this year, he said.
08 November 2020||Agartala,||Copies of newspaper destroyed||Around 6,000 copies of a newspaper were snatched from passenger buses and destroyed in Tripura’s Gomati district by a group of men on Saturday, apparently after the daily published reports alleging corruption in the State Agriculture Department. Gomati Superintendent of Police Lucky Chowhan said a written complaint was filed at Radhakishorepur police station at Udaipur. “While being transported to different districts in the morning, around 6,000 copies of the newspaper were snatched from buses. Half of them were burnt and others were torn and thrown away,” said Anol Roy Chowdhury, editor of daily Pratibadi Kalam.
08 November 2020||Chandigarh,||Right to recall should first apply on MPs, MLAs: Hooda||Former Haryana Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda on Saturday said that the right to recall must be first applicable on MLAs and MPs, and only then it should be allowed for members of Panchayati Raj institutions. “The right to recall should be implemented for MLAs and MPs first. After that it should be taken to the lower level,” Mr. Hooda, who is the Leader of the Opposition in the Haryana Assembly, said. The Haryana Assembly on Friday passed a Bill which provides the right to recall members of Panchayati Raj institutions to those who elected them in case they fail to perform. Speaker’s role The former CM also criticised the role of Speaker Gyan Chand Gupta during the Vidhan Sabha session on Friday when a resolution over the Centre’s farm laws was passed. “By not allowing voting after a debate on the resolution over the farm laws, the Speaker strangled democracy,” he said. Mr. Hooda said the Congress will continue to oppose the new laws unless the Union government brings a fourth law that guarantees the minimum support price to farmers. He said without the MSP, the three laws will destroy farmers. “This will gradually eliminate the mandis and the MSP system. Not only this, they will have the greatest impact on poor sections who get ration from government depots,” he said. The way government agencies are withdrawing from the procurement of crops, it is clear that in the coming times, it will have an impact on the public distribution system, he added.
08 November 2020||Mumbai,||Showik seeks bail for third time in drugs case||Showik Chakraborty, arrested in a drugs case linked to actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death, has once again sought bail from a special court in Mumbai, citing a recent Supreme Court order. This is Mr. Chakraborty’s third attempt to seek bail since his arrest by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) in September. Earlier, the special court as well as the Bombay High Court had rejected his bail pleas. In the application filed recently before the special court hearing cases related to the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act, Mr. Chakraborty relied on a recent apex court judgment, which says “confessional statements” made to the NCB officials cannot be considered as evidence. “The Supreme Court, in its recent order rightly held that the officers who are invested with powers under sections of the NDPS Act (pertaining to the current case) are police Officers within the meaning of section 25 of the Evidence Act. As a result, any confessional statement made to them cannot be taken into account in order to convict an accused under the NDPS Act,” he said in his plea.  ‘Fresh consideration’ As per Section 25 of the Indian Evidence Act, no confession made to a police officer shall be proved against a person accused of any offence. “In view of the apex court’s judgment, there has been an obvious change in circumstance which would warrant a fresh consideration for bail,” the plea, filed through Mr. Chakraborty’s advocate Satish Maneshinde, said. In the application, Mr. Chakraborty reiterated that he has been “falsely implicated” in the case. The accused has been booked under Section 27(A) mechanically and without application of mind, it said. The plea said that the remand applications produced thus far are completely silent as to any allegation of harbouring of offenders as mentioned under Section 27A of the NDPS Act. It claimed the case of the NCB was silent on the amount of financing, quantum of drugs and type of drugs allegedly procured and financed by Mr. Chakraborty. The probe agency’s case, in layman terms, is that Mr. Chakraborty used to co-ordinate the delivery of drugs for Rajput. In essence, his alleged role, if any, is the purchase of a small quantity of drugs for the late actor. Hence, the allegations against him are is bailable in nature, the plea said. It alleged that the probe agency spun a false narrative that portrays Mr. Chakraborty as being someone who finances and procures drugs. The matter is likely to be heard next week, Mr. Maneshinde said. The agency has alleged said that actor Rhea Chakraborty and her brother used to facilitate drug deliveries and payment through credit cards, cash and other payment gateways. The NCB is probing multiple drug angles linked to the death. It began its investigation after the Enforcement Directorate, which was probing money laundering charges linked to Rajput’s death case, shared some social media chats retrieved from Rhea Chakraborty’s mobile phone, hinting at the alleged use of banned drugs. The actor, who was also arrested by the NCB in September, was released on bail last month. Hearing adjourned A Mumbai court on Saturday adjourned the hearing on a pre-arrest bail plea of actor Deepika Padukone’s manager, Karishma Prakash, in a drug case till November 10. The NCB, which is probing the case, had told the court at the last hearing that it will not take any “coercive” action (like arrest) against Ms. Prakash for now. “It [the NCB’s assurance] will continue but Ms. Prakash will have to cooperate with the investigation,” special public prosecutor Atul Sarpande said. The NCB, which began probing an alleged nexus between drug peddlers and Bollywood following Rajput’s death by suicide, had questioned Ms. Prakash in September and again summoned her for questioning last month. Fearing arrest in the case, Ms. Prakash filed an anticipatory bail application before the special NDPS Act court.
08 November 2020||Mumbai,||Auditor held in PMC scam seeks bail||A bank auditor arrested in connection with the over Rs. 4,000 crore Punjab and Maharashtra Cooperative (PMC) Bank scam moved a bail application in the sessions court on Saturday. Anita Kirdat (48) was arrested by Economic Offences Wing in December last year for allegedly failing to detect irregularities committed by PMC Bank officials. In her bail plea filed through advocate Shriganesh Sawalkar, Ms. Kirdat claimed she had not committed any crime and had been unnecessarily implicated in the case. Her plea claimed she was not a direct beneficiary of the scam and there was no incriminating evidence against her in the police charge sheet.
08 November 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Navi Mumbai Crime Branch solves 8-year-old murder case||Eight years after a 55-year-old Mathadi worker was found murdered in Turbhe, the Navi Mumbai Crime Branch has arrested a fellow worker. The accused, Dashrath Kamble (46), allegedly killed Ananda Sukale to steal Rs. 25,000, which he had won through gambling. On December 29, 2012, Sukale’s body was found dumped in a nylon sack near the State Transport bus depot at Sector 20 in Turbhe. The APMC police’s investigating team failed to get any leads and filed an ‘A’ summary report before the local magistrate court. The case was reopened in May 2016 and nine months later, another ‘A’ summary report was filed. The case was opened again this year by Unit II of Navi Mumbai Crime Branch. “An autorickshaw driver gave us an important lead in the case. All this while, the accused was staying in the same locality where the body was dumped,” police inspector Giridhar Gore said. On December 28, after Sukale won Rs. 25,000 at a game of gambling, Kamble hit him on the head with a rod in a parking lot at Sector 20 around 2.30 p.m. He then strangled Sukale to death with a towel. He went on to hide the body behind a wall covered with thick bushes and fled with the money. Kamble returned the next day at 4 a.m. and stuffed the body into a nylon sack. He transported the sack to the bus depot in an autorickshaw, which he had stolen from the same parking lot. The accused has 10 criminal cases against him and has been externed several times.
08 November 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Khopoli blast: owner, directors of chemical factory booked||The Khopoli police have booked the owner and directors of a chemical factory in Raigad district, where a blast on November 5 claimed two lives and injured six others, including three children. The incident occurred at 2.55 a.m. at Jashnova Pharmaceuticals and Specialists Private Limited located in Sajgaon industrial area. According to the police, the accused, who are on the run, have been booked for culpable homicide not amounting to murder. According to the police, prima facie the reason behind the blast was a breakdown in the reactor. The impact of the explosion could be felt within a radius of around two km. “The incident took place due to a chemical gas leak during the manufacturing process at the factory. We learnt that a day before the incident, residents living in the vicinity and employees of the factory had complained of a burning sensation in their eyes. But instead of stopping work and finding the cause behind the problem, the factory continued to operate. Hence, we have booked the owners,” senior police inspector Dhanaji Kshirsagar, Khopoli police station, said. The police are also verifying if the factory is legal and if the owners had the required permissions to use the chemicals. Around 12 fire tankers doused the blaze in four hours. “The watchman’s shed collapsed in the impact of the blast, killing his wife, and injuring him and their three children. The watchman of a neighbouring company was also killed after his shed also came crashing down,” senior police inspector Dhanaji Kshirsagar, Khopoli police station, said. The deceased have been identified as Bishnavi Krishna Nevpani (40) from Nepal and Anwar Raza Khan (48) from Ayodhya in Uttar Pradesh. The injured are Krishnaprasad Nevpani (40) from Nepal and his children Aarti (12), Ashish (9), and one-and-a-half-year-old Akruti; and two labourers of the company identified as Sagar Ramesh Kondilkar (23) from Karjat and Nathu Pawar (30) from Roha. The accused have been booked under Sections 304 (culpable homicide not amounting to murder), 285 (negligent conduct with respect to fire or combustible matter), 337 (causing hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others), 338 (causing grievous hurt by act endangering life or personal safety of others) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code.
08 November 2020||Panaji,||Goa govt. revokes nod to Sunburn festival||The Goa government has withdrawn the permission granted to the organisers of Sunburn electronic dance music (EDM) festival to hold the event in the State in December this year. The move comes in the wake of criticism being faced by the BJP government in the State after it gave its nod to organise the festival amid the COVID-19 pandemic. The Congress party had protested in the city on Friday against the decision to allow Sunburn to be organised in the State. On Friday evening, State Tourism Minister Manohar Ajgaonkar said that the department has decided to withdraw the permission granted to the organisers of Sunburn 2020. “The decision has been taken in view of the pandemic situation in Goa. We don’t want huge crowds to gather as it can lead to the spread of the virus,” he added. The festival was scheduled to be held from December 27 to 29 at Vagator village in North Goa. Percept Live, the company which organises the event, had said that they were given in-principle approval by the Tourism Department’s State-Level Program Committee (SLPC) to host the festival. The organisers had said on Friday that they were ready to cancel the festival if the COVID-19 situation worsens in the State. They had also said that the event would be held by obeying all norms such as social distancing.    Congress leaders on Friday staged a protest outside a hotel in Panaji where the organisers of the festival were to address a press conference. State Congress spokesperson Sankulp Amonkar demanded that the festival be cancelled as it could become an infection hotspot. “People have stayed indoors and protected themselves from COVID-19 all this time. New cases continue to be reported during testing,” he had said. “Don’t expect people to participate in Sunburn with masks on or by maintaining social distancing. We all know what happens at this kind of festivals,” he said. Health minister Vishwajit Rane, talking to reporters after chairing an expert committee’s meeting on COVID-19, had said people may attend such events “but go with face shields, masks and hand gloves”. “I will definitely request the Chief Minister to impose stringent standard operating procedure for the festival and there should be a clause that if organisers allow the protocols to be violated, they should be penalised severely,” Mr. Rane had said. Harinder Singh, chairman and Managing Director of Percept Live, had said measures would be taken to prevent the spread of the virus. “The number of participants will be restricted to 10,000 per day,” he had said.  The decision has been taken in view of the pandemic situation in Goa. We don’t want huge crowds to gather Manohar Ajgaonkar State Tourism Minister
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Home is where the art is||
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Biden’s team steps up transition plans||Joe Biden’s advisers accelerated their transition planning on Friday as election results showed him with an advantage in battleground States that could hand him the presidency, with the first senior officials in a potential Biden White House possibly named as early as next week. In Wilmington, Delaware, and Washington, Mr. Biden’s advisers and allies are ramping up their conversations about who might fill critical posts, both in the West Wing and across the agencies, guided heavily by Mr. Biden’s plan to assemble what would be the most diverse Cabinet in history. The behind-the-scenes activity underscored that even as Mr. Biden publicly offered a disciplined message about counting every vote and refrained from claiming victory, he was already mapping out a quick start in office as the nation faces a pandemic and a damaged economy. Mr. Biden, who ran from Day 1 on a message of bringing the country together, is said to be interested in making a bipartisan gesture as he plans a prospective government after a divisive election whose results President Donald Trump has tried to undermine. Mr. Biden is looking to fill out his possible White House staff first, with Cabinet posts not expected to be announced until around Thanksgiving, according to more than a half-dozen people familiar with the planning process. Critical decisions Mr. Biden’s team quietly began raising money for his transition operation in May and has raised at least $7 million to pay for its efforts. As coronavirus infections hit new highs, Mr. Biden’s aides are planning for the first critical transition decisions to focus on health care and addressing the pandemic, the central theme of his campaign in the final months. They have assembled an internal group of roughly two dozen health policy and technology experts to look at the development and delivery of a vaccine, improving health data and securing supply chains, among other issues. Among those expected to play a key health care role in a Biden administration is Vivek Murthy, a former surgeon general under President Barack Obama, who has privately advised Mr. Biden for months on the pandemic. Transition officials are also looking at what types of economic actions could be taken almost immediately, including rolling back some of Mr. Trump’s executive orders, part of a tradition in which new presidents move quickly to change or reverse regulations across federal agencies. Mr. Biden, 77, has told associates that he considers his two terms as Vice President and his knowledge of how a White House operates from the inside as crucial advantages in building out a government. And he has made it plain in public and private that a diverse team is central to his mission.NY Times
08 November 2020||Dubai,||UAE set to overhaul Islamic laws||The United Arab Emirates announced on Saturday a major overhaul of the country’s Islamic personal laws, allowing unmarried couples to cohabitate, loosening alcohol restrictions and criminalising so-called “honor killings.” The broadening of personal freedoms reflects the changing profile of a country that has sought to Bill itself as a Westernised destination for tourists, fortune-seekers and businesses despite its Islamic legal code that has previously triggered court cases against foreigners and outrage in their home countries. The reforms aim to boost the country’s economic and social standing and “consolidate the UAE’s principles of tolerance,” state-run WAM news agency reported. Changing society The announcement follows a historic U.S.-brokered deal to normalise relations between the UAE and Israel, which is expected to bring an influx of Israeli tourists and investment. The changes also reflect the efforts of the Emirates’ rulers to keep pace with a rapidly changing society at home. “I could not be happier for these new laws that are progressive and proactive,” said Emirati filmmaker Abdallah Al Kaabi. Changes include scrapping penalties for alcohol consumption, sales and possession for those 21 and over. The decrees were announced on WAM and detailed in State-linked newspaper The National , which said they would take immediate effect. Although liquor and beer is widely available in bars and clubs in the UAE’s luxuriant coastal cities, individuals previously needed a government-issued license to purchase, transport or have alcohol in their homes. Another amendment allows for “cohabitation of unmarried couples,” which has long been a crime in the UAE. In a move to better “protect women’s rights,” the government said it also decided to get rid of laws defending “honor crimes,” a widely criticised tribal custom.
08 November 2020||Paris,||World congratulates Biden and Harris on ‘historic’ win||Although U.S. President Donald Trump wasn’t conceding defeat, people in other parts of the world started celebrating Joe Biden’s election victory on Saturday and expressed hope that the Democrat will quickly set to work on a topic that wasn’t vital in the White House for the past four years - combating climate change. “Welcome back America !” tweeted the Mayor of Paris. Referencing the Paris climate accord that Trump pulled out of, Anne Hidalgo called Biden’s victory “a beautiful symbol to act more than ever together against the climate emergency.” Cascading around the globe on social media and live news broadcasts, word of the victory in Pennsylvania that pushed Barack Obama’s former Vice-President past the threshold of 270 Electoral College votes needed to take over the Oval Office himself brought widespread relief in world capitals. The election of Kamala Harris as the first Black woman Vice-President also struck an immediate chord internationally. Rahul hails Harris win “It makes us proud that the first woman to serve as vice president of the USA traces her roots to India,” said the leader of Congress party, Rahul Gandhi. In Rome, people gathered in a coffee bar broke out in cheers when media outlets delivered the news. A city official in Berlin said, “After the birth of my son, the election of Joe Biden is by far the best news of this year.” “Everything won’t get better overnight, but Trump is finally gone!” tweeted the official, Sawsan Chebli. Western allies paid scant heed to Mr. Trump’s claims that the divisive race wasn’t over, instead quickly looking forward to a fresh start with a new administration in Washington. “We’re looking forward to working with the next U.S. government,” German Foreign Minister Heiko Maas tweeted. “We want to work in our cooperation for a new trans-Atlantic beginning, a New Deal.” Italy’s Foreign Minister, Luigi Di Maio, closed out his tweeted message of congratulations with Italian and U.S. flags.
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Joe Biden elected 46th President of the United States||“They’ve [Americans] given us a mandate for action on COVID, the economy, climate change, systemic racism. They made it clear they want the country to come together, not continue to pull apart,” Mr. Biden said on Friday night before he was projected to be the winner. The former Vice-President said he would work as hard for those who voted for him as he would for those who did not. He talked about how Democrats rebuilt “the blue wall” [winning Michigan, Wisconsin and Pennsylvania] and how 74 million Americans voted for him. Mr. Biden won Michigan and Wisconsin, where Mr. Trump may seek a recount. The turnout in this year’s elections — expected to be over 70% — is the highest in decades, with Mr. Biden receiving about 74 million votes, the highest in history, and Mr. Trump receiving 70 million, the second highest in history. The Trump campaign mounted close to a dozen legal challenges across the country in various courts to either stop ballot counting or provide Republican observers greater access to ballot counting centres (such as in Pennsylvania). However, their attempts met with little success. Allegations and suggestions of voter fraud, including by the President and his sons, as well as top Trump campaign officials and a few Republican lawmakers, have not been backed by evidence. Mr. Trump’s timeline on Twitter had a series of tweets covered by Twitter labels saying the tweets might be misleading with regard to the electoral process. “I WON THIS ELECTION, BY A LOT!” Mr. Trump tweeted on Saturday before the news agencies publicly called the results. The Trump campaign filed a case in the U.S. Supreme Court, seeking to exclude ballots that arrived after November 3 from the count in Pennsylvania [the highest court in Pennsylvania had permitted ballots to be counted, provided they were postmarked by November 3 and arrived by November 6]. On Friday evening, Justice Samuel Alito ordered the State to separate late ballots from others — but this was already being done by Pennsylvania and not likely to impact the overall outcome for the State. “I know he’ll do the job with the best interests of every American at heart, whether or not he had their vote,” former U.S. President Barack Obama said in a statement about Mr. Biden. “So I encourage every American to give him a chance and lend him your support,” he said. Mr. Biden is scheduled to speak at 8 p.m. Eastern Time on Saturday night.
08 November 2020||Washington,||Americans want the country to come together, says Biden||Democrat Joe Biden said on Friday night that American voters have made it clear that they want the country to come together. “They made it clear they want the country to come together, not continue to pull apart,” said Mr. Biden, from his home State of Delaware. Mr. Biden’s speech was originally planned as a victory celebration, but he changed his approach in the absence of a call on the result from television networks and other election forecasters. President Donald Trump has nothing on his public schedule for Saturday. He said in a statement issued by his campaign on Friday that “all legal ballots must be counted and all illegal ballots should not be counted,” while accusing Democrats of resisting that call. Election officials say there has been no evidence of fraud. Although the popular vote does not determine the outcome, Mr. Biden leads Mr. Trump by 4.18 million votes nationwide out of a record 147 million cast. He said on Friday Americans had given him a mandate to tackle the pandemic, the struggling economy, climate change and systemic racism. Mr. Biden, who said he hoped to address Americans again on Saturday, said Mr. Trump’s demands to stop the count would not work. “Your vote will be counted. I don’t care how hard people try to stop it. I will not let it happen,” Mr. Biden said. Mr. Trump gave no indication he was ready to give up. “Joe Biden should not wrongfully claim the office of the President. I could make that claim also. Legal proceedings are just now beginning!” he wrote on Twitter. A Trump adviser described the campaign’s litigation strategy as chaotic and disorganised. Another Republican official said it was doubtful the lawsuits would yield a Trump victory. “This race is over, and the only person who doesn’t see it is Donald Trump,” said the official. Republicans aimed to raise at least $60 million for legal costs, although the fine print on solicitations indicates that more than half the money would go to paying down the campaign’s debts. In one potential bright spot for Mr. Trump, U.S. Supreme Court Justice Samuel Alito ordered county election boards in Pennsylvania to follow a state directive to separate mail-in ballots received after 8 p.m. on Election Day from other ballots.
08 November 2020||WASHINGTON,||Evangelicals stick with Trump||The conservative evangelical Christians who helped send Donald Trump to the White House four years ago stuck by him in 2020. But even if Mr. Trump doesn’t get a second term, some conservative Christians see reasons to celebrate in this year’s election results. White evangelical voters made up 23% of the vote nationwide and overwhelmingly favoured Mr. Trump this fall, with about 8 in 10 backing him, according to AP VoteCast. Their support may not have been enough to re-elect the President — with Democratic nominee Joe Biden in the lead as States continued to count votes Friday — yet evangelicals still took heart in their strong presence at the polls and the GOP’s success in down-ballot races. “There’s no question that we did our job,” Ralph Reed, the veteran GOP activist who founded the Faith and Freedom Coalition nonprofit, said of his fellow conservative Christians. Like most fellow evangelicals, Mr. Reed left room for the President to eke out a victory even as that path appeared slim on Friday. But he also suggested that religious conservatives might see an opportunity to work with a Biden administration that tacks away from the left. Rejection of personality While many of Mr. Trump’s evangelical allies are white, the President’s campaign also worked to appeal to Latino voters. The Rev. Samuel Rodriguez, a Latino evangelical pastor who has advised Mr. Trump, said those advances with Latino voters are one reason why evangelicals should view the election as “a win” for their priorities. “I would argue, with great due deference to our President, that if we fall short, it’s not due to the evangelical agenda of life, religious liberty and biblical justice,” Rev. Rodriguez said. “It was more a rejection of the personality.” Among Latinos, 61% of evangelicals backed Mr. Trump, according to AP VoteCast, far higher than the 35% he received from Latinos overall. Mr. Biden’s campaign had tried to peel off parts of Mr. Trump’s evangelical base as part of its active faith outreach operation. But Robert Jones, author of two books about white Christians, said there was no erosion of white evangelicals’ support for Mr. Trump. If Mr. Biden does become President, pastor Robert Jeffress said, “Christians would have the same responsibility to him that they have to President Trump - They should commend his good policies, condemn his bad ones, and pray for his success.”
08 November 2020||Washington,||Obama, Clinton hail Biden’s ‘decisive’ victory||Former U.S. Presidents Barack Obama and Bill Clinton on Saturday congratulated President-elect Joe Biden and his running mate Kamala Harris on their historic electoral victory in the November 3 elections. “I could not be prouder to congratulate our next President, Joe Biden, and our next First Lady, Jill Biden. I also couldn’t be prouder to congratulate Kamala Harris and Doug Emhoff for Kamala’s groundbreaking election as our next Vice President,” Mr. Obama said in a statement. “Once every vote is counted, President-Elect Biden and Vice President-Elect (Kamala) Harris will have won a historic and decisive victory,” Mr. Obama said. “America has spoken, and democracy has won. Now we have a President-Elect and Vice-President-Elect who will serve all of us and bring us all together. Congratulations to Joe Biden and Kamala Harris on your momentous victory! Bill Clinton said in a tweet. Earlier, major American media outlets started calling Mr. Biden the winner after it became clear that he has taken a major lead against Republican incumbent Donald Trump in the battleground State of Pennsylvania, which has 20 electoral college votes, making him cross the benchmark of the 270 electoral college votes.
08 November 2020||Kabul,||Bomb attack kills former Afghan TV presenter||A former Afghan television presenter and two other civilians were killed in a Kabul bombing on Saturday, in an attack officials blamed on a group linked to the Taliban. Yama Siawash was killed when a bomb attached to his vehicle exploded near his home in the Afghan capital. The murder of Siawash comes amid a rise in violence across the country even as the Taliban and Afghan government engage in peace talks in Qatar. Siawash, who recently joined Afghanistan’s central bank as an adviser, used to be a prominent political and current affairs presenter with Tolo News.
08 November 2020||New York,||Are Murdoch’s media outlets dumping Trump?||Fox News and the New York Post , magnate Rupert Murdoch’s main media outlets, have started distancing themselves from Donald Trump as the U.S. election vote counting drama drags on — a first since the President came to power and a potential turning point. On Thursday night in Phoenix, Arizona, supporters of Mr. Trump bluntly shouted “Fox News Sucks” in reference to the news outfit considered fiercely loyal to the president for the past five years. Fox News infuriated Mr. Trump and his people on election night by calling Arizona for Democrat Joe Biden. Jared Kushner, Mr. Trump’s adviser and son-in- law, called Mr. Murdoch in vain to try to get that call retracted. Other media held off from calling the battleground State for Mr. Biden as the tallying of ballots continued. Since that night, Fox News has stepped very carefully around allegations of massive vote fraud coming from the Trump campaign and the man himself. “We just haven’t seen it. It hasn’t been presented to us,” Fox News anchor Brett Baier said on the air on Friday. So people are asking if Fox News, which helped bring Mr. Trump to power in 2016, is in the process of dumping him as Mr. Biden closes in on 270 electoral votes that win him the White House. DePauw University communications professor Jeffrey McCall said Fox News has always had a twin identity — on one hand, star anchors who are more editorialists than journalists and on the other a newsroom that is much more measured. Meanwhile, the  Post has not embraced any of Mr. Trump’s statements about fraud and the election being stolen from him.
08 November 2020||Gondar,||Ethiopia vows to replace Tigray govt.||Ethiopian lawmakers voted on Saturday to replace the current government of the federal state of Tigray, after the Army launched air strikes to destroy military assets in the region in a worsening internal conflict. Fears are mounting over the prospect of civil war after Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed despatched federal troops and launched air strikes in the region.
08 November 2020||Islamabad,||Nawaz Sharif a ‘jackal’ trying to create ‘rebellion’ in Pak Army: PM Khan||Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan on Saturday lashed out at former premier Nawaz Sharif, describing him as a “jackal”, who is trying to create “rebellion” in the Army. Mr. Sharif, 70, had accused the Army of involvement in the country’s politics and called for a change in the military as well as the ISI leadership.PTI
08 November 2020||Kolkata,||Economy expected to bounce back next fiscal: SBI Chairman||The country’s economy, which had shown resilience to come out from a downturn caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, was expected to bounce back from the next fiscal, State Bank of India Chairman Dinesh Kumar Khara said on Saturday. There would be a ‘paradigm shift’ which would lead to a ‘more matured economy’, with economic players learning to contain costs, Mr. Khara added. ‘Permanent shifts’ Addressing the virtual annual general meeting of the Bengal Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Mr. Khara said, “The economy is expected to bounce back from the next fiscal starting from April 2021. The next normal will see a paradigm shift and some of them will be permanent.” Mr. Khara added that the economy had shown “resilience to come out from the downturn” and some positive traction has been witnessed towards the end of the first quarter of the current fiscal. According to him, investment demand from the corporate sector would take some time to pick up. “Average capacity utilisation among the corporations is around 69%. Investment demand from corporate will take some time to pick up. “The cash-rich public sector units will initially embark upon their capital expenditure plan which will generate investment demand,” he said. ‘Careful with borrowing’ The corporate sector would become “very careful about borrowings” and use their internal resources initially. He said the core sectors of the economy, such as steel and cement, had been doing well throughout the period starting from April, and that they were in a position to tap the export markets. However, Mr. Khara pointed out, the travel, tourism and hospitality sectors were the worst-hit in the wake of the coronavirus outbreak.
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Pandemic brought in tectonic shifts in customer behaviour’||The COVID-19 pandemic has brought about tectonic shifts in customer preferences. This has spurred L&T Technology Services (LTTS), a pure-play engineering services firm, to accelerate on innovation, go-to-market and cybersecurity to align its portfolio of offerings to meet the changing needs of the new normal, CEO and MD Keshab Panda said in an interview. Excerpts:  How is customer sentiment changing in a pandemic-hit marketplace? Customers globally are looking for higher levels of personalisation, faster go-to-market for their solutions, and increased connectivity driven by digital engineering. At the same time, they are demanding solutions that provide enhanced safety and remote productivity in the context of the pandemic. In response to this new market requirement, we introduced F.R.U.G.A.L. Manufacturing, a manufacturing concept based on social distancing, business continuity and business sustainability. We also strengthened our cybersecurity offerings, and built AI solutions for industrial use that are pertinent to today’s business environment. Are decision-making cycles getting shorter in the second half of the fiscal compared with the first half? Decision-making cycles for large deals are admittedly taking longer than it used to a year ago. Broadly speaking, there are pockets where customers have begun to accelerate the decision-making cycles. There has also been a slight slowdown in new product development, although we have seen acceleration in enhancements to the existing portfolio of products and solutions. It really varies from sector to sector. For example, in plant engineering we have already started to see a rebound of sorts as manufacturers globally embrace touchless solutions and remote manufacturing practices. We are hopeful of relatively more positive traction in the second half of the current fiscal as customers accelerate the deployment of digital engineering projects to enable business continuity and drive scale. What has been the election year impact on engineering and R&D budgets? We are awaiting clarity on the decisions and believe a clearer picture will emerge after November. So far, there has been no impact on customer decision-making on account of it being an election year as that is an aspect that had been factored into the budgeting process at the start of the fiscal year. Give us a sense of LTTS's localisation and hiring in the U.S.? LTTS has been focussing on localisation and has been hiring engineers and management graduates from U.S. colleges. We have seven design centres and almost 1,600 employees across all our locations in the U.S. and will continue to hire local engineers and graduate engineers from various colleges across the country. Give us a short commentary on your pipeline for the second half and beyond. LTTS closed eight multimillion dollar projects from global customers across all our verticals during Q2 and revenues from digital and leading-edge technologies jumped to 49% during the quarter, from 39% during the same period last year. Our deal pipeline has been on a consistent upward trajectory from Q4, and is currently 30% higher than the pre-COVID levels. We are confident of sequential growth during the second half of the fiscal.  LTTS closed eight multimillion dollar deals from global customers across all verticals during Q2
08 November 2020||Bengaluru,||Goldman Sachs invests $150 mn in Biocon arm||Biocon Ltd. said the board of its subsidiary Biocon Biologics had approved a capital infusion of Rs. 1,125-crore (about $150 million) from Goldman Sachs. Goldman Sachs will be issued optionally convertible debentures at a post-money equity valuation of $3.94 billion, Biocon said. “This transaction is a part of the overall strategic plan of value creation for our shareholders through Biocon Biologics,” said Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw, executive chairperson, Biocon. “This capital injection by Goldman Sachs will enable us to make prudent investments in R&D, high-quality manufacturing as well as establish a global footprint,” said Christiane Hamacher, CEO, Biocon Biologics.
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Dumping by Vietnam hits Indian pepper||Indian pepper has suffered a sharp erosion in domestic prices as unrestricted dumping of Vietnamese pepper — via Nepal and Sri Lanka — has gained momentum in the last couple of years, planters said. The Indian spice that commanded a price as high as Rs. 694 per kg in 2016-17 had been hovering in the Rs. 350-400 range in the last couple of years before it declined further to Rs. 322 at the start of November. Karnataka Planters Association Chairman Shirish Vijayendra said: “In recent years, there has been a surge in Vietnam’s pepper exports to India via Nepal. Something that started with just 48 tonnes in 2015 has reached 5,930 tonnes in 2019, which clearly suggests the plausibility of routing pepper through Nepal.” Under the FTA, Sri Lanka can export up to 2,500 tonnes per year at zero duty, while the duty is 8% under the SAARC agreement and 50% under the ASEAN pact. “Since most pepper-producing countries are in the ASEAN region, there is a possibility that pepper [from those] countries, including Vietnam, is routed through Sri Lanka and Nepal for availing of lower import duty,” said M.P. Cherian, VP, UPASI. ‘Rein in misuse’ Plantation body representatives urged the Centre take quick measures to curb misuse of imports. “We also want the government to restrict pepper imports through designated ports, prohibiting EOUs and units in SEZs from selling black pepper in the domestic market; and fixing a higher minimum value-addition requirement for re-exports,” added Mr. Vijayendra.
08 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Future moves HC on SIAC’s Amazon order||Kishore Biyani-led Future Retail Ltd. (FRL) on Saturday said it had approached the Delhi High Court seeking relief against an arbitration order passed by the Singapore International Arbitration Centre (SIAC) with regard to the Rs. 24,713-crore deal with Reliance Industries. FRL has contended that Amazon is ‘misusing’ the interim order passed by the SIAC on October 25. The SIAC had passed an interim award in favour of Amazon barring FRL from taking ‘any step to dispose of or encumber its assets or issuing any securities’ to secure any funding from a restricted party. FRL has filed the necessary suit in the Delhi High Court in relation to seeking necessary reliefs against Amazon.com NV Investment Holdings LLC, it said.
08 November 2020||Bengaluru,||Ather raises $35 mn, round led by Bansal||Ather Energy, an electric scooter maker, has raised $35 million in a Series D round of funding led by Flipkart’s co-founder Sachin Bansal. Founded in 2013 by IIT Madras alumni Tarun Mehta and Swapnil Jain, Ather Energy was one of the earliest start-up investments of Mr. Bansal who contributed $23 million in the latest round. He had invested $0.5 million as an Angel investor in 2014. Hero MotoCorp has invested $12 million in the Series D round, Ather said in a statement.
08 November 2020||BENGALURU,||We did not adapt as the pitches got slower: Hesson||Royal Challengers Bangalore (RCB)’s Director of Cricket Operations Mike Hesson stated that an inability to adapt to the slow pitches in the latter half of the IPL affected the team's progress. After a bright start, RCB lost the last five league matches, before going down to Sunrisers Hyderabad (SRH) in the Eliminator on Friday. Hesson added that there was no need to overhaul the RCB squad for the next season, and that a few tweaks would suffice. “The strike rate of our middle-order in the first eight games was the second best in the competition. “The problem manifested in the last five games. We did not adapt as the pitches got slower. We need more experience and adaptability in those conditions,” Hesson said in a media interaction on Saturday. Can’t expose bowling “We’ve already had discussions (on plans for the next auction). Our core group is very good, but we need a little bit of tweaking. The middle-order cannot be filled with overseas players. We also can’t stack one part of our game which we’ve done in the past — and leave our bowling exposed,” Hesson said. Hesson stated that the team was pleased to have a strong Indian group of players, consisting of Devdutt Padikkal, Yuzvendra Chahal, Washington Sundar, Mohammed Siraj, Navdeep Saini and others. Hesson defended Virat Kohli’s captaincy and unusually sedate tournament strike-rate of 121.35. “On most occasions, “Kohli came in to bat after the PowerPlay. This is not an easy time to start batting, particularly in slow conditions at UAE. “But we saw his class in that 52-ball 90 against Chennai Super Kings. Certain game situations did not help him either. “There were times when we would lose wickets when he was on top of the bowling, which would slow his progress,” Hesson said. Time with youngsters “From a leadership point of view, Kohli is highly professional and respected by the group here. “Both Kohli and his wife Anushka (Sharma) spent a lot of time socialising with our group. Kohli spent a lot of time around younger players, especially with Padikkal as a mentor. Spending time with Kohli was invaluable for Padikkal’s growth,” Hesson said. Batsmen looked nervous Kohli, speaking to the broadcaster after the loss to SRH, said that the batsmen needed to be “more expressive” and that they seemed nervous and hesitant. “We allowed bowlers to bowl in the areas they wanted to and didn't put enough pressure. “In the last three-four games we have hit it straight to the fielders... lot of good shots going to the fielders. It has been a strange kind of phase in the last 4-5 games,” Kohli said.
08 November 2020||HYDERABAD,||I am more confident now, says Elavenil||For World No. 1 Elavenil Valarivan, it is a nostalgic trip to the Gachibowli SATS shooting ranges here where she will be training till she joins the second national camp for Olympic probables in New Delhi from November 18. The 21-year-old gold medallist in the 10m air rifle for women in the World Cup and the World Cup finals last year is here at the initiative Gagan Narang, her mentor, as part of the preparations for the biggest challenges ahead including the 2021 Olympics. Very helpful “It has been more direct training with Gagan Sir since 2017 and he has always been very helpful, with his quick responses to whatever queries I have about the sport and my career,” Elavenil told The Hindu on Saturday. “The focus is to get back to where I left off before the lockdown in March. I would not say the pandemic came at the wrong time. There are always positives in any issue,” said the young shooter born in Cuddalore (Tamil Nadu), but now settled in Ahmedabad. “The biggest challenge during the pandemic was not being able to be in direct contact with my coaches. Whatever interaction was only via video calls. We had to adjust to the changed scenario,” Elavenil said. Nostalgic “Hyderabad always has been a very nostalgic place for me. It was here I won my last School Games Nationals medal (silver) long back” she said. “The training facilities here are very good and I really enjoy my sessions here.” “Frankly, I am not thinking too far about the Olympics right now. “The two World Cup gold are stepping stones in my career as I chase bigger goals and I am more confident now,” the champion shooter said. “I don’t feel the pressure of being a World Cup champion. Similarly, though the World No.1 ranking is a very special achievement, every day is a new challenge and one has to give 100% to be consistently brilliant.”
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||In-form Sunrisers, struggling Capitals face off in last chance saloon||Delhi Capitals will need to regroup quickly from the crushing defeat to Mumbai Indians as the red-hot Sunrisers Hyderabad come calling in Sunday’s second qualifier at the Sheikh Zayed Stadium in Abu Dhabi. DC, which appeared to have turned a corner by snapping a four-match losing streak, against Royal Challengers Bangalore, was battered by MI into submission. SRH, on the other hand, is on a four-match winning run and appears hungry for more. Interesting It will be interesting to observe the extent to which DC skipper Shreyas Iyer and head coach Ricky Ponting can motivate the team. Shreyas’ recent form is a cause for worry and the brittle top-order has left him with very little room for error. Prithvi Shaw will be fortunate to get another game, following six single-digit scores in the last seven outings. Of late, sides are seemingly turning towards collective decision-making and DC’s will be severely tested on Sunday. In the last four matches it has won the toss, DC has opted to bowl every time, only to concede in excess of 190 thrice and then wilt under scoreboard pressure. One of these was against SRH, when the latter racked up 219. Bright spot R. Ashwin’s bowling has been a bright spot, especially against MI, when he returned figures of 4-0-29-3. Despite struggling with an injury, he sent back Rohit Sharma, Quinton de Kock and Kieron Pollard, even as four other frontline bowlers, Kagiso Rabada and Anrich Nortje included, went for 163 runs from 15 overs and picked up just one wicket. Should Ashwin be ruled fit, the ace off-spinner’s match-up against Manish Pandey and Kane Williamson will make for fascinating viewing. But before that, DC will have to keep the explosive David Warner quiet. Fellow opener Wriddhiman Saha, who has scored 214 runs from four games at a strike-rate of 139.86, missed the Eliminator against RCB and remains a doubt. Outstanding Holder While the bowling trio of Sandeep Sharma, T. Natarajan and Rashid Khan continues to impress, Jason Holder, the world’s top-ranked Test all-rounder, has been outstanding of late. The West Indian has picked up seven wickets in the previous three games at an economy-rate under 6.5 and played match-winning knocks from No. 6 in two recent chases. It even prompted the calm and collected Williamson to describe Holder as “cooler than me”. If the two Test captains can help their side keep their heads again, the right to play MI in the final will be SRH’s.
08 November 2020||CHENNAI,||Balu chalks up another easy win||Coimbatore veteran Arjun Balu (Race Concepts) chalked up another fluent win despite trouble with his car in the top end Indian Touring Cars class as the second round of the MRF MMSC FMSCI Indian National Car Racing Championship commenced at the MMRT behind closed doors here on Saturday. Also finishing on top of the podium were Bengaluru’s Rithwik Thomas (Race Concepts) in the Super Stock class and T.S. Diljith from Thrissur in the MRF Saloon Car Championship. Tijil Rao (Momentum Motorsport) and Mohamed Ryan (M Sport) won a race each in the Formula LGB 1300 category. A couple of spells of rain led to some delay, but the stop-go proceedings did not affect the competitive nature of the races. In the ITC, Balu, swept to his third consecutive win in the championship following a double in the opening round in February, but was far from pleased with his performance. “I was still down on my lap times and was not too happy with the balance of the car. We made some changes to the car from the previous round, and so, had to deal with some teething issues,” said Balu.  The results (provisional):   Formula LGB (Race-1): 1. Tijil Rao (Momentum Motorsports, 15mins, 20.044secs); 2. Chirag Ghorpade (Momentum, 15:20.726); 3. T.S. Diljith (DTS Racing, 15:25.857).   Race-two (10 laps): 1. Mohamed Ryan (M Sport, 19:10.071); 2. Karthik Krishna (Hasten Performance, 19:11.888); 3. Viswas Vijayaraj (DTS, 19:12.884).   Indian Touring Cars (Race-1): 1. Arjun Balu (Race Concepts, 15:13.588); 2. Keith D’Souza (FB Motorsport, 15:21.592); 3. Dhruv Mohite (FB, 15:26.575).   Super Stock (Race-1): 1. Rithwik Thomas (Concepts, 16:09.642); 2. Raghul Rangasamy (Performance Racing, 16:15.868); 3. Alisha Abdullah (Concepts, 16:33.443).   MRF Saloon Car Championship (Race-1): 1. Diljith (17:04.940); 2. A. Balaprasath (17:12.098); 3. Chandresh Tolia (17:22.490).
08 November 2020||MUMBAI,||Gaikwad turned the corner and how!||Ruturaj Gaikwad’s Indian Premier League campaign does underline the ethos of IPL 2020. Having been in the headlines after contracting COVID-19 virus soon after his arrival in United Arab Emirates in August, Gaikwad, with his three unbeaten match-winning fifties, emerged as one of the bright spots in an otherwise forgettable campaign for Chennai Super Kings. Gaikwad, touted as one of the most promising opening batsmen in domestic arena, stressed it was a pep-talk by captain Mahendra Singh Dhoni and a chat with batting coach Michael Hussey after the game against Mumbai Indians that uncluttered his mind and helped him seize the moment. Not prepared Earlier in the tournament, barely a couple of days after spending “30 nights in isolation”, Gaikwad had been awarded his IPL debut, because of an injury to Ambati Rayudu. While he admitted he was “just not prepared” for it, he was given a break and returned to the team at his preferred opening slot. But Trent Boult’s swing proved too hot to handle as he was dismissed for a duck — his second in three outings — against Mumbai Indians. Gaikwad revealed that after the post-match presentation, Dhoni “walked up to me and asked me if I was under pressure”. “He said: ‘We don’t want to pressurise you but we have expectations from you. All I want to tell you is you are going to play the next three games without any doubt, whether you score a run or not. Try and enjoy these games and not think about performance. Everyone in the camp realises the kind of phase you have been through and [where you] recovered from. Everyone knows and realises that. Just try and enjoy your cricket without thinking about whether you will be able to play again for the team or not. Try and spend some time with these real good batsmen who are your teammates’,” Gaikwad told The Hindu from Pune, his hometown. “After the MI match, I had a personal meeting scheduled with Mike Hussey and he told me not to think about anything. He reminded me about Trent Boult being a world-class player. He gave me a list of world-class batsmen who are still his bunnies. ‘If these world-class batsmen also struggle to pick him, you need not worry at all since you were facing him for the first time’. He told me not to start doubting myself and was sure that I would dominate him the next time I faced him. Once he gave me that confidence, it helped immensely.” What followed was three cracking fifties that ensured that Gaikwad ended the tournament having hit the headlines for the right reasons.
08 November 2020||BARCELONA,||Messi excels in Barca’s big win||Lionel Messi came on at half-time to rescue Barcelona by scoring twice, including his first goal from open play this season, in a 5-2 victory over Real Betis on Saturday. The victory helped the Catalans end a four-match winless run and climb to eighth in the LaLiga.  The results:   Premier League: Everton 1 (Bernard 19) lost to Manchester United 3 (Fernandes 25, 32, Cavani 90+5); Crystal Palace 4 (Dann 12, Eze 22, Costa 42-og, Ayew 70) bt Leeds 1 (Bamford 27); Southampton 2 (Adams 7, Armstrong 82) bt Newcastle 0; Brighton 0 drew with Burnley 0.   La Liga: Huesca 1 (Mir 67) drew with Eibar 1 (Burgos 38); Barcelona 5 (Dembele 22, Griezmann 49, Messi pen-61, 82, Pedri 90) bt Real Betis 2 (Sanabria 45, Moron 73); Elche 1 (Fidel 4-pen) drew with Celta Vigo 1 (Santi Mina 41).   Serie A: Cagliari 2 (Joao Pedro 48-pen, Nandez 69) bt Sampdoria 0; Sassuolo 0 drew with Udinese 0.   Bundesliga: RB Leipzig 3 (Konate 26, Sabitzer 70-pen, Angelino 89) bt Freiburg 0; Union Berlin 5 (Endo 3, Andrich 13, Becker 45+2, Kruse 52-pen, Teuchert 89) bt Arminia Bielefeld 0; Mainz 2 (Brosinski 6-pen, Mateta 45+2) drew with Schalke 2 (Uth 36, St Juste 82-og); Augsburg 0 lost to Hertha Berlin 3 (Cunha 42-pen, Lukebakio 52, Piatek 86); VfB Stuttgart 2 (Gonzalez 17-pen, Castro 37) drew with Eintracht Frankfurt 2 (Silva 61, Abraham 75); Werder Bremen 1 (Bittencourt 82-pen) drew with Cologne 1 (Moisander 67-og).
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Atapattu and bowlers put Supernovas in the final||They looked down and nearly out, but Harmanpreet Kaur's women survived several anxious moments and moved into the final of the Women’s T20 Challenge. In a must-win game, which produced a thrilling finish, Supernovas defeated Trailblazers by two runs at the Sharjah Cricket Stadium on Saturday night. Four were required off the last two balls, but left-arm spinner Radha Yadav dismissed Harleen Deol (27, 15b, 3x4) and then denied Sophie Ecclestone. It was Harleen's fifth-wicket partnership of 52 with Deepti Sharma (43 not out, 40b, 5x4) that had brought her side back into the game. Despite the loss, Trailblazers made it to the final. With all three teams finishing on two points, net run rate identified the finalists. Velocity missed out, paying the price for being shot out for 47 against Trailblazers. Radha’s calmness may have clinched the issue for Supernovas, but the win was set up by a splendid innings from Chamari Atapattu (67, 48b, 5x4, 4x6), which helped her side to 146 for six. With her opening partner Priya Punia (30, 37b, 3x4) struggling early on, the onus was on Atapattu to find the boundary. She did. Though Priya found fielders with regularity, she eventually was able to break the shackles and added 89 for the first wicket in 12 overs, before falling to a fine, diving catch at deep mid-wicket by Deepti off off-spinner Salma Khatun. A few balls later, Atapattu reached her fifty thanks to a misfield on the leg-side boundary. She didn't need such generosity from the fielders most of the time though, as she played some lovely strokes all around the ground. She was threatening to do more damage when she holed out to long-off off Harleen's leg-spin. Harmanpreet, who made 31 (29b, 1x4, 1x6), would have been happy with her decision to bat and the total. But for a few moments at the end, she may have had second thoughts.
08 November 2020||Kolkata,||I-League in truncated format from Jan. 9||The 14th edition of the I-League will be held in a truncated format owing to the existing pandemic situation. Given the shorter format, the All India Football Federation has decided to start the tournament on January 9. The 11 participating teams will need to enter the bio-secure bubble 14 days prior to their first match. The entire tournament will be held in selected venues in and around Kolkata. Fixtures being worked The AIFF is working out the fixtures, which will witness a reduction of around 30 matches compared to the usual format. Instead of the double leg round-robin format the tournament this time will see the teams facing each other once in the first leg of the league. Thereafter they will be divided into two different groups. The top six, according to the points table, will face each other once again to decide the winner whereas the five teams in the bottom half will play each other in the relegation leg. The team with maximum points (cumulative points from all fifteen matches from both the legs) will be the winner. The entire tournament will be hosted adhering to the COVID-19 SOPs released by the Ministry of Health & Family Welfare, Government of India, and no spectator will be allowed inside a stadium during a match, said a release from AIFF.
08 November 2020||BENGALURU:,||Cosmos wins Madras Race Club Trophy||Darius Byramji-trained Cosmos (Irvan up), won the Madras Race Club Trophy, the feature event of the races held here on Saturday (Nov. 7). The winner is owned by Mr. Rienzie M.K. Edwards & Mrs. P.P.M. Edwards. Trainer S. Padmanabhan won three races, while jockey Trevor rode four winners.  ANTAR GANGE PLATE (Div. II) , (1,400m), rated 15 to 35: NIGHT SECRET (A. Imran) 1, Handsome (Suraj) 2, Rule Of Engagement (J.H. Arul) 3 and Ultimate Striker (Jagadeesh) 4. 3, 1-1/2 and 6-3/4. 1m, 27.16s. Rs. 164 (w), 30, 12 and 10 (p), SHP: 26, THP: 34, FP: 390, Q: 94, Trinella: 295 and 1,517, Exacta: 3,833 (carried over). Favourite: Handsome. Owners: Manjri Horse Breed Pvt. Ltd, M/s. D.T. Racing & Breeding LLP & Mr. Mukul A. Sonawala. Trainer: Neil Darashah.  AIHOLE PLATE (1,200m), maiden 3-y-o only, (Terms): KATANA (Trevor) 1, Cherokee Moon (Suraj) 2, Silverita (Neeraj) 3 and Ultimate Choice (Kiran Rai) 4. 2-3/4, Nose and Nose. 1m, 15.11s. Rs. 16 (w), 10, 11 and 25 (p), SHP: 23, THP: 68, FP: 80, Q: 56, Trinella: 277 and 475, Exacta: 1,996. Favourite: Katana. Owners: Mr. Marthand Singh Mahindra & Mrs. Rina Mahindra. Trainer: S. Attaollahi.  ANTAR GANGE PLATE (Div. I) , (1,400m), rated 15 to 35: JACK RYAN (Neeraj) 1, Caracas (A. Imran) 2, Arlette (Trevor) 3 and Augustina (S. Shareef) 4. 2, 4 and 2. 1m, 26.42s. Rs. 46 (w), 11, 15 and 10 (p), SHP: 40, THP: 51, FP: 2,325, Q: 133, Trinella: 628 and 403, Exacta: 1,626 and 348. Favourite: Arlette. Owner: M R Stud Farms Pvt Ltd rep by. Mr. N. Chandrashekar Rai. Trainer: S. Padmanabhan.  KOKKAREBELLUR PLATE (1,600m), maiden 3-y-o only, (Terms): LORD FRANKEL (Trevor) 1, Christopher Wren (A. Imran) 2, Antibes (Antony) 3 and Sporting Memories (Mark) 4. Nk, Hd and 1. 1m, 39.91s. Rs. 15 (w), 10, 13 and 10 (p), SHP: 39, THP: 56, FP: 124, Q: 75, Trinella: 92 and 32, Exacta: 393 and 168. Favourite: Lord Frankel. Owners: Mr. S. Padmanabhan, Mrs. P.J. Vazifdar, Bachhawat Farms Pvt Ltd and Mr. C. Aryama Sundaram. Trainer: S. Padmanabhan.  AIR FORCE TROPHY (1,400m), rated 45 to 65: NISUS (Trevor) 1, Electra (Suraj) 2, Karadeniz (Neeraj) 3 and Three Wishes (Darshan) 4. 4-1/4, 1-1/4 and 2-1/2. 1m, 25.69s. Rs. 14 (w), 10, 11 and 17 (p), SHP: 26, THP: 35, FP: 186, Q: 103, Trinella: 341 and 182, Exacta: 3,020. Favourite: Nisus. Owner: Mr. Vishal Kamal Doctor. Trainer: Prasanna Kumar.  MADRAS RACE CLUB TROPHY (1,400m), rated 75 & above: COSMOS (Irvan) 1, Royal Crystal (Antony) 2, Into The Groove (P.P. Dhebe) 3 and Cerise Noir (Trevor) 4. Not run: Treasure Delight. Snk, 1-1/4 and 1-1/4. 1m, 25.99s. Rs. 156 (w), 36, 14 and 20 (p), SHP: 58, THP: 44, FP: 443, Q: 114, Trinella: 1,992 (carried over), Exacta: 564 and 1,316 (carried over). Favourite: Cerise Noir. Owners: Mr. Rienzie M.K. Edwards & Mrs. P.P.M. Edwards. Trainer: Darius Byramji.  BIDAR PLATE (1,200m), rated 30 to 50: 1. DONNA BELLA (Suraj) 1, General Patton (Antony) 2, Anne Boleyn (Zervan) 3 and Rani Jindan (Neeraj) 4. 1, 2-1/2 and Lnk. 1m, 14.30s. Rs. 37 (w), 10, 15 and 40 (p), SHP: 33, THP: 66, FP: 213, Q: 157, Trinella: 271 and 116, Exacta: 904 and 193. Favourite: Donna Bella. Owners: Mrs. Mahima Shailesh, Dr. Dayananda Pai. P, Dr. Thomas A. Chandy and Mr. K. Ravi. Trainer: Irfan Ghatala. 8. BANGARPET PLATE (1,400m), rated 30 to 50, 4-y-o & over: RORITO (Trevor) 1, Jain Sahab (Irvan) 2, Grey Channel (Jagadeesh) 3 and Fictioneer (Arvind Kumar) 4. 3/4, Nose and 1-3/4. 1m, 27.75s. Rs. 31 (w), 20, 149 and 21 (p), SHP: 152, THP: 42, FP: 1,489 (carried over), Q: 1,788, Trinella: 2,434 (carried over), Exacta: 1,753 (carried over). Favourite: Rorito. Owner: Mr. Kishore M. Dingra. Trainer: S. Padmanabhan. Jackpot: Rs. 8,266 (one tkts); Runner-up: 1,771 (two tkts.). Treble (i): 678 (two tkts.); (ii): 1,181 (carried over).
08 November 2020||PARIS,||Djokovic emulates childhood hero Sampras||Novak Djokovic on Friday emulated childhood hero Pete Sampras by claiming the year-end World No. 1 ranking for the sixth time. The Serb, 33, was confirmed in the position after Rafael Nadal, the only man who could deny him top spot, opted not to play in the Sofia event next week. Djokovic was also a season-ending top player in 2011, 2012, 2014, 2015 and 2018. “Pete was somebody I looked up to when I was growing up, so to match his record is a dream come true,” said Djokovic. The Serbian, a winner of 17 Grand Slam titles, had already moved past Sampras’ tally of 286 weeks in the top spot in September. Djokovic can go past all-time record-holder Roger Federer’s mark of 310 weeks on March 8 next year. Djokovic has compiled a 39-3 winning season, picking up four titles, including a record eighth Australian Open.
08 November 2020||PARIS,||Zverev stuns Nadal, enters summit clash||Top seed Rafael Nadal’s bid for a maiden Paris Masters title was halted on Saturday when the Spaniard was beaten 6-4, 7-5 in the semifinals by German fourth seed Alexander Zverev. Nadal, who reached the final at Bercy once in 2007, was only briefly in the mix, conceding serve three times. The 20-time Grand Slam champion broke back after falling 4-2 behind in the second set but it was a brief comeback as the 23-year-old Zverev stole his serve again in the 11th game. He then served it out, prevailing on his second match point when Nadal’s forehand flew wide. Zverev will look to claim his fourth Masters title against Russian third seed Daniil Medvedev, who qualified with a commanding 6-4, 7-6(4) victory against Canadian Milos Raonic. Medvedev hit 31 winners to 12 unforced errors in a muffled atmosphere at the Bercy arena, where the tournament is being played without spectators amid government restrictions to contain the rise of COVID-19 cases in France.  The results: Semifinals: Alexander Zverev bt Rafael Nadal 6-4, 7-5; Daniil Medvedev bt Milos Raonic 6-4, 7-6(4). Quarterfinals: Nadal bt Pablo Carreno Busta 4-6, 7-5, 6-1; Zverev bt Stan Wawrinka 6-3, 7-6(1); Medvedev bt Diego Schwartzman 6-3, 6-1; Raonic bt Ugo Humbert 6-3, 3-6, 7-6(7) .   ATP Tour Finals qualifiers Novak Djokovic, Rafael Nadal, Dominic Thiem, Daniil Medvedev, Stefanos Tsitsipas, Alexander Zverev, Andrey Rublev, and Diego Schwartzman
08 November 2020||Kochi,||Byju’s is KBFC’s title sponsor||The Kerala Blasters FC (KBFC) announced the arrival of ed-tech major Byju’s as its title sponsor for the seventh edition of the Indian Super League. ‘Delighted’ “We are very proud to be the title sponsor of Kerala Blasters FC and are delighted to be partnering with one of the most-followed football clubs, not just in the ISL but around the world,” said Byju Raveendran, Founder and CEO, Byju’s. “Education and football are the two most important aspects of every Keralite’s life. “It gives us immense pleasure to welcome Byju’s to the Blasters family,” said Nimmagadda Prasad, the Blasters team owner.
08 November 2020||New Delhi,||I-League to kick-off on Jan. 9||The 14th edition of Hero I-League will kick off on January 9 next year in Kolkata, the All India Football Federation (AIFF) said on Saturday. The 11 participating teams will be required to enter a bio-secure bubble 14 days prior to their first match according to the schedule, which will be announced shortly. The matches will be telecast live on 1Sports. Owing to the COVID-19 pandemic, the previous edition of the second-tier league was stopped abruptly before football action resumed in India through the I-League Qualifier in October this year. Format All the 11 teams will face each other once in the first leg of the league before they are divided into two different groups. The top six teams, according to the points table, will face each other once again to decide the winner while the other five teams will play against each other in a one-leg league format. The team with maximum points (cumulative points collected from all fifteen matches) will be the winner of the I-League 2020-21.
08 November 2020||KOLKATA,||Taylor to captain OFC||Former Newcastle United defender Steven Taylor will be the captain of Odisha FC in the seventh season of the Indian Super League, the club announced on Saturday. “As you already must have noticed in the training sessions, his intent to mentor the young players, commanding presence and winning mentality shall help the team enormously,” said OFC head coach Stuart Baxter. “We have to stand by each other and be there for each other on and off the field,” said Taylor. OFC will meet Hyderabad FC on November 23 in its first match.
08 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||SAI launches revamped diploma course||Eminent sportspersons will be undergoing the revamped sports diploma course of the Netaji Subhash National Institute of Sports, inaugurated by the Union Sports Minister Kiren Rijiju, on Thursday. “We are working to enhance the vlaue and dignity of sportspersons and those who are connected with sports, creating better job facilities and economic well-being,” the sports minister said. With the focus aimed at attracting the former sportspersons of the country to give back to the sport by getting into coaching, the course has been redesigned to equip them with training methods matching global standards. “We invite all former players and engage them in our talent scouting process and coaching,” the minister said. Simplifying the procedure, direct admission to the course was given to the sportspersons, including Olympians, so as to strengthen the coaching ecosystem in the country.
08 November 2020||Eckental (Germany),||Ramkumar in final||Ramkumar Ramanathan outclassed qualifer Marvin Moeller of Germany 4-6, 6-1, 6-1 in the semifinals of the €88,520 Challenger tennis tournament on Saturday. The 25-year-old Ramkumar fired 12 aces, and converted five of seven breakpoints in the match to pull through in an hour and 22 minutes. In the ATP Masters event in Paris, Jurgen Melzer and Edouard Roger-Vasselin defeated Rohan Bopanna and Oliver Marach 6-0, 7-6(6) in the doubles quarterfinals. Bopanna and Marach collected 180 ATP points and shared €32,000. In the ITF men’s event in Egypt, Arjun Kadhe won his second successive doubles title with Vladyslav Manafov of Ukraine. The 26-year-old Arjun has seven other ITF doubles and and two singles titles, apart from a Challenger doubles title with Saketh Myneni. In the ITF women’s tournament in Lousada, Portugal, Riya Bhatia made the doubles final with Ines Murta.  The results:   €3,732,680 ATP Masters, Paris: Doubles (quarterfinals): Jurgen Melzer (Aut) & Edouard Roger-Vasselin (Fra) bt Oliver Marach (Aut) & Rohan Bopanna 6-0, 7-6(6).   €88,520 Challenger, Eckental, Germany: Semifinals: Ramkumar Ramanathan bt Marvin Moeller (Ger) 4-6, 6-1, 6-1.   $15,000 ITF women, Lousada, Portugal: Doubles (semifinals): Ines Murta (Por) & Riya Bhatia bt Kamila Bartone (Aut) & Alina Charaeva (Rus) 6-4, 6-3.   $15,000 ITF men, Sharm El Sheikh, Egypt: Doubles (final): Vladyslav Manafov (Ukr) & Arjun Kadhe bt Vladyslav Orlov (Ukr) & Francsco Vilardo (Ita) 6-1, 6-3 .
08 November 2020||New Delhi,||Oz tour: Kohli may miss last two Tests||India skipper Virat Kohli might miss the last two Tests of the four-match series against Australia as he gets ready to welcome his first child in January. Kohli’s wife Anushka Sharma is due to give birth in early January. An official word on the skipper’s itinerary is not yet out, but a BCCI source said that Kohli can be expected to take paternity leave after the first two Tests of the series starting on December 17.
08 November 2020||RAWALPINDI,||Babar stars for Pakistan||Skipper Babar Azam smashed a robust and attractive 82 (55b, 9x4, 1x6) to lead Pakistan’s six-wicket defeat of Zimbabwe and take a 1-0 lead in the three-match Twenty20 international series here on Saturday. Earlier, Wesley Madhevere struck a maiden, unbeaten half-century (70, 48b, 9x4, 1x6) to take Zimbabwe to 156 for six after it elected to bat. Riaz pulled up Pakistan left-arm pacer Wahab Riaz received a warning from umpires for breaching the COVID-19 regulations by using saliva to shine the ball.  The scores: Zimbabwe 156/6 in 20 overs (Wesley Madhevere 70 n.o., Sean Williams 25, Elton Chigumbura 21, Brendan Taylor 20, Haris Rauf 2/25, Wahab Riaz 2/37) lost to Pakistan 157/4 in 18.5 overs (Babar Azam 82, Mohd. Hafeez 36, Blessing Muzarabani 2/26). MoM: Babar Azam .
08 November 2020||HYDERABAD:,||Kings XI takes on Titans XI in final||Kings XI and Titans XI entered the final of the KarbonnCity ACA T20 league championship at Anantapur on Saturday. Batting first, Champions XI scored 184 for five in 20 overs with captain Ricky Bhui (77, 51b, 4x4, 4x6) and K. Ashwin Hebbar (35, 26b, 3x6) being the main scorers. In reply, Kings XI achieved the target in the 19th overs thanks to M.A. Praneeth (67, 37b, 3x4, 5x6) and N. Jyothi Sai Krishna (44b, 28b, 3x4, 2x6). In the other semifinal affected by rain, Titans XI scored a seven-wicket win via VJD Method against Chargers XI, thanks to C.H. Stephen (3/24) and useful contributions from Ch. Kranti Kumar (34, 31b, 3x4, 1x6), D.G.J. Chaitanya (25, 22b, 2x4, 1x6) and P. Girinath Reddy 25 n.o., 19b, 1x4, 2x6). The final will be played on Sunday.  The scores:   Semifinals: Champions XI 184/5 in 20 overs (Ricky Bhui 77, K. Ashwin Hebbar 35) lost to Kings XI 188/5 in 18.4 overs (M.A. Praneeth 67, N. Jyothi Sai Krishna 44). Man of the match: M.A. Praneeth.   Chargers XI 153 in 19.2 overs (K. Dheeraj Lakshman 30, C.H. Stephen 3/24) lost to Titans XI 118/3 in 14.5 overs (Ch. Kranti Kumar 34) - via VJD Method (target reduced to 116 in 16 overs). Man of the match: P. Girinath Reddy.    SS Interiors scored a 54-run win over Healers XI in the GOSPORTS Cup Twenty20 league championship. V. Lenin, who scored 45 and took two wickets, was named man-of-the-match. True Connect notched up a 49-run win over Boppanna CC, thanks to fine knocks by Ratna Sekhar (54, 32b, 4x4, 1x6), G.N. Srinivas (32 n.o.) and I. Srinivas (39 n.o.).  The scores: SS Interiors 163/6 in 20 overs (Susamkeerth 59, V. Lenin 45) bt Healers XI 109 in 16.5 overs (Sai Pawan 52 n.o.).   True Connect 142/2 in 20 overs (Ratna Sekhar 54, G.N. Srinivas 32 n.o., I. Srinivas 39 n.o.) bt Boppanna CC 93/9 in 20 overs (Santosh 3/13, Srinivas 3/19).
08 November 2020||HYDERABAD,||SRH gelling as a unit at the right time: Holder||Statistics pertain to the first 58 matches of IPL 2020. Four games — Delhi Capitals vs Kings XI Punjab, Mumbai Indians vs Royal Challengers Bangalore, Kolkata Knight Riders vs Sunrisers and Mumbai Indians vs Kings XI Punjab — ended in a Tie.
08 November 2020||MADRID,||Hazard, Casemiro test positive||Real Madrid’s Eden Hazard and his teammate Casemiro have both tested positive for COVID-19, the La Liga club announced on Saturday. “Real Madrid informs that our players, Casemiro and Eden Hazard, have tested positive in the COVID-19 tests undertaken yesterday, Friday, in the morning,” the club said in a statement.
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 08:00 IST,||Sudoku - November 8, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Blood, sweat and gold||Two words: “I Retire”. On November 2, a social media post bearing this message on its cover went online and did what it was expected to: make people sit up and take notice. Typically, this is the kind of clickbait marketers use. However, it came from the Twitter and Instagram feeds of ace shuttler P.V. Sindhu, fuelling conjecture. Many genuinely, even if momentarily, believed that the 2016 Olympics silver medallist was calling time on her career. “I know I gave a bit of heart attack to everyone,” Sindhu laughs. The sixth-ranked shuttler is in London preparing to mark her return to the court at the Asian leg of the BWF World Tour to be held in Thailand in January 2021. Germ alert Of course, the 25-year-old knew what she was doing when she uploaded the message. She says she was only retiring “from the negativity, the constant fear, uncertainty” and “a complete lack of control over the unknown” — all of which she attributed to the pandemic outbreak in the post. What many did not know was that it was also a subtle marketing campaign, as Sindhu represents Hindustan Unilever’s Nature Protect brand. “It is important for all of us to take care of ourselves. Everybody is travelling and stepping out. It is more important now to stay safe and be healthy,” says Sindhu, connecting over Zoom from England, where she is presently stationed. Now training at the Gatorade Sports Science Institute (GSSI), she says she had to forego training for up to five months during lockdown, and when she resumed, it was hard not to be paranoid about being surrounded by sweating athletes. “When I’m training, or when I sit on benches, place the racquet on the floor and pick it back up, I need [sanitising] wipes. I’m also the type of person who is very particular about hygiene and safety,” the ace shuttler says. Sindhu left midway from the camp at the SAI Gopichand National Badminton Academy in Telangana last month to head to London, a move that generated a buzz since this was the first full-fledged preparatory camp conducted for elite athletes post lockdown. Sindhu reaffirms that her stay at GSSI, which will be for a few more weeks, will help her analyse her body. “While playing tournaments, I don’t get much time to undertake these tests. Now is a good opportunity to train and know my body condition, what is going on and what I need to do to improve. GSSI is taking care of my nutrition, doing sweat analysis and watching the calories that I intake. As you know, understanding nutrition is an important thing for athletes,” Sindhu adds. Since Sindhu’s arrival on the scene, and especially after her gold medal clash with Spaniard Carolina Marín at the Rio Olympics, which the latter won, badminton’s popularity in the country has soared significantly, almost in parallel with the shuttler’s fortunes. Sindhu believes that the country is on the right track in terms of promoting the sport, and that the Government of India through initiatives such as Khelo India, has been setting up the platform for young sportspersons to utilise and benefit from. Chasing victory “Even corporate sponsorships have improved. I, myself, am sponsored by the Olympic Gold Quest, and they have done so since I was 14. It matters if a sportsperson wants to go abroad and train or play tournaments. There are also others like the GoSports Foundation. I know there still are people who may get fewer opportunities, but once somebody gets one, what they do with it is up to them. He/she has to work really hard to become an elite athlete,” she remarks. For Sindhu, however, the aim remains the same as it was in 2016 — the Olympic gold medal. She considers the postponement of the 2020 Tokyo Olympics as a blessing in disguise, as it has given her time to work on, improve and perfect her technique. “I got a lot of time to innovate on my shots. You are going to see a P.V. Sindhu who is unique and different competitively at the 2021 Olympics,” she says, brimming with confidence. The fight to get there is not going to be easy. Many elite athletes stand in her way; she identifies Carolina Marín and Taiwanese player Tai Tzu-ying as her primary challengers. “The top 10 players are all of the same standard from a competitive view point. So what really matters is how we manage to perform on that particular day. Of course, it is the Olympics and everyone will be keen on giving their 100% and playing their best in every game. The pressure will be different,” she says. That last remark is a reminder of how much she has grown as a sportsperson, and also a marker of the amount of hope this country will pin on her when she steps on to the courts in Tokyo. “Compared to 2016, the responsibility and expectations are a lot,” she says, letting out a nervous smile. The pandemic will occupy a corner of her mind. “It will be tough for the International Olympic Committee to pull off a bio bubble at the Games because it is a big event, and we must all take care,” she says. “But I will go with a mindset of getting the gold. That is the ultimate aim.”
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Indian flowers in Hotel California||Telling Leslee Lewis that he has been a big part of your childhood gets you a dry chuckle — “Too many people have been saying this.” A reminder of his experience, he jokes, is also a reminder of his age. “No no,” he is quick to add, “To know that I have influenced you with even one song is half my job done.” The iconic duo from the 1990s indipop scene Colonial Cousins, comprising Leslee and singer Hariharan, is back in action after a gap of over 10 months, having kicked off Paytm Insider Jim Beam Originals. The virtual series has a very 2020-appropriate theme: reimagination. Ten leading Indian singers and bands such as Shalmali, Shaan, Thaikkudam Bridge, Usha Uthup and Benny Dayal, will reinterpret legendary international artistes in their own styles, for 60 minutes each. Last weekend, Hariharan and Leslee gave a “Colonial tadka” to the Eagles. “This was our tribute to them. I think the fit is fantastic, as the Eagles is very melodious, and Colonial Cousins also stands strong for melody,” says Leslee over a Zoom call. Hariharan puts it more visually: “It’s like if Hotel California were decorated with Indian flowers.”. It’s a new experiment for Colonial Cousins, whose forte is live performances. Of course, there is hardly anyone as diverse in his musical genres as Hariharan, celebrated as much for his film songs, ghazals and his devotional songs (his version of ‘Hanuman Chalisa’ with T-Series recently crossed a billion views, becoming the first devotional song in the world to do so). And then there is the Indipop side of his with Leslee, hair combed-back and grinning — a picture of the late ‘90s and early 2000s. Their hits ‘Indian Rain’, ‘Sa Ni Dha Pa’, ‘Krishna’, ‘Kai Zhala’ evoke nostalgia and are popular among audiences even today. “The beauty is that the kids of our fans are now following us,” says Hariharan. While indipop ruled in the ‘90s, Hariharan believes that Sufi and a fusion of folk and rock are genres to keep an eye on now. Given we are on the precipice of change in many ways, how does this reflect in the music industry? “I think people are still searching for a new sound to settle in for a few years. In the ‘90s, it was indipop, in the 2010s, it was all about EDM. And remixes, because it’s easy to market a familiar tune. But we don’t have a defining sound for this generation yet,” says Leslee.
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||The gift of education amidst a pandemic||Autorickshaw driver R. Venkatesan was venting out his frustration over how the pandemic had shrunk his earnings, to a passenger, he did not realise the conversation would lead to some references. The only earning member in the family, Venkatesan was struggling to pay his children’s school fees. The passenger referred him to a non-governmental organisation and as Venkatesan’s daughter, V. Swethasri, was a meritorious student, her first semester college fee of Rs. 20,000 was transferred to her college’s bank account. At least 15 more students have received the gift of education thanks to a group of young working professionals and students who help fund the fees of students whose families are struggling to make ends meet due to the pandemic. This group functions under the banner of Indian Social Activist Council (ISAC). Started by a group of students from the 2014 batch of Christ King Girls Higher Secondary School, a government-aided institution in East Tambaram, ISAC was registered in 2015. “The seeds of starting an NGO to help the less-privileged were sown during our class X days, but it took shape as soon as we completed school,” says 23-year-old Sheeba Priyadharshini, founder-president. Some of their classmates were married off early as their parents did not have the means to educate them, and that got them thinking about helping underprivileged students. “We were regular to inter-school debate competitions and a majority of the topics were around societal issues,” says Raga Ravi, a school teacher and vice-secretary of ISAC, on the foundations of their social vision. Over the last five years, ISAC has focussed on environment-related activities such as tree planting and lake clean-ups and offering personality development programmes to children in slums and also to those in orphanages. When the pandemic hit, they noticed the digital divide and how parents, especially those without work, struggled to meet their children’s educational expenses. “That is when we decided to shift our focus to education as it was the need of the hour,” says Sheeba. Most of the beneficiaries of ‘Kalvi’, as their initiative is called, are from Ram Nagar in Nanganallur, a few villages in Tiruvallur and Pollachi. “We are familiar with these areas as we have people to help us run background checks on students, but we are open to rewarding scholarships to deserving students from other areas too,” says Raga. Humble beginnings “When we started this programme to support deserving students hailing from underprivileged families, each of us in the group contributed 5% of our monthly salary towards the cause,” says Sheeba, a lawyer by profession. Of the 15 active members in ISAC, eight are Sheeba’s classmates from school. As more requests started coming, they started approaching donors. “We are transparent in what we do. For example, we do not want people transferring money to our accounts but to the educational institution directly. After we have done a background check about the candidate, we ask the donor also to speak to them,” says Sheeba. Members say they follow a thorough process before choosing students for educational aid. V.S. Mahalakshmi, principal of Prince Matriculation School in Adambakkam, says ISAC paid the fees of a few of their students. “As many have lost their jobs, we allow parents to pay the fees even a year later,” says Mahalakshmi, adding that she hoped there were more such groups helping deserving students in this manner.
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Citizen birding during a pandemic: The near and the far of it||Have you browsed through recent eBird lists? If you have not, run your eyes through it, and we will wait for you. Did anything stand out? Stopping at a recent page of eBird lists for Chennai, let us take a dekko at two entries, hardly unique but revelatory nevertheless. One reports two black-rumped flamebacks being sighted on 2 November 2020 from GRN-Tempe, 5th Main Road, Nanganallur. Another, made the same day, reports an oriental darter in flight over AM House in Madipakkam. Subramanian Sankar had jotted down the observation made from his apartment complex GRN-Tempe, and Aravind AM from his independent house, named AM House, in Madipakkam, respectively. Over the last few months, due to the pandemic, bird data from urban, residential spaces, have dominated the lists, as against spaces celebrated as birding hotspots. In many instances, the birders were only continuing with their pre-pandemic practice of recording birds from their immediate backyard — both Subramanian and Aravind belong to that category — in addition to observations from their regular jaunts to birding spots. Continuing to bird from his terrace during the intense lockdown and even later, Aravind has the distinction of sending lists to eBird without a day’s break for an impressive passage of time. “I am maintaining a bird-listing streak that is close to 600 days long,” Aravind volunteers more specific information. Gaps in knowledge Many a time and oft, “terrace data” would be about birds that turn up as regularly and predictably as the milk vendor. Now, one has to be on the guard against labelling birds as common species. Doing so betrays flawed thinking, as it often glosses over gaps in the overall understanding of these species as they interact with the local environment. Watching even the so-called common species and documenting their numbers and observing the patterns they follow, can make for discoveries that are not only fascinating but also essential to ecological planning. In the months spent locked-down, bird researcher P. Hopeland spent some evenings counting rose-ringed parakeets that winged past the terrace of his house on Gandhi Road in Velachery, behind IIT-M. “My assumption is that overall, the parakeets flying by would be around 700 — one evening I counted over 500. Going by that flock, I am beginning to wonder if there are more people feeding parakeets in urban spaces that we realise. Of course, you cannot make that inference based on a single observation. There are many unknowns, because it is just one person counting parakeets in the middle of nowhere,” explains Hopeland. “I am in the dark about these parakeets’ roosting and breeding patterns. One would assume that these birds would use tree hollows. Normally, the assumption is that we don’t have as many trees as we should. So, how far are they going? If they are living within the city, is there a pattern that is driving it? From my terrace, I could see that they come from much further north, with very few really staying on the IIT-M side. These are birds that are definitely going to the roost. They are south-west bound. They must be using the same roost, as they are making a beeline for what to me still remains an unknown destination. It happens in a matter of two hours. In Rajasthan, I have seen a huge flock roosting on a single tree that it looked like a decorated Christmas tree. Supposing we find out where they are roosting, we can probably attempt to address disturbances, if any.” What Hopeland is driving at is that if many others spread across Chennai simultaneously studied the movement of parakeets, counting them and recording their observations, it might be possible to puzzle out these birds’ roosting, breeding and feeding patterns, as various pieces of the zigsaw would fit in. The vital aspect of such exercises is that through data, areas for intervention, if any, can be identified. “I suspect that many people are feeding parakeets in urban spaces. In my opinion, this causes problems. There are people who feed parakeets boiled rice. In such cases, there is the risk of these birds’ food diversity reducing, and the birds may end up maintaining a nutritional level that is lower than what is desirable. When these birds fend for themselves, they may be managing a diverse diet, including fruits, that increases the odds that they get all the necessary nutrients,” elaborates Hopeland. With citizen data coming in about a wide range of species, including the so-called common species, it would be possible to arrive at an ecological plan for the entire metro, says Hopeland. ‘Hearing’ birds Subramanian Sankar, also among those who view birding as more than just a hobby, is keenly interested in soundscapes, which is about “recording the wilderness without human sounds”, as he puts it. There were occasions over the last few months, when synthetic sounds were less intrusive and birds received greater air time. The fact that ambient sound had gone down did help birders who are as tuned in to birding by the ear as they are by the eye, points out Subramanian. Places usually imbued with quiet would have become quieter still during the lockdown. That is probably the reason why Susy Varughese, a professor at IIT-M who lives on the campus, and another resident Mahati Narayanaswamy, also a well-known eBirder, recorded the call of a lesser cuckoo. Fundamental challenge Subramanian agrees that for many residents in urban areas, trapped in concrete jungles that are clothed in skimpy greenery, the possibility of sighting or hearing the bare minimum number of birds to make the pursuit engaging, is remote. So, these residents would have to stir from their moorings to have meaningful birding experiences. Subramanian believes patch birding is the answer; he suggests local clubs can sustain interest in patch birding. Many birders are now practising it as the pandemic has made travelling to far-flung avian hotspots a forbidding idea. Beyond the pandemic, an ideal scenario would be one in which birders work patch birding into their regular schedules, while also travelling far for birding. Where people live in areas located cheek by jowl with a marsh, a lake or an arboreal patch or surrounded by them, they should attempt the trifecta of birding — patch birding, hotspot birding and backyard birding. Before the pandemic struck, Aravind A.M., a resident Madipakkam, would visit what is known in local birding circles as the “Ram Nagar Swamps”, during his morning walk. Obviously, the last few months, he had either kept away or had been making occasional visits to this patch, which is found smack in the middle of concrete jungle, but still has features that support avian life, especially birds of the reeds and water. “At the height of the lockdown, Birdcount India pushed for birding from terraces. I have been doing that. Even if I am not going to Ram Nagar for the usual walk, I walk on my terrace. Every day, I get to see 12 to 15 species,” elaborates Aravind, making it clear why his daily eBird listing streak continues. Birding from the terrace has of course taken an expected course — Aravind has not entered any rarities in his field notebook. He however feels enriched by terrace birdwatching. “You become aware of things you would not sit and take notice otherwise. Half an hour on the terrace is not something you usually do. But many birds usually breed around our houses but we are oblivious to it. For the first time, I saw koels mating right in front of my house. During the breeding season, I was able to see sunbirds and yellow-billed babblers nesting, from my terrace,” says Aravind. Birders would point out that watching birds in flight and identifying them is an art in itself. There are variations — sometimes subtle — in how the wing looks and in the flight and other factors that can help in identification. With its overall size and beak and accompanying gular pouch, a pelican cannot be missed — in Chennai, residents living near waterbodies and marshes may be accustomed to watching spot-billed pelicans flying past their homes — but a birder would tell you more. That a pelican bends its neck to form an ‘S’ while flying due to the oversized “bag” under its beak. Says Aravind, “You may never or only rarely get to see a rare bird from your terrace. But there is always the possibility of regularly seen birds exhibiting rare behaviour, if you set aside some time for them. To give an example, during the lockdown, I saw two yellow-billed babblers squaring off against each other.”
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Wintering season is off to a good start||Being able to make a quick trip by foot to the fringes of a Marsh, and watch winter-migrants is a great favour. As if that were not enough, greater favour has now been bestowed upon Sundaravel Palanivelu. No sooner had this winter birding season begun than he was treated to the sight of two rare droppers-in. A resident of Kamakotti Nagar, Sundaravel can reach a point in five bobs of a sandpiper’s tail feathers, and from there, clearly view a patch that lies on the fringes of the Pallikaranai Wetland. Sundaravel is now watching the Long-toed Stint at this patch, regularly. “The Long-toed Stint is a rarity in Chennai. During every wintering season, very few numbers of them would be sighted,” explains Sundaravel. “Another resident of Kamakotti Nagar had seen two or three Long-toed Stints, and the next day when I went there I was able to see close to 20 of them.” The Long-toed Stint, which belongs to the family that consists of the Little Stint and Temminck’s Stint, two of the more commonly seen birds during the wintering season in Chennai, is distinguished by its long toes, as its name suggests. Rama Neelamegan, a resident of Mylapore and another avid birder, paid a visit to this patch and documented the sighting of the Long-toed Stint on eBird, in an entry dated 31 October 2020. There is in fact an informal, loosely-formed patch-birding group around this space near Kamakotti Nagar, and by regularly documenting findings from there, they provide data that can help assess a migratory season. Sundaravel has seen another striking drop-in at this patch — a White Wagtail. The White Wagtail is not to be confused with the extremely common White-browed Wagtail, which has in fact been named after Madras ( Motacilla Maderaspatensis ). In contrast, the White Wagtail ( Motacilla Alba ) is found year-round in certain parts of India, but not in Chennai. Here, a sighting of the White Wagtail is always greeted with a raised brow, suggesting merry surprise.  Related story on page 4
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Remove water hyacinths’||The Federation of Perumbakkam Residents’ Welfare Associations has made a request to the Water Resources Department (WRD) seeking that the Perumbakkam Periya Eri be desilted and deepened. The Federation has also requested the WRD to remove water hyacinths that seem to have taken over the waterbody. “It is a sprawling lake, spread across Perumbakkam and Nanmangalam. Its southern side, towards Sithalapakkam, is run over with these weed. Besides, in the weir area, it is completely dry and strewn with all kinds of trash,” says N. K. Raja, secretary of the Federation. The Federation has also underscored the need to check discharge of sewage into the lake. “Water hyacinth thrives on sewage, and if steps are not taken to put an end to this problem, the remaining portion of the lake will also be covered by water hyacinth,” says Raja. Strengthening of the bunds and removal of encorachments are among the other requests. “We have also asked for a walkway be be created around the lake, with benches. Only when local residents make use of the waterbody would it be maintained well and check further encroachments,” says Raja. In addition to the Federation, environmental activists have also requested the WRD to reconstruct the broken weir in the lake. “If reconstructed, the dam will raise the level of water upstream or regulate its flow, which in turn will increase the ground water level, and lake belt storage. Besides, steps should be taken to stop illegal drawing of water from the lake. Every day, a number of tankers can be seen drawing water from the lake. If this practice is not checked, the ground water level will plummet, ” says T. D. Babu, an environmental activist. A Water Resources Department official says, “Under the Environment Protection & Renewable Energy Development (EPRED) Scheme, steps are being taken to construct irrigation tanks, create pathways on the bunds and walls around the waterbody to prevent further encroachments. And steps will be taken to restore the lake only after the removal of encroachments.”  We have also asked for a walkway be be created around the lake
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Forum begins pond restoration||Kalkulam, a pond in Sholinganallur, is being restored by a four-year-old waterbodies conservation forum — OMR ECR Neer Nilaigal Padhukappu Iyakkam. The exercise, which began last Saturday with Sholinganallur MLA S. Aravind Ramesh inaugurating it, has reached a stage where the pond has been desilted and deepened and bunds have been raised around it. “We started the restoration exercise only after receiving the permission from the Zone 15 office of Greater Chennai Corporation,” says H. Ramanan, founder of the Forum, which has restoration and protection of waterbodies along Old Mahabalipuram Road and East Coast Road, as its twin objectives. “As palm trees help strengthen the bunds of a waterbody, we will start planting them,” says Ramanan. The excess water from the pond is said to flow into a waterbody on OMR. Zone 15 has sunk five borewells in the pond to provide piped-drinking water supply to the residents of Sholinganallur and Semmenchery, adds Ramanan The forum has requested the Revenue Department, Chennai, and Greater Chennai Corporation to demarcate the pond’s boundaries to ensure its continued protection. Police personnel from J-10 Semmenchery police station also participated in the restoration exercise. H. Ramanan can be contacted at 98409 97747.
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Muck removed from SWDs and dumped on OMR service lane’||A week ago, Tamil Nadu Road Development Corporation (TNRDC) cleaned the stormwater drains on the service lanes of Old Mahabalipuram Road near Jeyendra Colony in Kandanchavadi. However, the muck cleared from the drains were dumped on a service lane and they have not been removed yet. Besdies, manholes can be found broken. Following the recent rains, the muck entered the premises of our apartments. I therefore request TNRDC to do the needful at the earliest. Baby Christhu Bai is a resident of Perungudi
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Desilt SWDs in Perumbakkam’||We request the Perumbakkam Selection Grade Village Panchayat to clean and desilt the clogged stormwater drains for easy flow of rainwater. At present, such work is being carried out at Kailash Nagar and Nesamani Nagar in Perumbakkam. We request the Panchayat to have this done across the region to avoid flooding. N. K. Raja is an office-bearer of Nesamani Nagar Residents Welfare Association in Perumbakkam
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Cotton House offers fresh collection at wholesale prices||In view of Deepavali, Cotton House in Thiruvanmiyur has come up with a fresh collection. According to a press release, the shop will be selling the new collection at wholesale prices, taking into account the current slowdown in the economy. “We are selling quality products at affordable prices. Our aim is to delight our customers amidst this pandemic gloom. So, Cotton House will keeps its profit margins low. As a COVID-19 preventive measure, we are giving away a free sanitizer and a mask to all customers before they enter the shop. Every one hour, the shop is being sanitised. We also request customers to avoid last-minute shopping, keeping everyone’s safety in mind. Ever since the shop was reopened following the relaxations in the lockdown, we have distributed 40,000 masks to our customers,” says Venugopal, managing director. The shop offers a variety of silk saris including Kanchipuram silk, Benares silk, Tussar silk and Mata silk saris. Besides, special kurtis for women above 40 years of age, saris resembling silk, saris with multi-shaded colours, ready-made churidar kurta sets, gowns, salwar kameez, lehangas, skirts and tops, and western-wears such as jeggings and jackets are part of the collection. In addition, branded products are also available, says the press release. Clothes are available for men and children as well. Cotton House is located at No: 68, LB Road, Thiruvanmiyur. The press release points out it has no branches. For details, call 044 - 2445 4442 / 4201 0609
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Others providing scholarships||kDeepam:A majority of students that benefit from the Deepam’s scholarship programme are from schools associated with the non-profit. “But we also make exceptions depending on needs and based on references,” says R. Ragagopalan, a volunteer. Deepam is associated with 10 government and aided institutions, a majority of which are in Chennai. For details, visit https://www.deepam.in/ kUdhavum Ullangal Public Charitable Trust:If you would like to refer any deserving student for the grant they offer every year, make sure the application reaches them by mid-April. For details, call 9655732478 or visit http://udhavumullangal. org.in/contact-us/ kHelp the Blind Foundation: Any visually challenged student who has received admission for pursuing an under-graduate programme in a recognised college can apply for this scholarship. Disability certificate is necessary. Those seeking scholarship for the first time (students pursuing first year of a under-graduate or a post-graduate course) should send in their applications before November 30, 2020. It can be accessed online. For details, call 9003330197 or visit https://helptheblind.in/application-for-scholarship/ kEverest Scholarship:The non-profit runs the ‘I am the Change Scholarship’ for orphans and students with a single parent. The scholarship is meant for students who are applying for under graduate courses and applications must reach the organisation between April and May. For details, visit https://www.everest scholarship.com/ kMugavari Foundation —Those pursuing UG courses can apply to the Foundation for their annual scholarship grant. This year’s process is currently on, and they consider fresh application round the year depending on the need. For details, visit mugavarifoundation.org
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Apparel and accessories store meets winter needs||Though Chennai experiences hot weather almost round-the-year, the brand story of a city-based establishment seems to have demonstrated that there is still demand for woollen-wear, rain-wear and all the accessories necessary to stay warm in winter. It is Joonus Sait and Sons tucked away in Rattan Bazaar area of George Town. Founded by Yunus Sait, this shop initially dealt extensively in silk and rayon materials, a press release from the store points out. It would also sell ready-made shirts and it had a tailoring unit at the shop itself which would stitch barristers’ coats. Over time, the shop has transformed itself into a woollen wear and accessories store. Usman Sait, the current proprietor, says, “We have demand from a lot of youngsters who travel abroad for studies. Besides, we cater to tourists visiting hill stations such as Ooty, Kodaikanal, Yercaud, Kedarnath, Badrinath and others.” Caps, socks, gloves, mufflers, blankets, scarf, travel bags, travel beds, gumboots, air-pillows in addition to Raymond gift boxes containing pant and shirt pieces are also available, the press release adds. The store has three showrooms — George Town, Purasawalkam and Adyar. Usman and his sons Naumaan Sait and Safwaan Sait look after the family business, adds the release.
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Session on organic farming||Tamil Nadu Agricultural University Information & Training Centre is conducting a workshop on organic farming on November 10. Another session on terrace gardening will be held on November 11. For details, call 044 - 2225 0511 / 2250 1960.
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Online painting contest||Thiruvanmiyur Kerala Samajam is organising an online drawing and painting competition for children from Classes one to 12 on November 14. Time: From 10 a.m. to 11.30 a.m. Registration will close by 8 p.m. on November 12. For details, call 94441 20027.
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Workshop on storytelling||Kidpreneurs India is organising an storytelling workshop, online on November 10. Time: From 4 p.m. to 5 p.m. According to a press release, no participation fee will be charged. For details, call 99520 13800
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Vipassana classes||Mind-U-Body Centre is conducting free vipassana classes online. “It is a strict and disciplined course and one has to approach it with an open mind,” says R.S.Rajan, who takes the classes. According to a release, the three basic tenets of Vipassana are impermanence, suffering and substance-lessness. “This is what most of us are experiencing now. Only by seeing things as they are and dealing with it wisely is the way out,” says Rajan. The centre has branches at Virugambakkam and Besant Nagar. For details, call Rajan 9677 207 946
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||The gift of education amidst a pandemic||
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Forum begins pond restoration||
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||the lens view: a bumpy ride||
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Sullage invades busy bus route road||A civic problem can linger on, making its presence felt when residents think it is a thing of the past — for residents of Millers Road in Kilpauk, the problem of overflowing sullage from clogged drains fits this category. They experience it every monsoon. This time, the overflowing drains seem to be working overtime, and they pose a threat to the safety of motorists and pedestrians taking the road. Residents say that lack of regular maintenance of the drains on this congested road is the reason they get suddenly clogged. Millers Road is part of a key MTC bus route with most of the buses from Broadway and Ayanavaram terminuses plying on this road while on their way to various parts of Chennai. Millers Road and its connecting streets witness clogging of sullage with overflows from the manholes every monsoon. As a stop-gap measure, workers from the Greater Chnenai Corporation and Chennai Metrowater clean the manholes. Residents however point out that complete desilting of the drain, especially at the spots where the problem is recurring, should be carried out to prevent clogging. They also want adequate filters to be installed. Corporation officials say that prior to the pandemic, declogging exercise was done at regular intervals in coordination with local Metrowater staff to prevent blockage in the sewage pipelines. But this work could not be carried out in the recent months due to lockdown with most of the workers with the civic body focussed on checking the spread of the novel Coronavirus. “Steps will be taken to unclog the drains on the stretch, which will be treated to a fresh coat of bitumen to ensure the safety of motorists,” says a Corporation official.  Residents point out that complete desilting of the drain, especially at the spots where the problem is recurring, should be carried out to prevent clogging
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Citizen birding during a pandemic: The near and the far of it||Have you browsed through recent eBird lists? If you have not, run your eyes through it, and we will wait for you. Did anything stand out? Stopping at a recent page of eBird lists for Chennai, let us take a dekko at two entries, hardly unique but revelatory nevertheless. One reports two black-rumped flamebacks being sighted on 2 November 2020 from GRN-Tempe, 5th Main Road, Nanganallur. Another, made the same day, reports an oriental darter in flight over AM House in Madipakkam. Subramanian Sankar had jotted down the observation made from his apartment complex GRN-Tempe, and Aravind AM from his independent house, named AM House, in Madipakkam, respectively. Over the last few months, due to the pandemic, bird data from urban, residential spaces, have dominated the lists, as against spaces celebrated as birding hotspots. In many instances, the birders were only continuing with their pre-pandemic practice of recording birds from their immediate backyard — both Subramanian and Aravind belong to that category — in addition to observations from their regular jaunts to birding spots. Continuing to bird from his terrace during the intense lockdown and even later, Aravind has the distinction of sending lists to eBird without a day’s break for an impressive passage of time. “I am maintaining a bird-listing streak that is close to 600 days long,” Aravind volunteers more specific information. Gaps in knowledge Many a time and oft, “terrace data” would be about birds that turn up as regularly and predictably as the milk vendor. Now, one has to be on the guard against labelling birds as common species. Doing so betrays flawed thinking, as it often glosses over gaps in the overall understanding of these species as they interact with the local environment. Watching even the so-called common species and documenting their numbers and observing the patterns they follow, can make for discoveries that are not only fascinating but also essential to ecological planning. In the months spent locked-down, bird researcher P. Hopeland spent some evenings counting rose-ringed parakeets that winged past the terrace of his house on Gandhi Road in Velachery, behind IIT-M. “My assumption is that overall, the parakeets flying by would be around 700 — one evening I counted over 500. Going by that flock, I am beginning to wonder if there are more people feeding parakeets in urban spaces that we realise. Of course, you cannot make that inference based on a single observation. There are many unknowns, because it is just one person counting parakeets in the middle of nowhere,” explains Hopeland. “I am in the dark about these parakeets’ roosting and breeding patterns. One would assume that these birds would use tree hollows. Normally, the assumption is that we don’t have as many trees as we should. So, how far are they going? If they are living within the city, is there a pattern that is driving it? From my terrace, I could see that they come from much further north, with very few really staying on the IIT-M side. These are birds that are definitely going to the roost. They are south-west bound. They must be using the same roost, as they are making a beeline for what to me still remains an unknown destination. It happens in a matter of two hours. In Rajasthan, I have seen a huge flock roosting on a single tree that it looked like a decorated Christmas tree. Supposing we find out where they are roosting, we can probably attempt to address disturbances, if any.” What Hopeland is driving at is that if many others spread across Chennai simultaneously studied the movement of parakeets, counting them and recording their observations, it might be possible to puzzle out these birds’ roosting, breeding and feeding patterns, as various pieces of the zigsaw would fit in. The vital aspect of such exercises is that through data, areas for intervention, if any, can be identified. “I suspect that many people are feeding parakeets in urban spaces. In my opinion, this causes problems. There are people who feed parakeets boiled rice. In such cases, there is the risk of these birds’ food diversity reducing, and the birds may end up maintaining a nutritional level that is lower than what is desirable. When these birds fend for themselves, they may be managing a diverse diet, including fruits, that increases the odds that they get all the necessary nutrients,” elaborates Hopeland. With citizen data coming in about a wide range of species, including the so-called common species, it would be possible to arrive at an ecological plan for the entire metro, says Hopeland. ‘Hearing’ birds Subramanian Sankar, also among those who view birding as more than just a hobby, is keenly interested in soundscapes, which is about “recording the wilderness without human sounds”, as he puts it. There were occasions over the last few months, when synthetic sounds were less intrusive and birds received greater air time. The fact that ambient sound had gone down did help birders who are as tuned in to birding by the ear as they are by the eye, points out Subramanian. Places usually imbued with quiet would have become quieter still during the lockdown. That is probably the reason why Susy Varughese, a professor at IIT-M who lives on the campus, and another resident Mahati Narayanaswamy, also a well-known eBirder, recorded the call of a lesser cuckoo. Fundamental challenge Subramanian agrees that for many residents in urban areas, trapped in concrete jungles that are clothed in skimpy greenery, the possibility of sighting or hearing the bare minimum number of birds to make the pursuit engaging, is remote. So, these residents would have to stir from their moorings to have meaningful birding experiences. Subramanian believes patch birding is the answer; he suggests local clubs can sustain interest in patch birding. Many birders are now practising it as the pandemic has made travelling to far-flung avian hotspots a forbidding idea. Beyond the pandemic, an ideal scenario would be one in which birders work patch birding into their regular schedules, while also travelling far for birding. Where people live in areas located cheek by jowl with a marsh, a lake or an arboreal patch or surrounded by them, they should attempt the trifecta of birding — patch birding, hotspot birding and backyard birding. Before the pandemic struck, Aravind A.M., a resident Madipakkam, would visit what is known in local birding circles as the “Ram Nagar Swamps”, during his morning walk. Obviously, the last few months, he had either kept away or had been making occasional visits to this patch, which is found smack in the middle of concrete jungle, but still has features that support avian life, especially birds of the reeds and water. “At the height of the lockdown, Birdcount India pushed for birding from terraces. I have been doing that. Even if I am not going to Ram Nagar for the usual walk, I walk on my terrace. Every day, I get to see 12 to 15 species,” elaborates Aravind, making it clear why his daily eBird listing streak continues. Birding from the terrace has of course taken an expected course — Aravind has not entered any rarities in his field notebook. He however feels enriched by terrace birdwatching. “You become aware of things you would not sit and take notice otherwise. Half an hour on the terrace is not something you usually do. But many birds usually breed around our houses but we are oblivious to it. For the first time, I saw koels mating right in front of my house. During the breeding season, I was able to see sunbirds and yellow-billed babblers nesting, from my terrace,” says Aravind. Birders would point out that watching birds in flight and identifying them is an art in itself. There are variations — sometimes subtle — in how the wing looks and in the flight and other factors that can help in identification. With its overall size and beak and accompanying gular pouch, a pelican cannot be missed — in Chennai, residents living near waterbodies and marshes may be accustomed to watching spot-billed pelicans flying past their homes — but a birder would tell you more. That a pelican bends its neck to form an ‘S’ while flying due to the oversized “bag” under its beak. Says Aravind, “You may never or only rarely get to see a rare bird from your terrace. But there is always the possibility of regularly seen birds exhibiting rare behaviour, if you set aside some time for them. To give an example, during the lockdown, I saw two yellow-billed babblers squaring off against each other.”
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Blue-metal blues for motorists||Though weeks have elapsed since blue metal was laid on Link Road in Pattabiram, there is no sign of it being black-topped. Strewn with blue metal, the busy road is dusty and its uneven surface is posing a challenge to motorists. Every day, motorists from Muthaputhupet, Mittanamalli, Pattabiram, Bharathiyar Nagar, Uzhaipalar Nagar and Sabir Nagar use Link Road to reach various parts of the Chennai. “Due to the blue metal, skidding accidents involving motorcyclists are frequent, especially at night as insufficient illumination adds to the risk. Now, with the monsoon having set in, frequent downpours have increased the risk,” says B. Praveen, a motorist from Pattabiram. Loads of unused blue metal have also been dumped along the stretch putting motorcyclists at risk for accidents at night. A kilometre long and covering many residential areas, Link Road is a lifeline for residents as they use it to reach Chennal Tiruvallur High Road for many essential services including hospitals, schools, colleges, banks and petrol pumps. It is also a key route for MTC buses, especially small buses. According to Corporation officials, key roads around defence establishments in the neighbourhood belong to the Ministry of Defence for which the Garrison Engineer is the nodal authority. Procedural delay between the two government agencies is a major reason for the delay in the road being relaid. Difficulty sourcing bitumen is another reason. “Steps will be taken to relay the stretch soon,” says a Corporation official.
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||The gift of education||Autorickshaw driver R. Venkatesan was venting out his frustration over how the pandemic had shrunk his earnings, to a passenger, he did not realise the conversation would lead to some references. The only earning member in the family, Venkatesan was struggling to pay his children’s school fees. The passenger referred him to a non-governmental organisation and as Venkatesan’s daughter, V. Swethasri, was a meritorious student, her first semester college fee of Rs. 20,000 was transferred to her college’s bank account. At least 15 more students have received the gift of education thanks to a group of young working professionals and students who help fund the fees of students whose families are struggling to make ends meet due to the pandemic. This group functions under the banner of Indian Social Activist Council (ISAC). Started by a group of students from the 2014 batch of Christ King Girls Higher Secondary School, a government-aided institution in East Tambaram, ISAC was registered in 2015. “The seeds of starting an NGO to help the less-privileged were sown during our class X days, but it took shape as soon as we completed school,” says 23-year-old Sheeba Priyadharshini, founder-president. Some of their classmates were married off early as their parents did not have the means to educate them, and that got them thinking about helping underprivileged students. “We were regular to inter-school debate competitions and a majority of the topics were around societal issues,” says Raga Ravi, a school teacher and vice-secretary of ISAC, on the foundations of their social vision. Over the last five years, ISAC has focussed on environment-related activities such as tree planting and lake clean-ups and offering personality development programmes to children in slums and also to those in orphanages. When the pandemic hit, they noticed the digital divide and how parents, especially those without work, struggled to meet their children’s educational expenses. “That is when we decided to shift our focus to education as it was the need of the hour,” says Sheeba. Most of the beneficiaries of ‘Kalvi’, as their initiative is called, are from Ram Nagar in Nanganallur, a few villages in Tiruvallur and Pollachi. “We are familiar with these areas as we have people to help us run background checks on students, but we are open to rewarding scholarships to deserving students from other areas too,” says Raga. Humble beginnings “When we started this programme to support deserving students hailing from underprivileged families, each of us in the group contributed 5% of our monthly salary towards the cause,” says Sheeba, a lawyer by profession. Of the 15 active members in ISAC, eight are Sheeba’s classmates from school. As more requests started coming, they started approaching donors. “We are transparent in what we do. For example, we do not want people transferring money to our accounts but to the educational institution directly. After we have done a background check about the candidate, we ask the donor also to speak to them,” says Sheeba. Members say they follow a thorough process before choosing students for educational aid. V.S. Mahalakshmi, principal of Prince Matriculation School in Adambakkam, says ISAC paid the fees of a few of their students. “As many have lost their jobs, we allow parents to pay the fees even a year later,” says Mahalakshmi, adding that she hoped there were more such groups helping deserving students in this manner.
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||City police commissioner gives appreciation certificate to Vepery traffic inspector||The Greater Chennai Police Commissioner, Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal, honoured Vepery traffic inspector K. Pandivelu, at the Police Commissionerate Office in Vepery on November 5 for the service he has rendered to the public, especially during last week’s rains. It may be noted that The Hindu Downtown carried an article in its November 1 edition on how Pandivelu unclogged the stormwater drain on EVK Sampath Salai following heavy rains. The traffic inspector was drenched as he set about removing the silt that clogged the inlets. “I got a call from the station asking me to report at the Headquarters (Police Commissioner's Office) on November 5. I was nervous, but at the end it was a pleasant surprise with the Police Commissioner appreciating our efforts on that rainy day. It is a team effort,” says the 56-year-old traffic inspector. The Police Commissioner had also tweeted the report from his official twitter handle (@copmahesh1994).
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Interior streets in Thiruvengada Nagar lose their quiet as vehicles trundle in||The charm of interior streets lies in the quiet they provide — that certainly has been the case with the interior streets in Thiruvengada Nagar, Ambattur Old Town (OT). That is, until recently. Traffic changes effected to regulate vehicular movement on a section of CTH Road, after the lifting of lockdown restrictions, have brought unusual bustle to the neighbourhood. As per the new arrangement, motorists take a left turn at an intersection on CTH Road to enter TI School Road near the narrow Road Over Bridge (ROB) in Ambattur to avoid traffic snarls. However, this arrangement means these motorists enter the interior streets of Thiruvengada Nagar. “So, the quiet streets lanes are plunged into chaos especially during rush hour. Many motorists speed down these streets,” says S. Suresh, secretary, Thiruvengada Nagar Residents Welfare Association in Ambattur.  A few weeks ago, the State Highways Department, along with the traffic police, re-installed barricades at the intersection of the two stretches to prevent motorists coming from TI School Road in Thiruvengada Nagar from directly taking the right turn to reach CTH Road. These motorists are instead allowed to take a ‘U’ turn away from the bridge to prevent accidents at the intersection. The ‘U’ turn is not of much help to motorists or in easing the traffic flow, and only adds to the chaos on CTH Road, say residents. They have suggested that traffic police personnel be deployed at least during rush hour to allow motorists from the neighbourhood to reach CTH Road directly via TI School Road rather than by taking the 'U' turn. An important link Built in the early 1970s, the bridge is 100 metres long and 30 feet wide and can allow two buses to travel simultaneously. Now, accidents have become more frequent on the bridge as the stretch leading to it and the bridge itself do not have safety indicators like reflectors to alert motorists at night. A large number of goods carriers from neighbouring districts including Tiruvallur and Vellore go through this stretch to reach the port. “Steps will be taken to ease the traffic flow on CTH Road,” say police sources.
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Families relocated for bridge work in Villivakkam||A group of 32 families from ICF Road, near the railway station in Villivakkam, were rehabilitated and relocated to the Tamil Nadu Housing Board (TNHB) quarters in Athipet near Ambattur by the civic officials of Zone - 8 (Anna Nagar) of the Greater Chennai Corporation. This exercise was carried out as part of the land acquisition work for the ongoing Rs. 62-crore Road Over Bridge (ROB) project in the neighbourhood. According to a press release, the relocated families have been residing along the ICF Road for many years. As the civic body needed additional land for the ongoing bridge work, 32 families had to be relocated to Ambattur and each family was allotted a house that costs Rs. 67,500. The project is aimed at connecting Kolathur Main Road with the ICF Road in the neighbourhood and would replace the existing railway level crossing in Villivakkam.
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Online painting contest||Thiruvanmiyur Kerala Samajam is organising an online drawing and painting competition for children from Classes one to 12 on November 14. Time: From 10 a.m. to 11.30 a.m. Registration will close by 8 p.m. on November 12. For details, call 94441 20027.
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||You can be our volunteer-writer||Dear readers, you can be our volunteer-writer by writing to us about issues and events in your neighbourhood. You should send the write-ups to downtownfeedback@ thehindu.co.in. Letters must carry the postal address and contact number. Here’s a short note on the basic building blocks of any short news feature. a) The lead is the first section of an article, and leads that narrate a human situation work the best. b) The next element is the cosmic paragraph, in which you give the overall picture. c) News features have to be factually-grounded and the central portion, which will consist of a few paragraphs, should support the anecdotal paragraph and the cosmic paragraph.
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Others providing scholarships||kDeepam:A majority of students that benefit from the Deepam’s scholarship programme are from schools associated with the non-profit. “But we also make exceptions depending on needs and based on references,” says R. Ragagopalan, a volunteer. Deepam is associated with 10 government and aided institutions, a majority of which are in Chennai. For details, visit https://www.deepam.in/ kUdhavum Ullangal Public Charitable Trust:If you would like to refer any deserving student for the grant they offer every year, make sure the application reaches them by mid-April. For details, call 9655732478 or visit udhavumullangal. org.in kHelp the Blind Foundation:Any visually challenged student who has received admission for pursuing an under-graduate programme in a recognised college can apply for this scholarship. Disability certificate is necessary. Those seeking scholarship for the first time (students pursuing first year of a under-graduate or a post-graduate course) should send in their applications before November 30, 2020. It can be accessed online. For details, call 9003330197 or visit https://helptheblind.in/application-for-scholarship/ kEverest Scholarship:The non-profit runs the ‘I am the Change Scholarship’ for orphans and students with a single parent. The scholarship is meant for students who are applying for under graduate courses and applications must reach the organisation between April and May. For details, visit www.everest scholarship.com/ kMugavari Foundation—Those pursuing UG courses can apply to the Foundation for their annual scholarship grant. This year’s process is currently on, and they consider fresh application round the year depending on the need. For details, visit mugavarifoundation.org
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Session on organic farming||Tamil Nadu Agricultural University Information & Training Centre is conducting a workshop on organic farming on November 10. Another session on terrace gardening will be held on November 11. For details, call 2225 0511 / 2250 1960.
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Apparel and accessories store meets winter needs||Though Chennai experiences hot weather almost round-the-year, the brand story of a city-based establishment seems to have demonstrated that there is still demand for woollen-wear, rain-wear and all the accessories necessary to stay warm in winter. It is Joonus Sait and Sons tucked away in Rattan Bazaar area of George Town. Founded by Yunus Sait, this shop initially dealt extensively in silk and rayon materials, a press release from the store points out. It would also sell ready-made shirts and it had a tailoring unit at the shop itself which would stitch barristers’ coats. Over time, the shop has transformed itself into a woollen wear and accessories store. Usman Sait, the current proprietor, says, “We have demand from a lot of youngsters who travel abroad for studies. Besides, we cater to tourists visiting hill stations such as Ooty, Kodaikanal, Yercaud, Kedarnath, Badrinath and others.” Caps, socks, gloves, mufflers, blankets, scarf, travel bags, travel beds, gumboots, air-pillows in addition to Raymond gift boxes containing pant and shirt pieces are also available, the press release adds. The store has three showrooms — George Town, Purasawalkam and Adyar. Usman and his sons Naumaan Sait and Safwaan Sait look after the family business, adds the release.
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Commissioner gives appreciation certificate||
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||The gift of education amidst a pandemic||
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Citizen birding: The near and the far of it||
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||A crater challenge?||
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Citizen birding during a pandemic: The near and the far of it||Have you browsed through recent eBird lists? If you have not, run your eyes through it, and we will wait for you. Did anything stand out? Stopping at a recent page of eBird lists for Chennai, let us take a dekko at two entries, hardly unique but revelatory nevertheless. One reports two Black-rumped Flamebacks being sighted on 2 November 2020 from GRN-Tempe, 5th Main Road, Nanganallur. Another, made the same day, reports an Oriental Darter in flight over AM House in Madipakkam. Subramanian Sankar had jotted down the observation made from his apartment complex GRN-Tempe, and Aravind AM from his independent house, named AM House, in Madipakkam, respectively. Over the last few months, due to the pandemic, bird data from urban, residential spaces, have dominated the lists, as against spaces celebrated as birding hotspots. In many instances, the birders were only continuing with their pre-pandemic practice of recording birds from their immediate backyard — both Subramanian and Aravind belong to that category — in addition to observations from their regular jaunts to birding spots. Continuing to bird from his terrace during the intense lockdown and even later, Aravind has the distinction of sending lists to eBird without a day’s break for an impressive passage of time. “I am maintaining a bird-listing streak that is close to 600 days long,” Aravind volunteers more specific information. Gaps in knowledge Many a time and oft, “terrace data” would be about birds that turn up as regularly and predictably as the milk vendor. Now, one has to be on the guard against labelling birds as common species. Doing so betrays flawed thinking, as it often glosses over gaps in the overall understanding of these species as they interact with the local environment. Watching even the so-called common species and documenting their numbers and observing the patterns they follow, can make for discoveries that are not only fascinating but also essential to ecological planning. In the months spent locked-down, bird researcher P. Hopeland spent some evenings counting rose-ringed parakeets that winged past the terrace of his house on Gandhi Road in Velachery, behind IIT-M. “My assumption is that overall, the parakeets flying by would be around 700 — one evening I counted over 500. Going by that flock, I am beginning to wonder if there are more people feeding parakeets in urban spaces that we realise. Of course, you cannot make that inference based on a single observation. There are many unknowns, because it is just one person counting parakeets in the middle of nowhere,” explains Hopeland. “I am in the dark about these parakeets’ roosting and breeding patterns. One would assume that these birds would use tree hollows. Normally, the assumption is that we don’t have as many trees as we should. So, how far are they going? If they are living within the city, is there a pattern that is driving it? From my terrace, I could see that they come from much further north, with very few really staying on the IIT-M side. These are birds that are definitely going to the roost. They are south-west bound. They must be using the same roost, as they are making a beeline for what to me still remains an unknown destination. It happens in a matter of two hours. In Rajasthan, I have seen a huge flock roosting on a single tree that it looked like a decorated Christmas tree. Supposing we find out where they are roosting, we can probably attempt to address disturbances, if any.” What Hopeland is driving at is that if many others spread across Chennai simultaneously studied the movement of parakeets, counting them and recording their observations, it might be possible to puzzle out these birds’ roosting, breeding and feeding patterns, as various pieces of the zigsaw would fit in. The vital aspect of such exercises is that through data, areas for intervention, if any, can be identified. “I suspect that many people are feeding parakeets in urban spaces. In my opinion, this causes problems. There are people who feed parakeets boiled rice. In such cases, there is the risk of these birds’ food diversity reducing, and the birds may end up maintaining a nutritional level that is lower than what is desirable. When these birds fend for themselves, they may be managing a diverse diet, including fruits, that increases the odds that they get all the necessary nutrients,” elaborates Hopeland. With citizen data coming in about a wide range of species, including the so-called common species, it would be possible to arrive at an ecological plan for the entire metro, says Hopeland. ‘Hearing’ birds Subramanian Sankar, also among those who view birding as more than just a hobby, is keenly interested in soundscapes, which is about “recording the wilderness without human sounds”, as he puts it. There were occasions over the last few months, when synthetic sounds were less intrusive and birds received greater air time. The fact that ambient sound had gone down did help birders who are as tuned in to birding by the ear as they are by the eye, points out Subramanian. Places usually imbued with quiet would have become quieter still during the lockdown. That is probably the reason why Susy Varughese, a professor at IIT-M who lives on the campus, and another resident Mahati Narayanaswamy, also a well-known eBirder, recorded the call of a lesser cuckoo. Fundamental challenge Subramanian agrees that for many residents in urban areas, trapped in concrete jungles that are clothed in skimpy greenery, the possibility of sighting or hearing the bare minimum number of birds to make the pursuit engaging, is remote. So, these residents would have to stir from their moorings to have meaningful birding experiences. Subramanian believes patch birding is the answer; he suggests local clubs can sustain interest in patch birding. Many birders are now practising it as the pandemic has made travelling to far-flung avian hotspots a forbidding idea. Beyond the pandemic, an ideal scenario would be one in which birders work patch birding into their regular schedules, while also travelling far, for birding. Where people live in areas located cheek by jowl with a marsh, a lake or an arboreal patch or surrounded by them, they should attempt the trifecta of birding — patch birding, hotspot birding and backyard birding. Before the pandemic struck, Aravind A.M., a resident Madipakkam, would visit what is known in local birding circles as the “Ram Nagar Swamps”, during his morning walk. Obviously, the last few months, he had either kept away or had been making occasional visits to this patch, which is found smack in the middle of concrete jungle, but still has features that support avian life, especially birds of the reeds and water. “At the height of the lockdown, Bird Count India pushed for birding from terraces. I have been doing that. Even if I am not going to Ram Nagar for the usual walk, I walk on my terrace. Every day, I get to see 12 to 15 species,” elaborates Aravind, making it clear why his daily eBird listing streak continues. Birding from the terrace has of course taken an expected course — Aravind has not entered any rarities in his field notebook. He however feels enriched by terrace birdwatching. “You become aware of things you would not sit and take notice otherwise. Half an hour on the terrace is not something you usually do. But many birds usually breed around our houses but we are oblivious to it. For the first time, I saw koels mating right in front of my house. During the breeding season, I was able to see sunbirds and yellow-billed babblers nesting, from my terrace,” says Aravind. Birders would point out that watching birds in flight and identifying them is an art in itself. There are variations — sometimes subtle — in how the wing looks and in the flight and other factors that can help in identification. With its overall size and beak and accompanying gular pouch, a pelican cannot be missed — in Chennai, residents living near waterbodies and marshes may be accustomed to watching spot-billed pelicans flying past their homes — but a birder would tell you more. That a pelican bends its neck to form an ‘S’ while flying due to the oversized “bag” under its beak. Says Aravind, “You may never or only rarely get to see a rare bird from your terrace. But there is always the possibility of regularly seen birds exhibiting rare behaviour, if you set aside some time for them. To give an example, during the lockdown, I saw two yellow-billed babblers squaring off against each other.”
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Landmark restaurant at Anna Salai downs shutters forever||R. Sowri Rajan’s weekly calendar would be marked by a permanent fixture: Dining with his family every Thursday at Mathura, found on the northern end of Anna Salai. A resident of Chromepet, Sowri misses those Thursday dine-outs. If you thought he is avoiding non-essential travel due to the pandemic, think again. Mathura, located at the unmissable Tarapore Towers in Anna Salai, has downed its shutters forever. Early last month, the vegetarian restaurant shifted all its belongings from a space it had occupied for more than 30 years ago. “On March 12, I visited the restaurant with my family,” says Sowri Rajan. Little did he know that would be the last time he would dine at the restaurant. “For years, we have been dining every Thursday at Mathura. It has made so many special moments in our family more special.” Into the electronic business, Sowri Rajan is a regular visitor to Ritchie Streets, an electronics business hub, and during one such visit around 30 years ago, he got introduced to this restaurant. Sowri Rajan would particularly miss the rasam idly served with ghee, his most favourite item on Mathura’s bill of fare. The Mathura management, which also runs the New Woodlands Hotel on RK Salai, say the pandemic had forced it to close down Mathura. “My father and the owners of Tarapore Tower owners were friends and that was one of the reasons we set up the restaurant at the building, 35 years ago. Initially, the building management was promoting the place as a mini-mall as it was found in a prime location and also had an escalator. The view that the restaurant provided was a big draw,” says Murali Rao, managing director, New Woodlands Hotel. In the initial years, Mathuru did not do well. “Rs. 5,000 was the collection we made a day but after four to five years, word spread and we started doing very well,” Rao says, adding that they have never had to advertise about the joint. Over the last five years, the restaurant has been finding the going tough, and the pandemic was the last nail. During the lockdown, in its intense and later relaxed versions, the business was not sufficient to keep meeting the steep running costs, says Rao, adding that guidelines for running restaurants during the pandemic added to the challenge. “When the Standard Operating Procedures for restaurants laid down that people above 55 years should not work, it was a big blow to us. Because, a majority of my senior cooks managing the kitchen are in that age bracket,” says Rao, adding that he had 90 staff until the pre-COVID days who took care of various operations at the restaurant. Chennai Hotel Owners’ Association had asked its members to temporarily not allow kitchen workers above 55 years to work, as they fall in the vulnerable section. I feel sad that we had to close the place but we were incurring huge losses and there was no way we could keep it going, he says. While Buharis, also on the same section of Anna Salai and older, would draw people for its non-vegetarian fare, Mathura was patronised for its unique vegetarian fare. The Jain thali, was a favourite among a section of North Indians as the food was cooked without garlic and onions. Even Tandoor items were specially made for them. S.K. Shreenivassan, former manager with the food outlet since 1984, says customising the food to the taste buds of different groups was one of Mathura’s strengths. Says Shreenivassan, “During the weekends, people did not mind waiting at the open terrace for even an hour if the food pleased them.”  I feel sad that we had to close the place but we were incurring huge losses and there was no way we could keep it going
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||The gift of education amidst a pandemic||Autorickshaw driver R. Venkatesan was venting out his frustration over how the pandemic had shrunk his earnings, to a passenger, he did not realise the conversation would lead to some references. The only earning member in the family, Venkatesan was struggling to pay his children’s school fees. The passenger referred him to a non-governmental organisation and as Venkatesan’s daughter, V. Swethasri, was a meritorious student, her first semester college fee of Rs. 20,000 was transferred to her college’s bank account. At least 15 more students have received the gift of education thanks to a group of young working professionals and students who help fund the fees of students whose families are struggling to make ends meet due to the pandemic. This group functions under the banner of Indian Social Activist Council (ISAC). Started by a group of students from the 2014 batch of Christ King Girls Higher Secondary School, a government-aided institution in East Tambaram, ISAC was registered in 2015. “The seeds of starting an NGO to help the less-privileged were sown during our class X days, but it took shape as soon as we completed school,” says 23-year-old Sheeba Priyadharshini, founder-president. Some of their classmates were married off early as their parents did not have the means to educate them, and that got them thinking about helping underprivileged students. “We were regular to inter-school debate competitions and a majority of the topics were around societal issues,” says Raga Ravi, a school teacher and vice-secretary of ISAC, on the foundations of their social vision. Over the last five years, ISAC has focussed on environment-related activities such as tree planting and lake clean-ups and offering personality development programmes to children in slums and also to those in orphanages. When the pandemic hit, they noticed the digital divide and how parents, especially those without work, struggled to meet their children’s educational expenses. “That is when we decided to shift our focus to education as it was the need of the hour,” says Sheeba. Most of the beneficiaries of ‘Kalvi’, as their initiative is called, are from Ram Nagar in Nanganallur, a few villages in Tiruvallur and Pollachi. “We are familiar with these areas as we have people to help us run background checks on students, but we are open to rewarding scholarships to deserving students from other areas too,” says Raga. Humble beginnings “When we started this programme to support deserving students hailing from underprivileged families, each of us in the group contributed 5% of our monthly salary towards the cause,” says Sheeba, a lawyer by profession. Of the 15 active members in ISAC, eight are Sheeba’s classmates from school. As more requests started coming, they started approaching donors. “We are transparent in what we do. For example, we do not want people transferring money to our accounts but to the educational institution directly. After we have done a background check about the candidate, we ask the donor also to speak to them,” says Sheeba. Members say they follow a thorough process before choosing students for educational aid. V.S. Mahalakshmi, principal of Prince Matriculation School in Adambakkam, says ISAC paid the fees of a few of their students. “As many have lost their jobs, we allow parents to pay the fees even a year later,” says Mahalakshmi, adding that she hoped there were more such groups helping deserving students in this manner. For details, visit https://isacngo.in/
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Living next door to birds||Being able to make a quick trip by foot to the fringes of a Marsh, and watch winter-migrants is a great favour. As if that were not enough, greater favour has now been bestowed upon Sundaravel Palanivelu. No sooner had this winter birding season begun than he was treated to the sight of two rare droppers-in. A resident of Kamakotti Nagar, Sundaravel can reach a point in five bobs of a sandpiper’s tail feathers, and from there, clearly view a patch that lies on the fringes of the Pallikaranai Wetland. Sundaravel is now watching the Long-toed Stint at this patch, regularly. “The Long-toed Stint is a rarity in Chennai. During every wintering season, very few numbers of them would be sighted,” explains Sundaravel. “Another resident of Kamakotti Nagar had seen two or three Long-toed Stints, and the next day when I went there I was able to see close to 20 of them.” The Long-toed Stint, which belongs to the family that consists of the Little Stint and Temminck’s Stint, two of the more commonly seen birds during the wintering season in Chennai, is distinguished by its long toes, as its name suggests. Rama Neelamegan, a resident of Mylapore and another avid birder, paid a visit to this patch and documented the sighting of the Long-toed Stint on eBird, in an entry dated 31 October 2020. There is in fact an informal, loosely-formed patch-birding group around this space near Kamakotti Nagar, and by regularly documenting findings from there, they provide data that can help assess a migratory season. Sundaravel has seen another striking drop-in at this patch — a White Wagtail. The White Wagtail is not to be confused with the extremely common White-browed Wagtail, which has in fact been named after Madras ( Motacilla Maderaspatensis ). In contrast, the White Wagtail ( Motacilla Alba ) is found year-round in certain parts of India, but not in Chennai. Here, a sighting of the White Wagtail is always greeted with a raised brow, suggesting merry surprise.
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Neighbourhood store makes the best of a bad situation||A few yards into Ratna Nagar Main Road in Teynampet, there is Sri Krishna Stores, well-known in the area as “Mani Kadai”. Found next to an autorickshaw stand, this small shop which sells household essentials, is conspicuously present. It has also occupied a prominent place in residents’ mindspace. “We established the shop in 1999,” says Mani, its owner. In its early years, the store functioned under a thatched roof, and from a cramped space. Vegetables would be kept outside in baskets. During the lockdown, Mani Kadai was refurbished. “Business was not looking good for us and with the pandemic people were hardly stepping out to buy groceries, so we decided to renovate the shop and give it a new look,” says Saravanan, Mani’s son, who assists his father in running the business. “We are seeing an improvement in business,” says Mani. Mani Kadai is keeping up with the times. “We started doing home deliveries,” he says, while his son standing at the billing counter, is helping a shop assistant get ready to home-deliver a package. These improvements during the lockdown have helped the business. Mani Kadai is a good example that no business is too small to adapt to the changing needs of consumers. Every cloud has a silver lining, residents of Ratna Nagar Main Road are lucky to witness the evolution of their favourite Mani Kadai.  (Nanditha Kannan is a resident of Chaitanya Apartments, Teynampet)
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||When the mighty birds come calling||Whistle, shrill, trill and screech — sounds that largely define calls by raptors. Though hardly deafening, these sounds drown the strident voice of pragmatism. During the wintering season, to watch a range of raptors, Chennai residents have to travel far and wide, heading out of the metro’s bustle. Time has to be freed up. Transport has to be arranged. When the voice brings these up, diehard raptor enthusiasts turn a deaf ear to it. Now, this voice has an added layer to it — the exhortation of staying safe from the novel Coronavirus — and it still remains ignored. With the wintering season under way, Chennai’s raptor enthusiasts make trips to raptor hotspots in surrounding districts, and of course, with unmistakable efforts to keep the virus a raptor’s huge wingspan away. Rama Neelamegam names three locations — Mamandur (89 km away) in Kancheepuram district; Kaveripakkam (98 km away) in Vellore district; and Nemam (31 km away) in Tiruvallur district. Recent sightings of the Lesser Kestrel are among reasons that have been drawing them to Kaveripakkam. “I wanted to see the Lesser Kestrel, and so went to Kaveripakkam; I organised my own cab,” says Rama. “In these raptor places, we do not get out of the car. Only rarely do we leave the car. Even then, all of us have our small boundaries that we enclose ourselves in.” Birders usually undertake a joint trip in one car but now, this practice is avoided. Subramanian Sankar, a resident of Nanganallur, points out how a group of birders undertook a trip to Pulicat, each travelling in their own vehicle, and how in the field, they maintained social distancing. “It was almost a month ago, and while we were exploring a new place, near Pulicat, with social distancing, we were greeted with the sight of a Common Buzzard,” elaborates Subramanian. “Considering it was many years ago that the Common Buzzard was last sighted in and around Chennai, this is a significant find.” Raptor hotspots are now much-visited, as Aravind AM recently found out. “On the way to Vellore, I thought I would go to Mamandur lake where the Peregrine Falcon has been sighted. But I was not able to see it. As that trip was not specifically made for bird-watching, I was late, having arrived at the lake around 8.30 a.m.,” says Aravind. From photos of the Peregrine Falcon killing a pond heron doing the rounds in birding circles, Aravind found out that many birders had made a successful trip to Mamandur earlier in that day, around 6.30 a.m.
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Others providing scholarships||kDeepam:A majority of students that benefit from the Deepam’s scholarship programme are from schools associated with the non-profit. “But we also make exceptions depending on needs and based on references,” says R. Ragagopalan, a volunteer. Deepam is associated with 10 government and aided institutions, a majority of which are in Chennai. For details, visit https://www.deepam.in/ kUdhavum Ullangal Public Charitable Trust:If you would like to refer any deserving student for the grant they offer every year, make sure the application reaches them by mid-April. For details, call 9655732478 or visit udhavumullangal. org.in/contact-us/ kHelp the Blind Foundation: Any visually challenged student who has received admission for pursuing an under-graduate programme in a recognised college can apply for this scholarship. Disability certificate is necessary. Those seeking scholarship for the first time (students pursuing first year of a under-graduate or a post-graduate course) should send in their applications before November 30, 2020. It can be accessed online. For details, call 9003330197 or visit https://helptheblind.in/application-for-scholarship/ kEverest Scholarship:The non-profit runs the ‘I am the Change Scholarship’ for orphans and students with a single parent. The scholarship is meant for students who are applying for under graduate courses and applications must reach the organisation between April and May. For details, visit https://www.everest scholarship.com/ kMugavari Foundation —Those pursuing UG courses can apply to the Foundation for their annual scholarship grant. This year’s process is currently on, and they consider fresh application round the year depending on the need. For details, visit mugavarifoundation.org
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Apparel and accessories store meets winter needs||Though Chennai experiences hot weather almost round-the-year, the brand story of a city-based establishment seems to have demonstrated that there is still demand for woollen-wear, rain-wear and all the accessories necessary to stay warm in winter. It is Joonus Sait and Sons tucked away in Rattan Bazaar area of George Town. Founded by Yunus Sait, this shop initially dealt extensively in silk and rayon materials, a press release from the store points out. It would also sell ready-made shirts and it had a tailoring unit at the shop itself which would stitch barristers’ coats. Over time, the shop has transformed itself into a woollen wear and accessories store. Usman Sait, the current proprietor, says, “We have demand from a lot of youngsters who travel abroad for studies. Besides, we cater to tourists visiting hill stations such as Ooty, Kodaikanal, Yercaud, Kedarnath, Badrinath and others.” Caps, socks, gloves, mufflers, blankets, scarf, travel bags, travel beds, gumboots, air-pillows in addition to Raymond gift boxes containing pant and shirt pieces are also available, the press release adds. The store has three showrooms — George Town, Purasawalkam and Adyar. Usman and his sons Naumaan Sait and Safwaan Sait look after the family business, adds the release.
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||City police commissioner gives appreciation certificate to Vepery traffic inspector||The Greater Chennai Police Commissioner, Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal, honoured Vepery traffic inspector K. Pandivelu, at the Police Commissionerate Office in Vepery on November 5 for the service he has rendered to the public, especially during last week’s rains. It may be noted that The Hindu Downtown carried an article in its November 1 edition on how Pandivelu unclogged the stormwater drain on EVK Sampath Salai following heavy rains. The traffic inspector was drenched as he set about removing the silt that clogged the inlets. “I got a call from the station asking me to report at the Headquarters (Police Commissioner's Office) on November 5. I was nervous, but at the end it was a pleasant surprise with the Police Commissioner appreciating our efforts on that rainy day. It is a team effort,” says the 56-year-old traffic inspector. The Police Commissioner had also tweeted the report from his official twitter handle (@copmahesh1994).
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Vigilance week observed||The vigilance awareness week was celebrated from October 27 to November 2. The accountant general D.Jaisankar IA & AS administered the integrity pledge, said a release.
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Santhome School’s 1984 batch plans a reunion in mid-2021||We have connected with 127 out of the 195 students from the 1984 batch of the Santhome Higher Secondary School from all over the world; we have also connected with many teachers of that batch. The four sections of the 1984 batch would meet. We have planned a reunion in mid-2021, expecting that the pandemic would be behind us by then. We are still trying to connect with the other old students through various contacts. Old Students from the 1984 batch are requested to contact any of the following, for reunion C.R.Balaji at 9444626942; D Umakant at 971507806414; V.Rajagopalan at 9980505060; and Raphael Ezhaventhan at 9840358440 C.R. Balaji
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||You can be our volunteer-writer||Dear readers, you can be our volunteer-writer by writing to us about issues and events in your neighbourhood. You should send the write-ups to downtownfeedback@ thehindu.co.in. Letters must carry the postal address and contact number. Here’s a short note on the basic building blocks of any short news feature. a) The lead is the first section of an article, and leads that narrate a human situation work the best. b) The next element is the cosmic paragraph, in which you give the overall picture. c) News features have to be factually-grounded and the central portion, which will consist of a few paragraphs, should support the anecdotal paragraph and the cosmic paragraph.
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Vipassana classes||Mind-U-Body Centre is conducting free vipassana classes online. “It is a strict and disciplined course and one has to approach it with an open mind,” says R.S.Rajan, who takes the classes. According to a release, the three basic tenets of Vipassana are impermanence, suffering and substance-lessness. “This is what most of us are experiencing now. Only by seeing things as they are and dealing with it wisely is the way out,” says Rajan. The centre has branches at Virugambakkam and Besant Nagar. For details, call Rajan 9677 207 946
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||A neighbourhood store adapts to these times||
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||The gift of education amidst a pandemic||
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Citizen birding: The near and the far of it||
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||EXTENDING A HELPING HAND||
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Citizen birding during a pandemic: The near and the far of it||Have you browsed through recent eBird lists? If you have not, run your eyes through it, and we will wait for you. Did anything stand out? Stopping at a recent page of eBird lists for Chennai, let us take a dekko at two entries, hardly unique but revelatory nevertheless. One reports two Black-rumped Flamebacks being sighted on 2 November 2020 from GRN-Tempe, 5th Main Road, Nanganallur. Another, made the same day, reports an Oriental Darter in flight over AM House in Madipakkam. Subramanian Sankar had jotted down the observation made from his apartment complex GRN-Tempe, and Aravind AM from his independent house, named AM House, in Madipakkam, respectively. Over the last few months, due to the pandemic, bird data from urban, residential spaces, have dominated the lists, as against spaces celebrated as birding hotspots. In many instances, the birders were only continuing with their pre-pandemic practice of recording birds from their immediate backyard — both Subramanian and Aravind belong to that category — in addition to observations from their regular jaunts to birding spots. Continuing to bird from his terrace during the intense lockdown and even later, Aravind has the distinction of sending lists to eBird without a day’s break for an impressive passage of time. “I am maintaining a bird-listing streak that is close to 600 days long,” Aravind volunteers more specific information. Gaps in knowledge Many a time and oft, “terrace data” would be about birds that turn up as regularly and predictably as the milk vendor. Now, one has to be on the guard against labelling birds as common species. Doing so betrays flawed thinking, as it often glosses over gaps in the overall understanding of these species as they interact with the local environment. Watching even the so-called common species and documenting their numbers and observing the patterns they follow, can make for discoveries that are not only fascinating but also essential to ecological planning. In the months spent locked-down, bird researcher P. Hopeland spent some evenings counting rose-ringed parakeets that winged past the terrace of his house on Gandhi Road in Velachery, behind IIT-M. “My assumption is that overall, the parakeets flying by would be around 700 — one evening I counted over 500. Going by that flock, I am beginning to wonder if there are more people feeding parakeets in urban spaces that we realise. Of course, you cannot make that inference based on a single observation. There are many unknowns, because it is just one person counting parakeets in the middle of nowhere,” explains Hopeland. “I am in the dark about these parakeets’ roosting and breeding patterns. One would assume that these birds would use tree hollows. Normally, the assumption is that we don’t have as many trees as we should. So, how far are they going? If they are living within the city, is there a pattern that is driving it? From my terrace, I could see that they come from much further north, with very few really staying on the IIT-M side. These are birds that are definitely going to the roost. They are south-west bound. They must be using the same roost, as they are making a beeline for what to me still remains an unknown destination. It happens in a matter of two hours. In Rajasthan, I have seen a huge flock roosting on a single tree that it looked like a decorated Christmas tree. Supposing we find out where they are roosting, we can probably attempt to address disturbances, if any.” What Hopeland is driving at is that if many others spread across Chennai simultaneously studied the movement of parakeets, counting them and recording their observations, it might be possible to puzzle out these birds’ roosting, breeding and feeding patterns, as various pieces of the zigsaw would fit in. The vital aspect of such exercises is that through data, areas for intervention, if any, can be identified. “I suspect that many people are feeding parakeets in urban spaces. In my opinion, this causes problems. There are people who feed parakeets boiled rice. In such cases, there is the risk of these birds’ food diversity reducing, and the birds may end up maintaining a nutritional level that is lower than what is desirable. When these birds fend for themselves, they may be managing a diverse diet, including fruits, that increases the odds that they get all the necessary nutrients,” elaborates Hopeland. With citizen data coming in about a wide range of species, including the so-called common species, it would be possible to arrive at an ecological plan for the entire metro, says Hopeland. ‘Hearing’ birds Subramanian Sankar, also among those who view birding as more than just a hobby, is keenly interested in soundscapes, which is about “recording the wilderness without human sounds”, as he puts it. There were occasions over the last few months, when synthetic sounds were less intrusive and birds received greater air time. The fact that ambient sound had gone down did help birders who are as tuned in to birding by the ear as they are by the eye, points out Subramanian. Places usually imbued with quiet would have become quieter still during the lockdown. That is probably the reason why Susy Varughese, a professor at IIT-M who lives on the campus, and another resident Mahati Narayanaswamy, also a well-known eBirder, recorded the call of a lesser cuckoo. Fundamental challenge Subramanian agrees that for many residents in urban areas, trapped in concrete jungles that are clothed in skimpy greenery, the possibility of sighting or hearing the bare minimum number of birds to make the pursuit engaging, is remote. So, these residents would have to stir from their moorings to have meaningful birding experiences. Subramanian believes patch birding is the answer; he suggests local clubs can sustain interest in patch birding. Many birders are now practising it as the pandemic has made travelling to far-flung avian hotspots a forbidding idea. Beyond the pandemic, an ideal scenario would be one in which birders work patch birding into their regular schedules, while also travelling far, for birding. Where people live in areas located cheek by jowl with a marsh, a lake or an arboreal patch or surrounded by them, they should attempt the trifecta of birding — patch birding, hotspot birding and backyard birding. Before the pandemic struck, Aravind A.M., a resident Madipakkam, would visit what is known in local birding circles as the “Ram Nagar Swamps”, during his morning walk. Obviously, the last few months, he had either kept away or had been making occasional visits to this patch, which is found smack in the middle of concrete jungle, but still has features that support avian life, especially birds of the reeds and water. “At the height of the lockdown, Bird Count India pushed for birding from terraces. I have been doing that. Even if I am not going to Ram Nagar for the usual walk, I walk on my terrace. Every day, I get to see 12 to 15 species,” elaborates Aravind, making it clear why his daily eBird listing streak continues. Birding from the terrace has of course taken an expected course — Aravind has not entered any rarities in his field notebook. He however feels enriched by terrace birdwatching. “You become aware of things you would not sit and take notice otherwise. Half an hour on the terrace is not something you usually do. But many birds usually breed around our houses but we are oblivious to it. For the first time, I saw koels mating right in front of my house. During the breeding season, I was able to see sunbirds and yellow-billed babblers nesting, from my terrace,” says Aravind. Birders would point out that watching birds in flight and identifying them is an art in itself. There are variations — sometimes subtle — in how the wing looks and in the flight and other factors that can help in identification. With its overall size and beak and accompanying gular pouch, a pelican cannot be missed — in Chennai, residents living near waterbodies and marshes may be accustomed to watching spot-billed pelicans flying past their homes — but a birder would tell you more. That a pelican bends its neck to form an ‘S’ while flying due to the oversized “bag” under its beak. Says Aravind, “You may never or only rarely get to see a rare bird from your terrace. But there is always the possibility of regularly seen birds exhibiting rare behaviour, if you set aside some time for them. To give an example, during the lockdown, I saw two yellow-billed babblers squaring off against each other.”
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Coarse sand on road causes accidents||Without proper levelling, the widened portion of Kaliamman Koil Street at Chinmaya Nagar in Virugambakkam has considerable coarse sand, which has made it accident-prone. Following a water pipeline-laying work by the Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply & Sewerage Board (CMWSSB) a month ago, the road had to be relaid. As part of the CMWSSB work, the trenches were dug up on both sides of the road. It is more than a week since the road-relaying work was completed on the 4.5 km-long stretch, but motorists find do not find it a safe road to navigate. “At night, we can’t see the levelled portion of the carriageway clearly. Motorcyclists skidding on the coarse sand is a frequent occurrence,” says B. Sekar, a resident of Virugambakkam. Interestingly, the damaged stretch especially towards Virugambakkam was relaid with cement concrete mixture as a stop-gap measure a few days ago after frequent night-time accidents were reported by the local police. However, the other side of the damaged stretch treated to levelling with coarse sand levelling, which puts motorists at high risk for accidents. The section of the road that was widened from 30 feet to 60 feet has a concrete median, LED street lights and pedestrian crossings. It is an important stretch because mofussil buses leaving the CMBT bus terminus through the rear entrance take a ‘U’ turn here (at the widened portion of the stretch in front of the wholesale market) before proceeding towards Poonamallee High (PH) Road. The ‘U’ turn has been in existence for more than a year, since the widening of the stretch between Koyambedu market and Chinmaya Nagar junction, a distance of around 500 metres, had been carried out to decongest the narrow intersection in front of the Koyambedu police station. Most of the mofussil buses that take the ‘U’ are headed towards the Bangalore Highway. During weekends, this stretch witnesses a greater movement of buses and hence, the deployment of a traffic police personnel. However, the service of the lone traffic police personnel was also discontinued a month ago, residents point out. On both sides of the Kaliamman Koil Street, there are densely populated residential localities including Koyambedu, Chinmaya Nagar, Dasarathapuram, Virugambakkam and Saligramam. “Steps will be taken to relay the damaged portion of the road soon,” says a Greater Chennai Corporation official.  During night, we are unable to clearly see the levelled portion of the carriageway
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Transformer poses a threat to residents’ safety||With the north-east monsoon having set in, a transformer on Mangadu-Kundrathur Main Road in Kundrathur has become a source of worry for residents living in houses nearby. They fear that with its weak foundations, the transformer may collapse anytime, and want it relocated to a different place and installed more safely. At present, the transformer is located on the bund of the Cooum river. The transformer, around for more than two decades, is said to be maintaining supply to other low-voltage transformers in the neighbourhood. The spaces around the transformer is marked by continual movement of people, as there is a market, a bus stop, PDS outlets, places of worship and hospitals in the vicinity. “The foundations of the transformer look weak. We prevent children from going anywhere near the transformer,” says S. Perumal, a resident of Kundrathur. Residents further point out that the transformer has not been maintained for many years, and there has not been any periodic checks to check the state of its electricity cables.  Mangadu - Kundrathur Main Road witnesses considerable vehicular movement due to its proximity to Porur, Vadapalani and St. Thomas Mount. Many of those heading to Kancheepuram, Tiruvallur and Vellore districts choose to travel by this road. Metropolitan Transport Corporation buses that originate from termini in Poonamallee, Kundrathur and Iyyappanthangal pass through Mangadu-Kundrathur Main Road. “Steps will be taken to ensure that the transformer is safe,” says a Tangedco official.  The transformer is likely to collapse anytime due to its weak foundations, say residents
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Living next door to birds||Being able to make a quick trip by foot to the fringes of a Marsh, and watch winter-migrants is a great favour. As if that were not enough, greater favour has now been bestowed upon Sundaravel Palanivelu. No sooner had this winter birding season begun than he was treated to the sight of two rare droppers-in. A resident of Kamakotti Nagar, Sundaravel can reach a point in five bobs of a sandpiper’s tail feathers, and from there, clearly view a patch that lies on the fringes of the Pallikaranai Wetland. Sundaravel is now watching the Long-toed Stint at this patch, regularly. “The Long-toed Stint is a rarity in Chennai. During every wintering season, very few numbers of them would be sighted,” explains Sundaravel. “Another resident of Kamakotti Nagar had seen two or three Long-toed Stints, and the next day when I went there I was able to see close to 20 of them.” The Long-toed Stint, which belongs to the family that consists of the Little Stint and Temminck’s Stint, two of the more commonly seen birds during the wintering season in Chennai, is distinguished by its long toes, as its name suggests. Rama Neelamegan, a resident of Mylapore and another avid birder, paid a visit to this patch and documented the sighting of the Long-toed Stint on eBird, in an entry dated 31 October 2020. There is in fact an informal, loosely-formed patch-birding group around this space near Kamakotti Nagar, and by regularly documenting findings from there, they provide data that can help assess a migratory season. Sundaravel has seen another striking drop-in at this patch — a White Wagtail. The White Wagtail is not to be confused with the extremely common White-browed Wagtail, which has in fact been named after Madras ( Motacilla Maderaspatensis ). In contrast, the White Wagtail ( Motacilla Alba ) is found year-round in certain parts of India, but not in Chennai. Here, a sighting of the White Wagtail is always greeted with a raised brow, suggesting merry surprise.
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Tin sheets obstruct view of oncoming vehicles’||It is close to three weeks, since one of the bays under the Kodambakkam overbridge in Ward 134, Zone 10 was covered with tin sheets. As a result of this move, the safety of some motorists has been compromised. For those motorists turning right from the northern bye-lane under the western side of the Kodambakkam over-bridge, the metal sheet obstructs the view of vehicles coming in the opposite side, that is from the southern bye-lane. Hence, Choolaimedu Exnora Innovators Club requests the Greater Chennai Corporation to take measures that would ensure these motorists do not face this problem. S. Kasturi Rangan is the secretary of Choolaimedu Exnora Innovators Club
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||A neighbourhood store makes the best of a bad situation||A few yards into Ratna Nagar Main Road in Teynampet, there is Sri Krishna Stores, well-known in the area as “Mani Kadai”. Found next to an autorickshaw stand, this small shop which sells household essentials, is conspicuously present. It has also occupied a prominent place in residents’ mindspace. “We established the shop in 1999,” says Mani, its owner. In its early years, the store functioned under a thatched roof, and from a cramped space. Vegetables would be kept outside in baskets. During the lockdown, Mani Kadai was refurbished. “Business was not looking good for us and with the pandemic people were hardly stepping out to buy groceries, so we decided to renovate the shop and give it a new look,” says Saravanan, Mani’s son, who assists his father in running the business. “We are seeing an improvement in business,” says Mani. Mani Kadai is keeping up with the times. “We started doing home deliveries,” he says, while his son standing at the billing counter, is helping a shop assistant get ready to home-deliver a package. These improvements during the lockdown have helped the business. Mani Kadai is a good example that no business is too small to adapt to the changing needs of consumers. Every cloud has a silver lining, residents of Ratna Nagar Main Road are lucky to witness the evolution of their favourite Mani Kadai.  (Nanditha Kannan is a resident of Chaitanya Apartments, Teynampet)   “Business was not looking good for us and with the pandemic, people were hardly stepping out to buy groceries, so we decided to renovate the store.”
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Landmark restaurant at Anna Salai downs shutters forever||R. Sowri Rajan’s weekly calendar would be marked by a permanent fixture: Dining with his family every Thursday at Mathura, found on the northern end of Anna Salai. A resident of Chromepet, Sowri misses those Thursday dine-outs. If you thought he is avoiding non-essential travel due to the pandemic, think again. Mathura, located at the unmissable Tarapore Towers in Anna Salai, has downed its shutters forever. Early last month, the vegetarian restaurant shifted all its belongings from a space it had occupied for more than 30 years ago. “On March 12, I visited the restaurant with my family,” says Sowri Rajan. Little did he know that would be the last time he would dine at the restaurant. “For years, we have been dining every Thursday at Mathura. It has made so many special moments in our family more special.” Into the electronic business, Sowri Rajan is a regular visitor to Ritchie Streets, an electronics business hub, and during one such visit around 30 years ago, he got introduced to this restaurant. Sowri Rajan would particularly miss the rasam idly served with ghee, his most favourite item on Mathura’s bill of fare. The Mathura management, which also runs the New Woodlands Hotel on RK Salai, say the pandemic had forced it to close down Mathura. “My father and the owners of Tarapore Tower owners were friends and that was one of the reasons we set up the restaurant at the building, 35 years ago. Initially, the building management was promoting the place as a mini-mall as it was found in a prime location and also had an escalator. The view that the restaurant provided was a big draw,” says Murali Rao, managing director, New Woodlands Hotel. In the initial years, Mathuru did not do well. “Rs. 5,000 was the collection we made a day but after four to five years, word spread and we started doing very well,” Rao says, adding that they have never had to advertise about the joint. Over the last five years, the restaurant has been finding the going tough, and the pandemic was the last nail. During the lockdown, in its intense and later relaxed versions, the business was not sufficient to keep meeting the steep running costs, says Rao, adding that guidelines for running restaurants during the pandemic added to the challenge. “When the Standard Operating Procedures for restaurants laid down that people above 55 years should not work, it was a big blow to us. Because, a majority of my senior cooks managing the kitchen are in that age bracket,” says Rao, adding that he had 90 staff until the pre-COVID days who took care of various operations at the restaurant. Chennai Hotel Owners’ Association had asked its members to temporarily not allow kitchen workers above 55 years to work, as they fall in the vulnerable section. I feel sad that we had to close the place but we were incurring huge losses and there was no way we could keep it going, he says. While Buharis, also on the same section of Anna Salai and older, would draw people for its non-vegetarian fare, Mathura was patronised for its unique vegetarian fare. The Jain thali, was a favourite among a section of North Indians as the food was cooked without garlic and onions. Even Tandoor items were specially made for them. S.K. Shreenivassan, manager with the food outlet since 1984, says customising the food to the taste buds of different groups was one of Mathura’s strengths. Says Shreenivassan, “During the weekends, people did not mind waiting at the open terrace for even an hour if the food pleased them.”
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||‘COVID-19 safety norms are not being followed on MTC buses’||While the government is insisting on the use of sanitisers and masks and maintaining physical distancing as measures to prevent the spead of COVID-19, we find social-distancing rules thrown to the wind on Metropolitan Transport Corporation buses. It is the bus conductor’s duty to make sure that only one passenger occupies a seat and that a bus does not fill more than 50 per cent of its carrying capacity. I request MTC authorities to ensure strict compliance with COVID-19 safety norms on buses. A. Jainulabdeen is a resident of Ashok Nagar
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Pavement in Vadapalani usurped||The footpath on Gangadharan Street in Vadapalani is out of bounds for pedestrians. In June 2019, the stormwater drain on the street was widened. However, after the work was completed, unused concrete slabs were not cleared from the footpath. Besides, electricity poles and concrete lids meant for Tangedco’s underground cable work were taking up space on the footpath. In addition, abandoned vehicles such as autorickshaws and cars eat into the footpath. Due to these factors, the movement of pedestrians is hindered. “During rush hour, the street will be chaotic and congested. During that time, pedestrians have to walk through the vehicles which is a risk,” says V. Sarath, a resident from Vadapalani. Residents pointed out that occupation of footpath by construction materials also acts as breeding ground for mosquitoes especially with the onset of north-east monsoon. Hence, they want the Greater Chennai Corporation to carry out fogging along the footpath. Gangadharan Street is an extension of Kumaran Colony Main Road behind the MTC bus terminus in Vadapalani. It is one of the interior lanes in Vadapalani frequented by motorists from Vanagaram, Koyambedu, Thiruverukadu, Chinmiya Nagar, Tirumangalam, Arumbakkam, Ambattur and Mogappair to access T. Nagar, West Mambalam, Kodambakkam, Teynampet and Mylapore via Arcot Road. Also, many residents from Dasarathapuram, Saligramam, Vadapalani, Kumaran Colony, Periyar Pathai, Nesapakkam, Virugambakkam and K.K. Nagar use Gangadharan Street to reach Koyambedu Wholesale Market. Further, motorists prefer this road to avoid congested Jawaharlal Nehru Main Road and narrow Kaliamman Koil Street that connects Koyambedu with Virugambakkam. Instead, they use interior lanes like Gangadharan Street, which connects Chinmaya Nagar with Arcot Road at Vadapalani via Dasarathapuram. During weekends and on festival holidays, the --- intersection witnesses heavy traffic to reach the Chennai Mofussil Bus Terminus in Koyambedu. “The construction materials from the footpath will be removed at the earliest,” says a Corporation official.  The place has become a breeding ground of mosquitoes, say residents
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||The gift of education||Autorickshaw driver R. Venkatesan was venting out his frustration over how the pandemic had shrunk his earnings, to a passenger, he did not realise the conversation would lead to some references. The only earning member in the family, Venkatesan was struggling to pay his children’s fees. The passenger referred him to a non-governmental organisation and as Venkatesan’s daughter, V. Swethasri, was a meritorious student, her first semester college fee of Rs. 20,000 was transferred to her college’s bank account. At least 15 more students have received the gift of education thanks to a group of young working professionals and students who help fund the fees of students whose families are struggling to make ends meet due to the pandemic. This group functions under the banner of Indian Social Activist Council (ISAC). Started by a group of students from the 2014 batch of Christ King Girls Higher Secondary School, a government-aided institution in East Tambaram, ISAC was registered in 2015. “The seeds of starting an NGO to help the less-privileged were sown during our class X days, but it took shape as soon as we completed school,” says 23-year-old Sheeba Priyadharshini, founder-president. Some of their classmates were married off early as their parents did not have the means to educate them, and that got them thinking about helping underprivileged students. “We were regular to inter-school debate competitions and a majority of the topics were around societal issues,” says Raga Ravi, a school teacher and vice-secretary of ISAC, on the foundations of their social vision. Over the last five years, ISAC has focussed on environment-related activities such as tree planting and lake clean-ups and offering personality development programmes to children in slums and also to those in orphanages. When the pandemic hit, they noticed the digital divide and how parents, especially those without work, struggled to meet their children’s educational expenses. “That is when we decided to shift our focus to education as it was the need of the hour,” says Sheeba. Most of the beneficiaries of ‘Kalvi’, as their initiative is called, are from Ram Nagar in Nanganallur, a few villages in Tiruvallur and Pollachi. “We are familiar with these areas as we have people to help us run background checks on students, but we are open to rewarding scholarships to deserving students from other areas too,” says Raga. “When we started this programme to support deserving students hailing from underprivileged families, each of us in the group contributed 5% of our monthly salary towards the cause,” says Sheeba, a lawyer by profession. Of the 15 active members in ISAC, eight are Sheeba’s classmates from school. As more requests started coming, they started approaching donors. “We are transparent in what we do. For example, we do not want people transferring money to our accounts but to the educational institution directly. After we have done a background check about the candidate, we ask the donor also to speak to them,” says Sheeba. Members say they follow a thorough process before choosing students for educational aid. V.S. Mahalakshmi, principal of Prince Matriculation School in Adambakkam, says ISAC paid the fees of a few of their students. “As many have lost their jobs, we allow parents to pay the fees even a year later,” says Mahalakshmi, adding that she hoped there were more such groups helping deserving students in this manner.For details, visit https://isacngo.in/    After we have done a background check of the candidate, we ask the donor also to speak to them. Sheeba Priyadharshini
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||When the mighty birds come calling||Whistle, shrill, trill and screech — sounds that largely define calls by raptors. Though hardly deafening, these sounds drown the strident voice of pragmatism. During the wintering season, to watch a range of raptors, Chennai residents have to travel far and wide, heading out of the metro’s bustle. Time has to be freed up. Transport has to be arranged. When the voice brings these up, diehard raptor enthusiasts turn a deaf ear to it. Now, this voice has an added layer to it — the exhortation of staying safe from the novel Coronavirus — and it still remains ignored. With the wintering season under way, Chennai’s raptor enthusiasts make trips to raptor hotspots in surrounding districts, and of course, with unmistakable efforts to keep the virus a raptor’s huge wingspan away. Rama Neelamegam names three locations — Mamandur (89 km away) in Kancheepuram district; Kaveripakkam (98 km away) in Vellore district; and Nemam (31 km away) in Tiruvallur district. Recent sightings of the Lesser Kestrel are among reasons that have been drawing them to Kaveripakkam. “I wanted to see the Lesser Kestrel, and so went to Kaveripakkam; I organised my own cab,” says Rama. “In these raptor places, we do not get out of the car. Only rarely do we leave the car. Even then, all of us have our small boundaries that we enclose ourselves in.” Birders usually undertake a joint trip in one car but now, this practice is avoided. Subramanian Sankar, a resident of Nanganallur, points out how a group of birders undertook a trip to Pulicat, each travelling in their own vehicle, and how in the field, they maintained social distancing. “It was almost a month ago, and while we were exploring a new place, near Pulicat, with social distancing, we were greeted with the sight of a Common Buzzard,” elaborates Subramanian. “Considering it was many years ago that the Common Buzzard was last sighted in and around Chennai, this is a significant find.” Raptor hotspots are now much-visited, as Aravind AM recently found out. “On the way to Vellore, I thought I would go to Mamandur lake where the Peregrine Falcon has been sighted. But I was not able to see it. As that trip was not specifically made for bird-watching, I was late, having arrived at the lake around 8.30 a.m.,” says Aravind. From photos of the Peregrine Falcon killing a pond heron doing the rounds in birding circles, Aravind found out that many birders had made a successful trip to Mamandur earlier in that day, around 6.30 a.m.
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Commissioner gives appreciation certificate to traffic inspector||The Greater Chennai Police Commissioner, Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal, honoured Vepery traffic inspector K. Pandivelu, at the Police Commissionerate Office in Vepery on November 5 for the service he renders to the public, especially during last week’s rains. It may be noted that The Hindu Downtown carried an article in its November 1 edition on how Pandivelu unclogged the stormwater drain on EVK Sampath Salai following heavy rains. The traffic inspector was drenched as he set about removing the silt that clogged the inlets. “I got a call from the station asking me to report at the Headquarters (Police Commissioner's Office) on November 5. I was nervous, but at the end it was a pleasant surprise with the Police Commissioner appreciating our efforts on that rainy day. It is a team effort,” says the 56-year-old traffic inspector. The Police Commissioner had also tweeted the report from his official twitter handle (@copmahesh1994).
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Santhome School’s 1984 batch plans a reunion in mid-2021||We have connected with 127 out of the 195 students from the 1984 batch of the Santhome Higher Secondary School from all over the world; we have also connected with many teachers of that batch. The four sections of the 1984 batch would meet. We have planned a reunion in mid-2021, expecting that the pandemic would be behind us by then.We are still trying to connect with the other old students through various contacts. Old Students from the 1984 batch are requested to contact any of the following, for reunion C.R.Balaji at 9444626942; D Umakant at 971507806414; V.Rajagopalan at 9980505060; and Raphael Ezhaventhan at 9840358440 C.R. Balaji
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Be our volunteer-writer||Dear readers, you can be our volunteer-writers by writing to us about issues and events in your neighbourhood. You should send the write-ups to downtown feedback@ thehindu.co.in. Letters must carry the postal address and contact number. Here’s a short note on the basic building blocks of any short news feature. a) The lead is the first section of an article, and leads that narrate a human situation work the best. b) The next element is the cosmic paragraph, in which you give the overall picture. c) News features have to be factually-grounded and the central portion, which will consist of a few paragraphs, should support the anecdotal paragraph and the cosmic paragraph.
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Tamil Nagar residents seek park on OSR land||We request the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) to develop the OSR land at Tamil Nagar in Ramapuram into a park. The OSR land was dedicated towards the creation of a park in 1989, but the planned facility is yet to see the light, remaining only on paper. Over the years, this land has seen other developments. For one, a PDS outlet has come up on it. The Corporation has a small building on it. Besides, one can see that the construction of a sewage pumping station was undertaken, and abandoned midway. The work began four years ago. Now, whatever is left of the land is being misused by some for dumping garbage; and by some others, for consuming alcohol. So, we request GCC to develop a park without much delay. V. Vijayaraghavan, secretary, Tamil Nagar Makkal Nala Sangam
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Session on organic farming||Tamil Nadu Agricultural University Information & Training Centre is conducting a workshop on organic farming on November 10 at its premises in Guindy. Another session on terrace gardening will be held on November 11. For registration and further details, call 044 - 2225 0511 / 2250 1960.
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Session on trees||Vaanavil, a forum meant for environment enthusiasts, is organising an online session called “trees around us” on November 8. Time: From 11 a.m. to noon. The session will be about identification of native trees and their benefits. For registration and further details, call 98406 80173.
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Workshop on storytelling||Kidpreneurs India, Saidapet, is organising an online workshop on storytelling on November 10. Time: From 4 p.m. to 5 p.m. According to a press release, no participation fee will be charged. For registration and further details, call 99520 13800
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Vigilance week observed||The vigilance awareness week was celebrated from October 27 to November 2, at the Office of the Accountant General in Teynampet. The accountant general D. Jaisankar, IA & AS, administered the integrity pledge, says a press release.
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Exhibition at West Mambalam||An exhibition-cum-sale of handicraft and handloom products is under way at Adarsh Hall, New No: 21, Old No:7, Aryagowda Road, West Mambalam. According to a press release, saris from Orissa; ghagra cholie, churidar and jewellery from Rajasthan; bedsheets from Telangana; dress materials from Punjab and Lucknow are available. Also available are curtains, paintings, wall-hangings; Chennapatanam wooden toys, Sharanpur wooden furniture, Banjara bags, leather bags, Kalamkari tops, Teracotta artefacts, ready-made shirts and acupressure tools. The exhibition will end on November 15. Time: From 10 a.m. to 9.30 p.m. PH: 99404 22426 / 91764 36272
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Khadi sale ends on November 15||Khadi India is organising an exhibition-cum-sale of handloom products at Khadi & Village Industries Commission, No: 7, North Mada Street, Mylapore. Time: From 10 a.m. to 8.30 p.m. The sale will end on November 15. According to a press release, the collection includes saris and dress materials such as Bandhini, Chanderi silk Kantha work, block print, Tassar, Kotta, Ikkat and a few more. Also, available are shawls, duppattas, blouses, jewellery and dolls For details, call 73583 17050 / 96293 74196
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||You’ve been swatted||As I was talking to my 84-year-old father on the telephone a couple of weeks ago, he said that someone was calling on the other line claiming to be the sheriff and asking some odd questions. The number was listed as ‘Private Caller’ and my father assumed it was a prank call. Then, in the background, I heard my mother say, “There are so many police outside!” My father said he would call me back, and opened the front door to find several policemen on the porch, pointing assault weapons at him. If he had not opened the door when he did, they would have broken it down. The sheriff’s office had received a message saying that someone had witnessed my mother shoot an individual with a shotgun on a Zoom call. The officers asked to search the house and realised it was a false report. My parents had been ‘swatted’. Swatting is a new digital-age crime in the U.S. in which an anonymous caller reports a fake violent crime to the police that elicits the arrival of a militarised unit known as a Special Weapons and Tactics (SWAT) team. One of the deputies explained to my parents that this particular anonymous call had been made to Interpol in Europe, who had then contacted the State’s highway patrol, who contacted the sheriff’s office. The fact that my mother was named, and the exact home address provided, was unsettling to say the least. Early targets Some of the earliest victims of ‘swatting’ were feminist critics of gaming culture and female developers of games, but this phenomenon has grown now to target anybody, including senior citizens like my mother. According to the FBI, the number of swatting cases has dramatically increased in the U.S. since the government started officially monitoring the phenomenon in 2008. It is estimated that over 1,000 cases have now been reported. This still did not explain why my mother was specifically targeted. My parents have lived in this area for over five decades, an area that has a long history with white supremacist groups — I still remember a schoolteacher showing our class a newsletter he subscribed to as a member of a local neo-Nazi organisation. Swatting is a recent tactic taken up by the Alt-Right. (And it doesn’t help that members of the Alt-Right are joining law enforcement agencies in large numbers.) I began to wonder if there were any connections, given the rise of anti-immigrant sentiments and racism in the area. When I discussed it with a friend in the tech world, he said I should have a look at the work of Caroline Sinders, a feminist designer of games. I found her 2015 essay entitled, ‘That Time the Internet Sent a SWAT Team to My Mom’s House’, and immediately understood why he had recommended it. The details are eerily similar, except in Sinders’ mom’s case, the caller said a violent crime had occurred and there was a hostage situation. The caller had contacted local police; in my mother’s case it was Interpol. The outcome was the same: a SWAT team arrived at their homes. Just before the swatting incident, Sinders had been subjected to an online harassment campaign when she wrote about misogyny in the gaming culture. This was another parallel — earlier this year, I too was subjected to anonymous harassment to such an extent that when I spoke to an investigator, they asked if I knew anyone who might specifically want to target me. On the other hand, this was not the first time my parents were being harassed. As early as 1991, when I was a graduate student, my parents received anonymous phone calls telling them to stop me from writing on topics related to Hindu nationalism. More recently, my parents have continued to receive phone calls due to my writings. One leader of a U.S.-based Hindutva organisation told me that he had carried out an investigation into my family — my parents, my in-laws, my extended family. He then shared a blacklist of scholars his organisation had put together. Their goal was to campaign against those whose research was influenced by Marxism, Feminism, Subaltern Studies, and Critical Theory — basically my areas of interest. The ubiquity of digital technology that allows for anonymous calls to any police agency in the world makes it easier to initiate a police response. These callers know that the militarisation of law enforcement in recent decades means that SWAT teams will arrive at the doors of unsuspecting individuals in minutes. The police only know one way to respond when they are triggered — and these callers know how to trigger them. The callers are also fully aware that swatting has sometimes led to the killing of innocent individuals, but they also know that swatting calls are not a priority for further investigation by law enforcement agencies unless someone is actually shot. Most of these incidents do not result in deaths, so swatting is an effective form of intimidation and harassment. I am fully aware that there is no direct evidence that the swatting or the earlier harassment are related to my writings. There was no such evidence in Sinders’ case either, but that is the point after all. When I contacted a cybersecurity specialist who works with police departments in the US, he carefully listened to the details of all that has happened until now. During our conversation, he searched through his databases for further information or leads. He reminded me that online trolling and threats of violence against writers are now everyday occurrences, including organised and targeted attacks. But swatting is an escalation of a different order. He asked me to describe any other possibilities that might have led to it. I pointed out that there were other coincidences that I had only started to consider after the swatting incident. Spectral harassment I explained that I had given an interview on V.D. Savarkar, one of the intellectual founders of Hindutva, to the socialist journal Jacobin in late 2019. The interview received some attention in the Indian media, with newspaper articles discussing my argument that violence was central to Savarkar’s argument about being a Hindu. The first anonymous harassment incident followed shortly thereafter. The swatting episode took place after I published an academic article on Savarkar’s interpretation of “violence as Hindu civility”. I gave an interview on the same topic to the Left journal Countercurrents . Again, some commentators in India wrote about it in the national press. As soon as I mentioned these interviews, I thought the expert would dismiss them as unrelated events, but he did not. In his assessment, “There are too many data points for this to be random.” He added that in his line of work he would not consider these coincidences, especially as I write on a controversial political figure. There is a spectral nature to these events initiated by faceless, nameless, unseen perpetrators. It is certainly possible that they are simply acts of harassment in the U.S. of today. Perhaps these are the consequences of having identified Savarkar as the ‘ghost father’ of the nation in India. Yet this is paradoxical for me personally. I initially became interested in Savarkar after learning that I had been named after him by one of his disciples, who had given the name to hundreds of other boys. I take Savarkar’s writings seriously, as he was one of the most important Indian political thinkers of the 20th century. I have argued that people should read Savarkar in India today, even if they fundamentally disagree with his ideas. It is only then that we can fully interpret Hindutva and the idea of India that he influenced and helped to shape. In the end, the harassment has all the traces of the invisible hand of the Right that is no longer interested in intellectual debate. The writer is Associate Professor of History at the University of California, Irvine, and is writing an intellectual history of V.D. Savarkar.  The sheriff’s office had received an anonymous call saying that someone had seen my mother shoot an individual with a shotgun on a Zoom call
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||What Odisha eats||Most cuisines in India are centuries old, but food writing is not. Writing that goes beyond documenting recipes is still new or as yet absent in many regions and ethnicities. Objective analyses of Indian food as a whole goes back only a few decades. So, what we have now is a long history of food cultures, but a just-emerging field of academic food writing. It is vital that these new explorers understand that food is inseparable from culture, culture from identity, and identity from politics. A turbulent political landscape can have an insidious effect on how markers of identity — which food is — are approached. This is also true of cultures coming to terms with their new-found identity. Food becomes a device through which identity is entrenched and muscle added to the skeletons of stories that have never been told. Odia food is going through this phase today. A simple and aggressive story is seen as a quick and effective way of making up for a history of neglect. This approach generally refers to a long and glorious past, emphasising the inherent superiority of the cuisine, which almost blames the outsider for not having discovered it earlier. This approach is not about better understanding, but dominance, and the weapon is marketing. The mother cuisine At a webinar on Odia food organised by the Odisha Tourism Development Corporation, a prominent writer on the region’s food used all these tools of cultural hegemony. First, she claimed that Odia food is 8,000 years old. That is simply incorrect. The first archaeological reference to cooking from the subcontinent is from Harappa, around 5,000 years old. So, the basis of such a claim is confounding. However, roots in the ancient is a familiar argument of cultural emasculation. This, in a way, lays the basis for claims that everything that came later can be traced to this ‘mother’ cuisine. The intent of the argument is ‘purity’. The fact is, no cuisine is a water-tight entity. Academic study should look at influences, interfaces and cultural transactions that occurred via trade, immigrants and invaders among others. Odisha has trade relations with Southeast Asia. Did that influence the steamed pithas? How did the Marwari settlement impact the food of Cuttack? What did the Odia cooks who went to Bengal bring back with them? Such questions, sadly, have no place in this hegemonic tale about puritanism. Another point that is emphasised is that Odia food could be the solution to the global search for health food. In an earlier panel, a well-known Odia food writer claimed that pakhala is rich in iron, going on to make similar fallacious statements about other foods. Such airy claims need to be scrutinised. As a region that is less integrated with global consumption patterns, Odisha is yet to bear the full brunt of the Western fast-food culture. While the rootedness and diversity of Odia food are undeniable, there is no easy way around research. There is no path that can skip the painstaking documentation of dishes and practices that make up a cuisine. This is the time to study how Odisha eats and how that is being impacted by larger forces. Loud claims, not based on facts, only feed chauvinism. And they make the work of future food writers that much more difficult. Beyond the temple Finally, it is time Odia food writing went beyond the Puri temple. The dominance of coastal Odisha, particularly the temple, is not just lazy, it is unfair to the rest of Odisha. It overlooks the diversity of Odia cuisine — the influence of Bengal in the north, of Andhra in the south, and the unrecorded foods of western Odisha. For example, the trademark dalma that is made synonymous with Odia food is non-existent in many western parts of the State. This shortsightedness is neither innocent nor accidental. The Brahminical dominance in Odia food discourse consciously avoids any references to tribal cultures or their influence on temple cuisine. It is not surprising that panellists speak at length about the number of temples in Bhubaneswar and their rich food varieties. Or that the temple, claimed to be the fountainhead of Odia food, sits on its archives like a cult, deprecating and suspicious of external eyes. For coastal Odisha, the region that most Odia food advocates come from, the tribes, the Dalits, and the people and foods of the forests are alien. An honest effort at understanding can either be driven by curiosity with an aim to steadfastly document food history, or it can be agenda-driven and constantly sanitise it. Odia food, and for that matter, Indian food, is at that critical juncture where it has to decide which path it wants to take. The writer farms on his balcony, complains vocally about issues that bother him, and eats his way across the world.  Finally, it is time Odia food writing went beyond the Puri temple. The dominance of coastal Odisha, particularly the temple, is not just lazy, it is unfair to the rest of Odisha
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Splendour in the grass||Speckled with flecks of dark green verging on grey, Kalo Dungar rises incongruously over the Great Rann of Kutch. The Black Hill towers over the glistening, patchy, white desert and rises like a lighthouse above a sea of sand and salt. The flatland extends as far as the eye can see along the border between India and Pakistan. Its overwhelming vastness and immense stillness belie the hyperactive and contentious borders of our collective imagination. A little after sunset, bells chime at the Dattatreya temple atop Kalo Dungar, breaking the eerie silence of the hilltop surrounded by thorny scrub forests and the ubiquitous invasive mesquite ( Prosopis juliflora ) that the locals call gando baval (mad tree). The bells beckon wildlife to gather around a small cylindrical slab, a feeding spot of sorts. The temple priest heads down with a bucket of food and dumps it on the slab. As darkness descends, silhouettes of four-legged critters appear. Initially there’s a hierarchy: the first to feed are golden jackals; then a trio of wild boars; next, two Indian crested porcupines amble in. The rather unusual assortment of mammals feeds, more or less amicably, before disappearing into the surrounding shrub forest. A rich diversity of wildlife on one rocky hillock. Camel herds The Maldharis of Kutch have traditionally been nomadic pastoralists, traversing the region as seasons change with the ebb and flow of the grasslands on which their cows and buffaloes, goats, sheep and camels graze. The communities, although distinct in cultures and husbandry, are united in their knowledge of native wildlife and vegetation. Their lives revolve around livestock. The Rabari community of camel herders has a saying: maal che to mobo che , which loosely translates as ‘if one has animals, one has dignity’. As I set up trail cameras to understand the distribution of mammals in the Banni grasslands in Kutch, I see the arid land morph into lush grassland after the monsoons, the life blood for pastoralists, their livestock, and for a rich diversity of wildlife. The bane of the otherwise enjoyable task of setting up camera traps is navigating the thorny maze of Prosopis , an invasive plant that has spread like wildfire through the region — the consequence of an attempt at ‘greening’ the desert and reshuffling the socio-ecological dynamics of the Banni. While it has spawned livelihoods and a parallel economy that runs on charcoal, it has also ruined the grasslands, impacting pastoralists and the fauna of the area. Colonial misnomer What we often forget is how unique deserts and grasslands are as habitats that support human communities, wildlife, and vegetation. Ill-informed attempts to modify these landscapes are the legacy of colonialism, when many such lands were considered wasteland because they did not generate revenue. Monocultures and plantations were considered productive while wetlands, deserts, and grasslands were not. This categorisation persists, and these landscapes are thus vanishing. It’s not just the Banni — as much as 17% of India is classified as wasteland, according to Wastelands Atlas of India 2019 . This includes not just seasonal grasslands and deserts, but also riverine and coastal sandy areas, wetlands, mangroves (as areas affected by salinity or alkalinity), ravines, scrubland, glaciers, and areas under snow cover. “The term ‘wasteland’, a colonial construct, obsesses with the monetary benefits that a piece of land may or may not provide,” says Abi Vanak, Senior Fellow and Convenor of the Centre for Biodiversity and Conservation, Ashoka Trust for Research in Ecology and the Environment. “The classification ignores the social, cultural and historical links of the inhabitants, as well as the ecology and ecosystems of these places. The only true ‘wastelands’ on earth stem from human industrial activities that render land lifeless.” Areas deemed wastelands — grasslands, deserts, rocky outcrops and sand dunes — are actually “rich ecosystems teeming with unique biodiversity and human cultures finely attuned to the dynamics of such landscapes,” he says.   The Wastelands Atlas indicates that grasslands and waterbodies are under consideration for reclassification, although the exact process seems unclear. These landscapes are home to not just endangered megafauna but also plants and invertebrates, several of which we depend on. We see history repeating itself in initiatives such as the Compensatory Afforestation Programme and Management Authority and Green India Mission. Land for these ‘greening’ drives, which seek to compensate for land used for development activities, comes from those misclassified as ‘wastelands’. Sky islands About 11% of Gujarat is categorised as wastelands with large swathes of Kutch falling under this classification. On the other side of the country, the floodplains of the Ganga and Brahmaputra along the Terai arc are not only one of the most biodiverse parts of the subcontinent, supporting rare species such as the endangered greater one-horned rhinoceros that thrives in the tall elephant grass, but are also among the most densely populated parts of the country thanks to the fertile river plains. But parts of this region too are classified as wastelands. For instance, Assam has approximately 11% of its total area classified as such, while Arunachal Pradesh and Sikkim, renowned biodiversity hotspots, have 16% and 46%. At the country’s southern tip, the biodiversity hotspot that is the Western Ghats is home to the rare Shola grasslands of the sky islands; these natural grasslands are the last refuge for several endemic species of birds, amphibians, reptiles, and mammals, including the Nilgiri tahr, and unique flora such as the neelakurinji that blossoms every 12 years and gives the Nilgiris its name. Parts of this ecosystem too come under the umbrella term ‘wastelands’. As do parts of the central Indian grasslands, the last refuge of the tiger. Over 12% of Madhya Pradesh, which has national parks such as Kanha, Pench, and Panna, is categorised as scrub forest, degraded pastures, etc. Large chunks of the Himalaya and its foothills, with their cold deserts and montane grasslands, the strongholds of the snow leopard, are similarly classified. As much as 79% of Jammu and Kashmir, 41% of Himachal Pradesh, and 23% of Uttarakhand, are considered wastelands. The Asiatic cheetah that once roamed India’s grasslands is already extinct, as is the pink-headed duck that once thrived in the Gangetic swamps. A grassland denizen, the great Indian bustard, once in the running for national bird status, is critically endangered today. If we scramble now, we might still be able to save it and other species from disappearing forever. The first step to ensure that these creatures and their habitats are not wiped out is to stop ill-informed initiatives that ignore the socio-ecological dimensions of development. Many pastoralists are poets at heart. One of the best-known storytellers of the grasslands was Salim Node (called Mama by everyone), the wise agyavan (pastoralist leader) of Sargu village in Kutch, not far from the foothills of Kalo Dungar. Pastoralists from near and far would flock to him for advice, remedies, and treatments for their livestock. One of the folktales Salim Mama narrated is an apt metaphor for the ‘wastelands’. It was monsoon and a female baya weaver was sitting in her nest, ready to lay eggs. During a heavy downpour, a lion arrived for refuge under the tree. The protective bird rebuked the lion for choosing this spot of all others in the forest, and the lion left to find another tree. But immediately, a troop of monkeys landed on the very branch from which the weaverbird’s nest was dangling. Salim Mama’s tale ended there. He wanted us to know that these ecosystems are always shared spaces, always teeming with life. The writer is an ecologist who moonlights as a science communicator.  The term ‘wasteland’, a colonial construct, obsesses with the monetary benefits that a piece of land may or may not provide. The classification ignores the social, cultural and historical links of the inhabitants
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||The Buddha of Bangkok||For a sizeable chunk of my adult life I have lived in South East Asia, shuttling between Vietnam, Indonesia and Thailand. One balmy day in late summer, while strolling through a raucous marketplace in Saigon, I came upon a worn copy of Bangkok Tattoo on the counter of a dive bar selling moonshine whiskey, pork sliders and pho. The book’s hard living protagonist, Sonchai Jitpleecheep, is the progeny of a retired Thai sex-worker and one of her farang (foreigner) clients, a long-gone Vietnam War G.I. Sonchai works as a detective in the Royal Thai Police Force and has acquired a troublesome reputation as the only cop on the force who can’t be bribed. This quality, unsurprisingly, has not helped his career prospects. Bangkok Tattoo is the second in a series of gritty crime stories set around Sonchai and his exploits. The others are: Bangkok 8 , Bangkok Haunts , The Godfather of Kathmandu , Vulture Peak and The Bangkok Asset . Rooted in reality John Burdett, the author, is a Thai-speaking former lawyer who has spent a major part of his life in Asia, in the process chatting up hundreds of bar girls to gather material for his novels. One would be hard pressed to find a foreign writer who nails the sacred and profane aspects of Thai culture so effortlessly, a duality that can be seen as two sides of the same coin, like the Buddhist shrine seen at the entrance to many sex clubs. Unlike some British expat writers in Asia, William Dalrymple for example, Burdett does not wallow in exotic fantasies of a bygone era. He is firmly rooted in the here and now, effortlessly blending into the culture that he has adopted as his own. His protagonist Sonchai is an arhat , a Buddhist with the rare ability to meditate in the most challenging situations, including in peak Bangkok traffic. He often looks to the scriptures for answers to ethical dilemmas or when things go horribly wrong, as they often do in his profession. But unlike his former partner, Pichai, he has not been able to muster the courage to be fully ordained into monkhood. “Was the Buddha really a transcendental genius who pointed out all that time ago that nothing was even more inevitable than death and taxes? Or was he a third-century B.C. dropout who could not cope with the rigors of statecraft?” he asks rhetorically in Bangkok 8 . Here “nothing” refers to the Buddha’s core teaching of shunyata , or the inherent emptiness of all material and mental phenomena. He further wonders, “Is it my farang blood which fills my mind with such sacrilegious thoughts from time to time?” When not seeking answers in the sacred texts, he likes to ingest hallucinogens to help reconcile his spiritual quest with the grim realities of homicide investigation. His philosophical ruminations about the differences between the Western and Asian mind are a thing of wonder. In sharp and unflinching detail, Sonchai takes us into the mind of a Thai “wife for rent” as she toys with a series of European patrons, manipulating them with finesse while offering Freudian insights into their personal neuroses. Street cred The women in Sonchai’s world are not victims. “Western women can’t handle it that their men get a better time over here,” says Sonchai’s mother Nong, turning her withering gaze on the moral hypocrisy of farang culture “In the sex trade we see a true redistribution of global wealth from west to east. That’s what’s got them so hung up.” Nong is a madame who operates a brothel as a front for her powerful investor, a police colonel who runs a major part of the drug trade. Sonchai often reminds his readers that they are farangs , and thus outsiders, to be schooled in the ways of the East. And he does this with a healthy dose of condescension and breathtaking candour: In Bangkok Tattoo , he writes, “These are all country girls, tough as water buffalo, wild as swans, who can’t believe how much they can make by providing to polite, benevolent, guilt-ridden, rich, condom-conscious farangs exactly the same service they would otherwise have to provide free without protection to rough drunken whore-mongering husbands in their home villages.” Burdett has a penchant for mining the West’s fraught encounters with the East, displaying an impressive command of a literary style that could be described as social satire. No matter how outrageous the plots — a U.S. marine murdered in a car full of Cobras dosed on crystal meth, a telepathic Tibetan tantric adept cum heroin dealer, a detective having intercourse with the ghost of a deceased lover — his street cred shines through, which is probably why his work has not been translated into Thai. Given the country’s draconian laws, he could easily find himself incarcerated, or worse, for exposing the thriving nexus between the criminal underworld and the state. And he enjoys living in Thailand far too much for that. Illusion of control His prose is acerbic, compulsively readable, and the social commentary cuts straight to the bone. There are many passages that have uncanny resonance with ongoing world events. For instance, in Bangkok 8, a monk makes a striking observation: “Actually, the West is Culture of Emergency: Twisters in Texas, earthquakes in California, windchill in Chicago, drought, flood, famine, epidemics, war on everything — watch out for that meteor and how much longer does the sun really have? Of course, if you didn’t believe you could control everything, there wouldn’t be an emergency, would there?” He is talking of the illusion of control that undergirds the modern world, providing it with a false sense of its own invincibility. It’s an illusion that is causing mental breakdown and disorientation on a global scale, as we watch our smug certainties unravel before our eyes. The Buddha taught that impermanence permeates all aspects of life, even inanimate objects, and this is a constant reminder of the powerlessness of man. However much we may desire to predict outcomes, learning to accept the inherent uncertainty of human existence could be what ultimately liberates us. The writer is a cultural critic and filmmaker.  Sonchai often reminds his readers that they arefarangs, and thus outsiders, to be schooled in the ways of the East. And he does this with a healthy dose of condescension and candour
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Idea of India’ in peril||Shashi Tharoor’s The Battle of Belonging is a passionate defence of civic nationalism. He laments that, although enshrined in the Indian Constitution, this ideal is now under threat from an alternative vision of majoritarian nationalism that excludes certain categories of citizens and simultaneously attempts to impose uniformity on the “majority”. Betraying the Constitution Tharoor argues that by not rising to the defence of a pluralist and civic notion of nationalism, Indians in general and the political class in particular will be not only betraying the most important legacy of the national movement but also jeopardise the unity of the country for the sake of an elusive uniformity. He contends that unity in a country as diverse as India can be achieved only by encompassing its multiple sub-identities within an overarching national identity that does not negate existing linguistic, religious, or regional sub-identities but subsumes them within the larger identity. This can be achieved only if the ideals of the Constitution, and not any primordial criteria, remain the touchstone of Indian nationalism. That civic nationalism was not only a virtue in itself but also a necessity for India was the lesson that the framers of the Constitution imbibed from the long history of the freedom movement. Despite the trauma of partition they did not compromise on their cherished “idea of India” based on patriotism on the one hand and a commitment to the goals of liberty, equality and justice for all citizens on the other. Although reality never corresponded fully to the ideal it did approximate it to a sufficient degree during the first three decades of independence to make the ideal appear attainable. However, the ideal itself has since come under attack by forces attempting to change the yardstick by which an Indian’s nationalism is judged. Tharoor sees this derogation of the “idea of India” as a looming catastrophe and exhorts the people, especially its political class, to recommit themselves to the original principles of the Constitution. Ghost of Partition The initial chapters of the book argue that the recent popularity of illiberal and chauvinist nationalisms in both developed and developing countries is in part a reaction to the twin phenomena of neoliberalism and globalisation. This applies to India as well but there are additional features unique to the country that prepared the ground for the emergence of majoritarian nationalism. The most important of these that Tharoor does not emphasise adequately was the partition of the country based on Jinnah’s fallacious two-nation theory. This provided the opportunity for Hindu nationalist forces, which had remained marginal during the independence movement and had, in fact, collaborated with the British during World War II and opposed the Quit India Movement, to emerge as a viable alternative to the original pluralist conception espoused by the founders of the republic. Partition did so by radically changing the demographic balance in the country and by leaving a long-lasting impact on the Hindu psyche, especially in north India, which paved the way for the popularity of majoritarian conceptions of nationalism. What the future holds After analysing nine different forms of nationalism Tharoor distils them into two: ethnonationalism, including its ethno-religious variety, that is based on presumed primordial affinities and civic nationalism, and that Tharoor argues derives legitimacy “not from ethnicity, religion, language, culture... but from the consent and active participation of... citizens, as free members of a democratic polity.” (p. 31) It is a very important deduction, especially when applied to India, that civic nationalism and democracy are Siamese twins and one cannot exist without the other. The corrosion of democratic institutions and the erosion of civic nationalism go hand in hand. If one sees symptoms of the former as is the case today, then it is clear that civic nationalism is on the wane as well.  The Battle of Belonging is many books rolled into one. It deals with multiple interrelated subjects and provides examples that span several centuries and continents. It is full of erudition interspersed with personal anecdotes. You find the raconteur and the public intellectual, and Tharoor is an admirable example of both, vying with each other to catch the reader’s attention. But in the final analysis the book hangs together and the message is clear. Tharoor proclaims this message by asserting his vision of the India of the future: “It will be [an] India where you won’t get lynched for the food you eat, marginalized for the faith you hold dear, criminalized for the person you love, or imprisoned for making use of fundamental rights guaranteed by your own Constitution.” (p. 391) But the return to the original ideals of the Constitution requires a political vehicle whose democratic credentials are impeccable, which has credibility with the population, and possesses the ideological and moral certainty to stand its ground in the face of adverse circumstances. Unfortunately, such a vehicle is sorely missing today. The reviewer is University Distinguished Professor Emeritus of International Relations, Michigan State University.  The Battle of Belonging Shashi Tharoor Aleph Book Company  Rs. 799
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Pause, reflect, repeat||Being confined at home these days, all sorts of contradictions assail our perception of time. As an antidote to the normal, frenetic OTT fare, I’ve been revisiting some films by one of the great directors of the French New Wave, Éric Rohmer. By the time he makes Ma Nuit Chez Maud (My Night at Maud’s) in 1969 — the first one of his films to find international recognition — the field of the New Wave is already crowded. Besides Jean-Luc Godard and François Truffaut many others have weighed in with contributions — with films mostly about contemporary France, constructed in ways that challenge and dismantle the conventional modes of storytelling followed by American and European commercial cinema at the time. Such is the quiet confidence and originality that Rohmer brings to the screen that his films stand out amidst all the formidable stylistic pyrotechnics. With films like Maud, Claire’s Knee and Pauline at the Beach, Rohmer establishes himself both as the master narrator of the lives of ordinary people and the great explorer of a quiet yet utterly gripping cinematic form. Rohmer films are like slow-release capsules — they don’t unload on you all at once or constantly. The beginnings are anti-dramatic, as if the filmmaker has no interest in catching or holding your attention, as if he’s saying ‘keep watching if something on the screen interests you’. Like a dhrupad singer starting an alaap , almost meditating the sur out of his body, or a chess-player ruminatively playing against himself, Rohmer starts to let things happen before his camera: two men finishing a night-shift in a sorting office have a quick chat about a plumbing job; a woman in a train glances at a man across the aisle who’s reading a book; two women drive up to the gate of a beach house, one of them opens the gate, they drive in. Emotional quicksands From these deceptively simple opening gambits Rohmer creates subtle mesmerisations that slowly ensnare you. The characters reveal traits, pick up obsessions, start sinking into emotional quicksands on innocently flat looking beaches. Suddenly you find yourself caring about one character even as they irritate the daylights out of you; another character, whom you initially dislike, starts to win you over as you guiltily realise you share some of their foibles; a situation between a group of people repels you but you can’t turn away till some resolution is reached. As the film progresses there is an accumulative unease, something which could lead to horror or laughter, or sometimes both. Rather than entertain you with surface explosions, Rohmer’s films create implosions within you. “The one experience I’ve missed is loneliness and the pain it causes,” says, Louise, a beautiful 20-something. It’s the kind of thing Rohmer’s characters say all the time, the self-awareness unleavened by any self-consciousness. One wants to say this is typically Gallic but perhaps it’s not, perhaps it’s just in the architecture of the language, perhaps if someone said it in Punjabi it would sound different but just as true to character. Potent distillation “People who’ve given up on seduction are dead,” says Octave, a balding, unprepossessing writer-nerd and you find yourself laughing hard. While his characters often speak of seduction, Rohmer strives not to grope the viewer’s knee with his cinematic hand. “To love someone deeply, I have to love them from afar, now and then,” says Louise. Perhaps it’s the same with Rohmer who rarely goes into close-ups; people are almost always framed in mid-shot. Instead of a lens breathing down an actor’s neck (and via that, yours) you get the precision of the camera staying still on a character as they talk to another, their eyes moving the off-screen character from one point of space to another. Without warning you could fall into the rabbit hole of watching a conversation between two people for 20 minutes. But then you realise that no shot or sequence is held for even a frame longer than necessary. After a while you understand that this storytelling has centrally to do with a potent distillation of cinematic means, of shot, sound, mise-en-scène and cut. Words are important in Rohmer’s films, spoken ones, often lots of them, but you find yourself ‘inside’ a character not through any writerly omniscience but because what you’ve seen and not seen mix into a complex alchemy with what the characters have seen and heard. These films are particularly good to view in this fractured and compressed time because in Rohmer’s world people are often trapped in their own emotional silos, struggling to get out. It’s a world where sometimes a beautiful vantage point can become utterly claustrophobic and a small contained space the most freeing. Eric Rohmer is a master at pulling out the carpet from under what we are used to seeing, the usual suspect linkages to which we are addicted. Watching these stories from another time and place is a wonderful balm for the cabin fever of the soul.  Eric Rohmer is a master at pulling out the carpet from under what we are used to seeing, the usual suspect linkages to which we are addicted
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Death and closure||A few days ago, I lost my grandmother. I felt helpless. I could not shed a tear. Childhood memories of Achamma go back to my vacations when we cousins would sit on the floor in the living room listening to her conversations with her sons on international politics, war, law, activism and so on. She was disappointed that I, at the age of seven, had no interest in reading the newspaper to learn about topics as diverse as Gulf oil exports and Marxism. She for one would not let anything get in the way of her daily habit of reading every available left-wing newspaper page to page, even classifieds and obituaries. The image that comes to my mind is of Achamma , draped in a kasavu mundu and her lips red from chewing a betel quid, in her wooden chair in the porch, which looks out into the dense fields of rubber, areca and vanilla. She would be contemplating on political theories and philosophy or lecturing us on manners and social responsibility. Almost a year ago, she suffered a stroke. One who would narrate endless stories of her brother’s communist revolutionary days could barely recognise her own children. Pariyarath Thambayiamma, 84, had received basic school education, as was the custom in 1940s Kerala, born into a politically active family with most of its members joining the Independence struggle. She was the youngest sister to six brothers, the oldest of whom, Pariyarath Krishnan Nair, fought the British in the historic Kayyur revolt. She was a feminist who despised meaningless chatter and gossip. With her ailment, an independent woman, who managed to educate all her children despite the tough financial constraints, needed support even for eating. Reconciling with loss After her death, I found no closure. I could not remember our last proper conversation. I did not know her favourite quote or book, or what she valued the most in life. I felt our relationship was incomplete. Her passing felt too distant to me, as if I barely knew her. I started reading on the phone Tuesdays with Morrie by Mitch Albom. Mitch, in his late thirties, is going to visit Professor Morrie, a teacher he dearly loved in his undergraduate years, after hearing about the latter’s terminal disease. The book reveals deathbed conversations they have about love, family, forgiveness, life, death and regret. Morrie, unlike Achamma , could speak until his last days. He did not have minor dementia like she did, and so he made it a point to teach Mitch all the things he learnt from living for 77 years, and dying. He was a teacher till the last. He wanted to connect people with their emotions, and cultivate love. He finally managed to make Mitch cry, and this made him feel like he had completed his task, of awakening the emotions within his student. I shed a tear for Achamma as I finished the book. Maybe I got the closure I needed and accepted that if I had a conversation with her, she would say the things Morrie did. That love is all that mattered, and its only through these relationships you live on after you die. Death ends a life, but never a relationship. Morrie repeatedly said that he considered himself lucky — unlike those who die suddenly, he got all the time to say goodbye and in his last moment, he did not feel panic or fear, but a sense of calm, as if he was crossing a bridge, surrounded by everyone who loved him. I now believe in fate, that it guided me to the book the day I realised that I had missed out on some of life’s important lessons and conversations. Morrie’s ashes are scattered on a hill, beneath a tree, overlooking a pond; he chose the calm and serene place to help him think. Achamma will have her place among her favourite areca palms and vanilla plants of Mozhokkom, close to her children and home and next to my late grandfather. parvati.nambiar.hnlu24@gmail.com
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Welcome to hell||Lovely and Beauty are sisters who have been kept under house arrest for most of their lives by their mother Farida Khanam. If they leave home at all, their mother accompanies them. On Lovely’s 40th birthday morning, without Beauty knowing (since she hasn’t woken up), Farida permits Lovely to explore Dhaka on her own, with the proviso that she returns in the afternoon. There is a voice inside Lovely’s head that pops up now and then to scuttle her ever-tenuous composure. What will happen when — and if — she returns home? Cinematic feel The family seems to be one-time landowners. Traces of zamindari feudalism linger in their household even in the late 2000s, which forms the novel’s present. There’s a timid father figure in the house and there are servants who are subject to regular verbal abuse. As are the sisters, who defy it in their own ways. Religion shapes nearly every character’s personality and emerges especially during moments of friction. There are contemporary contraptions in their Dhaka home, but for all practical purposes it is a jail. Originally published in 2010 in Bengali, Leesa Gazi’s debut novel has a strong cinematic feel, with all the elements of screenwriting: a problem point that is explored, a set of obstacles driving the conflict, and a resolution. Shabnam Nadiya’s fuss-free translation makes this a thrilling read: the drama ebbs and eddies, proffering passages one wants to savour for their character insight or landscape lyricism, the two often melding in one moment. Gazi’s depiction of woman-to-woman emotional violence can be enlightening to experience at a time when misogyny is often conflated only with men. The foes here are attitudes and institutions: family ties, faith, social hierarchy, as refracted through the dramatis personae. By confronting them, Gazi examines the ways in which her women are cast into the closet called society. Emotional aggression is a legacy that is passed down the generations. Farida moves from being a person hard done by when young to a remorseless instigator when old. There can be room for people to do the right thing, yet Farida chooses what she does. Gazi puts the sisters too in a similar quandary. The question is, which person will steer in what fashion. Will it bring joy or doom? Even archetyping requires artistry. Gazi expertly develops Farida, showing us the milieu she was reared in and its values that she prolongs. What goes into the making of a matriarch? How does one humanise her? What are her susceptibilities? Answers to these questions prove Gazi’s skill in creating an atmosphere of menace. But she fails to convince us enough of Farida’s reasons for keeping her daughters under lock and key for decades. Sliver of surrealism The sisters have experienced the outside world from inside their rooms. They bristle on the page. Gazi conjures claustrophobia with élan, but it’s hard to maintain that beyond a point. The novel makes ‘reality’ look both familiar and strange — which is often the sign of a fine yarn — and yet, clearly, given the subject at hand, reveals the deficiencies of the realist mode. In a telling sequence, Farida fights off crows hovering over her house terrace. She’s convinced that they bring bad tidings. A sliver of surrealism shines through, amplifying the dark forebodings. The novel might have stood stronger if Gazi had taken off more freely into the surrealist mode. The novel gets there and stops, which is why by the middle of the book, even though one is hooked, one can probably also guess the denouement. It felt as if Kafka, Atwood, Ian McEwan had all whispered suggestions into Gazi’s ears but she mostly ignored them. Only Kafka’s The Castle seems to have found a foothold in Farida’s house. The family is the most important unit of examination in much of the subcontinent’s social realist fiction. Across our many languages and dialects, storytellers of each era have updated us on the horrors perpetrated by this institution. All happy families are alike, said Tolstoy, and all unhappy families are unhappy in their own way — which makes the latter the best subject for a storyteller. In that sense, Hellfire bids us a warm welcome to hell. The reviewer teaches at Jindal School of Liberal Arts & Humanities.  Hellfire Leesa Gazi, trs Shabnam  Nadiya Eka  Rs. 399    Originally published in 2010 in Bengali, Gazi’s debut novel has a strong cinematic feel, with all the elements of screenwriting
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Flavours of a rich and varied culinary tradition||Turmeric Nation is a tussle of voices. Writer Shylashri Shankar, a senior fellow at the Centre for Policy Research, starts out with the ambitious idea of writing a “food biography of India”. Which forces her to open with a complex challenge: just defining her daunting project. Shankar is the author also of Scaling Justice: India’s Supreme Court, Anti-Terror Laws and Social Rights, where she writes on judicial activism in India and Sri Lanka, ethnic conflict in South Asia, and the politics of anti-poverty programmes. She dives into this book with academic zeal, resulting in an introduction that is informative, if rather dry. It sets the tone for a book that is meticulously researched and diligently put together, but undeniably ponderous despite her valiant attempts at making it more engaging by weaving in personal anecdotes, stories and trivia. Much of Indian food writing is divided between recipes and personal stories: Turmeric Nation stands out because it attempts to provide a framework for the flavours of this very diverse country. The book spans ancestors and genetic coding, cookbooks and pop culture. It discusses the influence of religion, taboos and tradition on food, demonstrating how rich and varied India’s culinary culture is, with little to bind it all together, except — perhaps — turmeric. Stories and trivia Explaining how it was found in the cooking pots of the Harappans (2600 BC), she says the craving for turmeric is pan-Indian, hence the name of the book. The author comes up with an ingeniously neat solution to explain the connection between food and identity in India, borrowing from Canadian philosopher Charles Taylor’s concept of ‘mosaic bundling’. With it, she suggests that every Indian comes from a context influenced by geography, culture, religion, education, travel, friends etc., and this becomes the unique mosaic of influences that determines what you eat and what you enjoy. Binding thread Despite that binding thread, the book moves restlessly from academic essays to personal anecdotes, the narrative losing steam with each turn. Originally a series of essays, which has been shaped into a book, Turmeric Nation attempts to cover too many vastly different subjects in its 300-odd pages: In chapter one, the author grapples with the ‘shape of an identity’ and in the last she launches into a spirited defence of the joys of dining alone in Mumbai. The book raises interesting questions, including asking whether an epidemic could change the dietary pattern of a society, then going on to explore how Ayurveda uses food as medicine by studying the link between recipe books and medical texts. It goes on to reference intriguing cures, like mutton stewed with moonflowers, mercury biryani, and a concoction made by Hyderabad’s hakims featuring ground pearls. But then, instead of diving deeper into the subject, the author digresses into a four-page-long account of her blood tests, cholesterol and a “tut-tutting” cardiologist. The more focussed chapters, however, are packed with useful information for people interested in culinary history. They are also brightened by charming anecdotes in boxes. For example, there is one on how Mughal emperor Aurangzeb, who was vegetarian, would eat vegetables from a patch watered with rose water and musk. The author says her narrative is deliberately not linear, inviting readers to “dip in”. However, paring down the number of the topics to be covered and tighter editing would have resulted in a more impactful and cohesive book.  Turmeric Nation: A Passage through India’s Tastes Shylashri Shankar Speaking Tiger Books  Rs. 499
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Easy like Sunday morning||1On November 8, 1895, this German scientist was experimenting with cathode rays when he chanced on a discovery that went on to earn him the first ever Nobel Prize in Physics. It was such a remarkable discovery that within a year of its announcement, its application to diagnosis and therapy was an established part of the medical profession. Initially his discovery was named after him, but since he did not know what he had discovered, he came up with a one-letter name for it. What was this discovery and who was this scientist? 2Clarence McClung of the University of Kansas observed that half of grasshopper sperm contained additional large chromatin elements. Following in the footsteps of German biologist Hermann Henking, he labelled it with a letter and eventually published his findings in a paper in 1899. He hypothesised that this determined the male sex. What had he discovered which are found in a pair in females and singly in males? 3 The Oxford English Dictionary attributes the first recorded use of the symbol ‘X’ to mean a certain practice to a 1763 letter by British naturalist Gilbert White. He ends the letter saying, “I am with many a xxxxxxx and many a Pater noster and Ave Maria, Gil White.” What now-familiar tradition is Gilbert White the first to be on record for? 4This term was first defined as ‘a variable in a given situation that could have the most significant impact on the outcome’. Only recently has it become more popular to use it to mean ‘a noteworthy special talent or quality’. This change can be mostly attributed to a certain hit TV show that first aired in 2004. What term is this? 5Scottish chemist William Ramsay and English chemist Morris Travers discovered this element in 1898 just after discovering krypton and neon. They found this element in the residue left over from evaporating components of liquid air. What element is this whose name means ‘foreigner’ or ‘stranger’ in Greek? 6Xenarthra is a group of mammals found in the American continents. The name means ‘strange joints’ and refers to the unique joints of the spinal cords of members of the group. Xenarthrans (members of Xenarthra) also all have a low metabolism, which means that their bodies don’t use a great deal of energy. Which is the most famous xenarthran, whose name has become synonymous with a vice? 7William Oughtred was an English priest and mathematician who is credited with inventing the slide rule in 1622. He was also the first person to use the then recently invented logarithms and logarithmic scales together to perform direct mathematical operations. This led to him coming up with symbols for those operations. Knowing the theme of this quiz, what operation and symbol did he invent? 8This is an annual event hosted and produced by ESPN since 1994. In 2003 a global edition was held where five continents competed in 11 disciplines. Some of these include Gymkhana Grid, Skateboard Big Air, and Super Modified Snow Shovel Racing. What is the name of this event and what is it an acronym of? 9This company started as The Haloid Photographic Company in New York in 1906, manufacturing photographic paper and equipment. They started marketing a product made by Chester Carlson that printed images using electrically charged photoconductor-coated metal plates. The company then changed their name to a word they coined with the Greek roots for ‘dry writing’. Eventually the company became so successful in marketing this product that in many places the name of the company is used instead of the process. Which company is this? 10This TV show first came on screen in 1993 and eventually became a massive sensation with its legacy spreading from pop culture to scientific research. The show featured two new actors who became iconic in the roles they played, of a believer in unnatural phenomena and a skeptic, which was exactly opposite to their real-life personas. The show’s eerie music, settings and deep plots set a benchmark in the genre. What TV show is this which had the iconic tagline ‘The Truth Is Out There’? A molecular biologist from Madurai, our quizmaster enjoys trivia and music, and is working on a rock ballad called ‘Coffee is a Drink, Kaapi is an Emotion’. @bertyashley
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Notes from a balcony||I have been taking a lot of bird pictures during the lockdown. From my balcony I have a good view of a mini marshy pond, around which there are trees, shrubs, creepers, kind of a small patch of woods. Small but woody enough to attract many birds — bulbuls, magpie robins, sun birds, cuckoos, greater coucals, etc. About a fortnight or so ago, I saw a dark blurry ball-like thing fly past with something long trailing below it. It happened so fast it took me a few moments to register that a bird had flown by. It had appeared from the trees below and it flew straight to the terrace of my apartment block. Ten minutes later, another one flew past, again something trailing from its beak. A small bird carrying a long piece of grass. But what bird? I got all worked up. I knew I had to photograph this bird zooming past. I set the camera for the shot and waited. It flew past again, and I couldn’t even get it in the frame. This happened many times. The bird was so small and flying so fast, I had only a few seconds and a very narrow angle of vision. Even before I registered it, it flew out of view. This was turning out to be quite a challenge. For the next couple of days, I kept trying. Then, on day five, I figured out its path of flight and I stood with my camera pointed at the spot where the bird would emerge into view. I stayed there, for 30 minutes at a time sometimes, my face in spasms, my left eye twitching. Finally, I got a few shots. Not good and not clear. But enough for me to identify the bird. It was a munia. More precisely a Scaly Breasted Munia or Spotted Munia. I was encouraged. Over the days, I managed to identify the spot among the trees where the munia pair took a half-minute break on their way to my terrace. Once or twice, I even spotted them as they flew to the trees. It has easily taken me 50 or 60 attempts over 15 days and often six hours of waiting to get a set of decent pictures. I must have clicked more than 250 burst shots, mostly just tree and sky. I was fascinated to see these small birds flying past 30-40 times a day for 15 days or more. How big a nest were they building? After all, the munia is only four or five inches long from beak to tail, weighing about one-fourth a tennis ball. ‘Munia’, I later read, is also known as ‘munnikin’ meaning ‘little man’ in Dutch. One day, the bird sat on a projection and looked down curiously at me. As if asking what I was doing. I wanted to say, I have figured out so much about my camera and the best settings to shoot birds in flight. I have learnt patience and perseverance. I feel I have become a better human being. I feel accomplished. All from wanting to click you in flight. The writer is an enthusiastic photographer and incidental birder. Instagram: prem.palanivel
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||With a spring in his step||Tomes have been written on how to make yourself successful, how to be a great leader or be stupendous at work and so on. But how many volumes are there on rejection and how to handle it, bounce back, face life with greater equanimity and resilience? Author Ambi Parameswaran had his moment of epiphany when he addressed a university audience in Bhopal. While the students were rather unmoved by his talk on leadership lessons and how to be a successful marketer, a young girl piped up that it was all very fine, but the students were more worried about rejection in the big wide world and how to handle it. Teaching resilience That sparked off an idea for a book on rejection and failure and how to spring back from it as a better individual or at least better equipped to handle it. For Spring , Ambi delved into many books on resilience, on optimism and winning habits, apart from a whole host of articles and research papers that he quotes from to buttress his points. The book is interspersed with engrossing stories and anecdotes from his own working career, as well as from myriad other people from all walks of life — from Olympic athletes to retired IAS officers to reputed academics and veteran CEO coaches, and makes for compelling reading, without being weighed down by the gravity of the subject. As Ambi admits, while there is no magic potion to handle rejection, as each individual is hardwired differently, he says everyone can develop an inner mechanism, akin to a spring, to bounce back and face adversity. The book is organised in three parts: anticipating and facing rejection; processing and recovering and learning and progressing after rejection. Ambi talks about many famous personalities who faced innumerable rejections on the road to fame. Writer J.K. Rowling is one such, who was rejected by 12 publishers. When Rowling was writing her first Harry Potter book, she was divorced, bankrupt and on welfare. Finally, when she found a publisher, she was told that she should get a proper job as there was no money to be made in children’s books. Of course, she’s now a billionaire. If you would expect an IIT Madras-IIM Calcutta educated topper like Ambi to sail through life and career, he disabuses you of the notion by cataloguing the numerous rejections he faced throughout as an adman. The blue chip education, he says, only lets you get a foot in the door and after that it’s the rough and tumble of corporate life. Ambi writes about how his agency, FCB Ulka, blew the pitch for Hyundai’s new car account for Santro’s advertising. Learning from that debacle, Ulka did some deep research and some smart tactical moves to bag Tata Motors’ account for its new car, Indica, and came up with some memorable advertising. It still handles the account 22 years later. The end of each chapter has a takeaway for the reader, encapsulating a learning. To end this one, he says, ‘every rejection is a learning opportunity; don’t let a rejection destroy your enthusiasm. Learn from the rejection and get better the next time’. Or, as Ambi says, learn to spring forward!  Spring: Bouncing Back from Rejection  Ambi Parameswaran  Westland Business  Rs. 599
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||An extra chance||A typically aggressive modern auction. Bidding a close game, however, doesn’t earn you the game bonus — you still have to make it! It looks like declarer will need West to hold the ace of clubs, but that is not likely. West needs at least one high spade for his one no trump bid. Should he also hold the ace of clubs, that would leave East with very little to justify his bidding. Looking for an extra chance, South remembered the auction. West might have made a negative double rather than bidding one no trump if he had four hearts. There was a good chance that hearts were splitting 3-3. Even if West could ruff the third heart, it would probably be with a doubleton spade and that wouldn’ t mean an extra loser for South. Hoping for the best, South cashed the ace and king of hearts and crossed to dummy with the queen of hearts, pleased that hearts split evenly. He now ruffed a diamond before finally leading a low spade to dummy’ s queen. It worked like a charm. East won with his singleton king, but he had to either give dummy the king of clubs or yield a ruff-sluff. 10 tricks for South either way after a very well- played hand.
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Missouri calling Madras||Respected Madam/ Sir, Tensions means tension like anything in the domestic situation. For two days total sleep of Mathrubootham household is less than 15 hours. Both myself and Mrs. Mathrubootham are sitting and watching TV nonstop. When she is sleeping, I am watching. When I am watching, she is sleeping. What are we watching? Whether it is IPL? How dare you? Is it TV serial? Never never never. Is it non-stop playing of Lord of the Rings DVD that my son sent from U.S.? I want to watch but Mrs. Mathrubootham will not sit for even 15 minutes. After five minutes, she will say what nonsense this is? Whether barber shop is there in Middle Earth or no? Everybody looking like Head and Shoulders advertisement. Grumble grumble. No. No. No useless things. We are watching U.S. election programme. Madam/ Sir, what a country is America? If you sit and think it is crazy-o-crazy. Which country is sending man to the moon? America. Which country is sending one missile to shoot other missile? America. Which country is winning Nobel Prize in physics, chemistry, biology and all like Kamalam winning housing complex carrom tournament? AMERICA. But which country is also counting votes as if teaching babies in nursery class? Also America. Nonsense country. Ten-fifteen years back. I think I was working in Nagercoil branch. One local convent school Father came and said Mr. Mathrubootham school is doing one special programme to teach children about grown-up life. Whether you can come and teach about bank account, loan and all such items? I said, Father, no problem, it is my pleasure. Madam/ Sir, what pleasure? Pleasure is eating ras malai from Ganga Sweets and watching Suhasini movie. This was not pleasure but total disaster. First, I said, hello children I am from bank. In the bank we are taking, keeping, and giving money. They said ok, show us money. I said so sorry, I only have Rs. 10 in purse. They said why you don’t have any money? I said what is the need to carry when I can keep it in the bank. They said ok, how much money you have in the bank? I said, sorry children, it is private information I cannot share. Then they said, ok, how much money you can give from bank? I said, as much as you ask for. They said ok can you give 5,000 crore? I said, no children, that much money is not there, bank notes will finish. They said, can you make photocopy of bank notes? I said, no children, RBI governor will be upset. Then one fellow got up and said hello I am James. Whether you can give money to RBI governor and tell him please let me do photocopy? Maybe he will allow. At that moment Father came and said, okay thank you Mr. Mathrubootham. If we want to discuss such topics, I will invite father of James, who is in senior management position in Chennai underworld. Thank you. But what I was saying? U.S. elections. Why we are watching so avidly? Because son in U.S. has put one new idea. He said, Appa-Amma, if you are selling flat then why you want to waste time in Chennai? Please come to U.S. and stay with me. Please think. It will be good change in lifestyle. Mrs. Mathrubootham said, okay, fine we can think about it. But first this Papaya President should go no? Otherwise who knows what and all will happen in the U.S. in next 3-4 years. Whether we should take risk? Never. So we are watching and watching election programmes. Nebraska. Mangattha. Arizona. Larisona. Ohio. Oho. You are having some updates? Please to send.  Yours in expectation   ofemigration,   J. Mathrubootham
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||The clever crows||Come summer, women trudge miles and miles for precious water. Elsewhere, people keep plastic pails in line and go about their work till they hear the horn of water tankers. But how do the clever crows quench their thirst in the gruelling heat? Flying high above, they spot leaky taps. So it was one day I saw a crow catching the drops of water from a tap. The muddied water on the ground was not to its liking. I was amazed at its skill. Next, the crow watched me offering water down my palms to the sun. It looked from a distance and flew away. I got the message. I stopped my ritual in the middle, got a container filled with water, kept it on the boundary wall and continued my worship. Wherever the crow was hiding, it came down in a swoop, looked at either side, then looked up and down, gulped some water, shook its neck and flew to the top of a tall tree in the park opposite our house. The crow must have signalled to its ilk as I saw more of them coming for water. As I continue the practice, two or three crows come at the same time. Researchers on crows and ravens say the birds have remarkable memory of human beings who have hurt them even years before. There is as yet no finding that they remember human beings for kind acts like providing water. lakshmibashyam@yahoo.com
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Vienna shooting||Five people were killed and 17 others wounded in a shooting in Vienna by 20-year-old IS sympathiser Kujtim Fejzulai, who was then shot dead by the police. The gunman had been jailed in Austria last year for affiliation to a terrorist group, but had his sentence suspended in December as part of a deradicalisation programme. Police later carried out several raids and arrested 14 people linked to Fejzulai.
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Knife-edge||The outcome of the U.S. elections remained uncertain, with Trump and Biden locked in a close contest. Several States had not finished counting the mail-in ballots. Democratic candidate Joe Biden looked to be in the lead, but President Donald Trump proclaimed victory and said he would use legal means to challenge results and halt vote counts. Meanwhile, the Republicans looked set to keep their Senate majority and gain seats in the House.
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||French freedoms||Thousands of Muslims around the world held rallies — including a 50,000-strong march in Bangladesh — against French President Emmanuel Macron, and urged the boycott of French products. The protests broke out after anAl-Jazeerainterview with the President, in which Macron had struck a conciliatory note but also defendedCharlie Hebdo’scaricatures of the Prophet Muhammad as part of secularism and freedom of expression.
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Null and void||The Jammu and Kashmir administration declared the 2001 Roshni Act, under which more than one lakh hectares of encroached State land was to be transferred to the occupants, to be “null and void”. With allegations of corruption and nepotism having dogged the scheme’s implementation for years, the government said it would retrieve all the land within six months and name all ministers, legislators and officials who had benefited from it.
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Poll sweep||The ruling NDA swept the Rajya Sabha elections, in which 11 seats were up for grabs. The alliance increased its tally to 104 in the 242-member House after nine BJP candidates won their elections — six new gains and three re-elections — unopposed. Meanwhile, the Congress, which has historically dominated the Upper House, lost two seats to the BJP and is now down to 38, its lowest-ever tally.
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Love laws||After Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath said that he would bring in a “stringent law” to combat “love jihad”, several BJP-ruled States followed suit. Ministers in Haryana, Madhya Pradesh and Karnataka publicly mooted the possibility of criminalising the alleged phenomenon. “There will be no jihad in the name of love; whoever does such an act will be set right,” said Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chauhan.
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Arnab arrested||Republic TV’seditor-in-chief Arnab Goswami was arrested and sent to judicial custody for 14 days. This was in relation to the May 2018 deaths of interior designer Anvay Naik and his mother. In his suicide note, Naik had alleged that Goswami and two others owed him Rs. 5.4 crore. The Raigad police had closed the case in April 2019, but earlier this year, Naik’s daughter approached the Maharashtra Home Minister and asked for the case to be reopened.
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Emperor Harsha||Adity Kay  Hachette Rs. 399 Harshavardhana, the youngest prince of Sthaniswara, is happily immersed in his studies when duty calls. There are jealous neighbours eyeing the kingdom, his father dies suddenly, and a war breaks out. Burdened with the crown, the scholar-prince now has to battle devious enemies.
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||The Evening and the Morning||Ken Follett  Penguin Random House Rs. 499 At the dawn of the Middle Ages, England is facing attacks from the Welsh and the Vikings. In these uncertain times, three characters find their lives intertwined as they fight a ruthless bishop who will do anything to increase his power. A prequel to Follett’sThe Pillars of the Earth.
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Unrestricted Access||James Rollins  HarperCollins Rs. 499 There are 12 stories in this collection of short fiction, plus a novella,Sun Dogs, set in the Arizona deserts. All the stories involve impossible situations, individuals driven to extremes and deadly threats, bringing together adventure, intrigue, history and speculative science.
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||The Curse: Stories||Salma, trs N. Kalyan Raman  SpeakingTiger Rs. 350 In this collection of stories, woman fight patriarchy in all its forms. In the title story, an unmarried woman is caught between her desire for marriage and a dark family history. Although loosely centred on rural Muslim communities of Tamil Nadu, these tales speak of the universal predicament of women.
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Big Cat Tales: Vintage Encounters and Stories||Jim Corbett, J.H. Patterson & Others  Speaking Tiger Books  Rs. 399 This collection of non-fiction and fiction about encounters between humans and big cats in the Indian subcontinent and Africa narrates the terror of lions and men in Kenya during the laying of railway lines in the 1890s, among other tales.
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||The New Map: Energy, Climate, and the Clash of Nations||Daniel Yergin  Penguin Random House  Rs. 899 From shifting alliances in West Asia to a revolution that catapulted the U.S to be the world’s number one producer of oil and gas; and Russia’s global ambitions, Yergin reveals the powerful hidden forces driving the world in 2020.
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Till We Win: India’s Fight Against the COVID-19 Pandemic||Chandrakant Lahariya, Gagandeep Kang, Randeep Guleria  Penguin Random House  Rs. 299 Three renowned doctors write an account of India’s fight against COVID-19 and how to deal with the pandemic in the days to come. They answer many questions including how long will we have to wear masks.
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||America in the World||Robert B. Zoellick  Hachette  Rs. 2,556 (Kindle) Ranging from Benjamin Franklin and Thomas Jefferson to Henry Kissinger and Ronald Reagan, the former World Bank president tells the story of American diplomacy. Identifying five traditions of its foreign policy, Zoellick says these will serve as guideposts for the future.
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||The Sunday Crossword No. 3124||Across  1 Find problems with this spiral fracture (5,5) 6 Sample of jazz incorporated metal (4) 9 Somewhere on boat, Spooner is familiar with shapes of waves (5,5) 10 Wrecks the planet (4) 11 Persuasiveness of digital image bought into; proof finally the net’s retrograde (4,2,3,3) 15 Covered in slimy matter, e.g. lymph: revolting (7) 16 A Queen song that’s operatic with brill setting, perhaps (7) 17 Priest fries ants regularly in sanctuary (7) 19 He casts doubt, festering, about origin of climate (7) 20 Learn part of Greek alphabet (beta) and make it your treat (4,2,3,3) 23 Genuine antique Spanish coin (4) 24 Woman in power once, a European, the old throwback in the news (4,6) 25 Rod’s announced hellish setting for Sailing (4) 26 Songwriter’s musical number penned for inclusion of tenor (3,7)  Down  1 Clobber? (4) 2 Rogue broadcast in communist country (4) 3 Selection of dishes of bland Greek character, pungency suppressed (7,4) 4 Cleverly lay around outside office (7) 5 Primarily, robust alcoholic tipple, acerbic from infused almonds? (7) 7 Invest in gâteau, ruin organization (10) 8 Film that’s translated into English for White House (10) 12 A hot, suave libertine is enticing (to begin with) somewhere in France (5-6) 13 Angry? Tie up loose ends (5,5) 14 In Acapulco, naked Tory devised system of rule (10) 18 Queen depicted in blockbuster, Mercury’s essence missing, ending in Radio Gaga (7) 19 Prepares kebabs in botanical gardens wearing half-length trousers (7) 21 Everyman twice depicted in internet joke (4) 22 Biblical character’s a little toffeenosed (4)
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Delivery of COVID-19 vaccines poses a huge challenge||The government recently said it will procure the vaccine and distribute it under a special COVID-19 immunisation programme to four categories of people, free-of-charge. The priority groups named are healthcare professionals including doctors, nurses and ASHA workers, a second category that includes frontline workers including police and armed forces, the third category of those aged above 50 and finally those below 50 years of age with co-morbidities. “All of those sounds like a simple rank-ordering, but it is not. Hard choices may need to be made. For example, when there is insufficient supply to offer vaccines to all who would otherwise qualify, which group will be prioritised?” asks Dr. Gagandeep Kang, Professor of microbiology at CMC Vellore in an email to The Hindu.  Deciding whom to vaccinate first may be dictated by the characteristics of the vaccines that become initially available, such as the ones that are more effective in the younger population than in older people. “Should we then not vaccinate the elderly? Is there a bar below which vaccines should not be used in a particular group? As soon as we move beyond the big picture characterisation of initial priority groups, there are more questions for discussion than clear answers,” she says. Ultralow temperatures But a bigger challenge comes in the form of keeping the vaccines at ultralow temperatures during distribution. Most of the COVID-19 vaccines, the RNA vaccines in particular, that are in the advanced stage of Phase-3 trials require –70 degrees C to –80 degree C cold-chain. The Ebola vaccine, too, requires the same kind of cold storage. “This kind of storage was difficult to establish in West Africa, but was managed on the scale needed for Ebola — which is in the hundred thousand doses range,” Dr. Kang recalls. “But when we need tens and hundreds of millions of doses, I do not know how feasible that will be in the U.S. or UK, let alone in India.” Attempts are being made to modify the vaccines and increase their stability to suit the storage conditions that already exist in many parts of the world. But they are unlikely to become available in the first-generation vaccines. Resources needed “In India we have never had this kind of storage requirement and building the infrastructure for ultracold storage requires considerable resources, because you need not just the freezers, but also uninterrupted power supply,” Dr. Kang says. “I think we may need to decide whether vaccines that require this form of storage should be used only in cities where such facilities can be built. It may make sense to even think about bringing people to the vaccine, instead of taking the vaccine to people in some settings.” Hence, the decision to use a COVID-19 vaccine will need to take into consideration logistics and infrastructure needed to distribute and deliver vaccines, which goes beyond financial resources to purchase vaccines. The Oxford vaccine does not require ultracold temperatures, and hence, the existing system used in the routine immunisation programme may be able to handle the vaccines. The next biggest challenge might be in vaccinating people with two doses four weeks apart during the pandemic. Most of the vaccines at advanced stages of Phase-3 trial use two doses of the vaccine to achieve best results. But Dr. Kang does not foresee much problem here. “Vaccinating twice one month apart is something we know and have done for polio programmes for well over a decade. Although oral vaccines are much easier to deliver than injectable vaccines, the logistics of storage, transport and delivery are similar,” she says. “For injectable vaccines where two doses need to be given three or four weeks apart, we will need to learn from our experience with polio and measles-rubella campaigns.” Children and adults While the national immunisation programme is limited to vaccinating children, COVID-19 vaccination will be across age groups, including older people. It remains to be seen how well the lessons learnt from the national immunisation programme can be replicated for other age groups. With vaccines seen as one sure way to end the pandemic if 60-70% of the population is vaccinated, the question of making the vaccines available for free gains importance. But that does not rule out the possibility of selling them when vaccines become available in plenty even while they are available for free. “Initially, I assume vaccines should be prioritised for groups as identified by the government, which might mean that all vaccines are only available in the public sector, at least when supplies are limited” she says. Buying vaccines There is a possibility of the government allowing companies to purchase vaccines to maintain business continuity. Probably, other groups that might be willing to pay for vaccines might also become eligible to buy vaccines. “Any vaccines being diverted at a time when supply is limited deprives priority groups, so perhaps another way to think about this, is that certain types of vaccines that are unsuitable for public programmes in India because of expense or cold chain requirements, might be opened up for purchase by companies, organisations and individuals as a premium product,” says Dr. Kang. “All this is ethically contentious, and needs discussion. There are no easy decisions or choices.”
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Ancient skeleton offers clues on prehistoric era||German researchers are piecing together the life of a prehistoric woman who died more than 5,000 years ago in the Neolithic period, after her skeleton was found when excavating for wind turbines. The “Lady of Bietikow,” as she has been named, was found near a village of the same name in northeastern Germany's Uckermark region. Investigations have shown that she was between 30 and 45 years old and died more than 5,000 years ago. That means that she lived during the same period as Oetzi the Iceman, the stunningly preserved corpse found by tourists in the Alps in the 1990s. “You can compare Oetzi and the Lady of Bietikow in terms of age,” said Philipp Roskoschinski, one of the two archaeologists who made the discovery. All that is left of the skeleton are bones and some fragments of clothing. It was during the Neolithic period that humans first introduced grains into their diet, since they could be stored more easily than meat and could also be used as a means of payment, according to anthropologist Bettina Jungklaus. However, this led to a deterioration in people's general health. This can be seen in the state of the Lady of Bietikow's teeth, which are severely eroded and missing completely in some places, Jungklaus said. It remains unclear whether the condition of the Lady of Bietikow’s teeth indicates an illness or even the cause of her death.
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Soak in the Sun, sleep early and tight to avoid myopia||Myopia or shortsightedness is turning out to be an epidemic across India, and indeed even more in Southeast Asia. It occurs because of the potential role of myopic genes and also local environmental conditions such as the prolonged ‘near work’ and/or less sunlight exposure, and not because of any infection due to harmful germs. It will not become a worldwide pandemic, as COVID-19 has. Yet, drastic changes in lifestyle (becoming more indoor-centric) and the timing and levels of sunlight we receive, it is time to take measures to counteract myopia, which may well become a global pandemic. What is myopia? Myopia occurs when the eyeball becomes longer, relative to the focusing power of the cornea and the lens; this leads to focus not on the surface of the retina, but at a point before it. This leads you to find it difficult to focus distant objects clearly, though you can see close-up objects such as while reading and using the computer use (allaboutvision.com). In the year 2000, about 25% of the world’s population was near-sighted or myopic, but it is expected to increase to above 50% by 2050 (30 years from now). Dire predictions Based on the current increasing prevalence of myopia in India, scientists from the L.V. Prasad Eye Institute (LVPEI) predict that 64 million children (aged 5-15 years) living in urban regions of the country alone will have myopia by the year 2050, if no interventions are made to control it. While many factors are known to counteract this problem, recent studies indicate less time spent outdoors to be a risk factor for myopia. Ambient levels of light during daytime tend to be over 10 to 100 times brighter than that indoors. There are various ways in which such outdoor brightness helps protect the human eye from becoming myopic. (1) If you are in an open space, and not performing any ‘near work’, the stress on the eye is reduced. (2) Outdoor environment provides equal optical stimuli to various parts of the peripheral retina (the posterior part of the eye) and also enables exposure to different colours (the so called VIBGYOR) equally well, while indoor lighting using artificial sources that cut off specific wavelengths. (3) Upon bright illumination in sunlight, the pupil reduces its size and reduces blur, and increase the depth of focus. (4) Sunlight exposure helps the biology of the eye, helping it to produce more vitamin D. (5) Exposure to bright light releases the hormone dopamine, which controls the length of the eye ball; the shorter it is, myopia might set in. (In this connection, see Rohit Dhakal and Pavan K. Verkicharla: “Increasing time in outdoor environment could counteract the rising prevalence of myopia in Indian school-going children”, Current Science, 119,1-4, 2020). Intense educational pressure from the family and teachers to achieve academic excellence, excessive homework, attending coaching classes (invariably held late in the evening, or before school timing for entrance exams) rob high school children of sunlight, leading to the myopia epidemic becoming an endemic, and a sub-global pandemic in Central and East Asian subcontinent. Policy suggestions Rohit Dhakal and Pavan Verkicharla (myopia researchers from LVPEI) have made some obvious and public health policy suggestions, which can be implemented right away, particularly now that we have the National Education Policy getting ready for implementation.  These are: Mandatory 60 minutes of recess time in all schools during the school hours every day, by locking the classrooms to keep the students in sunlight, starting from primary level to the high schools. Have a structured recess time incorporated into all their curricula. Make it mandatory for schools to have enough space for playgrounds. Create public awareness among parents about the importance of proper eyesight and control the use of near-vision devices such as smartphones. Recommend/promote community centres in each locality to organise outdoor programmes weekly or at least twice a month. Many reasons All these are obvious and yet not followed, due to economic, financial, real estate and sociological reasons. But at least schools and colleges in the hands of the State and Central governments should attempt to do so. The future stares at us – lest we become short-sighted or myopic in more than one sense. Even as I write, comes a new publication which says that suggests that sleeping late is a risk factor for myopia development amongst school-aged children in China (X N Liu et al.; Scientific Reports (2020) 10:17194 https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-020-74348-7. They point out that years of study have identified a number of risk factors for myopia, such as family history, genetics, urban living environment. Recent studies also indicate that shorter sleep duration and poorer sleep quality are associated with the development of myopia. They disturb the circadian rhythm of the body, particularly in the brain, and also strain the retina. Thus, early to bed and deep sleep are preventive measures against the onset of myopia. Again, we know that this, too, is becoming difficult with online teaching through web classes, and with the use of television as an instructive medium, particularly for poorer children in rural areas who do not have smartphones. While this may be inevitable during these lockdown days, it should not become an inevitable teaching method, and schools must reopen and conduct classes during daytime.  (I thank Dr. Pavan Verkicharla for sharing views and advice, and contributing to this article.)  dbala@lvpei.org
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Lessons from Ladakh’s glacial lake outburst||In August 2014, a glacial lake outburst flood hit the village of Gya in Ladakh, destroying houses, fields and bridges. Using remote sensing data, researchers from Germany have mapped the evolution of Gya glacial lake and note the cause of the flood. In a paper recently published in Natural Hazards, the team notes that this case study “illustrates the problem of potentially hazardous lakes being overlooked.” How it happened Most interesting was finding the cause of the flood — it was not a spillover but rather a tunnelling drainage process. “Imagine a bucket full of water. It can overflow when you drop a stone, or the water can drain if there is a hole under the bucket. Similarly, here the flooding did not happen due to the spillovers due to an avalanche or landslide, rather there was a thawing of the ice cores in the moraine [a field of dirt and rocks that have been pushed along by the glacier as it moves] which drained through the subsurface tunnels,” explains Ravi Baghel from the South Asia Institute, Geography department, Heidelberg University, and an author of the paper. Future speeding The team notes that such thawing of ice cores may accelerate in the future due to global climate change, and there is an urgent need to use multiple methods for better risk assessment and early warning. “It is almost certain that other glacial lake outburst floods will happen all over the Indian Himalaya. However, not all of these events have catastrophic outcomes. It largely depends on urban planning, the size of the lake, the distance between the lake and affected villages, the valley section and some more aspects. In some cases, cloudbursts can also trigger glacial lake outburst flood events like in the Kedarnath disaster in 2013,” explains the lead author Marcus Nüsser from the Heidelberg Centre for the Environment in an email to The Hindu.  He adds that in different sections of the Himalaya the occurrence of such floods has received different attention. “While these events have been regarded as a major risk in the central Himalayan region including Sikkim, the arid Trans-Himalayan regions of Ladakh have received attention only recently. Here the glaciers are located at high altitudes not lower than 5,200 m and most glaciers are of small size. Likewise, the glacial lakes are quite small in size. In the case of the Gya lake at 5,400 m, the lake is almost always ice-covered, even during summer,” writes Dr. Nüsser. Monitoring lakes The team adds more bathymetric studies are needed to analyse lake volumes, and it is important to regularly monitor lake development and dynamics. New, sophisticated technologies can also be put to use to understand the stability of the moraines that dam the lake. “However, it is definitely not only a question of technology but also of land use planning and accessibility,” he concludes.
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Bird brains can hold a lot||How different are the brains of birds from those of mammals? Ravens recognise themselves in a mirror, and these birds are known to even plan for the future. Studies have shown that pigeons can be taught to recognise English wordslearn spellings. Now, another study ( Science, September 2020) shows that birds have a more organised brain than previously thought. The cognitive skills of mammals are related to the cerebral cortex. But birds don’t have this cerebral cortex, they have a region called the pallium, and studies on this region have now revealed new information on its architecture. Using a special technique, the team studied the orientation of individual nerve fibres in the brains of 42 homing pigeons, nine barn owls, a rat, a vervet monkey and one human. They found that the brains of the birds had an organisation similar to mammalian brains. The fibres were arranged horizontally and vertically, just like in the neocortex region of the mammal brain. Another study to examine the interconnection of cells in the sensory areas of bird brain found connections similar to mammal brains. According to the researchers led by Martin Stacho from Ruhr-University Bochum, Bochum, Germany, there is a possibility that mammals and birds independently developed similar microcircuits by convergent or parallel evolution. The study addresses how mammals and birds show such similar perceptual and cognitive feats.
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Rethinking America’s electoral system||The story so far: The 2020 U.S. presidential election has been one of the most bitterly polarised democratic exercises in recent memory. The winner, Democrat and former Vice-President Joe Biden, has won over 74 million votes, and his rival, incumbent Republican president Donald Trump, has garnered over 70 million votes. The fact that this election has seen one of the highest turnout numbers since 1960 suggests that voters and both campaigns pushed hard to get their chosen candidate elected. But despite the presence of both a ‘blue wave’ and a ‘red wave’, the final outcome came down to the wire, and hinged on narrow vote margins in a handful of ‘swing States’. These circumstances have fuelled anger over the lack of direct representation in the electoral system and has raised questions surrounding the viability of the institution, the ‘Electoral College’, that renders the popular vote insufficient to determine the victor. How does the Electoral College work? The Electoral College refers to the process by which the winner of the popular vote in each State is allocated a pre-specified number of electoral delegates, or electors, per U.S. State, and these electors go on to decide who the President of the country will be. The electors of each State are appointed by the Democratic and Republican Parties (and third parties, where applicable) of the State. The college follows a winner-takes-all rule for the popular vote, giving the first candidate past the post all of the electors of that State. For example, if more than 50% of the voters in North Carolina vote for the Republican Party, then all the electors allocated to that State will be Republican. Each State has the same number of electors as it does members in its Congressional delegation, namely one for each member in the House of Representatives and two Senators. Across the U.S., there are 538 electors. To win the presidency, a candidate would be required to secure at least 270 votes in the Electoral College. Are there any exceptions and caveats to this system? The minor exceptions to this system are Maine and Nebraska, which appoint individual electors based on the winner of the popular vote for each Congressional district and then two electors based on the winner of the overall State-wide popular vote. Although it is rare for either State to have a split vote, that occurred in Nebraska in 2008 and in Maine in 2016. Once the votes are in, the electors are required to meet on the first Monday after the second Wednesday of December to cast ballots for the President and the Vice-President. In 2020, that will be on December 14. A caveat in the Electoral College system that might end up being salient to the 2020 election is that while an overwhelming majority of electors cast their vote for the President based on their prior party affiliation, there have been occasions in the past, howsoever rare, when the electors have surprised the college by picking another candidate than the one they were pledged to choose. These electors are known as “faithless electors”. Had Mr. Biden not won a significant number of Electoral College votes, a few such faithless electors might have endangered his prospects of entering the Oval Office. Why is there frustration over the Electoral College today? At the broadest level, there are two reasons why the Electoral College, as a mechanism for representing the will of the people, might be considered suboptimal. Firstly, under this system, surprisingly few voters truly matter in an election. The reason is that except for a handful of ‘swing States’, which have the potential to flip from one party to the other, all the others have historically only voted for the same party, and are likely to do so this time too. The swing States of the 2020 election included Arizona, Florida, Georgia, Iowa, Michigan, Minnesota, Nevada, New Hampshire, North Carolina, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Texas, and Wisconsin. Even with a historically high turnout this year, not all voters in these States would likely be independent or undecided voters, capable of switching votes from one candidate to another. This puts, according to some analyses, the proportion of voters actually determining the outcome of the U.S. presidential election well below 10% of the total population. If the Electoral College were done away with, and the popular vote at the precinct or county level became the criterion for victory in a presidential election, this would considerably expand the extent to which the preferences of the voting population were truly represented in the choice of political leaders. Second, the Electoral College also comes packaged with complex and potentially self-defeating contingency proceedings in unusual election circumstances, some of which have occurred in the 2020 election. Consider this: If Mr. Biden had not obtained an undisputed majority of Electoral College votes, a ‘contingent election’ might have had to be held under the 12th Amendment of the U.S. Constitution. Under this system, the election of the President would have become the responsibility of the House of Representatives, with each State delegation casting one vote for its preferred candidate. This would also happen in a scenario where legal cases filed by the Trump campaign delay the confirmation of the final result. Given that red States outnumber blue States in this election, such a process might have led to Mr. Trump, rather than Mr. Biden, being confirmed by Congress as President. However, according to the Congressional record, only two presidential elections have been decided in the House, in 1800 and 1824 respectively.  How did the Electoral College come into being and why has it not been replaced by direct representation? Some among the framers of the U.S. Constitution were of the view that Congress ought to elect the President, while some preferred that the power rest with State legislators or Governors. It was James Wilson of Pennsylvania, one of the founding fathers of the U.S., who suggested the Electoral College system as a compromise, wherein “electors would serve as informed intermediaries between the masses and their government and have independence to break from the popular vote in their States when they deemed that necessary”. Ironically, another founding father of the country, Alexander Hamilton, endorsed the system in 1788 on the grounds that it guaranteed that U.S. Presidents would be “characters preeminent for ability and virtue” and not merely adept at “the little arts of popularity”. Congressional proposals to pass a constitutional amendment to abolish the Electoral College in favour of a direct, popular election, were put forth in 1969, and again a decade later, but the measures never reached the required two-thirds majority. Efforts by Democratic Senators to revive this discussion in 2019 have not advanced either. Resistance to such change comes not only from swing States, which receive outsized focus from presidential candidates during election campaigns, but also from smaller States with relatively minuscule populations, who fear loss of voice in the federal government system, should the Electoral College be abolished.  Under the Electoral College system, few voters truly matter. It also comes packaged with complex and potentially self-defeating contingency proceedings in unusual election circumstances, some of which have occurred in the 2020 election
08 November 2020||Chandigarh,||Punjab farmers slam Centre for not resuming goods trains||Farmer organisations protesting against the farm laws on Saturday slammed the Centre for not resuming goods trains in Punjab even as they stuck to their stand of not allowing passenger trains. They also accused the Centre of adopting a stubborn attitude and alleged that it wanted to cause harm to Punjab on the economic front for raising voice against the three legislations enacted recently. The Railways on Saturday declined to resume goods trains in Punjab, saying it will either operate both freight and passenger trains or none. The train services in Punjab are suspended since September 24, when farmers started their ‘rail roko’ agitation against the Central laws. Goods trains had resumed in the State briefly after farmer unions on October 21 announced exempting them from their stir but the Railways suspended them again, saying farmers were still blocking the tracks. “We strongly condemn the stubborn attitude of the Railways and the Centre for not resuming goods trains in the State,” said Krantikari Kisan Union president Darshan Pal. However, the 30 farmers’ organisations protesting the farm laws maintained that they will not allow passenger trains. “The farmers’ bodies have already announced they will allow only goods trains and not passenger trains,” said BKU (Dakunda) president Buta Singh Burjgill. “The Central government wants to harm Punjab on the economic front by making baseless excuses,” he added. The Punjab government on Friday had said, “Rail network all across the State is presently totally clear for uninterrupted movement of goods trains.” Power crisis The suspension of goods trains has led to a power crisis as coal supplies to thermal plants have been hit. It has also adversely affected the supply of fertilizers for rabi crops, movement of foodgrain stocks besides impacting the State industry which is unable to get raw material and send finished goods outside.
08 November 2020||New Delhi,||‘Capital is reeling under third wave of COVID-19’||The national capital is currently reeling under a “third wave” of COVID-19 infections but cases should begin to come down soon, Delhi Health Minister Satyendar Jain said on Saturday. He also said that the Delhi government has filed a special leave petition (SLP) in the Supreme Court after the High Court did not allow reserving 80% ICU beds for COVID-19 patients at several private hospitals here. Delhi’s COVID-19 tally increased to 4,23,831 on Friday after the city for the first time recorded over 7,000 fresh cases. The 7,178 new cases came out of 58,860 tests conducted on Thursday, while the positivity rate on Friday stood at 12.19% amid the festive season and rising pollution in the city, according to a bulletin issued by the Delhi health department. The previous highest single-day spike was 6,842 cases recorded on Wednesday. The number of daily cases had crossed the 6000 mark for three consecutive days from November 3-5. “On Friday, we issued an order to add 1,185 beds for COVID patients in both Delhi government hospitals and many private hospitals. 500 beds are to be augmented at city government-run COVID facilities, including 110 ICU beds,” said Mr. Jain. On the spike in cases, Mr. Jain said Delhi saw the first wave around June 23, second wave around September 17 and this is now the third wave of infections, adding that cases should begin to dip as there has been a spell of rising cases in the last 5-6 days. Asked about factors behind the third wave, Mr. Jain said the spike could be due to easing of restrictions and the “festive season”, while reiterating the importance of wearing masks. “Many people are going to the markets because it is festival season. Markets are crowded in many places... there are many reasons,” he added. “The biggest reason for the increase in infections is our lax behaviour. If we do not wear masks, do not follow social distancing, then it is the main reason for the surge,” said the Minister.
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||Inter-faith marriages, conversion and the law||The story so far: The Special Marriage Act, 1954 (SMA) was enacted to facilitate the marriage of couples professing different faiths and preferring a civil wedding. However, some practical problems arise in registering such marriages. The law’s features on prior public notice being given and objections being called from any quarter place a question mark on the safety and privacy of those intending to marry across religions. Many settle for marriage under the personal law of one of them, with the other opting for religious conversion. Even this option is now under threat, as recent remarks by the Chief Ministers of Uttar Pradesh and Haryana and a Karnataka Minister indicate. All of them want to ban conversion for the sole purpose of marriage. What are the features of the SMA? The marriage of any two persons may be solemnised under the SMA, subject to the man having completed 21 years of age and the woman 18. Neither should have a spouse living; both should be capable of giving valid consent, should not suffer from any mental disorder of a kind that renders them unfit for marriage and procreation. They should not be within the degrees of prohibited relationship — that is, they should not be related in such a way that their religion does not permit such marriages. Parties to an intended marriage should give notice to the ‘marriage officer’ of the district in which one of them had resided for at least 30 days. The notice will have to be entered in a ‘Marriage Notice Book’ and a copy of it displayed at a conspicuous place in the office. The Notice Book is open for inspection at all reasonable times without a fee. Further, if either of the parties is not a permanent resident of the district, the marriage officer has to send a copy to his counterpart in the district where the party has permanent residence. The notice shall be displayed in that district office too. The marriage has to be solemnised within three months of the notice, and if it is not, a fresh notice will be needed. The law also provides for objections to the marriage. Any person can object to the marriage within 30 days of the publication of the notice on the ground that it contravenes one of the conditions for a valid marriage. The marriage officer has to inquire into the objection and give a decision within 30 days. If he refuses permission for the marriage, an appeal can be made to the district court. The court’s decision will be final. Also, the Act says that when a member of an undivided familywho professes Hindu, Buddhist, Sikh or Jaina religions, gets married under SMA, it results in his or her “severance” from the family. What are the hurdles faced by couples? The provisions relating to notice, publication and objection have rendered it difficult for many people intending to solemnise inter-faith marriages. Publicity in the local registration office may mean that family members objecting to the union may seek to stop it by coercion. In many cases, there may be a threat to the lives of the applicants. There have been reports of right-wing groups opposed to inter-faith marriages keeping a watch on the notice boards of marriage offices and taking down the details of the parties so that they can be dissuaded or coerced into abandoning the idea. In July  , the Kerala Registration department decided to discontinue the practice of uploading marriage notices on its websites following complaints that these were being misused for communal propaganda. However, the notices will be displayed on the notice boards of the offices concerned. These provisions have been challenged in the Supreme Court recently on the grounds that they violate the privacy of the couples, their dignity and right to marry. In the case of Hindu and Muslim marriage laws, there is no requirement of prior notice and, therefore, such a requirement in the SMA, say experts, violates the right to equality of those opting for marriage under it. What are the other options for registration of inter-faith marriages? Many opt for inter-faith marriages through the relevant law of the faith of one of the parties. This will involve one of them converting to the religion professed by the other. While conversion to Islam and Christianity has formal means, there is no prescribed ceremony for conversion to Hinduism. The Hindu Marriage Act is also applicable to “any person who is a convert or re-convert to the Hindu, Buddhist, Jaina or Sikh religion”. In a recent ruling, the Allahabad High Court declined to grant police protection to a couple, of whom the bride was a Muslim who converted to Hinduism, citing past precedents that said conversion should be based on change of heart and conviction and should not be solely for the purpose of marriage. Based on a Kerala High Court recommendation, the Law Commission of India had recommended in 2010 that every person who has converted may be allowed to send a declaration within a month to the officer who registers marriages in the area, and it may be confirmed in person after 21 days. However, this recommendation was not made applicable to States that have a Freedom of Religion Act (which are essentially anti-conversion laws).  Are there laws against conversion for the sake of marriage? Even though Chief Ministers of Uttar Pradesh (U.P.) and Karnataka have spoken about a separate enactment, at least two States have legal provisions to the effect. The Himachal Pradesh Freedom of Religion Act, 2019, and the Uttarakhand Freedom of Religion Act, 2018, both prohibit conversion by misrepresentation, force, fraud, undue influence, inducement, allurement and ‘by marriage’. There is a separate section in both laws under which, not conversion for the purpose of marriage, but marriage done solely for the purpose of conversion, may be declared null and void by a family court based on a suit by either party. The U.P. State Law Commission has recommended a similar Freedom of Religion law in the State and favours a provision under which marriages solemnised solely for conversion of one of the parties may be nullified by a family court.  The provisions of the Special Marriage Act, 1954, have been challenged in the Supreme Court recently on the grounds that they violate the privacy of the couples, their dignity and right to marry
08 November 2020||CHANDIGARH,||NSUI protests against delay in Panjab University senate poll||With the four-year term of Panjab University’s highest governing body, the senate, having completed on October 31 and no clarity so far on fresh election amid the COVID-19 pandemic situation, members of the National Students’ Union of India on Saturday staged a demonstration against the delay in election. ‘Hold elections’ NSUI members staged protest outside the residence of the Vice-Chancellor and alleged that the delay in elections to the senate was a direct assault on the fundamental structure of the University. They demanded immediate elections. “The senate elections have been postponed by the University administration on the pretext of the pandemic. However, no consent was taken from the syndicate members. There is a strong possibility that the administration, with advice from the Central government, is preparing to replace the senate with a Board of Governors,” alleged Rahul Verma, vice-president, Panjab University Campus Students’ Council and a member of NSUI. Another student leader and NSUI social media chairman Manoj Lubana accused the University administration of attempting to destroy the democratic structure of the institution. “The University administration and Central government are attempting to destroy this premier institute. The government’s proposal to set up a Central board in place of the democratically elected senate of the Panjab University is an attack on the democratic system,” he said. ‘Scrap proposal’ “We want that the senate elections to be held as soon as possible and that the old senate continue till the elections are held. An autonomous senate should be continued and the proposal of the Board of Governors should be scrapped,” said Mr. Lubana. Of the 91-member senate, six are ex-officio members while 49 are elected from among professors, associate professors, assistant professors, principals of colleges and graduates of the University. Thirty-six members are nominated by the Chancellor.
08 November 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi riots: Judge gives ‘lyrical’ order while granting bail to man||It is not every day that a judge weaves together vivid and imaginatively crafted words and then rhyme them to describe a crime and the roller coaster journey of judicial proceedings. This is exactly what a local court judge in Delhi did while granting bail to a man, who was arrested in connection with the north-east Delhi riots case. Additional Sessions Judge Amitabh Rawat, in a rare display of his poetic side, decided to describe why he thought there was merit in the bail application of one Babu, who has been in custody since April 8 this year, in a “different way”. Mr. Rawat wrote a poem to express it.To appreciate the poem, it is imperative to know that the bail case arises out of the north-east Delhi riots in which one Mr. Rahul suffered a gunshot injury. While Mr Rahul gave a fake address to the police and is now untraceable, the accused, Babu, with a bad antecedent history, was arrested for the offence on the basis of a purported identification by Constable Satish. The court noted that apart from the identification by Mr. Satish of Babu being involved in rioting near Maujpur Red Light towards Jafrabad on February 25, there is nothing much that has been brought on record in connection with the assault case. Taking note of the facts, Mr. Rawat granted bail to Babu with the condition that he will not leave Delhi without prior permission of the court nor shall he indulge in any kind of criminal activity. The judge also ordered Babu not to tamper with any evidence or contact any witness.
08 November 2020||Mangaldoi (Assam),||Cong. leaders arrested in Assam||Around 100 Congress leaders, including party general secretary Jitendra Singh and MPs and MLAs, were arrested from Darrang district on Saturday while protesting the Centre’s farm laws, police said. Darrang Superintendent of Police Amrit Bhuyan told PTI that around 100 leaders were arrested for violating Section 144 of CrPC, which was in place in the district headquarters. “They had sought permission but were denied. Moreover, COVID-19 protocols are also in place. We arrested them from the protest site and later released all the leaders on bail after completing the necessary formalities,” he added. Along with Mr. Singh, Rajya Sabha MPs Ripun Bora and Ranee Narah, Lok Sabha MPs Gaurav Gogoi and MLAs Nandita Das, Rekibuddin Ahmed, Abul Kalam Rasheed Alam, Rakibul Hussain, Jakir Hussain Sikdar, Nurul Huda and many other senior leaders were also arrested from the Kishan Tractor Rally. “This is an anti-farmer government. Even if they arrest us, we will continue to protest and fight for farmers’ benefit,” Mr. Singh, the AICC in-charge for Assam, said. The senior Congress leaders and their supporters marched towards the Deputy Commissioner’s office from the Rajiv Bhawan campus at ward no 2 and tried to overcome the barricades placed by the police near Ram Janaki temple on the NH-15.
08 November 2020||New Delhi,||‘I have tried to see India in a village’||Cinema is a dream that most Indians watch with eyes wide open. M. Gani was no different. But instead of stars, the son of a daily wager was besotted with the craft. As a teenager reading the Screen magazine, he was more interested in knowing Anil Mehta, Lawrence D’Souza and Baba Azmi than Anil Kapoor and Shabana Azmi. With no formal education, the Mathura boy was crazy about the camera but it was beyond his means. He wished escaping to Mumbai but family responsibilities forced him to learn tailoring and make a living. Married at 16, Gani, however, didn’t give up his passion. Recently, at 45, Gani’s directorial venture Matto Ki Saikil premiered at the Busan International Festival and has evoked widespread interest. “I have tried to see India in a village,” he says. After making a name in the progressive theatre circuit, Gani started a school with his two brothers to uplift his neighbourhood from the socio-cultural morass. As the digital revolution took root, he decided to pursue his love for cinematography. A tip from director Amol Gupte and a stint with friend Nakul Singh Sawhney helped him negotiate technical limitations. Inspired by his father, who migrated from an Etah village to Mathura with the hope of providing a better life to his children, the slice-of-life film brings back the poor who have gone missing from our cinematic universe. Gani’s Matto is a Dalit daily wager in a Mathura village who has accepted socio-political discrimination and the growing economic divide as a part of his everyday life. Gani’s early memories are of his father working on Krishna Janmabhoomi temple and the character of Matto is an amalgamation of his father and uncles. From Do Bigha Zamin and Naya Daur to Deewar and Mazdoor , there was a time when the workforce used to drive cinematic narratives. “The Naya Daur kind of cinema was very important for that generation, but I don’t know whether it is a relevant event today. We should respect it for what it was,” notes Gani. Life of struggle He could relate to Anusha Rizvi's Peepli Live , a satire on village life. “There is a farmer character in the film who keeps digging through the film. If you follow the life of that farmer, it might lead you to Matto’s life,” says Gani. When you utter the word mazdoor (labourer), he adds, people think it is going to be a tragic story. “Like everybody, a labourer also goes through sukh-dukh (happiness and sadness). My protagonist has a life of struggle. I have tried to observe his life and the people around him without wearing any shades. There is a local pradhan election, the role of Internet in village life and the promise of development at the cost of selling farmlands... it is society as it is. I have not tried to make an effort to make people laugh or cry.” The title role is played by Prakash Jha. When one of Gani’s friends took the script to Jha, the director-producer-actor took no time in approaching Gani. “He found it layered and agreed to hand over the creative control to me in the very first meeting,” says Gani. Having said that, he admits, when the shoot started, it took them four-five days to find a common laya (tune). “Brij Bhasha was new for Prakash. Also, coming from a zamindar family, his body language carried a ‘status’ which perhaps he didn’t recognise. We worked on it and I guess the results are good. Having made socially relevant films like Damul , Prakash understood where I was coming from. He spent a lot of time under the Mathura sun and would carry 10-11 bricks on his head.” Having lived with ‘isms’ and ideologies, Gani’s life has been a cauldron of bitter-sweet experiences and lends a fertile ground for many a potent story. In the early 1990s, at the height of Ram Janmabhoomi movement, when Gani moved towards the Mathura chapter of the Indian People’s Theatre Association movement, he found a distinct influence of the right-wing ideology on the Leftist theatre group. “We were made to don saffron stoles because the people who were mounting street plays were the same who were conducting Ramlilas and Krishnalilas,” he remembers. Gani had a strong sense of right and wrong and a desire to be different. “I won’t even spare my father. He had a taken loan from a local rich man. When that man would do any wrong in society, my father, who was otherwise not interested in local politics, would have to support his wrongs. I could not stand it.” These days journalists ask him about the references to World Cinema. “I like to watch international films dubbed in Hindi but they don’t dub those that I want to watch,” he chuckles, but adds that from Anton Chekov to Nikolai Gogol, he has devoured Hindi translations of the best of world literature. “I have set out to make my kind of cinema,” he says.
08 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||DU principals call Sisodia’s charges of funds misappropriation baseless||Condemning Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia’s remarks on misappropriation of funds in Delhi University colleges funded by the government, the Delhi University Principals’ Association (DUPA) on Saturday called the allegations baseless. The DUPA appealed to CM Arvind Kejriwal to intervene and resolve the issue while stating that audit records were available in the colleges that could be verified. DUPA president Jaswinder Singh said, “In all the 12 colleges, three layers of auditing of accounts is done and put in the public domain. DU approves the audit report after going through all sections of the balance sheets. DU has found no embezzlement or misappropriation of funds or faulty recruitment of teaching and non-teaching staff.” No govt. effort “The Deputy CM is making allegations without citing a single example. We did not expect this from the Education Minister himself. Additionally, the Delhi government has made no extra effort to improve infrastructure pertaining to online classes in colleges. We appeal to Mr. Sisodia to withdraw his statement as it is damaging for the reputation of the colleges,” said Mr. Singh who is also the principal of Khalsa College. Regarding attendance of teachers, the DUPA clarified that their attendance is marked automatically when teachers take their online classes. “The allegation that there is no system of attendance and existence of ghost employee is unfounded and reflects poor understanding of university affairs by the Education Minister,” the DUPA said. Principals also appealed to the Delhi government to release funds for salaries before Deepavali. Principal of Bhaskaracharya College of Applied Sciences, Balram Pani, who is also the Dean of Colleges in DU said, “The funds have to be released by Diwali, else the government will be solely responsible if these employees cannot celebrate the festival this year.”
08 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||DU’s fifth list out, admissions to most courses closed||Delhi University (DU) on Saturday announced its fifth cut-off list for merit-based undergraduate courses with most colleges closing admissions for the unreserved categories. At Lady Shri Ram College, cut-off for the political science and psychology honours courses, which had set an asking score of 100% in the first list, has dropped to 98.75% and 99% respectively. Cut-off for journalism and English honours courses now stands at 98%. Hansraj College has closed admissions in the unreserved category. At Hindu College, most courses under the same category are closed apart from a few courses such as sociology, which has an asking score of 97.75%. The cut-off for political science honours course, which was touted as one of the most popular courses across colleges now stands at 96.75% at Daulat Ram College, 96.25% at Gargi College, 96.5% at Indraprastha College for Women, 97.75% at Ramjas College and 98.75% at Miranda House. Among the commerce courses, admissions have closed for economics honours at Shri Ram College of Commerce (SRCC) while cut-off for BCom (Hons) at the college is at 98.12%. Many science courses are also now closed with a few exceptions. Chemistry (Hons) at Daulat Ram College now stands at 94.33%; at Hindu College it is 97.66%. Miranda House has set a cut-off of 96.67% for the same course. Admissions under the fifth list will commence from Monday and continue till Wednesday. Students will have time till Friday to make the fee payment and complete the admission process.
08 November 2020||November 08 2020 00:00 IST,||NEET quota in T.N.||The story so far: On October 30, the Tamil Nadu (T.N.) Governor gave his assent to a Bill that sought to reserve 7.5% seats in undergraduate medical admissions for government-school students who qualified NEET. The Tamil Nadu Assembly had passed a Bill on the quota in September this year. Why was Tamil Nadu opposed to NEET? Among the States that were strident in their opposition to NEET (National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test) was Tamil Nadu. The opposition was manifest in protests on the streets and in the corridors of justice. One of the primary arguments that were made was that NEET would push certain categories of students out of the race for MBBS degrees, and its goal of providing equitable opportunities for all would be frustrated. Students from government schools and rural areas would not be able to afford the coaching that would be essential for the competitive test, the State government argued. The State wanted to continue its own criteria for entry of students from government schools and rural areas into medical colleges — candidates were being accommodated with a computed aggregate score of relevant subjects in the Class XII examination. Since 2017, when NEET was implemented in Tamil Nadu, only 14 students from government schools have managed to get admitted to the MBBS course. What did the State do? The inevitability of using NEET to select candidates for MBBS seats led critics to point to unique disadvantages for students from government schools, and seek redress on this front. The government ran free coaching centres for NEET to help students prepare for the examination. In 2018-2019 and 2019-2020, of the nearly 700 government-school students who cleared the NEET, nine entered government medical colleges, according to data provided by Tamil Nadu health authorities. In 2017, the Centre granted exemption to the State to admit students under the State quota (SQ) based on marks in Class XII. But self-financing colleges had to admit on the basis of NEET scores, and three students from government schools got admission into private medical colleges that year.  Clearly, some form of affirmative action was required to increase these numbers, the government reasoned. In mid-September, the Assembly passed a Bill that sought to provide 7.5% horizontal reservation for government-school students in MBBS admissions, based on the recommendations of a Commission headed by retired High Court judge P. Kalaiyarasan, to set right the “de factoinequalities” between government-school students and private-school students. The Commission, in its report, made the observation that students from government schools are placed at a disadvantage, compared to their counterparts in private schools, “due to a cognitive gap created by socio-economic factors such as caste, wealth, parental occupation, parental education, gender, etc., and these psychological and socio-economic barriers cannot be bridged by a few months of intensive coaching for NEET, even if provided for free”. It recommended setting aside 10% seats for government students. Who will benefit? The government, however, chose to go with 7.5%. Students, who studied in government schools from Class VI onwards, including corporation schools, municipal schools, Adi Dravida and tribal welfare schools, Kallar reclamation schools, forest department schools and those managed by government departments, and have qualified the NEET, would benefit. An intervention was made to include students from government-aided schools too, but that has not been factored in yet. The Bill was passed unanimously, and forwarded to Governor Banwarilal Purohit for his assent. How many seats will students from government schools be eligible for this admission season? In the MBBS course in government medical colleges, 15% seats are set aside under the All India Quota, and the remaining 85% will be available for the SQ, to be filled up  according to the rule of reservation. A further percentage of seats (65% in private self-financing colleges, and 50% in private, self-financing minority colleges) will also be added to the government’s quota. This year, it adds up to a total of 4,058 seats, and 7.5% of that comes to 304 seats, according to State health authorites. Where 14 students were admitted in three years, 304 students from government schools will have the opportunity to take up medical education, provided they have cleared NEET, in Tamil Nadu. Horizontal reservations are applied irrespective of the community a student belongs to, just as in the case of quota for persons with disability or wards of ex-service personnel. The government also specified that if a government-school student has scored high marks, she or he could also opt to be allotted a seat based on their community reservation. State Health secretary, J. Radhakrishnan, reiterated that the integrity of the 69% caste-based reservation for medical admissions would be preserved while admitting students to ensure that it is not violated in any manner.  The State government has acted on the recommendations of the P. Kalaiyarasan Commission, which tried to set right the “de factoinequalities between government school students and private school students”
08 November 2020||new delhi,||Speeding car mows down home guard; manhunt on||A 41-year-old home guard was killed after being hit by a speeding car in east Delhi’s Laxmi Nagar in the early hours of Saturday while he was on duty. Deputy Commissioner of Police (East) Jasmeet Singh said that the victim was identified as Naresh, a resident of Mandawali. Police said that the incident was reported around 2.30 a.m. when Naresh was on duty at a picket. Hit the barricade “A speeding car hit the barricade and then hit Naresh after which the car fled from the spot,” said a police officer. The victim was rushed to a hospital where he was declared brought dead. Police said that a case has been registered and the vehicle has been identified. Teams are working to identify and arrest the accused.
08 November 2020||Lucknow/ Mau (U.P.),||Properties of Ansari’s wife attached||The District Magistrate of Ghazipur has ordered the attachment of properties belonging to the wife and brothers-in-law of gangster-turned-politician and BSP MLA Mukhtar Ansari while the Mau administration demolished an illegal construction of two of his aides. Land and building worth Rs. 28.58 crore, belonging to Ansari’s wife Afsha Ansari and brothers-in-law Anwar Shahzad and Sharjeel Raza, were attached under section 14(1) of the Gangsters Act, Additional Chief Secretary Awanish Awasthi said. A building on government land in Mau, constructed by Ansari’s close associates Irshad and Maqsood, was demolished on Saturday, Assistant SP Tribhuwan Nath Tripathi said.
08 November 2020||New Delhi,||NCRTC signs MoU with BEL||The NCRTC has signed an MoU with Bharat Electronics Limited (BEL) for indigenous development of Platform Screen Doors (PSDs). The MoU was signed by Navneet Kaushik, director/systems, NCRTC and Manoj Kumar, executive director (national marketing), BEL. NCRTC and BEL will indigenously develop PSD system for the upcoming MRTS/RRTS/ high-speed rail projects of India as well as abroad, the NCRTC said. “The PSDs Act as a safety barrier between the passengers on the platform and the train/track. Besides helping in better crowd management at the stations, PSDs also prevent any untoward incidents like jumping or falling on the track...,”the NCRTC stated.
