09 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Malls, cafes reopen to a new normal||Places of worship, malls and restaurants reopened across the country on Monday as India bid a graded goodbye to a stringent 75-day lockdown intended to slow the spread of COVID-19 even as positive cases continued to grow in many States and cities. Metro and suburban rail services, educational institutions, gymnasiums, cinema halls, bars and auditoriums remained closed in line with a May 30 Home Ministry order. Their reopening will be reviewed in July and subsequent months. Visitors trickled into malls in Delhi with stringent temperature checks at entry points and shop doors. At Select City Walk mall in Saket, the food court was open during lunch hour but only four or five tables were occupied. Regulated seating In Connaught Place, restaurants were allowing customers to enter with regulated seating. Managers at restaurants said barely any customers were coming in and those who did were made to sit far apart. As India opened up further, Mizoram became the odd State out by imposing a total lockdown for two weeks from Tuesday, less than a week after “unlocking”. The quarantine period for returnees has also been raised from 14 to 21 days with immediate effect. The decisions have been taken to ramp up RT-PCR testing, officials said. Mumbai opened up with many private offices opening with 10% of staff strength. Markets also opened and State bus operators put on extra buses to cater to commuters. Mumbaikars had to stand in long queues with the average waiting time being nearly an hour as the city’s lifeline, the suburban train services, remained suspended. At bus stops, many discarded notions of physical distancing and jostled with one another for limited seats. According to government directives, only one person was allowed on each seat and five people were allowed to stand in buses. In Bengaluru, people were seen standing in queues to get darshan at the big temples. There were markers to keep a safe distance, with thermal checking and sanitisers at the entrance of the temples. Ravishankar G.N. of the famous Dodda Ganapathi temple’s managing committee said, “There is no distribution of theertha [holy water] and prasada . People can get darshan . People are cooperating and we are thankful to them.” Disposable plates Restaurants that opened in the city imposed precautionary measures for both customers and employees. Some restaurants had made “compartments” on tables so that physical contact was avoided. Many restaurants were serving food in disposable plates only. With Tamil Nadu’s tally of COVID-19 cases crossing 33,000, the State was measured in offering relaxations. Bus services were yet to resume in the hotspots of Chennai and neighbouring districts of Tiruvallur, Kancheepuram and Chengalpattu. The remaining parts of the State have been divided into six zones for bus operations. While industries have reopened, production suffered for want of workers as much of the workforce had returned home. In Kolkata, shopping malls and restaurants opened with strict health protocols. Masks were a must, so was thermal screening. In Hyderabad, multi-brand malls, restaurants, religious places, and large retail outlets opened to a lukewarm response. “No offerings. Please leave the flowers and coconut here and pray inside,” devotees at the 200-year-old Balaji Temple in Hyderabad were told.  (With Bureau inputs)  C
09 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||91 more test positive in State||Ninety-one more persons tested positive for COVID-19 in the State on Monday. As has been the trend since the past one month, all but three of these cases are imported cases of infection, brought in by people coming into the State from abroad and other States. Three persons, including two health workers in Thrissur, are believed to have contracted the infection through local transmission. Death in Thrissur Kerala also reported one death, with a 41-year-old male who had returned to the State from the Maldives, succumbing to the disease at the Government Medical College Hospital, Thrissur. An official release issued by the Health Department said he had severe co-morbidities, including renal disease and respiratory distress. He was on haemodialysis following total renal shut down and was on ventilator. Unconfirmed case The State’s total COVID-19 death toll now stands at 16. Though the death of an 87-year-old at the Government Medical College Hospital, Thrissur, on Sunday night is attributed to COVID-19, the Health Department is yet to include it in official figures and is re-confirming the fact. 1,174 active cases The State also reported 11 recoveries on Monday. The active COVID-19 cases in the State now stand at 1,174. So far, 814 people have recovered from the disease. Nearly two lakh people in the State are under the State’s COVID-19 surveillance and quarantine network at their own homes or State quarantine facilities. Only 1,771 have been isolated in hospitals. Apart from the 85,676 routine samples tested so far, another 22,357 samples have been additionally tested as part of sentinel surveillance. The number of hotspots in the State went up to 150 on Monday, with six more regions in Palakkad and Malappuram newly entering the list.
09 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Military-level talks positive: Rajnath||It’s not in India’s character to hurt another country’s self-respect; nor can it tolerate any attack on its dignity, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh said on Monday. At a virtual rally of the BJP, he said the military-level talks that took place on June 6 had been very positive. “Both India and China have agreed that they will continue talks to resolve the border dispute,” he said. Mr. Singh said talks were on between India and China at the military and diplomatic levels. “The leadership of the country is in strong hands and they will not allow India’ self-respect to be hurt under any circumstances,” he said. Earlier in the day, Mr. Singh reviewed the situation along the China border with the Chief of the Defence Staff (CDS) and the three Service chiefs. However, official sources said the Monday meeting was routine. Separately, Western Army Commander Lt. Gen. RP Singh visited forward posts of the Army’s 136 Independent Brigade in Himachal Pradesh and reviewed the operational preparedness.
09 June 2020||New Delhi,||L-G overrules Delhi govt. order to restrict COVID-19 treatment||Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal, in his capacity as Chairperson of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority, on Monday overruled the Aam Aadmi Party government’s decision to restrict COVID-19 treatment and admission at both private and State-run city hospitals to those bearing documented proof of residence in Delhi. In another order, the L-G directed that guidelines issued by the Indian Council of Medical Research regarding testing of contacts of patients be followed “without any deviation”, effectively overturning the AAP government’s order for COVID-19 test only for symptomatic patients. The L-G’s orders came on the eve of a crucial meeting of the DDMA with representatives of the Delhi government to reassess the Capital’s strategy to tackle the novel coronavirus threat. CM’s COVID-19 test Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal was earlier scheduled to attend the meeting on Tuesday but his deputy Manish Sisodia will now now fill in for him as the former will undergo a COVID-19 test after complaining of fever and irritation in his throat. In his order, the L-G made it clear that the Supreme Court had “invariably held in several successive judgments that ‘Right to Health’ is an integral part of ‘Right to Life’ under Article 21 of the Constitution”. He directed all departments and authorities concerned to ensure that monitoring/treatment is not denied to any COVID-19 patient on the ground of not being a resident of NCT of Delhi. Mr. Kejriwal, in a tweet, said the L-G’s order had created “a huge challenge”. “May God bless us to serve the people of the whole country. We will try to provide treatment to all (sic),” he tweeted. Mr. Sisodia accused the BJP of putting pressure on Mr. Baijal. “Delhi government is trying to manage this disaster thoughtfully and honestly. BJP can’t accept this and that is why they are doing this cheap politics by putting pressure on the LG.” In two late-night orders on Monday, the Delhi government’s health department “set aside” its Sunday order restricting treatment to residents of Delhi and also the June 2 order pertaining to asymptomatic contacts of COVID-19 patients.
09 June 2020||CHENNAI,||HC questions ‘tearing hurry’ to hold Class X examinations||The Madras High Court on Monday questioned the Tamil Nadu government on what the “tearing hurry” was to conduct the Class X board examinations, when the number of COVID-19 cases was on the rise. Separately, Opposition parties led by the DMK and the ruling AIADMK’s ally, the PMK, urged the government to revoke its decision to hold the exams. While the court posed tough questions to the government, it did not restrain it, for the present, from going ahead with the decision. Justices Vineet Kothari and R. Suresh Kumar granted time till Thursday for Advocate General (AG) Vijay Narayan to submit a report listing out the number of States where board examinations had already been conducted and other related details. The questions were raised by the Bench during the hearing of a public interest litigation (PIL) petition challenging the government’s decision, filed by the Tamil Nadu High and Higher Secondary Graduate Teachers Association through senior counsel N.R. Elango and advocate V. Arun. The AG, however, said that it would be better to hold the examinations now than wait. Pointing out that there was great uncertainty over the spread of the disease with even countries like the U.S. reporting thousands of cases, he said that it would be difficult to conduct exams later if the number of COVID-19 cases kept rising. He said that the Centre had exempted the conduct of board examinations from the lockdown and added that the CBSE itself was slated to conduct Class XII examinations across the country from July 1.  Asked how the lives of 9.79 lakh Class X students and over two lakh teachers could be put at risk, the AG said that all measures had been put in place to safeguard them. “Originally, the exams were to be conducted in 3,825 centres from March 27 to April 13. After postponement, we have now decided to conduct the exams in 12,690 centres between June 15 and 25,” he added. Only 10 students would be assigned to an examination hall spread over 400 square ft., as against the normal practice of accommodating 20 students. Candidates would be given three reusable face masks. In all, 46.37 lakh face masks would be distributed to students, teachers and others apart from providing soap, running water and hand sanitisers. The examination centre would also be disinfected twice daily, the AG said. Besides, special examination centres would be set up for students residing in containment zones to prevent them from mingling with others and adequate transport facilities would also be provided. Asked about the worst case scenario of a student testing positive for COVID-19 and dying, Mr. Narayan said that nobody could be held responsible if any such incident occurred despite precautions. He claimed that many parents and students actually wanted the examinations to be conducted at the earliest. Explaining the reason for the government’s decision to conduct examinations despite not allowing any school or college to function, the AG cited the difficulty in following physical distancing norms if schools were allowed to reopen. After hearing both sides, the judges decided to take a final call on the issue on Thursday when other pending cases on the same issue would also be taken up.
09 June 2020||GUWAHATI/ IMPHAL,||HC asks Manipur Speaker to keep 7 Cong. MLAs out||The Manipur High Court on Monday directed Speaker Yumnam Khemchand to “restrain” seven Congress MLAs, who had “defected” to the BJP, from entering the Assembly. The MLAs had raised the strength of the BJP-led coalition government to 40 in the 60-member Assembly. Justice K. Nobin Singh ordered that they “are restrained from entering the Manipur Legislative Assembly, Imphal” unless and until the petitions “are disposed of finally” by the Speaker.
09 June 2020||HYDERABAD,||5 die, 92 test positive in TS||The number of COVID-19 cases in Telangana touched 3,742 as 92 more samples tested positive for the virus. Five more COVID-19 patients died taking the toll to 142. Telangana Health department officials did not issue a medical bulletin till late in the night. State Health Minister Eatala Rajender’s office in a late night released details on number of positive cases, deaths and number of people discharged.
09 June 2020||June 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Bengaluru reopens cautiously||Bengaluru’s malls, hotels and restaurants and places of worship threw open their doors on Monday after over two months, with a slew of precautionary measures. However, the footfall was low in most places, as people chose to exercise caution. Tourist spots opened, but there were hardly any bookings.
09 June 2020||June 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Cases top 1,500 for second day||The surge in COVID-19 cases continued in Tamil Nadu on Monday, with over 1,500 cases being reported for the second consecutive day. The 1,562 fresh cases took the State’s tally to 33,229. While 528 persons were discharged, the State’s toll increased to 286 with 17 more fatalities, including a 22-year-old man.
09 June 2020||June 09 2020 00:00 IST,||To market||
09 June 2020||Chennai,||Marginal decrease in daily cases||The daily increase in total number of COVID-19 cases fell to 8,552 on Monday after going beyond 10,000 recently. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), 1,08,048 samples were tested on June 8, a steep decrease from the 1,42,069 samples tested the previous day. There were 2,65,916 confirmed cases as of Monday, with 1,29,569 active ones. A total of 270 people died, adding to the overall death tally of 7,471. The recovery rate increased marginally to 48.43%. The bulk of the new cases were confirmed in Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Delhi.
09 June 2020||June 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Kerala move to open temples triggers row||The Kerala government’s decision to reopen temples from Tuesday has triggered a row with the Sangh Parivar organisations opposing the move citing the rise in COVID-19 cases, and the Travancore Devaswom Board, which manages 1,248 temples, going ahead with the plan to permit entry of devotees. “Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan did not invite Hindu organisations for consultations,” Hindu Aikya Vedi State president R.V. Babu said.page 8
09 June 2020||MANGALURU,||Decision on sevas in temples later||Temples opened for darshan on Monday, barring some which have decided to wait longer. A decision on allowing sevas in temples, however, is to be taken after consulting with the Union government. Minister for Muzrai Kota Srinivas Poojary said, “Sevas in temples will be allowed gradually in consultation with the Union Government.”
09 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Soz detention: SC seeks J&K govt.’s response||The Supreme Court on Monday asked the Jammu and Kashmir government to respond to a petition challenging the house arrest/detention of senior Congress leader and former Union Minister Saifuddin Soz for the past 10 months.
09 June 2020||JAIPUR,||Cong. moves its Gujarat MLAs to Rajasthan||The Gujarat Congress on Monday decided to shift all its legislators to party-ruled Rajasthan, in a bid to prevent alleged attempts at poaching by the BJP ahead of the June 19 elections for four Rajya Sabha seats from Gujarat. It had earlier sent about 20 MLAs to a private resort in Rajasthan’s Abu Road town.
09 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Chargesheet filed in Rattan Lal murder case||The Delhi police on Monday filed a chargesheet in two cases related to the alleged murder of Head Constable Rattan Lal during the north-east Delhi riots in February. The Metropolitan Magistrate put up the matter for consideration on June 22.
09 June 2020||Chennai,||T.N. gets Rs. 3,193 cr. as GST compensation||Tamil Nadu has been given about Rs. 3,193 crore as Goods and Services Tax (GST) compensation due for the period from December 2019 to February 2020. The amount was out of the Rs. 36,400 crore released by the Centre last week.
09 June 2020||Bengaluru,||Three months after first case, State tally IS 5,760||Three months after the first COVID-19 case was reported in Bengaluru, the total tally in Karnataka touched 5,760 on Monday, with 308 new cases in 24 hours.
09 June 2020||UDUPI,||Nearly 400 devotees have darshan at Kollur||Nearly 400 persons offered prayers at the famous Sri Mookambika Temple at Kollur in Udupi district, which opened its doors for devotees after nearly three months. The Temple Management Committee ensured that the guidelines were strictly observed. Executive Officer of the temple Arvind Sutagundi told The Hindu that the devotees had darshan of Sri Mookambika in the sanctum sanctorum , from near the dhwajasthamba of the temple.
09 June 2020||Chennai,||Minister warns of action against newscaster||Tamil Nadu Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar on Monday warned of action against veteran newscaster and actor S. Varadharajen after the latter, in a video message, stressed the need for people to stay safe, cited difficulty in finding a hospital bed for his friend, who had symptoms of COVID-19.
09 June 2020||Bengaluru,||Travel-linked cases spike in southern States||Kerala reported one COVID-19 death on Monday, with a 41-year-old man who had returned from the Maldives succumbing to the disease. Positive cases in Andhra Pradesh rose to 4,813, including 154 cases. Of the new cases, 125 were local, 28 from other States or migrant returnees and one from a foreign country. A total of 2,711 were discharged; 51 were sent home during the past day, the Medical, Health and Family Welfare Department said. Total active cases were 2,027 and the death toll 75. There were 91 fresh cases in Kerala, and in line with the trend over one month now, all but three were imported cases among people coming from abroad or other States. Three persons, including two health workers in Thrissur, were believed to have contracted the infection through local transmission. The fatality was that of a 41-year-old man who had returned from the Maldives, at the Government Medical College Hospital, Thrissur. The Health Department said he had renal disease and respiratory distress. The death toll was 16. Though an 87-year-old who died on Sunday night at Thrissur MCH had suspected COVID-19, the Health Department did not add it to official figures and was re-confirming it. The State also reported 11 recoveries on Monday. The active COVID-19 cases stood at 1,174, with 814 persons recovering from the disease so far. Nearly two lakh persons in the State were under the State’s COVID-19 surveillance and quarantine network at their own homes or State quarantine facilities. Only 1,771 were isolated in hospitals. Apart from a total of 85,676 routine samples tested, another 22,357 samples had been tested as part of sentinel surveillance. In Tamil Nadu The surge in coronavirus disease (COVID-19) cases continued in the State of Tamil Nadu with new cases exceeding 1,500 for the second consecutive day on Monday. With 1,562 fresh cases of COVID-19, the State’s overall tally climbed to 33,229. While 528 persons were discharged, the State’s toll rose to 286 with 17 more fatalities (15 in government hospitals and two in private hospitals) including a 22-year-old man and a nonagenarian. Chennai registered four-figure cases again with 1,149 new patients, taking its overall tally to 23,298. The city has accounted for 224 deaths till now. Chengalpattu reported 134 new cases, taking its count closer to the 2,000-mark. Apart from Chennai and Chengalpattu, the new cases were reported including in Tiruvallur (57), Vellore (32), Thoothukudi (26), Kancheepuram (18) and Tiruvannamalai (11). Among the 1,562 new cases, 42 persons had returned from other States and abroad. This included 22 persons from Maharashtra and six from Delhi. Nine persons who returned from Qatar and three from Kuwait also tested positive for COVID-19. Till date, a total of 17,527 persons were discharged from hospitals, while there were 15,413 active cases.  (With inputs from Vijayawada and Chennai Bureaus)
09 June 2020||New Delhi,||Four local terrorists killed in Shopian||Four local terrorists were killed in an encounter with security forces in south Kashmir’s Shopian on Monday after a four-hour operation. A day earlier, five terrorists were killed in the same area. According to Jammu and Kashmir police chief Dilbag Singh, as many as 22 terrorists have been killed in the past two weeks. At a press conference in Awantipora, Lt. Gen. B.S. Raju of the XV Corps said that after the revocation of Article 370 in J&K last year, the people of Kashmir took the decision in a “positive manner” as there was relative peace for a long time. He asked people not to “consume Pakistani media as they peddled only misinformation”. ‘Relative peace’ Lt. Gen. Raju said normalcy was almost back in the Valley till another lockdown had to be imposed due to the COVID-19 pandemic. “We saw relative peace for a fairly long period of time…by February things had opened up. January-February people had begun to move around, schools opened with 100% attendance…winter tourism had commenced in Gulmarg, so we were seeing all kinds of normalcy before the issue of COVID came in and we had to get in another round of lockdown,” he said. He said that Pakistan was not happy with the peaceful situation in the Valley. ‘Pakistan unhappy’ “Pakistan is unhappy because it is in its larger plan to keep the pot boiling in the Valley. That is how the relevance of the Pakistan Army remains within Pakistan. As far as Pakistan’s contribution to violence here is concerned, it is a combination of two things — on the physical front inducting weapons along the Line of Control and, the second is, the information warfare Pakistan intends to fight.” “I would say that 120 crore of the country’s population have a role to play in demolishing false narratives, which are coming from Pakistan.” General Officer Commanding of Army’s South Kashmir-based Victor Force Major General A. Sengupta said the encounter took place in a congested area at Pinjora in Shopian. “The terrorists were harassing civilians and were known to cause excesses to the civil population. They were involved in abducting policemen, causing injury to truck drivers last year….in four-hour operation four local terrorists were killed, arms and war like stores were recovered,” he said.
09 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Centre seeks district-level plans||The Union Health Ministry, on Monday, directed States to make district-wise prospective plans for the coming months to tackle COVID-19. Health Secretary Preeti Sudan, along with senior Health Ministry officials, held a review with District Collectors, municipal commissioners, chief medical officers, superintendents of district hospitals and principals of medical colleges from 45 municipalities and municipal corporations across 38 districts in 10 States that are witnessing a surge in COVID-19 cases. Districts officials from Maharashtra, Telangana, Tamil Nadu, Rajasthan, Haryana, Gujarat, Jammu & Kashmir, Karnataka, Uttarakhand and Madhya Pradesh participated in the discussion. “Main issues discussed included widespread infection in densely populated urban areas, with areas that shared public amenities; importance of house-to-house surveys; prompt testing followed by prompt isolation and clinical management of cases and containment strategy to be implemented,” a release issued by the Ministry said. ‘Initiate measures’ The Health Minister has directed State officials to initiate measures in containment zones for case management and buffer zones surveillance activities, and the promotion of COVID-appropriate behaviour. “To reduce the case fatality rate, the officials were briefed on measures to be taken like prioritising the high-risk segments like elderly people and people with co-morbidities while contact-tracing to prevent deaths; active surveillance measures, adequate testing and promoting health seeking behaviour for timely detection of cases; ensuring timely shifting of patients without escalating the symptoms,” said a senior health official. He added that States had been also advised that adequate planning for health infrastructure should be taken up; adequate number of surveillance teams must be provided and a system should be put in place for bed availability management. Constant attention The Health Ministry has said areas that need constant attention included active house-to-house survey for timely detection, augmentation of the survey teams, efficient ambulance management, efficient triaging of patients at the hospitals and bed management and clinical management of the hospitalised cases. Dismissing claims that wearing a mask leads to carbon dioxide retention, as far as lung capacity is concerned, All India Institute of Medical Sciences director Randeep Guleria said with a mask even pre-symptomatic persons may be saved from spreading the infection.
09 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Scale up MGNREGA works: Cong.||The Congress on Monday said that 2.19 crore households had found work under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA), and asked the Centre to scale up and make the Act open-ended to help people during COVID-19 pandemic. The party’s formal demand came after its chief Sonia Gandhi wrote an article in a newspaper on Monday, in which she asked the Modi government to shun politics over the scheme and “use the powerful mechanism at hand.” At an online press conference, Rajya Sabha member and senior party spokesperson Abhishek Singhvi said Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s comment that the MGNREGA was ‘a living monument of the Congress’s failure’ had come back to haunt the BJP as their government was now heavily relying on it to provide relief and increase its allocation by Rs. 40,000 crore. “Prime Minister Modi famously criticised MGNREGA on the floor of Parliament in 2014, calling it ‘a living monument of the INC’s failure’. Today, he must live with that short-sighted assessment, as MGNREGA has come to the nation’s aid in combating growing poverty. Even programmes like Swacchh Bharat and Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana are being merged to leverage its utility, reach and value. As on March 31, 2020, over 12 crore people cumulatively had benefited from the programme,” Mr. Singhvi said. Beginning of exodus The party said 8 crore migrants were expected to relocate due to COVID-19. In the Supreme Court, the government has stated that 91 lakh migrants have been moved by Shramik Special trains. This number was only the start of an exodus that was taking place across the country. “Since the PM is compelled to fall back on a UPA scheme, it is only appropriate that we, as its authors, provide him with additional guidance for the next steps,” Mr. Singhvi said. Ten per cent advance should be paid to MGNREGA workers and 200 days of work in a year to the needy people, he added.
09 June 2020||JAIPUR,||Cong. moves its Gujarat MLAs to Rajasthan||The Gujarat Congress on Monday decided to shift all its legislators to party-ruled Rajasthan, in a bid to prevent alleged attempts at poaching by the ruling Bharatiya Janata Party ahead of the June 19 elections for four Rajya Sabha seats from Gujarat. It had earlier sent about 20 MLAs to a private resort in Rajasthan’s Abu Road town. Abu Road, on the foothills of popular tourist destination Mount Abu, is situated adjacent to the Gujarat-Rajasthan border in Sirohi district. Following the resignation of three MLAs last week, the Congress had moved its legislators to different places, alleging that the BJP was indulging in horse-trading. The strength of the Opposition Congress in the 182-member Gujarat Assembly has been reduced to 65 after the three legislators resigned. According to the party sources, the shifting of MLAs to a single place will facilitate finalisation of strategies by senior leaders for the Rajya Sabha polls. The MLAs are likely to stay in Abu Road until just before the elections on June 19. Earlier, the Congress MLAs were taken to a resort near Jaipur in March this year when five legislators resigned. The March 26 Rajya Sabha elections were subsequently postponed because of the COVID-19 lockdown. The BJP has questioned the Congress’s move, alleging that the party had violated the guidelines on reopening of hotels and shopping malls. “Why was the resort opened 48 hours before the lockdown relaxations and how was the gathering of legislators allowed?” asked Rajendra Rathore, Deputy Leader of the Opposition in the Rajasthan Assembly. The BJP’s Sirohi district unit has lodged a complaint with the police against the resort’s owner, accusing him of violating COVID-19 lockdown guidelines.
09 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||NHRC seeks report on deaths by police action||The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) has asked for action taken reports from the authorities of seven States, where 15 people died following police action in the first month or so of the lockdown, according to the proceedings in the cases. The NHRC acted on a May 16 complaint by the Commonwealth Human Rights Initiative (CHRI), which stated that the 15 men — five in Andhra Pradesh, three in Uttar Pradesh, two each in Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra, and one each in Tamil Nadu, Punjab and West Bengal — died after police action or in custody from March 25 to April 30. The CHRI complaint cited media reports that said 12 of the 15 deaths occurred after police action such as beatings, allegedly as “punishment” for violating the lockdown imposed to control the spread of COVID-19, and three in police custody. Nine of the 12 died of their injuries and the remaining by suicide, the complaint said. “Given the COVID-19 lockdown, restrictions on movement and limited access to courts, the families have very limited recourse to seek justice,” the complaint by CHRI researcher Raja Bagga stated. The Commission took up three cases of alleged custodial death on June 4 and asked the police commissioners or superintendent of police of the respective districts to submit detailed reports by July 26. The alleged custodial deaths include the death of Kalapala Krupkar on March 28, allegedly at the Gudivada police station in Krishna district of Andhra Pradesh. He was arrested with five others for allegedly running a gambling racket. The death of Raju Velu Devendra on March 30, allegedly in the Juhu police station in Mumbai, was due to beatings by police, his family said. The police, however, denied the charge, saying he was lynched while trying to commit a robbery. The third case was of Munipillappa alias Muni Kulla, who was accused of stealing liquor in Hoskote in Karnataka. According to his wife, he was taken by the police for questioning on April 7, assaulted and his body dumped in a well near his house on April 10. In the other 12 cases, the NHRC took cognisance of the matters on June 1 and gave the district magistrates and police chiefs time till July 11 to submit their reports.
09 June 2020||June 09 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Farmers are strong, not vulnerable; they need to be given choices’||The disruption caused by the COVID-19 pandemic led to at least 12 States allowing direct marketing of agriculture produce, which offered greater options to farmers during the lockdown, Agriculture Secretary Sanjay Agarwal says. The two new ordinances pushing agricultural marketing reform will widen choices for small farmers, he adds.  Despite the lockdown, this year’s wheat harvest hit record highs, and government procurement at minimum support prices (MSP) is also higher than last year. However, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh have fallen short of procurement targets. What is the reason? I was looking at a video of ITC. This year, because direct marketing was allowed for farmers to sell their produce during the lockdown, they had a line of over two km of tractors outside their purchasing centres. If as a farmer, you are faced with the cost of transport to an MSP centre, and if you are getting the same price at the village level, what will you do? In fact, this year, procurement centres were two and a half times more in comparison to last year. But because direct marketing was allowed and a corporate purchaser was available, that gave the farmer a choice and that changes everything. And that becomes the logic of bringing the trade and commerce ordinance this year, where direct marketing takes place. Speaking of these two ordinances to reform agriculture marketing and facilitate contract farming, how will they help small farmers? Both ordinances will be most beneficial to small and marginal farmers. A farmer’s produce is unregulated at time of production, but there are restrictions on where to sell and whom to sell, which is not there for any other commodity globally or in India. The Farm Trade ordinance will open up this ecosystem. Right now, the farmer can only sell produce to a licensed trader in one of four physical locations: mandis operated by marketing committees, very few private mandis, cold storage warehouses declared as deemed markets, or direct licensees which have to notify a space with certain facilities. Mandi secretaries say most big farmers bring a truckload of produce; they know the officials there, they have access to knowledge about prices and they get the right price. But a small farmer may produce just two quintals. So an aggregator at the village level will take it to the mandi with the understanding that he will take a set percentage of the sale price, and give the rest to the farmer. But in more than 50% of cases, farmers are being cheated by aggregators who get a receipt for a lower price. Number two, the contract farming ordinance. If I’m a large farmer who grows a large quantity of high quality organic potatoes and sells to a big retail chain dependent on me, I can negotiate my terms. But if I’m a small marginal farmer who wants to grow a high value crop like that which doesn’t have that much demand in mandis, or if I add value in terms of processing, then I have to take the total risk in terms of production and then go find a buyer in the industry. This ordinance allows the small farmer to benefit from a high value product by transferring the risk to the corporate purchaser, who will buy the produce at a fixed rate. The industry can also provide technology inputs and get seeds and pesticides at wholesale prices, which will translate into higher production, higher value, higher incomes. There is also a unique provision for production agreements, where the farmer is simply paid for agricultural services rendered, and this is very useful in poultry and livestock sector. Will the safety net of MSP continue to remain effective under the new direct marketing regime? This provides a different option to farmers. MSP is a support system for the farmer, where he knows he can sell at a certain place for that price. There is a clear assurance that MSP shall continue. But going to the MSP centre also has a cost, so now the farmer has an option to choose direct marketing instead. Why do you think that the farmer will not understand if the price offered in the village is not the right price? He is aware of the mandi price and the MSP rate. There is also an important provision to develop a price information and market research system under the Act. So he can make an informed choice. We are also creating the right ecosystem through Kisan Credit Cards, farmer producer organisations which will provide marketing and legal support, and creation of Rs. 1 lakh crore financing facility for post harvest management. If you consider a child as weak, and always handhold that child, try to protect that child, the child will never grow. Our farmers are strong, they have knowledge and competence and have brought India to this stage of surplus foodgrain. Considering farmers as vulnerable, thinking people will take them for a ride in everything, limiting their choices, restricting them — that is not helpful. Every provision in this Act is in farmers’ interest.  The farm trade and contract farming ordinances are most beneficial to small & marginal farmers
09 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC asks J&K to respond to plea against Soz detention||The Supreme Court on Monday asked the Jammu and Kashmir government to respond to a petition challenging the house arrest/detention of senior Congress leader and former Union Minister Saifuddin Soz for the past 10 months. The habeas corpus petition, filed by his wife Mumtazunnisa Soz, sought to know his whereabouts. A virtual court Bench led by Justice Arun Mishra listed the case for July second week. Mr. Soz has been detained since August 5 last, when the special rights given to Kashmiri people under Article 370 was abrogated and the State of Jammu and Kashmir was reorganised into the Union Territories of J&K and Ladakh. “Ten months have passed since his first detention, and he is yet to be informed of his grounds of detention. All efforts by him to obtain a copy of the detention order(s) have been of no avail due to the illegal, arbitrary exercise of powers by the government of the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir,” the petition, filed through advocate Sunil Fernandes and represented by senior advocate A.M. Singhvi, said. Mr. Singhvi argued that “the authority making the order[s] of detention did not communicate to the detenu the grounds on which the order has been made, and no copy of the detention order was provided despite repeated attempts”. He said Mr. Soz was denied the right to making a representation against the order(s) of detention, in flagrant abuse of constitutional guidelines, as well as the statutory scheme. By keeping the latter under a prolonged, indefinite detention, the authorities indulged in the violation of his right to life and personal liberty.
09 June 2020||Hyderabad,||Lukewarm response to Unlock in Telangana||Food stalls, restaurants, cafes, religious places and malls opened for the first time after the 75-day COVID-19 lockdown imposed on March 25 by the Telangana government. In Hyderabad, there was lukewarm response and many citizens appeared to avoid large public spaces and gatherings. At dozens of tea-idly-dosa stalls that line Jubilee Hills Filmnagar area, Jyothinagar, Santoshnagar and other areas of the city, only a handful of men could be spotted having snacks and sipping tea in the morning. “People will come once they realise it is safe and we are open. A lot of workers used to stop and eat here, they are no longer in the city that will change soon,” said the manager of a tiffin centre in Jyothinagar. Hours after temple doors were opened to devotees, two of the well-known Lord Venkateswara temples in the city had a handful of worshippers. At 7.30 a.m., there were three devotees at the Jubilee Hills temple. At the 200-year-old Balaji Temple at Gudimalkapur there were a couple of devotees who were made to deposit their flower and coconut offerings at the entrance and walk inside to pray. The temple had a notice about dos and don’ts for devotees. “I am wearing a mask while talking to devotees but once I go into the sanctum sanctorum to recite slokas I don’t wear the mask,” said Srinivas Acharyalu, the priest at the temple. At the Nizamuddin Ahmed Gilani Dargah on Jubilee Hills, wearing a mask is mandatory before entering the place. “We have 450 visitors till now (6 p.m.). Today is a working day. Weekend will be different,” said a staffer at a mall in Begumpet which is usually crowded through the week with students rubbing shoulders with shoppers. At the Metro Mall in Irram Manzil, patrons without Arogya Setu app were not allowed inside by staffers wearing PPE gowns. “These malls have been cleaned up and they are trying to do their bit but visitors will have to take care of themselves by wearing masks and being alert to social distancing,” said Vinay, who works as a Regional Manager of a cosmetics company. The food courts at these malls were shuttered with the few staffers not sure when they are going to resume service. Takeaway counters were however functioning for quick service restaurants. Traffic on the roads was another matter altogether. By evening, there was traffic congestion on many stretches. Between Somajiguda and Sainikpuri there were nine stretches with high congestion and 14 stretches with slow moving traffic. On the western side, between Somajiguda and Gachibowli there were eight stretches with heavy traffic and 17 stretches with slow moving traffic.
09 June 2020||Mumbai,||Nod to ED to attach Nirav Modi’s assets||A Special Court on Monday permitted the Enforcement Directorate (ED) to confiscate properties of diamond merchant Nirav Modi, barring those mortgaged to parties like the Punjab National Bank (PNB), within a month. Mr. Modi was declared a fugitive economic offender (FEO) on December 5, 2019, that enabled the ED to move the court for confiscation of his properties in India, the United Kingdom and the United Arab Emirates. This is for the first time an agency will be able to confiscate the property of an economic offender since the FEO Act, 2018, came into force. The agency, through Hiten Venegavkar, had moved the application on January 19, 2020. The court partly allowed confiscation of properties of some parties to the extent of their claim in respect of secured debts only by way of mortgage, hypothecation and guarantee deeds. Valuable paintings seized by the Income Tax Department will be attached by the ED under the provisions of the FEO Act within one month. The properties of the PNB are excluded in the list of the properties claimed by the interested parties under the FEO. This will entitle them to proceed with their claim before the competent court, authority or tribunal in the manner provided by law. The ED had listed properties valued at Rs. 1,396.07 crore for confiscation, which include paintings, eight cars and other valuables, including watches, bags and purses, that were seized from Mr. Modi’s house at Samudra Mahal. The application also seeks to sell paintings seized by the Income Tax department. Earlier, the court rejected an application for intervention from Mr. Modi into the hearing of confiscation of properties after the PNB approached the court against the process and had pleaded for release of Mr. Modi’s properties to the bank to clear dues. Special judge V.C. Barde in February held that Mr. Modi had no right to intervene as he was declared a fugitive economic offender and that he would not be heard before an order on confiscation of his properties was passed.
09 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Final guidelines to reopen schools awaiting approval||Final guidelines on the reopening of schools and the use of digital education are awaiting approval from the Health and Home Ministries, after consultations on the issue were held with State governments on Monday. Tweeting about the meeting, Human Resource Development Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank emphasised that the safety of students and teachers was the top priority. This comes amidst speculation about school reopening dates and widespread demands for the postponement or cancellation of Central and State board examinations scheduled to be held in June and July, even as COVID-19 cases continue to shoot up in major cities. Mr. Nishank has previously indicated schools will not reopen until August. Union School Education Secretary Anita Karwal convened a meeting of all State Education Secretaries on Monday “to discuss the health and safety of students, hygiene measures in schools, and issues regarding online/digital learning in their States”, according to Mr. Nishank’s tweet. “Obtained valuable suggestions from State governments regarding issues related to school education. Our priority has always been the safety and security of students and teachers,” he added, after the meeting. “The suggestions received will be examined and sent to the [Ministry of Health and Family Welfare] and Ministry of Home Affairs for appropriate actions regarding framing guidelines for the education sector during COVID-19 times.” Final decision On Friday, Ms. Karwal had said that while the Centre was framing guidelines for safe reopening of schools, States would take the final decision on reopening dates depending on local conditions. Guidelines are likely to include rigorous health screening and quarantine protocols, hygiene measures, and staggered attendance for students allowing for blended learning from classrooms and home.
09 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||ED searches tour operator in Mumbai||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Monday conducted searches at five locations linked to Cox & Kings in Mumbai, in connection with a money laundering probe involving Yes Bank and its former director-promoter Rana Kapoor, the probe agency said. The ED said that in the bank fraud case involving Rs. 3,642 crore, the premises of Ajay Ajit Peter Kerkar, Pesi Patel, Abhishek Goenka, Anil Khandelwal and Naresh Jain, the promoter, directors, chief financial officer and auditor of the group, were searched. Cox & Kings Ltd. (CKL), India, had an outstanding of Rs. 563 crore; Rs. 1,012 crore due against Ezeego One travel & Tours Ltd.; Rs. 422 crore against Cox & Kings Financial Services Ltd.; Rs. 1,152 crore against Prometheon Enterprise Ltd. (U.K.); and Rs. 493 crore against Malvern Travel Ltd. (U.K.). The ED probe is based on a case registered by the CBI on March 7, against Mr. Kapoor and others. It pertains to about Rs. 3,700 crore in loans extended to Dewan Housing Finance Corporation Ltd (DHFL), allegedly in lieu of Rs. 600 crore. During the probe following the arrest of Mr. Kapoor, the ED noticed irregularities in the loans sanctioned to the Cox & Kings group. It had allegedly diverted funds via multiple layers of onshore and offshore subsidiaries. CKL forged balance sheets of its overseas subsidiaries. It was reported to the Bombay Stock Exchange and the National Stock Exchange by the resolution professional, it said. After default by CKL, the lenders appointed PwC for forensic audit, but the management did not cooperate. Based on the available data, PwC confirmed falsification of accounts, overstating sales figures, understating debt figures and other irregularities.
09 June 2020||New Delhi,||Trinamool backs demand for expansion of MGNREGA||Joining forces with the other Opposition parties, the Trinamool Congress on Monday demanded an expansion of the Mahatama Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act. The party also called for an increase in the wage rate, which, it said, is lower than the minimum wages of at least 31 States. Trinamool leader Derek O’Brien, addressing an online press conference, accused the Narendra Modi government of doing everything in its capacity to “weaken and dismantle” the MNREGA, with Mr. Modi himself ridiculing the scheme and calling it “a living monument of failure”. “The Centre must act now; it is absolutely critical that all registered workers get 100 days of work Currently they get only 40-50 days. The current wages of Rs. 202 per day also needs revision as it is lower than minimum wage in 31 States,” the Rajya Sabha MP said. He added that the wages must be linked to the rural consumer price index. In the current scenario with reverse migration to the villages, the MNREGA has assumed a huge importance. “It is equally critical that all the dues are paid to the workers within 15 days,” he said. Plea for dole The party has also demanded that the unemployment allowance of 15 days that is guaranteed in the law should be further extended. He said that by January this year, 95% of the allocation for 2019-20 was spent and the Ministry of Rural Development sought additional Rs. 20,000 crore. But the Finance Ministry gave only Rs. 5,000 crore, he added.
09 June 2020||New Delhi,||Chidambaram questions legality of Delhi’s decision||Former Union Finance Minister P. Chidambaram on Monday questioned the legality of the Delhi government’s decision to extend hospital facilities only to ‘local residents’ of Delhi. In a series of tweets, Mr. Chidambaram asked Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal who qualified to be called a ‘Delhiite’. “Mr. Kejriwal says Delhi hospitals are only for Delhiites. Will he please tell us who is a Delhiite? If I live or work in Delhi, am I a Delhiite?” asked Mr. Chidambaram. “Did Mr. Kejriwal take legal opinion before he made his announcement?” he asked. “I thought if a person had enrolled in Jan Arogya Yojana/Aayushman Bharat, he can seek treatment in any enlisted hospital, public or private, anywhere in India?” added Mr. Chidambaram. Delhi Congress spokesperson Aman Panwar also attacked the Kejriwal government and claimed that the Delhi High Court had in an October 2018 order called such a move “unconstitutional”. “On 12th Oct, 2018 Delhi HC has already ‘REJECTED’ a similar decision taken to reserve medical facilities only for residents of Delhi” Mr. Panwar tweeted.
09 June 2020||HYDERABAD,||NGT constitutes panel to probe KTR farmhouse ‘expansion’||National Green Tribunal Chennai bench has constituted a joint committee of Central and State government officials to inspect the area where Telangana Minister K.T. Rama Rao allegedly expanded his farmhouse in violation of GO 111 and earlier orders of the Tribunal Principal Bench. A bench of NGT comprising Judicial member K. Ramakrishnan and Expert member Saibal Dasgupta passed the direction after Malkajgiri Congress MP A. Revanth Reddy filed a petition accusing the Minister of violation of laws. The joint committee formed by the Tribunal will have a senior officer of Union Ministry of Forests, Environment and Climate Change (Chennai Regional Office), Rangareddy District Collector and a senior officer from Telangana Pollution Control Board as its members. GHMC Commissioner or any senior officer not below the rank of superintending engineer deputed by HMWS&SB Managing Director, a senior officer not below the rank of superintending engineer of Irrigation and Command Area Development and SE of Hyderabad Lakes and Water Bodies Management Circle will also be in the committee. It would inspect the area where the farmhouse was allegedly expanded. The Tribunal, in its order, said the committee should submit a factual report on the matter and the action taken report, if any. It would examine if the orders issued by the NGT Principal Bench in Human Rights and Consumer Protection Cell Trust vs the State of Telangana and others were violated in the process of the alleged expansion of the Minister’s farmhouse. The committee would give recommendations and suggestions for removal of any encroachment of the nearby water bodies, the bench said. The MP accused the Minister of undertaking illegal construction in the Bio Conservation Zone in the catchment area of Osmansagar, a lifeline for drinking water zone in the State capital. In its earlier order, the NGT Principal Bench categorically stated that all construction activities in the zones mentioned in GO 111 are prohibited till further orders. The MP charged that the Minister’s alleged action would affect the water storage capacity of Osmansagar and Himayatsagar water bodies as well. The joint committee constituted by the Chennai bench would ascertain if any steps were taken to fix the High Tidal Line (HTL) of the lakes. It would find out if any construction or development activities, which were banned, were taken up in the buffer zones and what is the stage of their implementation. Hyderabad Lakes and Water Bodies Management Circle will act as nodal agency.
09 June 2020||Bengaluru,||RS elections: BJP high command snubs Yediyurappa||In a major snub to its State core committee and Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, the BJP high command has rejected all the three names recommended by them to contest the Rajya Sabha polls scheduled on June 19. Instead, in a surprise move, the high command has chosen two lesser-known, old-time party workers as its candidates: the organizational in-charge leaders for Belagavi and Ballari zones, Eranna Kadadi and Ashok Gasthi, respectively. Mr. Kadadi, who has been a party worker for over three decades, hails from Belagavi district and has served as the president of the Belagavi Zilla Panchayat. He belongs to the dominant Panchamashali Lingayat community. Mr. Gasthi has served as the chairman of the Karnataka State Commission for Backward Classes. He belongs to the backward Savitha Samaja community. While the BJP can win two seats comfortably with its present numerical strength in the Legislative Assembly, the State core committee had recommended three names: educationist Prabhakar Kore, who had sought renomination, hotelier Prakash Shetty, and Ramesh Katti, brother of disgruntled leader Umesh Katti, who is upset over not getting ministerial berth. This was seen in State BJP circles as a clever strategy, as the onus of placating the Katti brothers was left to the party high command. However, the BJP Central Election Committee took everyone by surprise and chose its own candidates. While the prominent leaders of the party, especially those belonging to Mr. Yediyurappa’s camp, have been rattled by the choices, the party cadre is happy. “For the first time, ordinary party workers have been chosen as candidates for the Rajya Sabha,” a party functionary said. This is also being seen as a clear and stern message to Mr. Yediyurappa as the high command has rejected the candidature of both Mr. Kore and Mr. Shetty who are said to be very close to him. This has come at a crucial juncture when some of the party MLAs from North Karnataka, especially those from the Lingayat community from which Mr. Yediyurappa hails, have raised a banner of revolt against his leadership by holding meetings. Interestingly, both the candidates for the Rajya Sabha hail from North Karnataka. According to a senior party leader, the selection of candidates has again showed that the BJP State unit is not in sync with the thinking of its central leaders, who have been insisting on giving importance to the cadre as well as new faces.
09 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Decision to reopen temples triggers political row in Kerala||The Kerala government’s decision to reopen temples from Tuesday has triggered a row with Sangh Parivar organisations opposing the move and the Travancore Devaswom Board (TDB) and other Devaswoms going ahead with the preparations to permit the entry of devotees as per the COVID-19 protocol. The Kerala Kshetra Samrakshana Samiti and the Viswa Hindu Parishad, having about 600 temples under their ambit, mostly in northern Kerala, cited the spurt in COVID-19 cases and the failure of the government to take Hindu organisations into confidence as reasons for their objection. TDB president N. Vasu said entry to the 1,248 temples under the board would be as per the COVID-19 protocol. The Padmanabhaswamy temple in the State capital would be reopened only after June 30. Hindu Aikya Vedi State president R.V. Babu said if the reopening would lead to a virus spread, even routine rituals and pujas would be affected forcing a total closure of the temples. “Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan did not invite Hindu organisations for consultations,” Mr. Babu said.
09 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||NHRC notice to U.P. on denial of treatment to 2 pregnant women||The National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) on Monday issued a notice to the Uttar Pradesh government over two reported cases of pregnant women being denied treatment in Noida and Greater Noida. Taking suo motu cognisance of media reports, the NHRC issued the notice to the Chief Secretary asking for a detailed report within four weeks. The first incident occurred on June 5 when an eight-month pregnant woman died in an ambulance outside a hospital in Greater Noida after being denied treatment at several government and private hospitals for 13 hours, the NHRC noted. In the second case, reported on Monday, a 26-year-old woman was allegedly refused admission by the District Hospital in Noida, Sector 30, after which she delivered a stillborn baby on the pavement.  ‘Matter of concern’ “The Commission has observed that contents of the news reports, if true, raise serious issues of violation of human rights as the State authorities have failed to ensure right to life and medical care to its citizens. It is understood that amid spread of COVID-19, the hospitals are receiving a very large number of patients and there is shortage of infrastructure but denial to attend to the patients is a matter of concern,” it said. The NHRC also sent the Secretary of the Union Health and Family Welfare Ministry clippings of the news reports “to look into the matter and issue specific instructions to all the States and the UTs”.
09 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Rajnath, Rahul in social media spat||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and Congress leader Rahul Gandhi were on Monday engaged in a social media battle after the latter took a dig at Home Minister Amit Shah for his comment that India is strong in protecting its borders. “Everyone knows the reality of the ‘borders,’ but the thought is good to keep one’s heart happy,” Mr. Gandhi tweeted, tweaking a famous Urdu couplet of Mirza Ghalib as well as the Home Minister’s surname. On Sunday, Mr. Shah had said India’s defence policy had gained global acceptance and the world agreed that “after the US and Israel, if there is any other country that is able to protect its borders, it is India.” Though the Congress leader did not mention any specific border issue, the tweet was clearly about the stand off between India and China on the Ladakh border. Replying to Mr. Gandhi, the Defence Minister tweeted another couplet from Mirza Ghalib. “If there is pain in your hands, apply medicine. But when hands itself become the source of pain, then what do you do?” Congress chief spokesperson Randeep Surjewala then joined the fight. “Dear Rajnath  ji  , when we pose a question, then questions are asked... Use the force in your hands as We are India. We demand answers against those who show us red eyes.”
09 June 2020||New Delhi,||L-G overrules Delhi govt. order to restrict treatment||Delhi Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal, on the eve of a crucial meeting to reassess the capital’s strategy to tackle COVID-19 with representatives from the Delhi government, on Monday overturned two significant orders issued by it in the face of surging coronavirus cases in the city. The meeting of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) headed by the L-G scheduled for Tuesday was to have Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal in attendance; however Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia will be filling in for the Chief Minister who will undergo a COVID test. Mr. Baijal, in his capacity as the Chairperson of the DDMA, overruled the Delhi government’s decision to restrict treatment at both private and State-run city hospitals to citizens bearing documented proof of residence in Delhi. The L-G also directed that ICMR guidelines regarding the testing of contacts of COVID-19 patients be followed “without any deviation”, overruling the recently revised guidelines by the Delhi government. Mr. Kejriwal, in a tweet, said the L-G’s order had created “a challenge for the people of Delhi.”
09 June 2020||GUWAHATI,||‘Gas leak not cause of 4 deaths’||A preliminary probe has found no link between the reported deaths of four persons and a blowout at a natural gas-producing well of the Oil India Ltd. (OIL) in Tinsukia district of Assam. The affected well is at Baghjan near the Dibru-Saikhowa National Park. Three disaster control experts on Monday arrived by a chartered flight from Singapore. They began preparatory work for capping the well that has been spewing gas since May 27. “A probe was carried out following reports that four-five residents of villages in the Baghjan area died due to gas emission. It was found that two of the people who died, including a woman, had not been to their village in recent times,” the district information office said. While a man from the Baghjan area suffering from tuberculosis died on June 4 at a hospital in Dibrugarh, a woman from Natun Rangagarh village died at her in-laws’ place, also in Dibrugarh district. Another person died of a liver ailment while a fourth person, with a history of epilepsy, “reportedly expired on June 3 due to drowning.” Tinsukia’s Deputy Commissioner Bhaskar Pegu, however, said a magisterial inquiry had been ordered to ascertain the exact cause of the death of these people.
09 June 2020||HYDERABAD,||No Secondary School Certificate exams in Telangana this year||The Telangana government has decided to promote Class X students to the next higher class without Board exams in view of the spread of coronavirus. It was also decided that students will be promoted to the next higher class based on the grades they got in internal assessment conducted by schools. This was the outcome of an official meeting convened by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao on Monday. A release said Mr. Rao decided to dispense with the rescheduled Secondary School Certificate (SSC) exams after students took three papers and the remaining exams were postponed due to lockdown. The exams were supposed to resume on Monday, but the High Court stopped them in GHMC limits of Hyderabad, Secunderabad and Rangareddy while allowing them in rest of the State. However, the State government took the stand that the exams could not be conducted in different phases as it would lead to needless confusion. In these circumstances, Mr. Rao convened a meeting with Education Minister P. Sabita Indra Reddy, Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar, Special Chief Secretary (Education) Chitra Ramachandran where it was decided to do away with the exams altogether. While promoting students to the next class, the 20% weightage of marks given for internal assessment by schools will be considered for grading them, sources said. The release added that there were 5.35 lakh Class X students in the State who were supposed to write exam for 11 papers in six subjects from March 19 to April 6. But, only three papers of two subjects were completed when the High Court directed the State government to postpone the exams in view of COVID spread. The government filed a vacate stay petition on exams in the High Court in the second week of May and sought permission to resume them. While permitting exams after June first week, the court directed the government to review the COVID situation on June 3 to see if exams could be held from June 8. The court also directed the government to keep the exams on hold if the situation deteriorated. The exams were rescheduled from June 8 to July 5 with at least two days gap between each paper and a commitment by government that advanced supplementary exams will be conducted for those students who could not appear. The supplementary exams will be treated on a par with regular exams. In this background, Mr. Rao held the meeting on Monday to review the nationwide developments on Class X exams and the strategy to be adopted by the State government. It was decided after prolonged discussions to promote the students and take further view on degree, post-graduate and other higher exams based on emerging COVID situation.
09 June 2020||Mumbai,||Saving a heart in the midst of the lockdown||Rohit Chavan is celebrating one month of a medical miracle. At this time a month ago, doctors from two districts in Maharashtra — Sangli and Mumbai — and the State-run 108 ambulance service were working overtime to ensure that this baby born with a rare heart condition got emergency surgery. On May 7, the baby was raced from Sangli to SRCC Children’s Hospital in Mumbai in six ambulances across 380 km in 10 hours. The next morning, the infant underwent an eight-hour-long procedure to repair the complex heart defect. Today, he is recuperating well at home. The tiny patient was first diagnosed with transposition of great arteries — where the two main arteries come out from a different heart chamber or are reversed and the body doesn’t get oxygenated blood. But there was a further shock: a scan revealed another severe heart condition — infracardiac total anomalous pulmonary venous connection (TAPVC). Here, the vessels carrying purified blood from the lungs drain through the liver. “There is only one reported case in South America with a combination of these two conditions who survived post-surgery,” said cardiac surgeon Dr. Pradeep Kaushik, who operated on the baby. Born on March 16, Mr. Chavan’s child seemed healthy at first. A few weeks later, he began turning blue. The parents rushed him to Sangli civil hospital where the first defect was diagnosed. Due to lack of facilities there, sending the baby to an advanced centre was the only option. Dr. Laxmikant Magdum, a medical officer in Sangli said, “Sending them to Mumbai was a challenge due to the lockdown.” The 108 ambulance stepped in. After negative COVID-19 tests, the parents and infant left for Mumbai. At SRCC Hospital the baby’s oxygen level was just 40%. Such cases must be operated in two weeks but this baby was near two months. “Doctors said it was nothing but a miracle,” said Mr. Chavan (31), a farmer in Sangli’s Karoli village.
09 June 2020||Mumbai,||‘Priyanka helped 1,600 labourers reach U.P.’||Weeks after the Uttar Pradesh government stopped the entry of buses requisitioned by the Congress on instructions from Priyanka Gandhi to transport migrant workers, a special train arranged on her instruction carried over 1,600 workers from Mumbai to Lucknow on May 31. Ms. Gandhi was engaged in stand-off with U.P. Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath over the arrangement of buses to transport migrant workers. With the State government denying them entry, the plan could not proceed. “Priyanka ji ’s office is in constant touch with us throughout the period of lockdown, especially informing us about the stranded workers from Uttar Pradesh and catering to their needs, be it of ration or of travel,” said Suraj Singh Thakur, State vice-president of the Indian Youth Congress (IYC). Around 1,600 migrant workers from Uttar Pradesh were in contact with Ms. Gandhi’s office and had expressed their wish to return to their hometowns. “She may have faced some problems in arranging buses, but she ensured that the workers reached U.P,” Mr. Thakur said.
09 June 2020||June 09 2020 00:00 IST,||MSME revival package yet to take off||“This is a much needed great move as firms that are revivable but currently NPA were hoping that the measure will be speedily implemented which would have increased the chance of revival drastically,” said the promoter of a mid-sized enterprise. “As an additional measure, as not all banks may have appetite for this scheme, portability of such accounts to banks that have the appetite would ensure greater impact and help off-court resolutions,” he said.
09 June 2020||HYDERABAD,||Follow orders or face contempt, HC tells govt.||Telangana High Court on Monday said it would be compelled to initiate contempt proceedings against the officials of State government if its directions in COVID-19-related pleas are not complied with. Observing that its directions like conducting autopsy on persons who died in hospitals while undergoing treatment for different ailments were not being followed, the HC said it would hold Principal Secretary of Medical and Health and Director of Medical and Health responsible. They would have to face contempt of court proceedings, a bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy said. Advocate General B.S. Prasad told the court that the government had challenged the HC order on autopsies in Supreme Court. Earlier, the High Court had instructed the government to collect samples of every person who died in hospitals for different ailments and conduct tests to ascertain if they had contracted COVID-19. Responding to the AG’s contention, the bench made it clear that the apex court was yet to hear the matter. Until it was heard and any order passed, the State government was bound to follow the HC order on the matter, the bench said. Safety gear The bench also took serious note of its order to conduct random public testing for coronavirus not being executed. Pointing out that 37 doctors working in government hospitals had already contracted COVID-19, the bench reminded the government that it had earlier instructed that protective gear like PPE kits, goggles, N95 masks and gloves be provided to all doctors and para-medic staff. The fact that so many doctors became vulnerable to the virus suggested that the required protective gear was not arranged for them, the bench said. The bench observed that medical bulletins on COVID-19 issued by the government did not possess all facts and figures related to the spread of the virus. ‘Raise better awareness’ The government should ensure that all facts and figures relating to the virus reached all sections of people through regional language newspapers to create better awareness about the virus and its spread. The matter was posted to June 17 for next hearing.
09 June 2020||Bengaluru,||Deve Gowda to file nomination papers today||Former Prime Minister H.D. Deve Gowda will be filing his nomination papers on Tuesday to contest the Rajya Sabha elections scheduled for June 19. Clearing the air on the suspense over Mr. Gowda contesting the election, which prevailed for nearly a fortnight, former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy on Monday took to Twitter to announce Mr. Gowda’s candidature. Mr. Kumaraswamy said that the party supremo would be filing his nomination papers on Tuesday. He also thanked Mr. Gowda for having agreed to become the consensus candidate after coming under pressure from party legislators and Congress interim president Sonia Gandhi. Till Saturday, Mr. Kumaraswamy had maintained that his party had not finalised any candidate, and that Mr .Gowda had not shown interest to contest. Though Janata Dal (Secular) with 34 members in the Legislative Assembly does not have the required number of 45 votes to get its candidate elected, the Congress will transfer its additional votes. The Congress with 68 members has enough numbers to get its candidate, former party leader in the Lok Sabha M. Mallikarjun Kharge, elected. Four candidates retiring on June 25 include JD(S) member Kupendra Reddy. This will be the second entry to Rajya Sabha for the octogenarian leader, who was earlier elected to the Upper House when he became the Prime Minister in 1996. Kharge files nomination Meanwhile, veteran leader and former Leader of the Congress in the Lok Sabha M. Mallikarjun Kharge on Monday filed his nomination papers for election to Rajya Sabha. He was accompanied by Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah, KPCC president-designate D.K. Shivakumar, and senior leaders R.V. Deshpande and Shamanur Shivashankarappa, when he filed his nomination in Vidhan Soudha. Tuesday is the last date for filing nominations to elections scheduled for June 19. Four seats from Karnataka are falling vacant on June 25. Earlier, after the Congress Legislature Party meeting at KPCC office on Monday morning, Mr. Kharge thanked Congress interim president Sonia Gandhi and former president Rahul Gandhi for providing an opportunity to contest the Rajya Sabha polls. Mr. Shivakumar issued the B form to Mr. Kharge at the KPCC office. Once elected, the nine-time legislator will make his debut in the Upper House of the parliament. Speaking to reporters, Mr. Shivakumar said that Mr. Kharge had the characteristics of a national leader, and that there is no parallel to his experience. “There was pressure to nominate him from across the country. Leaders from other parties also exerted pressure on our leaders. We are confident that he will fight for people’s cause,” he said.
09 June 2020||June 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Malls, cafes reopen to a new normal||The remaining parts of the State have been divided into six zones for bus operations. While industries have reopened, production suffered for want of workers as much of the workforce had returned home. On its part, Kerala permitted the opening up of places of worship and government offices in a restricted manner. The grim shadow cast by the outbreak prompted social organisations cutting across the religious spectrum to declare almost unanimously that a majority of the temples, mosques and churches would remain shuttered. However, there were some exceptions. The government said temples owned by the Travancore, Kochi and Malabar Devaswom Boards would admit devotees in a limited manner. Sabarimala would open for pilgrimage on June 14. The Guruvayoor temple would allow devotees from Tuesday. Attendance in Kerala government offices showed an upswing. Most hotels in the State announced that they would not allow dine-in facilities. In Kolkata, shopping malls and restaurants opened with strict health protocols. Masks were a must, so was thermal screening and use of sanitisers. Surprisingly, many people turned up during lunch hour. “We did not expect so many of our regular customers on day one,” said Tanmoy Manna, a south Kolkata café manager. Well known Park Street restaurant Peter Cat had many waiting outside during lunch hour as seating capacity had been halved. Government offices opened too and people were out in large numbers. But getting public transport was a challenge. In AP., the hill temple of Lord Venkateswara at Tirumala was opened for darshan  but was restricted to temple employees and their family members for the first two days.
09 June 2020||June 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Military-level talks positive, says Rajnath||“Congress leaders are raising questions on the India-China border situation. I want to assure the people of the country that I will respond in detail in Parliament,” he said. The meeting with the CDS comes two days after the talks between senior military commanders to defuse the month-long stand-off. The government has so far not said anything on the ground situation in the month-long stand-offs at various points along the Line of Actual Control in eastern Ladakh. Mr. Singh had been holding regular consultations with CDS Gen Bipin Rawat and Army Chief Gen Manoj Naravane on the border situation and this was part of the routine review. While there was still no clarity on the next round of senior level talks, the sources said the dialogue between local commanders on the ground would continue. At Saturday’s talks, which was the highest military dialogue so far to address the issue, India firmly conveyed to the other side that it wanted restoration of status quo ante of April before the stand-off began and that China must pull back troops close to the LAC. More meetings were scheduled to be held both, military and diplomatic, to end the impasse. In Beijing, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs said the situation along the border was “stable and controllable” and the two sides were ready to engage in consultations to “properly solve the relevant issues.” Responding to questions on the military level talks, MFA spokesperson Hua Chunying maintained a similar line as that of the Ministry of External Affairs. He stated that recently diplomatic and military channels of the two sides had maintained close communications on the border situation. “One concurrence is that the two sides need to implement the two leaders’ consensus and make sure that differences do not escalate into disputes.” The two sides would work to maintain peace and tranquillity along the border and create a good atmosphere, he noted. Chinese state media, the Global Times, in a commentary on Monday quoting experts, said the current stand-off would not become another Doklam crisis, as both sides had gained a great deal of experience from the 2017 stand-off and since then “all kinds of bilateral mechanisms, including on military, diplomatic and local issues, have been established, which has eliminated the possibility of an incident escalating into a crisis.” However, it said the ongoing stand-off was not likely to end immediately, as concrete issues must still be resolved.
09 June 2020||Mumbai,||MSME revival package yet to take off||Almost one month after Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced a revival package for stressed micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs), the scheme is yet to see the light of the day. The scheme, which was to provide Rs. 20,000-crore equity support to stressed MSMEs and those categorised as non-performing assets, was approved by the Union Cabinet on June 1. Aimed at 2 lakh units Under the scheme, banks were expected to provide subordinate debt to promoters of stressed MSMEs, up to 15% of their existing stake in the unit subject to a maximum of Rs. 75 lakh. This would have helped two lakh stressed enterprises. However, the scheme has not taken off as the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) is yet to issue the guidelines for it. “This is also a kind of debt restructuring scheme which would mean making higher provision. So, the RBI’s approval is required for relaxing the higher provision requirement,” a banker said. On January 1, the RBI allowed banks to recast debt of MSMEs which are still standard accounts on the books of the bank. Initially, the scheme was allowed till March 31 but later extended till December 31. “I think the RBI will get involved in issuance of the guidelines. Because, ultimately you are talking about restructuring. RBI will have to come out with a detailed set of guidelines to the banks on how it could be implemented on ground,” said Anil Bhardwaj, secretary-general, Federation of Indian MSMEs (FISME). MSME players said the move to revive the units through the subordinate debt scheme was an unique one and was a much-needed measure. “This is a much needed great move as firms that are revivable but currently NPA were hoping that the measure will be speedily implemented which would have increased the chance of revival drastically,” said the promoter of a mid-sized enterprise. “As an additional measure, as not all banks may have appetite for this scheme, portability of such accounts to banks that have the appetite would ensure greater impact and help off-court resolutions,” the promoter said.
09 June 2020||New Delhi,||Editors Guild slams police for FIR against journalist||The Editors Guild of India has expressed concern over “growing tendency” among the police to take cognisance of frivolous charges against journalists and slammed the Delhi police for filing an FIR against senior journalist Vinod Dua. The FIR was filed under IPC Sections 290 (public nuisance), 505 (statements conducing to public mischief), and 505 (2) (sale of printed or engraved substance containing defamatory matter) based on a complaint from BJP spokesperson Naveen Kumar. He accused Mr. Dua of allegedly “misreporting the Delhi riots”. In a statement, the Guild said, “The accusations are a brazen attack on his right to free speech and fair comment. An FIR based on this is an instrument of harassment setting off a process that is itself a punishment”. It urged the police to respect constitutionally guaranteed freedoms rather than behave in a manner that raises questions on its independence.
09 June 2020||June 09 2020 00:00 IST,||HC asks Manipur Speaker to keep 7 Cong. MLAs out||After hearing disqualification petitions against them, the court also directed the Speaker to ensure compliance of the order by all concerned. The seven MLAs are Sanasam Bira Singh, Ginsuanhau, Oinam Lukhoi Singh, Ngamthang Haokip, Yengkhom Surchandra Singh, Kshetrimayum Bira Singh and Paonam Brojen Singh. Petitions pending The court said the Speaker had failed to decide the petitions filed by the petitioners from the Congress party within a reasonable time. It said the Speaker had not disposed of the petitions despite the petitions having been filed on November 8, 2018. After hearing a similar disqualification petition filed in March by Manipur Congress MLA Keisham Meghachandra, the Supreme Court stripped Minister Thounaojam Shyamkumar of his office and banned his entry into the Assembly. The Speaker had later disqualified him as a member of the Assembly. Mr. Shyamkumar was elected in the 2017 elections on a Congress ticket but switched to the BJP even before being sworn in as an MLA. Post-disqualification, he was made an advisor to Chief Minister Nongthombam Biren Singh. Congress leader Kapil Sibal and other senior advocates represented the petitioners from the Congress. RS impact “The High Court of Manipur ensured justice. I am sure the Congress will win the Rajya Sabha election from Manipur on June 19. Day by day, the ruling coalition is being weakened numerically and politically in Manipur,” Congress spokesperson Ningombam Bupenda Meitei said. The seven MLAs, as well as Mr. Shyamkumar, will not be able to take part in the voting for the State’s lone Rajya Sabha seat because of the court orders. The BJP is fielding the titular king Leishemba Sanajaoba while former MLA T. Mangibabu is the Congress candidate for the seat.  (With inputs from Iboyaima Laithangbam)
09 June 2020||June 09 2020 00:00 IST,||The ideal guru||The Mundaka Upanishad describes the ideal guru as one who is a Brahma Jnani who is also well-versed in the scriptures and is by nature tranquil and self-controlled. Such a guru is aware of the needs of students with differing tastes and capabilities and orients his teaching to equip each one of them to overcome the likely hurdles that may arise in the learning process, pointed out Sri R. Rajagopala Sarma in a discourse. The guru impresses on the student the value of the learning practices, sravana, listening, manana, recalling the teaching, and nidhidyasa, continuous introspection of what is taught. He draws from scriptures that anticipate the doubts that can be raised when learning esoteric truths and explain with apt examples to allay the misunderstanding. For instance, suppose one is trying hard to imbibe the Advaita bhavana. How can one forget the body or not respond to hunger and thirst, one may ask. Is it not clear that the three entities, Brahman, the atma and the jagat are distinct? How can anyone accept the jiva and Brahman as one? It is shown that when a jiva can conjure impossible objects and possibilities in dream state, what is not possible for the omnipotent, omnipresent and omniscient Brahman? One has to accept that in each state of waking, dream, etc, there are different levels of truth pertaining to that state. Examples such as those of the rope and serpent can clear the doubts. Still another hurdle remains in the form of inherent avidya vasana that keeps one chained to wrong notions. This can also be dispelled by nidhidyasa, when one engages in deep reflection and meditation on the idea of “Aham Brahmasmi.” Just as cycle balance is gained by sheer practice, this conviction will also get assimilated by constant exposure to Vedanta.
09 June 2020||New Delhi,||HC notice to Delhi police on Tharoor’s plea||The Delhi High Court on Monday issued a notice to the Delhi police on Congress MP Shashi Tharoor’s plea seeking a direction to Twitter India to preserve the account and tweets made by his deceased wife Sunanda Pushkar. The Thiruvananthapuram MP, against whom the police have filed a chargesheet in a local court here for abetment to suicide and cruelty, said in his petition that the Twitter timeline and tweets of Pushkar were of utmost importance in the case. Senior advocate Vikas Pahwa and advocate Gaurav Gupta, appearing for Mr. Tharoor, argued that the perusal of the tweets of Pushkar would reflect her actual frame of mind which is contrary to the prosecution case.
09 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Plea in SC against Hindi use in courts||The Supreme Court asked a group of lawyers to approach the Punjab and Haryana High Court with their grievance against a Haryana law, which makes Hindi the official language in subordinate courts. Chief Justice Sharad A. Bobde, leading a three-judge Bench, however remarked orally that there was nothing wrong in using Hindi as the official language in courts in certain States, considering that a majority of lawyers were well-versed in the language there and found English a challenge. The apex court finally asked the lawyers to approach the High Court. The petition contended that the Haryana Official Language (Amendment) Act of 2020 had unconstitutionally and arbitrarily imposed Hindi as the sole official language to be used in lower courts across the State. Advocates Sameer Jain, Sandeep Bajaj, Angad Sandhu, Suvigya Awasthi and Anant Gupta jointly challenged the new Section 3A incorporated into the Act. The lawyers argued that English was widely used by advocates and the subordinate judiciary in lower courts in justice administration work. The imposition of Hindi as the sole language would result in an unreasonable classification between lawyers who were fluent in Hindi and those who are not.
09 June 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||India better placed in virus fight, says Shah||Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Monday took a pot shot at the Congress, saying it had done nothing to fight the COVID-19 pandemic apart from conducting interviews. While addressing a Jansamvad “virtual rally” for Odisha, Mr. Shah said, “I am here to tell you what the Narendra Modi government has done. When the crisis of coronavirus surfaced, the government announced a Rs. 1.7 lakh crore-package for 60 crore people.” “Some Opposition leaders are questioning us on how we handled the pandemic. We may have faulted somewhere and may be short of expectations but we never lacked sincerity. People are discussing about India’s fight against coronavirus in Sweden and America,” he said. “India is comparatively at a better position for the steps taken by it,” he said.
09 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||11 Labour officials test positive||Eleven officials, including a joint secretary, of the Union Labour and Employment Ministry have tested positive for COVID-19, Ministry sources said on Monday. The officials work in the offices at Shram Shakti Bhavan here and they were closed for sanitising on June 4 and 5, a source said. Another source stated that the floor of Shram Shakti Bhavan that has the offices was closed on June 4 and June 5, and the whole area had been “deeply sanitised” by the staff of the Employees’ State Insurance Corporation, which comes under the Labour Ministry. Since some of the officials who tested positive were working in Labour and Employment Secretary Heeralal Samariya’s office, he was also tested and was found negative, the source said.
09 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||INS Shardul evacuates 233 from Iran||The Navy’s INS Shardul departed from the port of Bandar Abbas in Iran on Monday evening with 233 Indian nationals who are being evacuated under Operation Samudra Setu. The ship is expected to reach Porbandar in Gujarat on June 11, the Navy said. The Indian Mission in Iran had prepared the list of Indian citizens to be evacuated and also facilitated their embarkation after requisite medical screening. The Indian Navy had launched Operation Samudra Setu commencing on May 8 to repatriate Indian citizens stuck abroad due to the COVID-19 pandemic and since then INS Jalashwa and INS Magar have evacuated 2,874 individuals from the Maldives and Sri Lanka to the ports of Kochi and Thoothukudi. The Navy said in a statement that social distancing norms have been ensured onboard INS Shardul and it has been specially provisioned for evacuation, including embarkation of additional medical staff, doctors, hygienists, nutritionists, medical stores, rations, personal protective equipment, face-masks and lifesaving gear.
09 June 2020||Mumbai,||Home loans get cheaper as SBI cuts rates||The country’s largest lender, State Bank of India (SBI), has reduced the marginal cost of fund-based lending rate (MCLR) by 25 bps across all tenors. The one-year MCLR will fall to 7% from 7.25% with effect from June 10. “This is the 13th consecutive reduction in bank’s MCLR,” the SBI said. The external benchmark-linked (EBR) lending rate will now be 6.65% from July 1, as compared to 7.05% now. The Repo-linked lending rate (RLLR) was reduced to 6.25% from 6.65% from June 1. “Consequently, EMIs on eligible home loan accounts linked to MCLR will get cheaper by approximately Rs. 421 and those linked to EBR/RLLR will get cheaper by around Rs. 660, for a 30-year loan of Rs. 25 lakh,” the SBI said.
09 June 2020||New Delhi,||NGO moves SC on protection of children||The Supreme Court on Monday took serious note of a petition filed by Bachpan Bachao Andolan, an NGO headed by Nobel Prize laureate Kailash Satyarthi, alerting that the period of opening up after the national lockdown will see a considerable spike in child trafficking for labour and prostitution. A Bench led by Chief Justice of India (CJI) Sharad A. Bobde asked Solicitor General Tushar Mehta to enquire into the issue and report back to the court in two weeks. “The opening of the lockdown would see a massive spurt in the cases of child trafficking... The pandemic, the lockdown and its aftermath would have a dauntingly adverse impact on children,” the NGO said. Formation of panel The lockdown spelt catastrophe for the poor. The economic crisis, increased insecurity, poverty and marginalisation would see the poorest try to clutch on to the last straws for their survival. They may be forced to push their children into the hands of traffickers. The most affected would be agricultural families considering the crisis seen in the sector, it stated. The court suggested forming an expert committee to frame a policy to prevent and protect children from private contractors who are part of the mafia. It urged the NGO with its wide experience of with child issues, to also suggest a protective mechanism to the court.
09 June 2020||June 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Maximum traffic||
09 June 2020||ARIYALUR,TAMIL NADU||Chief Minister inaugurates ROB in Ariyalur||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Tuesday declared open through video conference from Chennai a road overbridge (ROB) constructed in Ariyalur. The ROB has been constructed on Perambalur-Manamadurai road at an estimate of Rs. 45 crore by the Highways Department. The ROB runs 1080 meters in length and 12 metres in width. It is expected to reduce traffic congestions in the Ariyalur town to a great extent, especially near the bus stand. After the inauguration, Government Chief Whip Thamarai S. Rajendran, along with Collector D. Rathna, visited the bridge. Mr.Rajendran said that it was a long-pending demand of the people of Ariyalur. It would enable free flow of buses to various villages around Ariyalur from the bus stand. Similarly, Mr. Palaniswami also inaugurated a road overbridge constructed at an estimate of Rs. 1.23 crore at Suthamalli.
09 June 2020||Aruppukottai,TAMIL NADU||Powerloom workers stage black flag protest||A black flag protest was held in Aruppukottai town on Monday opposing wage cut and lack of regular jobs for powerloom workers. Black flags were raised in hundreds of locations acorss the town, said Communist Party of India (Marxist) Aruppukottai Town secretary S. Kathamuthu. Ever since lockdown restrictions were imposed on powerlooms, the owners brought in wage cut for workers up to Rs. 20 per sari. “The powerloom owners reasoned that since the finished goods could not find market and were piling up, they could not pay the workers and, hence, imposed the wage cut as a temporary measure,” Mr. Kathamuthu said. However, even after two months, there was no sign of restoring the old wages, he added. “The wage cut, along with lack of work for several days, has put the workers in a tight spot. Even the wages were not properly paid as the powerloom owners were deducting them from the advance money given to the employees” the CPI(M) functionary said. The Centre of Indian Trade Unions wanted the State government to help find market for the finished goods. Besides, the workers should be given a relief of Rs. 10,000, it said.
09 June 2020||B. Tilak ChandarMADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Marriage hall fire: HC upholds conviction of three persons||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Monday upheld the conviction of the owner and the manager of Sri Padmapriya Kalyana Mahal in Srirangam, where a fire left 64 persons, including the bridegroom, dead and 33 others injured, in 2004. The court confirmed the conviction of the owner, Ramasamy, and the manager, Sadagopan. However, their sentences were modified to three months’ and six months’ simple imprisonment respectively, taking into account their age. Ramasamy also undertook to pay a compensation of Rs. 40 lakh to the families of the victims. Referring to the Supreme Court’s judgement in Delhi Uphaar Cinema fire tragedy, Justice G.R. Swaminathan observed that the occupier had a duty to ensure safety of visitors against all foreseeable dangers. It was a continuing obligation that an occupier owed towards every invitee, he said. The court was hearing the criminal appeal preferred by the accused challenging Tiruchi Sessions Court order convicting them. The trial court had found them guilty of causing death by negligence, causing grievous hurt by an act endangering life or personal safety of others under the Indian Penal Code. The main accused in the case were the videographer, assistant of the videographer, the owner of the marriage hall, the manager of the marriage hall and the electrician. It was said that the fire had occurred at the marriage hall due to short-circuit and excessive heat generated by the videographer’s equipment. A thatched roof put up at the marriage hall was engulfed by the fire and fell on the guests. The narrow staircase resulted in stampede and added to the tragedy. There were no fire extinguishers in the marriage hall, originally a residential building that was illegally converted into a hall. The court acquitted videographer Dharmaraj of all charges and said he was only focusing on capturing the images at the wedding and his assistant Balaji, who handled the equipment, should have been careful. The court upheld the conviction of electrician Murugesan. The court said Ramasamy should deposit Rs. 40 lakh and the amount should be disbursed by the Principal District Judge, Tiruchi, by applying appropriate yardstick. It should not be a mechanical distribution and the governing standard must be the dependency and the need factor.
09 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. records 1,562 new COVID-19 cases||The surge in COVID-19 cases continued in Tamil Nadu on Monday, with over 1,500 cases being reported for the second consecutive day. The 1,562 fresh cases took the State’s tally to 33,229*. While 528 persons were discharged, the State’s toll increased to 286, with 17 more fatalities (15 in government hospitals and two in private hospitals), including a 22-year-old man and a nonagenarian. Chennai yet again registered a four-figure rise with 1,149 new patients, taking its tally to 23,298. The city has accounted for 224 deaths till now. Chengalpattu reported 134 new cases, taking its COVID-19 count closer to the 2,000-mark. According to the medical bulletin, the 22-year-old man from Tiruvallur was admitted to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH) with frontal subdural haemorrhage on May 31. His sample returned positive for COVID-19 on June 1. He died on Sunday due to cardiopulmonary arrest, COVID-19 pneumonia and frontal subdural haemorrhage. A 92-year-old man from Chennai, who was admitted to RGGGH on June 6 with systemic hypertension and chronic kidney disease stage V, tested positive. On Sunday, he died of conditions including cardiopulmonary arrest, COVID-19 pneumonia and respiratory failure. A 55-year-old woman with diabetes and systemic hypertension, who was admitted to the Government Villupuram Medical College Hospital on Sunday, died due to COVID-19 pneumonia, Acute Respiratory Disease Syndrome, respiratory failure and metabolic encephalopathy. A 62-year-old man from Ranipet died at the Government Vellore Medical College Hospital within five hours of admission on Sunday due to severe acute respiratory illness, respiratory failure and newly diagnosed diabetes. Three of the 17 persons who died in the State did not have co-morbidities. Apart from Chennai and Chengalpattu, new cases were reported in Tiruvallur (57), Vellore (32), Thoothukudi (26), Kancheepuram (18) and Tiruvannamalai (11). Among the 1,562 new patients, 42 were returnees from other States or abroad. This included 22 persons from Maharashtra and six from Delhi. Nine persons who returned from Qatar and three from Kuwait also tested positive. Recovery in State Till date, a total of 17,527 persons have been discharged from hospitals in Tamil Nadu, while there are 15,413 active cases. A total of 14,982 samples were tested on Monday, taking the total number of samples tested to 6,07,952. A total of 5,80,768 individuals have been tested till date, including the day’s count of 14,454. One more private laboratory — Balaji Medical Centre, Chennai — has been approved for COVID-19 testing. With this, there are a total of 77 testing facilities — 44 in the government and 33 in the private sector — in the State.  (*This is inclusive of two deaths cross-notified to other States and one patient who died after testing negative for the infection)   Among the 1,562 new patients, 42 were returnees from other States or abroad. This included 22 persons from Maharashtra and six from Delhi
09 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Are govt. hospitals in the city running out of beds?||Do government hospitals in Chennai have enough beds for COVID-19 patients? While the State government is maintaining that there are adequate beds in the city, many of their own doctors beg to differ. Chennai has been reporting 1,000-plus cases every day for six consecutive days. As per the Health Department’s bulletin, there are 11,817 active cases — persons under treatment — in the city. Many doctors in the four government hospitals pointed out that the institutions are running at almost capacity. At least three of these hospitals have over 400 patients each. “The problem is the surge in cases. The hospital’s bed capacity is almost full. We are admitting on a need basis. Once patients are stable, we move them to step-down wards to make way to admit critical patients. However, we can manage this way for a week as critically-ill patients will become stagnant in the hospital,” a senior doctor in one of the government hospitals said. “We have many more patients than the actual treating capacity. We cannot take even one more patient,” another government doctor said. He added that patients aged above 55 years and those with co-morbidities cannot be sent to COVID-19 Care Centres (CCC). “At a given time, we will have around 300 patients who cannot be shifted. We discharge patients, and admit persons who are waiting. The government is augmenting bed strength simultaneously,” he said. Lack of oxygen supply At another institution, doctors said they were running to near-full capacity. “The majority of the patients who are coming are sick. Even then, we are unable to accommodate as cases have surged exponentially,” one of them said. A few beds that were available did not have oxygen supply. A doctor on COVID-19 duty in another government hospital said the number of beds were being increased as physical space was available. “No patient is sent out for want of a bed. For those with mild symptoms, we send them to CCC after three days. However, in two or three weeks, we will reach the stage of nil available beds in all hospitals, if the number of cases continue rising at the same rate.” Private hospitals Senior government doctors said all private medical colleges in and around Chennai can be roped in instead of making arrangements in arts and engineering colleges. “These medical colleges already have medical and paramedical personnel on their payroll. Taking non-medical institutions and posting healthcare workers is an additional burden,” a senior doctor said. For the past three to four days, there were instances of ambulances carrying patients, driving from one hospital to another for want of beds, official sources said. Last week, an elderly woman with complaints of fever and breathlessness was turned away by five private hospitals in the city. Her relative said one hospital did not allow her to get down from the car for two hours and she was declared brought dead at one of the government hospitals. Of the 26 private hospitals and medical college hospitals listed on stopcorona.tn.gov.in website, six hospitals had no beds available. Phone calls went unanswered/switched off in two hospitals where beds were available, while representatives of two other hospitals stated that they would be able to give the bed availability status only depending on the discharges in the morning. Official sources said there are at least 75 to 150 vacancies at the four government medical college hospitals — Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital, Government Stanley Medical College Hospital, Government Kilpauk Medical College Hospital, Government Medical College Hospital, Omandurar Estate, and ESI Hospital, Ayanavaram. CCCs, maternity wards The government maternity hospitals have at least 100 beds allocated for pregnant women testing positive for COVID-19. Besides, there are at least 500 vacant beds in CCCs, and many beds at private medical colleges in and around Chennai. “There are vacant beds in these government hospitals. But we are reserving them for really sick and symptomatic patients. We are finding it difficult to shift patients who are relieved of symptoms from these hospitals to CCCs. Many are unwilling to move. If they are shifted, more beds will become available for sick patients,” an official said.
09 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Newscaster draws flak for flagging shortage of beds||Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar on Monday warned of action against veteran newscaster and actor S. Varadharajen under the Epidemic Diseases Act after the latter, in a video message, stressed the need for people to stay safe, citing the difficulty in finding a hospital bed for his friend, who had symptoms of COVID-19. In the video clip, an emotional Mr. Varadharajen said that one of his friends developed severe breathing problems and fever on Sunday. Every hospital that his friend’s family contacted had said that there were no beds available. Despite reaching out to senior government officials, they couldn’t get him admitted to a hospital, he alleged. Countering his claim, the Health Minister said that there were 75,000 beds across Tamil Nadu and 5,000 in Chennai alone. “We will take action against him under the Epidemic Diseases Act. He has given completely wrong information,” the Minister claimed. “This is a pandemic — a crisis situation — and people are panicking. His claim that government and private hospitals do not have enough beds is wrong,” Mr. Vijayabaskar said. Following this, the newscaster, in another message, said that he had sent the clip only to his friends, but someone had shared it with a wider audience. The government was handling the pandemic well, he added. The Minister said that all one had to do if they had symptoms of the disease was go to a hospital. “There is no need to call them. It is the doctor’s decision as to how to treat the patients after taking into account their willingness for the same. Which government officer did Mr. Varadharajen contact,” he asked. “We have sufficient facilities. Anyone can make tall claims,” he added. He reiterated that Tamil Nadu had a recovery rate of 56% for a disease which had no specific medicine or vaccine. “We have even managed to save near-death cases coming in from private hospitals. As of now, only six people are on oxygen support. We are also working with private hospitals to increase the number of beds being set aside by them to treat COVID-19 patients,” he said. There is a view among doctors that cases will go up, but the State is prepared to tackle the situation, he said. Meanwhile, the Tamil Seidhi Vaasipaarlargal Sangam said the government must give up any plans for initiating action against the newscaster, as his intention had only been to ensure that people were aware of the seriousness of the situation.
09 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Top officials at RGGGH not working as a team, says report||Top officials at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH) “were not working as a team in letter and spirit”, according to a report submitted by an inspection team to the Health Secretary.  The inspection was ordered last month, following reports of the spread of COVID-19 among doctors/paramedics in the hospital, which is at the forefront of pandemic management efforts in the State. While issues relating to shortages in PPE kits and N95 masks, food, transport and proper accommodation facilities had been sorted out, the report said that the top officials were not functioning in tandem with each other.  The post of Medical Superintendent was vacant, and the acting Medical Superintendent was already overburdened with several other responsibilities, such as those of the Head of the Hepatology Department, the Director of Liver Transplantation and the Director of Medical Gastroenterology, among others, and “hence could not devote time and attention”, the report said.  There were also discrepancies in the deployment of sanitation workers and observance of quarantine conditions in the RGGGH. Some unattended “ground-level” problems had resulted in negative projection of the institution in the media and among the public, the report added.
09 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Filming for TV serials to resume today||After months of lockdown and consequent job losses, over 1,500 members of the Film Employees’ Federation of South India (FEFSI) returned to the sets of nearly 30 television serials, as filming resumed on Monday. This came as a boon to television channels that had, of late, been forced to broadcast old serials and films as the COVID-19 pandemic had brought the daily filming of TV shows to a halt. FEFSI president R.K. Selvamani said three separate teams would visit the shooting spots to ascertain whether the TV crews were adhering to physical distancing norms, wearing masks, using sanitisers and following other guidelines laid down by the State government. “Much of the filming is going to happen in Chengalpattu, Tiruvallur and Kancheepuram districts. We have set up three teams to ensure strict adherence to the guidelines, including those barring sharing of food, those pertaining to the use of disposable water cups etc.,” he said. “While it is possible for technicians to maintain physical distance, actors will not be able to do that,” he said, adding that the television channels had offered to provide medical insurance.  Senthoora Poovey , a new mega-serial featuring actor Ranjith in a lead role, which was scheduled for an April launch on Star Vijay, will be aired from June 8. Mr. Ranjith said that the restrictions will throw up new challenges. “The television channel and FEFSI are very clear that the health of the actors and crew are important. They have given us insurance cover. There are a few challenges posed by restrictions which bar us from being too close to each other while acting in a scene and shooting outdoors. For instance, we cannot shoot a wedding scene, a funeral scene or one in a market set-up,” he said. Mr. Ranjith added that non-availability of actors due to the COVID-19 scare was also an issue. “Some actors are scared to come to the sets. This is understandable, as family, kids and life are more important than profession. But those who have agreed to come for shooting have done so to honour the commitment they have made to the crew and the channel,” he said.  The television channel and FEFSI are very clear that the health of the actors and the crew are important. They have given us insurance cover Ranjith, Actor
09 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Opposition, AIADMK ally urge govt. to cancel Class X exams||With the number of COVID-19 cases steadily rising in Chennai, DMK president M.K. Stalin on Monday demanded that the State government cancel the Class 10 public examination as it would put the lives of young students at risk. In a statement, Mr. Stalin said that Edappadi K. Palaniswami’s government had failed to take adequate precautions to control the spread of COVID-19. “By being adamant on conducting the Class 10 public examination, the State government is playing with the lives of students,” said Mr. Stalin. Mr. Stalin said that the examinations could be held after students and parents were convinced that there was no health risks and normalcy had returned in Tamil Nadu. “The State government’s daily announcements show that babies, young children and youth are also being affected by COVID-19. In this scenario, educationists and medical professionals have pointed out that conducting Class 10 examinations not just puts students at risk, but their parents, families and their siblings too at risk of contracting the disease,” said Mr. Stalin. Mr. Stalin said that the number of cases was rising despite the State government not testing enough samples every day. “The number of cases in Tamil Nadu’s capital Chennai has transformed it into a city that scares the entire State. In many cases, the ‘primary source’ of infection cannot be ascertained and medical experts have said that Chennai has entered the ‘community transmission’ phase,” he said. Meanwhile, MDMK chief Vaiko on Monday said that the Class X public examination should be cancelled amid the rising number of COVID-19 cases, and all students should be declared ‘pass’. In a statement, he said that the number of cases had increased rapidly, since April, when the public examinations were postponed due to the outbreak. “Students should not be forced to write the exams without proper revision and practice. It will affect them mentally,” Mr. Vaiko said. ‘Promote students’ PMK founder S. Ramadoss on Monday said that the Class 10 public examinations should be postponed, citing the steadily rising rate of COVID-19 cases in Chennai and a few other districts. He also urged the State government to promote all Class 10 students to Class 11. In a statement, Dr. Ramadoss said that the government’s insistence on holding public examinations when everyone was against it did not augur well for it.  “Just like the government announced that every student from Class 1 I to Class 9 had passed to the next class, this should be extended until Class 11. I hope that the School Education Minister has welfare of the students of Tamil Nadu in his heart,” said Dr. Ramadoss.
09 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Eateries see poor patronage on day one of reopening||On day one of restaurants reopening in the State, after being shut for over 10 weeks, patronage ranged from the dismal to the average. Restaurants enforced physical distancing norms by changing seating arrangements, reducing their capacity by around 50%. Items on the menu too were trimmed. Hoteliers in Madurai said that sales was poor. “Ensuring that all our employees are paid and our premises are disinfected five times a day is tough. We are fine with following rules but we barely have any customers to serve,” said K. L. Kumar, district president, Tamil Nadu Hotel Owners’ Association. Across the State, including in Tiruchi, Tirunelveli and Salem, many air-conditioned eateries and those attached with hotels decided to wait for further relaxations. Of the 602 hotels and restaurants in Tirunelveli, only 20% conducted business on Monday, with waiters serving food to customers wearing masks and gloves, said Ramkumar, president of the Tirunelveli district Hotel Owners’ Association. A few restaurants in Coimbatore urged customers to reserve tables in advance. While norms prescribed by the district administration were largely complied with, smaller eateries facing space constraints could not be stringent in enforcing physical distancing norms. In Salem, only a minimal number of restaurants opened for dine-in, and most hotels restricted themselves to takeaways. A popular vegetarian chain of restaurants served food in disposable packaging. M. Venkadasubbu, president, Tamil Nadu Hotels’ Association, said that it would help if the government extended operational timings till 10 p.m. “Dinner time in Tamil Nadu is from 7.30 p.m., and if we are to close early, our regular customers will not be able to come,” he said. Association secretary R. Srinivasan said that it would take time for the revival of the hotel industry. “Tourism and business activities are yet to pick up. Only when the COVID-19 scare is done away with and things return to normal can hoteliers heave a sigh of relief,” he said.  (With inputs from: P. Sudhakar in Tirunelveli; T. Madhavan in Vellore; Sanjana Ganesh in Madurai; M. Soundarya Preetha in Coimbatore; V. Vignesh in Salem; C. Jaishankar in Tiruchi; and Deepa H. Ramakrishnan in Chennai)
09 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||What lockdown? Residents throng beaches||It's not just markets in the city that residents are crowding at: flouting lockdown norms, many residents have resumed their workouts at beaches of the city, especially at Marina, risking the spread of COVID-19. While a few residents were seen wearing masks and following physical distancing norms, many others did not follow safety measures. Beaches in the city have always been a haven for fitness enthusiasts. People practise all forms of exercise, ranging from yoga sessions to boxing and gymnastics to walking, running and even football. However, from 3 p.m. on March 21, all beaches in the city, including Marina beach, Thiruvanmiyur, Palavakkam and Elliot’s beach, were shut by the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC). The GCC had announced that entry into the beaches would be stopped until further orders. This decision was taken keeping in mind the safety of the public, as many people used to visit beaches every day, for fitness and leisure. Though residents did not venture into the beaches for several weeks, of late many are seen exercising, practising gymnastics, yoga, boxing, walking and running on the beach sands. “They have opened offices and shops now, so they can also open the beaches in the morning for workouts,” said M. Gomathi, a resident of Triplicane, who was walking on the Marina beach. M. Paulose, from Mylapore, said that he started walking at the beach ever since he was diagnosed with diabetes. “I have been exercising on my terrace during the lockdown. But it is not giving the desired results, and so I started walking at the beach again,” he said. T. Arunachalam, secretary, East Coast Road Walkers Association, said that it was not advisable for people to walk on the beach and the association had asked its members not to go to the beach. “Those above the age of 60 should stay indoors. Many claim that Marina beach has been opened to walkers and have started walking at Thiruvanmiyur and other beaches. Policemen are issuing warnings, but many don’t listen. What is worse is that many do not wear masks properly,” he said. Meanwhile a senior police officer said that the beach was still not open to the public. “We have barricaded close to 15 entry and exit points. But people manage to sneak in. Strict action will be taken against those who are found walking at the beach,” said a police officer.
09 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Amma Canteens yet to get reimbursed for free food||The severe economic consequences of the COVID-19 pandemic has reportedly affected philanthropists who supported Amma Canteens’ offering of free food to the poor in Chennai. According to data compiled by the Greater Chennai Corporation, the proposed reimbursement of at least Rs. 1.25 crore against free supply of food for hungry residents at 407 Amma Canteens has been delayed, leading to the disruption of the free supply of food. The Corporation stopped the welfare scheme on June 1 as money spent on Amma canteens was yet to be reimbursed by philanthropists who took responsibility for the exercise. Many poor residents have stopped visiting Amma Canteens, with the eateries registering a dip in sales. According to workers at the canteens, some of them have reported a dip in footfalls and reduction in sales by around 70%. For instance, a canteen which reported a sales of around Rs. 5,000 per day when food was being supplied free of cost, registered only around Rs. 1,400 per day after June 1, following the scheme’s suspension. No suitable NGOs Amma Canteen workers said the Corporation permitted self-help groups (SHGs) to get funds from NGOs to supply free food for the poor. But SHGs at Amma Canteens have not been able to find suitable NGOs. Actors who funded the scheme during the lockdown have also stopped giving funds after its relaxation. Former Corporation Councillor S. Mangala Raj said the government should take responsibility of feeding the poor during the pandemic. “Poor people are unable to pay for subsidised food in Amma Canteens because of a dip in earnings. The government should not advise Chennai Corporation to seek help from big philanthropists. Instead, the government should explore alternatives to feed the poorest of the poor during the pandemic,” he said. Corporation officials said supply of dry rations and other welfare schemes have been implemented to help the poor. During the period of free sales, philanthropists promised around Rs. 3.9 crore for free supply of food. The total beneficiaries have been estimated at 90 lakh.
09 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Anbazhagan critical’||DMK legislator J. Anbazhagan’s health has deteriorated and his condition is critical, Rela Institute and Medical Centre said in a bulletin on Monday. Mr. Anbazhagan, 61, was admitted to the hospital's ICU on June 2 and tested positive for COVID-19 on admission. He was subsequently put on ventilator support on June 3, when his respiratory condition worsened, and was under high flow oxygen therapy. The hospital said he was initially getting 90% oxygen on the ventilator. His condition improved steadily over the next two days and he was gradually weaned off the ventilator. “However, since this evening there has been a significant deterioration of his condition. His oxygen requirement has gone up once again and his cardiac function is deteriorating, requiring medical support for blood pressure. His existing chronic kidney disease is also worsening. His condition currently is described as critical,” Dr. Ilankumaran Kaliamoorthy, CEO, Rela Institute, said in the bulletin.
09 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||PIL against online classes||A public interest litigation petition has been filed in the Madras High Court to forbear the Central and State governments from permitting private schools to conduct online classes until appropriate guidelines were framed for it under the Information Technology Act of 2000. The petitioner, a mother of two children studying in classes IX and VI in Chennai, has claimed that students were being exposed to “immoral adult websites” due to pop ups that appear during the online classes and hence there was an imminent necessity to regulate the classes. She also said that the conduct of online classes had led to several structural imbalances between the rural and urban residents, rich and poor and the men and women since there was a vast difference between them in accessing technology. “Only those who have the privilege of owning a smartphone or in some cases, more than one smartphone or computers, with a strong internet connection can access these classes,” an affidavit filed by her through advocate R. Krishnakumar read.
09 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. gets Rs. 3,193 cr. as GST compensation||Tamil Nadu has been given about Rs. 3,193 crore as Goods and Services Tax (GST) compensation due for the period December 2019 to February 2020. The amount was out of the Rs. 36,400 crore released by the Centre to States last week. In April, the State was given around Rs. 1,393 crore as GST compensation. Apart from this, the Centre gave Rs. 4,820 crore as grants-in-aid, which included local bodies’ grants of Rs. 1,898 crore and the first instalment of revenue deficit grant for Rs. 845 crore. The State had also received its share of Central taxes to the tune of Rs. 1,900 crore. In May, the Union government, apart from giving a similar amount towards the State’s share of its taxes, provided around Rs. 1,827 crore in the form of grants-in-aid. Among the components are the second instalment of revenue deficit grant for Rs. 335 crore and the Samagra Shiksha Abhiyan (SSA) funds around Rs. 356 crore. In total, in the last two-and-odd months, the Centre has granted about Rs. 15,033 crore in the form of grants-in-aid and the State’s share in Central taxes.
09 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Baby undergoes life-saving procedure at city hospital||A month-old premature baby recently underwent a surgery to correct her malformed food pipe at the Kanchi Kamakoti CHILDS Trust Hospital (KKCTH) in the city. The infant, born in Tiruchi, was diagnosed with trachaeo-esophageal fistula, where the food pipe ends abruptly and the remaining half joins the wind pipe, causing breathing difficulties. She was frothing at the mouth, as she could not swallow her saliva. As a result the child was not able to feed either. Such infants have breathing difficulties, as saliva gets into the lungs, said neonatologist N. Chandrakumar, under whose care the infant was at KKCTH. The child’s mother was undergoing treatment for infertility for nearly a decade. Adding to the complication was the fact that the baby was born premature, in the 32nd week, and weighed just 1.1 kg. The family was informed that there was nothing to be done as the baby was tiny and would not withstand surgery. A doctor who knew the family, however, referred the case to KKCTH in Chennai. The KKCTH team brought the child from Tiruchi on January 15 and stabilised her for a day in the neonatal intensive care unit before taking up surgery. “During surgery, we found that her lungs were badly damaged because of ventilation. The surgery went on for almost four-and-half hours. Post-surgery, the baby was on invasive ventilator support for almost two months,” the doctor said. The infant has now stayed in the hospital for four months. According to doctors one in 4,000 babies were born with such a condition. But the pre-term delivery process and the low birth weight of the baby made the surgery that much more difficult, Dr. Chandrakumar said. The team of surgeons led by S. Namasivayam and anaesthetist S. Ramesh, performed the corrective surgery. Doctors said the baby was not only feeding normally but had also gained weight since. She was showing normal developmental signs of a two-month-old baby.
09 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Teenager with COVID-19 goes missing from ward||A 17-year-old boy from the government boys’ home, who was admitted to the Communicable Diseases Hospital, Tondiarpet, after testing positive for COVID -19, reportedly went missing from the hospital on Monday. According to police, 35 children and five staff members in a government-run home in Royapuram tested positive as on Saturday. They were admitted to the Communicable Diseases Hospital. Among them was the boy from Jharkhand, who was rescued from the streets. “Till 3 a.m., the medical staff saw the boy. But at 6 a.m., he went to the toilet and went missing afterwards. Our staff members are searching for him everywhere. We are sure that he will return in a day,” a source from the Social Defence Department said. He added that the police have been informed about the issue. “He was rescued a few days ago and brought to the home. Our teams are also checking everywhere. We are wondering what to do to make the children feel comfortable in the hospital. Our staff cannot be with them while in the hospital,” the source said. The police have registered a case based on the complaint of Kasturi, superintendent of the home. “We are also searching for the boy,” a senior police officer said.
09 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Minister Pandiarajan to oversee Zone 4||Three days after the State nominated five ministers to oversee relief work by the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) for COVID-19 in highly affected zones, yet another minister has been added to the roster. On Monday, it made a partial modification to its order from June 5 and nominated Minister for Tamil Official Language and Tamil Culture MaFoi K. Pandiarajan to oversee Zone 4. As per the earlier order, Minister D. Jayakumar was nominated to oversee the Zone 4, along with Zones 3 and 5.
09 June 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Velumani will be in jail after 11 months: K. N. Nehru||DMK principal secretary K.N. Nehru on Monday claimed that Municipal Administration Minister S. P. Velumani has a mere 11 months in office before he would find himself in the same Central Jail in Coimbatore where “he lodged journalists and other DMK partymen”. In a statement, Mr. Nehru said that Mr. Velumani has no moral right to talk about DMK president M.K. Stalin’s relief work during COVID-19 crisis. He accused the Minister of abusing his office to favour companies owned by his brother and other relatives.
09 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chief Minister inaugurates projects||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami inaugurated a few projects and buildings of various departments via video-conferencing on Monday. He inaugurated projects of the highways and minor ports departments, built at a cost of Rs. 265.46 crore in various districts. These include a flyover in Madurai west, and projects in Namakkal, Tiruapattur, Pudukottai, Sivaganga, Ariyalur, Tiruvallur, Madurai and Chennai that have been built at a cost of Rs. 211.39 crore, a government release said. He also inaugurated projects of the Municipal Administration Department, that includes bridges and buildings in Vellore, Kancheepuram, Ariyalur, Chengalpet, and Tiruvarur, the release said.
09 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Faceless assessment||Turant Suvidha Kendra, a dedicated cell to help the trading community complete formalities, was inaugurated by Principal Chief Commissioner of Customs, Chennai Zone, Vasa Seshagiri Rao, on Monday. This is aimed at ushering in faceless assessment. It has been launched now in Chennai and Bengaluru customs zones which will be expanded to airports, ports, inland container depots by the end of the year, said a release.
09 June 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Fire in factory||A fire broke out at a paper converter factory in Sholavaram on Monday. No one was injured. Ten vehicles of the Tamil Nadu Fire and Rescue Services were used to douse the blaze. Officials suspect a shortcircuit may have triggered the fire.
09 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Fire in factory in Sholavaram||A fire broke out at a paper converter factory in Sholavaram on Monday. No one was injured. Ten vehicles of the Tamil Nadu Fire and Rescue Services were used to douse the blaze. Officials suspect a shortcircuit may have triggered the fire.
09 June 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Dine-in resumes with a host of precautionary measures||With the government relaxing the lockdown norms, restaurants, cafes, and bakeries opened their doors for guests to dine in on Monday after two-and-a-half months. While the larger restaurants and hotel chains checked the temperature of customers, noted their names and contact details, down-sized the seating capacity and insisted on the use of masks and sanitisers, social distancing norms were thrown to the wind in many of the smaller eateries. In Coimbatore, morning walkers trickled in for a cup of coffee or light tiffin at the hotels and bakeries that opened by 6 a.m. The crowd was relatively higher for lunch. On the Go, a casual dining restaurant in Coimbatore city, has a pouch of goodies with a thank you note for customers who walk in on the first two days. The menu is printed on a paper that is held together by a pair of chop sticks. Sanitised cutlery is wrapped in disposable napkins and customers can opt for use-and-throw plates and cutlery too, at an additional cost. “So much detailing and thinking has gone into reopening the restaurant,” says Ranjana Singhal, Managing Partner of On the Go. “The aim is to offer contactless service to the best extent possible,” she says. At People’s Park tables with four chairs now had only two and each table had a movable board that served as a screen. Tables and chairs were cleaned with sanitisers after each customer vacated the table. “It will take at least a week for people to feel comfortable walking into a restaurant,” says Jegan S Damodarasamy, Executive Director of Sree Annapoorna Sree Gowrishankar Hotels and Executive Committee member of the Coimbatore District Hoteliers’ Association. Rajan Jayaraman, Proprietor of Valarmathi Kongunaatu Samayal, points out to the tables that have been removed and hand wash provided for customers at the washing area. Customers are asked to maintain a queue, enter their name and contact details, get the temperature checked and then enter. “Though we encourage digital payment, customers generally prefer to pay cash. Some even go away if we do not accept cash,” he said. “Even if we remove the chairs, some customers pull out the chairs and sit in a group. Personal distancing is difficult to manage during peak hours,” says the owner of a bakery near the railway station. At the hotels and restaurants, the staff wear gloves, face shield, and mask. At the bakeries and smaller eateries, it is just the masks, mainly. Hotels that have multiple branches in the district, have decided to open only a few outlets as almost all of them faced labour shortage. “Four of my women staff are from the north eastern States. They want to return home,” says Ms. Singhal. “Staff shortage is felt across the sector in the district,” says Mr. Damodarasamy. Though it may not be viable in the long term to operate with so many restrictions, the hoteliers say they are concerned about the safety of their workers and customers and hence will do their best to abide by the norms. C.K. Subramanian, president of the Small Hotel, Mess, Bakery and All Food Items Owners Welfare Association Town Hall Kovai, says that though the Government permitted reopening of the outlets from Monday, not all did so. It will take a day or two. “We are trying to adjust to the government norms. But we need government support. There are thousands of small eateries in the district. They are severely affected by the lockdown,” he said.
09 June 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Furniture in exam halls to be disinfected twice a day||To ensure the safety of students and teachers during the Class X public examinations, all furniture including desks, tables and seats will be disinfected before and after the examinations at all the examination centres, District Collector K. Rajamani said on Monday. He issued a set of COVID-19 preventive measures undertaken for the examinations. While hall tickets were issued to Class X students, those in Class XII, who were unable to attend the examinations in March, can use their previously issued hall tickets. Bus facilities will be arranged for both teachers and students for attending the examinations and all government and private hostels will be open for Class X, XI and XII students from June 11 in the district, Mr. Rajamani said. A team of five coordinators will be available at Coimbatore Chief Educational Office to clarify the doubts of the students regarding any aspect of the examinations. The students may contact: 9894863972, 9080875781, 9486618858, 9894731320 and 8838089283.
09 June 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||TNSTC operates more buses to ensure physical distancing||The Coimbatore Division of the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) increased the number of town and mofussil buses on Monday to reduce overcrowding. While only 695 buses were operated on Saturday across Coimbatore, Tiruppur, Erode and the Nilgiris districts, 815 buses were operated on Monday. In Coimbatore district, 271 town and mofussil buses were operated, TNSTC officials said. District Collector K. Rajamani conducted a surprise check at the Gandhipuram Town Bus Terminus on Monday after complaints of crowding in a few buses surfaced. He told the drivers and conductors to allow passengers only if they wore masks and not to allow excess passengers.Instructions for passengers regarding the 60 % occupancy were announced through speakers at all the bus terminuses, according to TNSTC officials. Awareness programme The four Regional Transport Offices (RTO) in Coimbatore city will soon conduct awareness programmes for passengers regarding physical distancing and other COVID-19 prevention measures while travelling in buses, Transport Department sources said. Motor Vehicle inspectors and other officials were conducting regular checks and issuing warnings to drivers and conductors of the buses found with higher occupancy, sources added.
09 June 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Violation of COVID-19 safety norms continues despite warning||On June 6, Collector K. Rajamani issued a stern warning against those who violated the COVID-19 safety precautions. Though there was no containment zone and COVID-19 cases were under control, it was easy to spot people in public without mask, he had said and added that if local body officials found people violating the precautions, they would impose fine. His warning, however, seemed to fell on many deaf ears as on Monday it was easy to spot people without mask. Be it the jewellery showrooms on Big Bazaar Street, the wholesale and retail grocery shops on R.G. Street and its precincts, the textile shops on Uppukinar Lane or the vegetable shops in T.K. Market – all of which form a part of the city’s core business district – it was easy to see several customers, shopkeepers and their employees without mask. In a few shops, the shopkeepers and their employees had mask, but did not wear those. On Big Bazaar Street, Raja Street and other areas in the core business district, several street vendors wore mask, but not many of the buyers. On R.G. Street, most of the daily wagers, who carry goods, did not have mask. In the areas, people seemed to have given a go-by to physical distance norm. Shelters at bus stops were no different. Coimbatore Corporation Commissioner Sravan Kumar Jatavath had told The Hindu a few days ago that the civic body would deploy patrol teams to enforce the COVID-19 safety precautions and fine violators. But the civic body seemed to have failed to deploy the teams. Sources said there was no forward movement on the proposal to deploy patrol teams. The Corporation’s sanitary inspectors and zonal sanitary officers, however, continued to enforce the precautions and impose fine on violators. On Monday, the officers fined Rs. 100 each on 311 violators and thus far they had collected Rs. 4.09 lakh from 4,094 persons, the sources added. Meanwhile, to send a message across to the rank and file and to convey that the administration was serious about enforcing the safety guidelines, Mr. Rajamani conducted surprise checks at shops in and around Gandhipuram. He visited a few shops on Cross Cut Road to see if the managements used sanitisers, had switched off air-conditioner and the employees there wore mask. He then went to the Gandhipuram Town Bus Stand to see if conductors had allowed only the stipulated number of passengers, if the crew and passengers wore mask and if conductors had seated passengers with enough distance among them.
09 June 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Call for self-sufficiency through home gardens in villages||Octogenarian organic farmer S. Nanjammal and her son Bharathi Chinnasamy requested all State governments to encourage home gardening in all villages in an attempt for self-sufficiency and aid in the revival of the economy. Organic manure At a press meet here on Monday, Mr. Chinnasamy said that the State governments must provide one unit of organic manure and five types of seeds/seedlings free of cost to 50 families in all the villages. He also recommended utilisation of workers from the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme to set up the home gardens in every household. If implemented, each family could save around Rs. 6,000 per year on vegetable purchases, he claimed. “There are about 12 crore families in the rural areas of India. This will lead to saving Rs. 72,000 crores in a year,” Mr. Chinnasamy claimed. This money will increase the purchasing power of the people, thereby helping in reviving the economy that has been affected due to COVID-19 lockdown, according to him. The letter will be sent to all the Chief Ministers and the Prime Minister, he said. Ms. Nanjammal, 83, said that she was able to supply seeds and saplings to 37 families in the past two years at Thoppampatti village near Kavundampalayam, where she and Mr. Chinnasamy reside. About 17 types of vegetables are grown organically at her home garden, she said.
09 June 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Man, son arrested for assaulting policeman||The Karumathampatti police arrested a father-son duo on charges of assaulting a policeman late on Sunday. K. Sakthivel (47) of Umanath Colony near Senniandavar temple at Karumathampatti, and Praveen Kumar (24) were arrested for assaulting Paneerselvam, a constable attached to Karumathampatti police station. The police said that a property related dispute was going on between Sakthivel and his younger brother Arumugam. On Sunday, Sakthivel and Kumar went to Mr. Arumugam’s house at Elachipalayam in an inebriated state around 7 p.m. They had an argument with Mr. Arumugam and his family members and allegedly broke the glass of a window before leaving from there. Mr. Arumugam’s wife Bharathi called the police control room and informed about the incident. Following this, constables Panneerselvam, Muthu and a home guard member went to Sakthivel’s house around 8.40 p.m. The policemen asked them about the quarrel and told Sakthivel to come to the police station. He refused and the father-son duo allegedly assaulted Mr. Paneerselvam apart from threatening him. Based on a complaint by Mr. Paneerselvam, the Karumathampatti police arrested them.
09 June 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||APTEL case adjourned to next month||The Appellate Tribunal for Electricity, which is hearing an appeal by Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco) against an order by the Tamil Nadu Electricity Regulatory Commission (TNERC) on Maximum Demand (MD) charges to be paid by High Tension consumers, has posted the next hearing for July 9. Tangedco to file reply APTEL heard the case first on May 18 and the case was adjourned for June 8. It did not pass any order on Monday and Tangedco is expected to file a reply before the APTEL on July 9, according to industry sources. Already nearly 70 % of the HT consumers are said to have paid the MD charges and Tangedco has given time till the middle of this month. Meanwhile, a case filed by Tamil Nadu Electricity Consumers’ Association regarding Tangedco asking the HT consumers to pay the entire MD charges during the lockdown period is coming for hearing on Tuesday, June 9, the sources said.
09 June 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Vegetable vendors demand reopening of weekly shandies||Dozens of vegetable vendors staged a demonstration outside the Collectorate here on Monday demanding reopening of weekly shandies across the district. In their petition to District Collector K. Rajamani, the vendors said that nearly 2,000 families in the district had been affected as the shandies were not allowed for over two months due to the COVID-19 lockdown.  No action Noting that weekly shandies were being organised in the district for nearly 40 years, the vendors alleged that no action had been taken despite petitioning Mr. Rajamani on May 1. The vendors staged a spontaneous demonstration outside the Collectorate upon hearing that their representatives, who went to submit the petition, were not given permission. The police personnel deployed at the spot attempted to control the crowd and asked them to disperse. “They have allowed operation of Uzhavar Santhais, then why not us?” asked A. Kannan, a vegetable vendor at the weekly shandy in Vellalore. He warned that many families would be driven to suicide if the ban on shandies continued. No announcement had come from the district administration as of Monday evening, Mr. Kannan said.
09 June 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Two held for attempt to murder||The Rathinapuri police arrested two persons on charges of attempting to murder J. Avin (23), a resident of Teachers’ Colony near NSN Palayam, at Gandhi Nagar here on Saturday. K. Christopher (28) and his brother K. Gunasing (30) of Subbathal Layout near Rathinapuri were arrested while a third person Godson escaped, said the police. The trio, according to police, assaulted Avin with a knife due to previous enmity when he came to meet his sister at Gandhi Nagar near Sivananda Colony on Saturday. They were remanded in judicial custody.
09 June 2020||COIMBATORE/Salem/Erode,TAMIL NADU||Four more cases reported in Coimbatore||Four persons including a four-year-old boy and a nursing student of the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH) have tested positive for COVID-19. Officials with the Health Department said that a four-year-old boy and his 31-year-old mother, who came to Coimbatore on a flight from Chennai on Sunday, tested positive on Monday. They said that a 19-year-old nursing student of CMCH tested positive late on Sunday. The girl, a second year student hailing from Erode, had gone to her grandmother’s house in Tiruppur district on May 25 and returned on June 5. “The student was in quarantine as she came from Tiruppur district. The students who were in the building have been shifted to another block. The building will be fumigated for four days,” said CMCH Dean P. Kalidas. He said the student had not visited any of the wards of the hospital since she returned from Tiruppur. The fourth person was a 70-year-old man from Podanur who travelled from Delhi to Thiruvananthapuram on a train and then to Coimbatore by road. His swab sample was collected at Walayar check-post, result of which returned positive, said the Health officials. Meanwhile, an apartment on Dr. Ambedkar Road at Velandipalayam was declared as containment zone after one of its resident, a 55-year-old man who came from Chennai by road on June 1, contracted COVID-19. The man reportedly stayed two days in the apartment before testing positive. His family members tested negative. Apart from disinfecting the apartment, the Corporation deputed three persons who will be available for 24 hours for various needs of 36 persons belonging to 12 families who reside there. As of Monday, 33 persons including those from Coimbatore, other districts and other States are undergoing treatment for COVID-19 in Coimbatore district. Of these, 24 persons are in the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital while remaining nine are in private hospitals. Five new cases in Salem Meanwhile, five new positive cases were reported in Salem on Monday and the patients travelled to Salem from Maharashtra and Chennai. As many as 47 patients, who were undergoing treatment for COVID-19 at the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital, were discharged on Monday. The patients, including six children, travelled to the district from Chennai and Maharashtra. The patients were advised to be in home quarantine for 14 days. Two from Erode test positive  A man and a girl who belong to Erode district, tested positive for COVID-19 and were admitted to hospitals in Tiruppur and Chengalpattu on Monday. Health department officials said the 20-year-old girl, native of Vilakethi in Modakurichi block, visited her grandmother’s house at Dharapuram in Tiruppur district 20 days ago. Recently, she complained of fever and the swab samples lifted from her tested positive. She was admitted to the Tiruppur Government Hospital. A 40-year-old man from the Erode Corporation limits had been to Chengalpattu to visit his brother, who tested positive and was admitted to the government hospital there. The Erode man also tested positive and was admitted to the hospital at Chengalpattu. With these, the number of cases reported in the district so far is 75.
09 June 2020||Dindigul,TAMIL NADU||DEO held||Subramanian, an official in the rank of District Education Officer, Dindigul district, was arrested on Monday on the charge of receiving Rs. 5,000 as bribe. Following a complaint that the officer demanded a bribe for clearing the arrears of a teacher, the Vigilance and Anti-Corruption police registered a case and later arrested him from a valuation centre.
09 June 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Textile processing unit sealed for violations||A textile processing unit at Suriyampalayam that was found discharging effluents into the sewage channel without processing was sealed and power supply was disconnected here on Monday.  On Monday, Collector C. Kathiravan inspected the unit at Suriyampalayam and found an effluent treatment plant constructed encroaching poramboke land and discharging effluent into channels. He ordered closure of the unit. He warned industries against polluting water bodies and asked them to follow the norms laid down by the government.
09 June 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Special train leaves for Jharkhand||A special train with 1,450 migrant workers left for Jharkhand from Erode Railway Junction here on Monday. Workers were screened for fever and given food before boarding. Boarding process started after 2 p.m. and the train left the junction at 4.30 p.m.
09 June 2020||KARUR,TAMIL NADU||‘Jockey’ killed in rooster fight in Karur district||A rooster 'jockey' allegedly bled to death following an deep cut injury inflicted by a knife tied to a bird during an illegal cockfight held at Nalukalkuttai near Chinnamuthampalayam in the district on Sunday. The victim was identified as M. Murugesan (30) of Melanedungur near Pugalur in the district. The rooster duel had taken place on an open ground at Nalukalkuttai. Sharp knives were allegedly tied to the legs of roosters and the event was witnessed by a group of spectators. During the event, one of the cocks had tried to fly away from the arena, and Murugesan, the jockey (who handle the birds during the fight), had tried to take control of the bird. During the process it had inflicted a deep cut injury on his thigh, leading to profuse bleeding. Murugesan was rushed to the Government Karur Medical College Hospital. However, he had lost blood heavily on the way and doctors at the hospital declared him brought dead. On information, K. Paramathi police rushed to the spot and conducted an inquiry. A case has been registered against five persons for conducting the event without permission. In 2014, two bystanders were killed in similar fashion when a cock, tied with knives , tried to fly away from the competition ring. Since then, there has been a ban on rooster fights, known as “sevalkattu” in the district. In January, on the occasion of the Pongal festival this year, the event was conducted at Poolamvalasu near Aravakurichi as per the guidelines of the Madras High Court. However, allegations surfaced that the guidelines were flouted and cockfights were conducted by tying knives to the claws of the roosters. It is alleged that the rooster fights were being conducted at various villages in Aravakurichi and Thogamalai blocks without permission.
09 June 2020||KARUR,TAMIL NADU||‘Jockey’ bleeds to death at cockfight||A rooster ‘jockey’ allegedly bled to death after a knife, tied to a bird, cut his thigh during an illegal cockfight held at Nalukalkuttai near Chinnamuthampalayam in the district on Sunday. The victim was identified as M. Murugesan, 30. Sharp knives are usually tied to the legs of roosters. One of the birds tried to fly away from the arena. When Murugesan tried to stop it, the bird inflicted a deep cut on his thigh, leading to profuse bleeding.
09 June 2020||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||VCK cadre stage protest||Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi cadre staged a demonstration here over a four-fold demand near the new bus stand on Monday. They demanded reservations for Other Backward Castes in medical colleges; introduction of reservations in the private sector; a separate legislation to protect reservations and to prevent its dilution; set up additional institutions of excellence.
09 June 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Srirangam fire: HC upholds conviction of three persons||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Monday upheld the conviction of the owner, the manager and an electrician of a marriage hall in Srirangam where 64 persons, including the groom, died in a fire in 2004. Thirty-three persons had sustained burns in the fire at the Sri Padmapriya Kalyana Mahal. The court confirmed the conviction of hall owner Ramasamy and manager Sadagopan. However, their sentences were modified to three months and six months’ simple imprisonment, taking into account their age. The owner gave an undertaking to pay compensation of Rs. 40 lakh to the families of the victims. Justice G.R. Swaminathan, referring to the Supreme Court’s judgment in the Delhi Uphaar cinema fire tragedy, said that the occupier had a duty to ensure safety of visitors against all foreseeable dangers and harm. It was a continuing obligation that an occupier owed towards every invitee, the judge said. The court was hearing the criminal appeal preferred by the accused, challenging the Tiruchi sessions court order convicting them. The trial court had found them guilty of causing death by negligence, causing grievous hurt by an act endangering life or personal safety of others under the Indian Penal Code. The main accused in the case were the videographer, assistant of the videographer, owner of the marriage hall, manager of the marriage hall and the electrician. It was said that electric short-circuit and excessive heat generated by the videographer’s equipment had caused the fire. A thatched roof put up at the marriage hall caught fire and fell on the guests. The narrow staircase at the hall caused stampede and added to the tragedy. There were no fire extinguishers in the hall, originally a residential building that was illegally converted into a marriage hall. The court acquitted videographer Dharmaraj of all charges and said that he was only focusing on capturing the images at the wedding and his assistant Balaji, who handled the equipment, should have been careful. The court upheld conviction of electrician Murugesan. The court said that owner Ramasamy should deposit Rs. 40 lakh and the amount should be disbursed by the Principal District Judge of Tiruchi by applying appropriate yardstick. It should not be a mechanical distribution and the governing standard must be the dependency and the need factor.
09 June 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Madurai gets its first flyover at Kalavasal||A four-lane flyover built at Kalavasal on Bypass Road in Madurai was inaugurated by Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami via video-conferencing on Monday. Collector T.G. Vinay and Corporation Commissioner S. Visakan were present during the inauguration. Kalavasal junction, where the Madurai-Theni highway and the Madurai-Dindigul Bypass Road meet, is one of the busiest junctions in the city. The Collector said the flyover, built on Bypass Road, would help in reducing the congestion at the junction by around 60%. Built at a cost of Rs. 54.07 crore, it is 750 metres long with carriageway of 7.5 metres on either side and allows for a two-way traffic. An official from the Highways Department said that lamp posts will be erected on the flyover in the next two weeks. “Currently there are road studs which will illuminate in the dark to guide the drivers,” he said. The Chief Minister laid the foundation stone for the flyover on July 15, 2018. Though it was scheduled for completion within 15 months, it got delayed, causing severe hardship for road users. A traffic police at the junction said that all heavy vehicles, especially buses, travelling towards southern districts can use the flyover, thus reducing traffic congestion at the signal. “This will help in reducing the waiting time of vehicles plying on Madurai-Theni highway to an extent,” he said. V. Logeswaran, an autorickshaw driver, said a flyover should be constructed from P.P. Chavadi to Arasaradi on the Madurai-Theni highway also.
09 June 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Madurai City Police rejig on the cards||Madurai City Police is set for a major revamp in which the role of Deputy Commissioners - Law and Order, and Crime - and Assistant Commissioners will change from functional to jurisdictional. The number of ranges of Assistant Commissioners will be increased from six to 10. Presently the ranges are Anna Nagar, Tallakulam, Thilagar Thidal, Town, Tirupparankundram and High Court. “When these proposals come into effect, the city police will not have separate DCs for Law and Order and Crime, but DC North and DC South, who would take care of both the functions in their respective jurisdictions,” Commissioner of Police S. Davidson Devasirvatham said. Stating that the perception of officials has, over the period, changed and often the functional assignments of Deputy Commissioner (Crime) and Assistant Commissioners (Crime) are looked down upon. “Many officials think that Law and Order posts are prestigious and are unwilling to take Crime posts,” the Additional Director General of Police said. As a result, involvement of officials in crime prevention and detection leaves much to be desired, many officials admit. Some complain that the officials of the Crime wing get a step-motherly treatment - right from strength of workforce to office buildings and vehicles. Though the idea of bifurcation of work into law and order and crime was only to have more focused roles, it failed. One AC, one range  Presently four ranges have two ACs each, while Tirupparankundram and High Court have one AC each. Under the proposal, jurisdictions of the ranges will also be brought down to make them compact. “For all practical purpose, smaller jurisdictions will have better administration,” the Commissioner said. Town and Thilagar Thidal ranges have five police stations each, while Tallakulam has three stations and Anna Nagar four stations. In the redrawn proposal, only new Tallakulam range will have four police stations. As a result, the number of ranges will be increased to 10 by adding four new ranges. While Tirupparankundram range will have two police stations and High Court Range will have only one police station, the six other ranges will have three police stations each. “In this new arrangement, the ACs can depute manpower from Law and Order to Crime and vice versa based on need,” he said. The idea is that better utilisation of manpower will lead to effective policing.
09 June 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Restaurants are open, but crowds stay away||With relaxation of lockdown norms, people have started trickling into restaurants in Madurai on Monday to avail the dine-in facility. S. S. A. Basha, who runs a tea stall and a small hotel in Anna Nagar, said only a smattering of customers, mostly workers, walked in since morning. “Before COVID-19, many would walk in to have a chit-chat over a coffee. Now it is not possible because of the physical distancing norm. Moreover, people do not have enough money to spend frivolously,” he said. District president of Tamil Nadu Hotel Owners Association, K. L. Kumar said that only 60% of the restaurants in the city opened on Monday as the rest are waiting to test the waters. “Madurai sees large crowds for lunch and dinner. The State government’s stipulation that restaurants must be closed at 8 p.m. does not bode well for Madurai people who eat much later,” he said. “We’ll observe how sales go over the next two days to decide whether to keep the doors open for business as business on day-1 was abysmal. So it is a difficult proposition to pay the full salary to the employees and also keep the restaurant disinfected five times a day. We do not mind following rules but there are not that many customers to serve,” he said. It would take some time for people to have confidence to eat out in these times of COVID-19 scare, Mr. Kumar said. Owner of Amma Mess M. Senthil said, “Citing poor patronage, our association has sought extension of the closing hour to 10 p.m. Closing early will not be sustainable for small eateries at all,” he said.
09 June 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Rectify anomalies at ration shops: DYFI||Members of Democratic Youth Federation of India (DYFI) conducted a signature campaign in Madurai on Sunday to highlight the anomalies at ration shops. S. Selva, district secretary, DYFI, said the number of people using rice supplied through public distribution system had increased tremendously ever since COVID-19 pandemic-induced lockdown started, said Mr. Selva. However, the quality of rice were of poor quality. State secretary S. Bala alleged that the commodities supplied through many ration shops were underweight. There were also complaints that people receive a text message on their mobile phones for products that they had not purchased. ‘It is said that the supply from godowns to the ration shops are lesser than what is required. Many shops are understaffed, which also affects the customers. So the government must fill vacancies, ensure wage parity and rectify the anomalies,” he added.
09 June 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||When nodding off on a train led to an 80-day life in limbo||Oversleeping on board a train, just ahead of the nationwide COVID-19 lockdown in March, turned life into a nightmare for a 70-year-old Madurai woman who has been stuck in Mangaluru, Karnataka, for over two months. After 80 long days, she was reunited with her family on Sunday night. K. Kasthuri, a resident of Arapalayam in Madurai, had boarded a special train from Villupuram to reach Madurai on March 20. She overslept, missing her destination and detrained in Thrissur, Kerala. She then took a bus to Mangaluru. Unfortunately, train services were suspended in view of the COVID-19 outbreak. She was stuck alone, without a mobile phone or knowledge of the local language. From being stranded in a camp initially to being admitted to a Government Mental Health Care Centre in Kozhikode, Kerala, Ms. Kasturi endured a lot of hardship. Team effort On Sunday night, the septuagenarian reached Madurai to be with her daughter, thanks to the efforts of the district Red Cross team and the intervention of Collector T.G. Vinay. “I was relieved when I met my daughter, the only relative I have. I used to think that I might die without being able to see her,” she said. Ms. Kasthuri said that she was at the camp in Mangaluru for around 15 days. “I then started walking towards Madurai. At the time, a volunteer arranged a vehicle for me and I was dropped at Kannur, Kerala,” she said. After being screened for COVID-19 at a government hospital, Ms. Kasthuri was shifted to the Government Mental Health Care Centre in Kozhikode. “When I heard that my mother [who called using the phone of a driver] was stuck at the hospital, I was shocked,” said M. Sripriya. She then petitioned the Collector, requesting him to help her bring back her mother to Madurai. The Red Cross team and officials of the Madurai district administration spoke to their counterparts in Kerala and an e-pass was procured for her travel. “Initially, I rejected their offer. I was afraid that I would be quarantined if I travel to Kerala. Being a single mother, I could not afford to leave my son alone,” she said. “But the Collector assured me that I would return home with my mother safely. So I travelled with Red Cross members and brought my mother home,” she said.  I was relieved when I met my daughter, the only relative I have. I used to think that I might die without being able to see her K. Kasturi
09 June 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Conservancy workers wear protective gear’||The Madurai Corporation on Monday informed the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court that a monitoring mechanism was in place to ensure that conservancy workers wore protective gear. The court was hearing a public interest litigation petition filed by Madurai-based NGO People’s Watch, which sought a direction to the State to provide personal protective equipment (PPE) to non-medical frontline workers like police and conservancy workers. During the course of the hearing, standing counsel for Madurai Corporation R. Murali submitted that steps were being taken by the civic body to ensure that conservancy workers wore protective gears like masks and gloves. City Engineer of Madurai Corporation S. Arasu, who was present at the hearing via video conferencing, said that circulars were issued in this regard and action would be taken if there was a failure to supervise the workers. It was submitted that a similar mechanism was adopted by Nagercoil Municipality, and the conservancy workers were given protective equipment. They were monitored by officials. Taking cognisance of the submission, a Division Bench of Justices P.N. Prakash and B. Pugalendhi appreciated Madurai Corporation for ensuring a monitoring mechanism. The case was adjourned to ascertain the status of other Corporations.
09 June 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||SRMU flays deduction move||Southern Railway Mazdoor Union staged a demonstration here on Monday, protesting against the move to deduct one-day salary and curtailment of 18-month dearness allowance. The protesters, led by divisional secretary J.M. Rafi, wanted the Centre to give up workforce reduction and outsourcing of manpower. They also opposed the attempt to withdraw labour rights, move to suspend increment, and allowances for travel, night duty and mileage. Members of Dakshin Railway Employees Union also staged a protest seeking special incentive for those who worked during the COVID-19 lockdown. They said the Centre must extend the Rs. 50-lakh special compensation announced for family members of frontline workers affected by COVID-19 to families of railway workers also. The union also sought special casual leave for employees who could not join duty due to lockdown.
09 June 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Man hacked to death inside hospital||A murder case accused, V. Murugan, 40, who was undergoing treatment, was hacked to death by an armed gang inside Government Rajaji Hospital here early on Monday. Initial investigation revealed that four persons barged into ward 101 in the Annexure Building of the GRH and hacked Murugan, who was sleeping, around 5.30 a.m. The unidentified gang inflicted multiple cut and stab injuries on him. Even before people could realise what was happening, the gang reportedly fled the scene. The police said Murugan was the second accused in the murder of Patta Rajasekar on the Vaigai riverbed under Vilakkuthoon police station limits in 2019. Murugan, who was from Karumabalai, had not been living in Madurai for the last few months, but had returned to the city after he fell sick. The police suspect that gang rivalry led to the murder.
09 June 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Narayanasamy expresses regret over undignified burial of COVID-19 patient||Expressing regret over the incident in which conservancy workers were dumping the body of a COVID-19 positive person in a pit at a burial ground in Villianur, Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy on Monday said that the government had decided to suspend two employees of the Local Administration Department and a staff of the Health Department involved in the burial of the person. In a video message to reporters, the Chief Minister said it was highly regrettable that such an incident occurred. Dignified disposal “The video of the body being dumped into a pit has gone viral on social media. The act is highly condemnable. Whatever maybe the cause of death, the body has to be disposed of in a dignified manner. In this case, it has not happened,” he said. The man had come from Chennai to meet his wife. He developed chest pain and was taken to GH where doctors declared him brought dead. After his death, he was tested for COVID-19 and found positive, he said. The family had given their consent for burial as per protocol, he added. Report sought Mr.Narayanasamy said that a detailed report had been sought from the health and LAD departments over the incident. The employees had been placed under suspension, he added. On the conduct of SSLC examination, the Chief Minister said that his government would abide by the directions of Madras High Court.
09 June 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Restaurants, places of worship reopen in U.T.||Amid a rise in number of COVID-19 cases in Puducherry, more lockdown relaxations took effect on Monday, as places of worship and restaurants allowing dine-ins at 50% seating capacity, reopened after over two months of closure. A majority of the temples reopened with authorities enforcing strict measures to ensure physical distancing and hygiene. Temple authorities of Sri Manakula Vinayagar temple, the Sri Vedapureeswarar Temple and Varadharaja Perumal Temple screened devotees using thermal scanners and also provided hand sanitisers. Queues were also witnessed in front of Aurobindo Ashram. Some of the churches, including the famous Immaculate Conception Cathedral allowed the faithful to offer prayers. Mosques were also opened. Though the government allowed restaurants to offer dine-in services, only a few opened, over worries about patronage and shortage of workers. General secretary of restaurant association V. Baskar said the industry wanted to see the response of customers before offering full services. Collector T. Arun and Senior SP (Law and Order) conducted a joint inspection of religious places and restaurants.
09 June 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Elephant translocated||The elephant of the famed Sri Manakula Vinayagar Temple was translocated from its enclosure to the sprawling Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK) campus on the outskirts of the city on Monday, in the wake of complaints over its improper maintenance by temple authorities. Acting on a complaint from BJP Lok Sabha MP Maneka Gandhi to the L-G Kiran Bedi alleging repeated abuse and violations of the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals and the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972, the Directorate of Forests and Wildlife ordered the translocation of the elephant.
09 June 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Eight persons test positive||Eight new COVID-19 cases, including one in Mahe enclave in Kerala, were reported in Puducherry on Monday. While six persons were admitted to IGMCRI, two patients were under treatment in Jipmer. Four patients were discharged from IGMCRI. The administration has so far tested 8,274 samples. The active cases stand at 75, while the cumulative total is 127.
09 June 2020||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||A ‘green’ Ramanathapuram in the making||In about two to three years, the green cover in the arid district of Ramanathapuram is expected to vastly improve at the panchayat level, according to Collector K. Veera Raghava Rao. The district, which is an extremely dry region, is witnessing a silent green revolution. About seven months ago, poromboke land was identified in all 429 panchayats under the ‘mini forest’ project, a multi-department initiative of the Centre and the State. In each of the panchayats, forest officials have suggested that plants such as gauva, sapota and vembu be grown depending on the type of soil. Local workers have been roped in under the MGNREGA programme for the purpose and additionally entrusted with the task of protecting the saplings from animals, the Collector said. The involvement of locals not only gives them the task of increasing the green cover, but also the satisfaction of seeing a barren land turning into fruit-bearing orchards. Native saplings will be raised in the mini-forests, he adds. Barren lands used as dump yard or covered with bushes have been reclaimed in the last four months under the project. Saplings raised in exclusive nurseries have been planted in these lands and periodically watered. The district administration hopes to plant around two lakh saplings, which will improve the quality of air. Rajamani, a worker who waters the plants at Paramakudi block, hopes the district will soon have more shade and fruits. He says officials can form self-help groups or mini-clusters and engage locals with seed money through cooperative banks. They will be accountable for the green cover in the panchayats. The District Rural Development Agency says it has already earmarked funds for raising plants under the MGNREGA project. The green initiative will usher in a new-look Ramanathapuram, Mr. Rao feels.
09 June 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Farmers condemn Ministers’ statements||Farmers from Ayodhiyapattinam and nearby areas staged a black flag protest condemning statements made by Minister for Environment K.C. Karuppannan and Information and Publicity Minister Kadambur C. Raju in favour of eight-lane green corridor project between Chennai and Salem. The protesters demanded that the governments should respect Madras High Court order in regard.
09 June 2020||salem/Namakkal,TAMIL NADU||Differently-abled students sent to districts||Differently-abled students, who have to appear for Class X and XI board exams, were sent to the districts where they were studying. The students were sent in special buses from Salem and Namakkal. From Namakkal, five students were sent to Chennai, two to Thanjavur and two to Tiruchi. Three students reached Namakkal from other places and they were given hall tickets. In Salem, transportations were arranged for 35 differently-abled students to districts such as Chennai, Tiruchi, Dharmapuri, Thanjavur and Madurai from here in seven special buses. According to officials, arrangements have also been made for return of these students after the examinations.
09 June 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Idol unearthed||An eight-inch tall idol of a Goddess was unearthed from Arasalar riverbed near Kumbakonam on Monday. The presence of the idol was noticed by workers constructing a high-level bridge across Arasalar to connect Krishnapuram and Sembiyavarambal at a cost of Rs. 2.48 crore as they scooped out sand to lay a pillar for the bridge. The workers informed Krishnapuram Village Administrative Officer Sivakumar who took possession of the idol and deposited it at Thiruvidaimaruthur Taluk Office. Nachiyarkovil police have registered a case.
09 June 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Family vocation comes in handy for this lawyer||His family vocation has helped a legal practitioner to tide over the financial crisis caused by the COVID-19 pandemic to a certain extent. Uththamakurmaran of Peravurani, a lawyer by profession, has taken up his family vocation of weaving baskets during the last two months as he was not able to run his family with the paltry sum he had with him as savings. With the functioning of courts also being affected due to the novel coronavirus scare, Mr.Uththamakumaran’s decision has helped him to earn some money during this crisis period. He sources the raw material - `eechankorai’ (a broad-leafed grass) required to weave the baskets from the banks of nearby river. However, Mr.Uththamakumaran said he could not make much out of basket weaving activity since the weekly markets remain shut due to COVID-19 scare. “A few people in this region who are in need of baskets alone procured it”, he added. Stating that the lawyer hailed from a nomadic group of people - `malai kuravar’, Jabahurali, a social activist said that Mr.Uththamakumaran had completed his legal degree course in the year 2010 and is practising at the Pattukottai Combine Court campus. The advocate had also floated an organisation to help his community people lead a respectable life. Though several organizations and peoples’ representatives such as MLAs and MPs have helped the needy people during the past two months, most of the `malai kuravar’ community people haven’t received the assistances sufficient enough to run their families during the past two months, the social activist added. With the income through their `kula thozhil’ also drying up, several `malai kuravar’ families were groping in the dark as they did not know whom should they contact to get the assistance. Hence, the government should come forward to extend financial assistance to the people of this particular community on a war footing, Mr.Jabahurali said.
09 June 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||‘Chance of locusts entering T.N. remote’||Agriculture Production Commissioner and Monitoring Office for Thanjavur district Gagandeep Singh Bedi said that the possibility of desert grasshoppers entering Tamil Nadu was very remote and the government was keeping tabs on their movement. Farmers may try neem-based solutions instead, he said speak to press persons at Kumbakonam on Monday. Replying to questions relating to the ongoing desilting works in Thanjavur district, Mr.Gagandeep Singh Bedi said that it had been planned to desilt the channels that would receive water within a week from the date of releasing of water for irrigation from the Stanley Reservoir, Mettur. The works in tail-end areas would get completed before the water reaches the channels. Mr.Bedi inspected the desilting works taken up under `kudimaramathu’ and the Chief Ministers’ Special Desilting Scheme in Kumbakonam block, along with Collector M.Govinda Rao.
09 June 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Doctor couple relieved of gold jewellery||Vallam police are investigating a complaint of a robbery lodged by a medical practitioner on Monday. The complainant Manimaran of State Bank Colony said a three-member gang snatched 13-sovereign of gold jewellery from him and his wife Sudha at knifepoint near a bridge on the by-pass road on Sunday night. Dr. Manimaran had mentioned in the complaint that he and his wife used to have a short drive on the by-pass road at night. The robbery took place on Sunday night near the bridge. Later the couple got themselves admitted to a private hospital here.
09 June 2020||Theni,TAMIL NADU||Man gets life term||Additional District Sessions Judge (Fast Track Court) A. Abdul Khader on Monday sentenced a 26-year-old murder convict to life imprisonment and imposed a penalty of Rs. 10,000. According to prosecution, M. Prashant of Kullappa Goundanpatti in Uthamapalayam block in Theni district murdered Raja, 32, of the same locality in 2014. The victim tipped off local Tangedco and PWD officials about theft of water by some farmers in the belt. The farmers were pumping out water with the help of motors from the Mullai Periyar into their fields and wells for irrigation. The officials swung into action and disconnected the service and seized the motors. A few of aggrieved farmers informed their relative, Prashant, who threatened to ‘finish off’ Raja. After some time, Raja was at a meat stall and Prashant, who was also there, suddenly took a knife and stabbed him. He was rushed to Cumbum Government Hospital, but died a few hours later. Gudalur police registered a case under IPC Section 302 (murder).
09 June 2020||THOOTHUKUDI/DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Thoothukudi’s tally shoots up with 26 indigenous cases||Thoothukudi district reported 26 fresh COVID-19 positive cases – all indigenous – on Monday, and its tally rose to 355. The district has 154 active cases undergoing treatment at Government Thoothukudi Medical College Hospital. Disinfection operations were started at Boldenpuram and Levingipuram in Thoothukudi which recorded fresh cases. All the seven new cases reported in Kanniyakumari district on Monday are ‘indigenous cases’, while Tirunelveli and Tenkasi districts recorded three fresh cases each in the category. Tirunelveli had an ‘imported case’ too to take its tally to 390 and the number of active cases to 45. Tenkasi and Kanniyakumari had 18 and 34 ‘active cases’ respectively. Madurai Five persons tested positive in Madurai district, taking it tally to 317. The new cases included a two-and-a-half-year-old girl from Sekkipatti near Melur. The other cases were recorded at Indira Nagar, Vaigai Vadakarai, Anuppanadi and Sellur. None of them had travel history and all of them displayed symptoms. Meanwhile, five persons were discharged. The number of active cases is 74. Theni district recorded two fresh positive cases on Monday. In the last 14 days, not a single normal person from the district without travel history had tested positive, said a press release. In Dindigul, nine fresh cases, including three from a family, were reported. Health department officials said a former DMK councillor in Kodaikanal returned from Chennai with his family. He reportedly told the officials at Silver Cascade check post that he was returning from Dindigul. Later, Municipal and Revenue officials went to his house and tested the family members, three of whom turned positive. They were rushed to Dindigul Government Hospital. Ramanathapuram In Ramanathapuram, 12 fresh cases were recorded on Monday and the district’s tally went up to 112. Officials said the cases were Thangachimadam, Ariyankundu, Manjana Mariamman Vakkil Street and Balasubramanian Temple Street in Ramanathapuram and Keelakarai Pudu Street. A 58-year-old official at the Collectorate also tested positive. Seven new cases were reported in Sivaganga district. Officials said they were all admitted to Government Sivaganga Medical College Hospital. Thirteen persons were discharged in Ramanathapuram and two in Sivaganga. Virudhunagar district recorded four new cases. One patient was discharged from hospital. While three of the fresh cases were from Chennai, one was their contact, Collector R. Kannan said. The district tally rose to 153.
09 June 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Tiruchi restaurants open, but get lukewarm response from patrons||Restaurants in Tiruchi reopened on Monday for dining, after a gap of more than two months following the COVID-19 outbreak. Most of the restaurants in and around Central Bus Stand in the city resumed dining services. Similarly, restaurants in Srirangam, NSB Road, Thillai Nagar, Palakarai and others also opened their facility for dining. As per the Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) laid down by the State government, the hoteliers had made table arrangements, allowing just 50% of their capacity. Two persons were allowed to dine at a time at tables with a seating capacity of four persons. Similarly, only one person was allowed to eat at a 2-seater table. Some restaurants only allowed customers inside after they cleaned their hands with sanitisers provided. A few screened the customers with thermal scanners before allowing them into the restaurants. However most of the restaurants reported a lukewarm response from customers on the first day of resumption of dining services. Hoteliers said that many customers were reluctant to opt for dining mainly due to apprehensions over contracting the novel coronavirus. “We have taken all safety precautions for our customers and staff members. Only 50% of seats are made available to the customers. We do not allow customers without mask. However, the enthusiasm among the customers to dine at restaurants is missing,” says K.M.S. Hakkim, proprietor of a chain of non-vegetarian restaurants in Tiruchi. A few fully air-conditioned restaurants did not resume dining service. They continued to offer only parcel services. “We cannot provide comfort to the customers without using the air conditioning. Moreover, some of the staff members, who went home after the lockdown, have not yet come back. Hence, we are not no hurry to re-open our restaurants on a full scale,” says C. Sathish, manager, Ezham Suvai, Tiruchi While standard restaurants put safety precautions in place, most small eateries and roadside eateries did not seem to follow the procedures. Some staff members including dosa and parotta masters and servers could be seen working without face masks.
09 June 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Highways Dept. hopes to complete service lanes in two months||The Highways Department, which was resumed works on construction on the service lanes along the newly built road overbridge (ROB) at Thirunavaikovil, is hoping to complete the works within the next couple of months. The ROB was opened for traffic last year even though the service lanes were not completed pending land acquisition and disposal of a few petitions before the courts. Residents had then expressed apprehensions that once the bridge was opened, work on building service lanes and allied works such as construction of a traffic island near Gandhi Road could slacken. However, the Highways department (Projects Division), which executed the project, has resumed the pending works and a major portion of the service lanes have been laid, except in a few small stretches. Work on establishing a traffic island on Gandhi Road-Chennai Trunk Road intersection has almost been completed. According to sources in the department, a major portion of the works, except for a short stretches at four locations, and on the Kallanai Road have been completed. While the work at the four locations could not be completed due to pending court cases, work on the Kallanai Road would be taken up once shifting of utilities was completed. “We hope to complete the works within the next two months,” an official said. Meanwhile, even as road development works are under way between Periyar Nagar and Mambazhasalai junction, wrong side driving is causing much traffic congestion. A section of residents have urged the police to check such violations. S.N. Mohan Ram, president, Srirangam Makkal Nala Sangam, urged the Highways Department to ensure that the road stretch between Periyar Nagar and Mambazhasalai be widened to prevent accidents. He claimed that the original design of the project had provisions to widen this road stretch and also construction of a roundabout at the Mambazhasalai Junction. “Currently, the road is not being widened and work is under way only on carrying out some improvement on the stretch. This is a mere eye wash,” he charged. He claimed that the road was originally planned to be widened for a width of about 15 feet and area to be acquired had already been marked. But this design is not being followed now, he alleged. “Accidents will become frequent if a roundabout was not built and the road stretch widened as many vehicles coming from Kallanai Road are bound to take a U-turn at the Mambazhasalai Junction,” he said. However, sources in the Highways Department said that the works were being carried out as per approved design and land acquisition plan. The ROB was built at a cost of Rs. 125 crore including Rs. 69 crore for acquisition of land. The ROB was sanctioned by the State government in 2011, but construction began only in 2016.
09 June 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||12 persons arrested for poaching fox||The Forest Department officials on Monday arrested 12 persons on the charge of poaching a fox allegedly using a country bomb stuffed in a bait. The 12 persons were noticed near Perur a few kilometres away from Tiruchi by local police personnel on rounds and on suspicion they informed the police station. The 12 persons were thereafter taken to the Jeeyapuram Police where they were inquired. Since they had a dead fox in their possession, they were handed over to the Forest Department to carry out further legal action. Forest Department officials said the 12 persons hailed from Poolangudi village near Tiruchi and had resorted to poaching the fox near Mekkudi on Sunday. Thereafter, they left for Perur where they were noticed by police personnel on rounds. The dead fox in their possession was seized and an inquiry is being conducted with the arrested persons.
09 June 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||16 more test positive for COVID-19 in central region||Sixteen fresh cases of COVID-19 were reported in central region on Tuesday. Of them, the maximum number of cases was reported in Nagapattinam district, followed by Thanjavur. While Nagapattinam recorded 5 new cases, Thanjavur district accounted for four cases. Three cases were reported in Pudukottai district and one in Ariyalur. Of the five cases in Nagapattinam district, three were men and two women. While a 63-year-old woman, who tested positive for the virus, hailed from Ayakkaranpulam near Vedaranyam, a 60-year-old male patient was from Agasthiampalli near Vedaranyam. Two patients were from Thamaraikulam Thenkarai in Nagapattinam town. The other patient, a 23-year-old, was from Thirukkangudi near Thevur. The lone patient in Ariyalur, who was found positive for the virus, reportedly contracted it when he went to Chennai a few days ago. He was put in a quarantine facility in Chennai. Of the three persons who tested positive for the virus in Pudukottai district, two were from a same family. One among them was a 73-year-old patient from Ambalpuram in Pudukottai town. He and his daughter-in-law were said to have contracted the virus from his son, who tested positive for COVID-19 a few days ago. The third patient hailed from Aranthangi. They were under treatment at the Ranees Government Hospital in Pudukottai. With the diagnosis of four new cases in Thanjavur district on Monday, the total number of people who had tested positive for the coronavirus has increased to 117. At the same time, with the discharge of a patient from the COVID-19 Special Ward at the Thanjavur Medical College Hospital on Monday, the total number of patients cured of the virus infection rose to 89. Twenty-eight persons including the 4 persons tested positive on Monday are under treatment at the hospital now. In Tiruvarur, the total number of COVID-19 positive cases admitted to the Tiruvarur Government Medical College so far increased to 62 with three new positive cases diagnosed on Monday. While 45 of them have been discharged from the hospital, 17 are undergoing treatment at the hospital, sources said. Discharged Fourteen patients were discharged after treatment for COVID-19 from the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital (MGMGH) in Tiruchi on Monday. With this, the number of patients being treated at the MGMGH came down to 26. Of them, 13 were from Tiruchi. Two more patients were discharged from the Government Karur Medical College Hospital on Tuesday. Seven patients were still under treatment.
09 June 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Washbasin helps reuse grey water||The use of protective clothing, social distancing and the frequent washing of hands with soap and water are among the cornerstones of the global fight against COVID-19. But while it has been easy to adopt the first two directives, how does washing hands more than usual affect a water-starved municipality’s resources? “We have to find a way to efficiently use the water we have, while staying safe from infection. Instead of letting grey water drain away from the wash basin after we our hands, we could reuse it in the toilet flush tanks,” M. Subburaman, director of the 33-year-old non-governmental organisation Society for Community Organisation and People’s Education, (SCOPE), told The Hindu . Inspired by the picture of an integrated wash basin-cum-toilet flush from Japan, Mr. Subburaman has created a similar working prototype at his residence in Ramalinga Nagar. In his version, the wash basin is positioned above the water closet, and its tail piece (outlet pipe) is connected to the top of the WC’s modified flush tank. The soapy water from hand washing thus gets reused while flushing the WC. The prototype took him two hours to assemble, and his family started using it after a day’s trial period. “There’s no extra fitting required for this idea. But it is difficult to get people to change their ways, especially in water usage,” said Mr. Subburaman, whose home makes extensive use eco-friendly concepts like of rainwater harvesting, biogas and solar heating.
09 June 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Two persons murdered in different places||A 34-year-old man was murdered by an armed gang of four persons at Keeramangalam village near here on Sunday night. Police identified the deceased as N. Karthikeyan. The Kollidam police have detained three persons, including the main accused, K. Rajadurai (26). Police said there was animosity between Karthikeyan and Rajadurai ever since the latter married a woman who was a close relative of Karthikeyan about six years ago. Karthikeyan wanted to marry that woman who married Rajadurai. On an earlier occasion, Karthikeyan is alleged to have assaulted Rajadurai reportedly due to the animosity between them. The sources said Rajadurai and three of his accomplices went to the house of Karthikeyan on Sunday night when the latter was sleeping and allegedly attacked him. Karthikeyan who attempted to escape was chased by the gang which attacked him with sharp weapons causing grievous injury. Karthikeyan was brought dead to the hospital. The Kollidam police have registered a case of murder. Meanwhile in neighbouring Perambalur, a 29-year-old man was murdered by unknown persons on Alampadi road near Perambalur on Sunday night. Police identified the victim as K. Veeramanikandan (29). There were cases pending against him, police said adding that the identity of the accused involved in the crime was not known immediately. The Perambalur police have registered a case.
09 June 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Power shutdown today and tomorrow||Power supply remain suspended from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m.on Tuesday owing to maintenance works to be taken up by the Tangedco at the Kambarasampettai and Mainguard Gate sub-stations: Karur By-pass Road, Old Karur Road, V.N.Nagar, Mathulankollai, S.S.Kovil Street, Chidambaram Mahal, Poosari Street, Chathiram Bus Stand,St.Joseph’s College Road, Chinthamani, Chinthamani Bazaar, Odathurai, North Andal Street, Nandi Kovil Street, Vanappattarai, Singarathope, Fort Station Road, Salai Road, Vathukara Street, Mudaliar Street, Woraiyur Housing Unit, Keeraikollai Street, Kuratheru, Nawab Thottam, Weavers Colony,T.T.Road, P.V.S.Kovil, Kandan Street, Minnappan Street, Linga Nagar, Akilandeswari Nagar, Mangal Nagar, Santhosh Garden, Maruthandakurichi, Malliyampathu, Alavanthannallur,Seerathopu,Ekirimangalam, Cholarajapuram, Kambarasampettai, Cauvery Nagar, Murungapettai, Gudalur,Mutharasanallur,Pazhur, Allur, Jeeyapuram, Thiruchendurai, Veereswaram, Mambazhasalai Road, Pudutheru, drinking water Collector Wells of Golden Rock, Pudukottai, Jeeyapuram,Ramanathapuram, HAPP and TNPL drinking water supply schemes, Devadhanam, Sankaran Pillai Road, Anna Statue, Sanjeevi Nagar, Sarkarpalayam,Ariyamangalam village, Panaiyakurichi, Mullakudi, Ottakudi, Vengur,Arasangudi, Natarajapuram and Thogur. Power supply will remain suspended from 9 a.m. to 2 p.m. the same day in Crawford, Pillaiyarkovil Street, Arockiya Nagar, Muslim Street, Viragupettai and Mission Kovil Street owing to shifting of transformers and power lines. Similarly, power supply will remain suspended in the following areas from 8.30 a.m. to 5 p.m. on Wednesday, owing to maintenance works to be taken up at the Thennur sub-station: Thillai Nagar, Annamalai Nagar, Karur Bypass, Gandhipuram, Thevar Colony, Thennur High Road, Thennur Anna Nagar East and West, Pudumariamman Temple Street, Shastri Road, Rahmaniapuram, Seshapuram, Ramarayar Agraharam, Vadavur, Vinayagapuram, Vamadam, Jeeva Nagar, Madurai Road, Kalyanasundarapuram, Valluvar Nagar, Nathersha Pallivasal, Old Goodshed Road, West Boulevard Road, Jalal Pakkiri Street, Jalal Kuthiri Street, Kuppankulam, Jaffersha Street, Big Bazaar Street, Sunnabukara Street, Sandhukadai, Kallatheru, Allimal Street, Khiledhar Street, Sub Jail Road, Bharathi Nagar, Idayath Nagar, Quaid-e-Milleth Road, Periya Kammala Street, Chinna Kammala Street, Chinnthachetti Street, Periyachetti Street, and Marakkadai. Power supply will be suspended from 9.45 a.m. to 5 p.m. the same day in the following areas served by the Varaganeri sub-station: Mahalakshmi Nagar, Dhanarathinam Nagar, Welders Nagar, Tharanallur, Alanganathapuram, Veerama Nagaram, Pookollai, Kamarajar Nagar, Chekkadi Bazaar, Bharathi Nagar, Kalaignar Nagar, Arumuga Garden, PS Nagar, Lakshmipuram, By-pass Road, Varaganeri, Periyar Nagar, Pitchai Nagar, Arulanandapuram, Annai Nagar, Malligaipuram, Keezhapudur, Padayatchi Stret, Dharmanathapuram, Kallukara Street, Khanmian Mettu Street, Duraisamipuram, Irudhayapuram, Kuzhumikarai, Mariam Nagar, Sangiliandapuram, Bharathi Nagar, Valluvar Nagar, Anna Nagar, Manalvarithurai Road, Ilango Street, Gandhi Street, Fathima Street, Anbu Nagar, Periyapalayam, Pillaima Nagar, Pensioner Street, Edatheru, Muslim Street, Anandapuram, Nidyananthapuram, Parupukara Street, Sannidhi Street, Bhajanaikooda Street.
09 June 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Batch of expats comes from Kuwait||Another batch of 113 persons from various parts of the State arrived here by a Kuwait Airways flight on Monday. The flight landed at around 4.45 p.m. after which all the passengers were screened by state medical teams deployed at the airport. An official press release said none had symptoms of COVID-19 and the passengers were sent to the respective district by special buses. The same flight later carried 5,870 kilograms of perishable cargo to Kuwait. Meanwhile, a total number of 688 migrant labourers who were working in 13 districts were sent back to Chattisgarh State from Tiruchi Junction by a Shramik special train on Monday.
09 June 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Officials keen on ensuring purity of packaged water||Amid unmet demand for packaged drinking water due to the supply mismatch during the COVID -19 lockdown, Food Safety Department is on its toes to curb malpractices by manufacturers and distributors. Designated Officers for Food Safety have been personally monitoring the random tests conducted by Food Safety Officers. At one such test conducted in Pudukottai district on Saturday, some retailers of packaged drinking water in Ganesh Nagar limits were found to have indulged in malpractices, emboldened by the ignorance of the customers about checking the sealing of the containers. R. Ramesh Babu, Designated Officer for Food Safety, Pudukkottai district, said some distributors were found to have filled the 20-litre containers with untreated water using funnels. Samples were taken for lab test, and a case under Section 58 in The Food Safety and Standards Act, 2006, was registered, Dr. Ramesh Babu said. Under the Section, the offender will be liable to a penalty which may extend to two lakh rupees. According to officials, the onus was on the retail sellers who are the contact point for the consumers ought to be aware enough to detect malpractices. At the manufacturing end also, checks are being conducted to determine compliance with microbial requirements. During such checks, officials determine the purity of the source water used for packaging after tests for colour, odour, taste, turbidity, pH, total dissolved solids, microbiological and chemical requirements including toxic elements and pesticides residues and radioactive residues. The quality of packaged drinking water has to be regularly assessed, at least once in three months through in-house testing. The main challenge of the Food Safety Department is in prevention of microbiological contamination of water, according to field-level officials. Infectious microorganisms such as shigella, E. coli, vibrio, salmonella, and coliform can cause contamination and result in nausea, vomiting, diarrhoea and stomach cramps, they explained.
09 June 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Steady movement of overseas cargo from Tiruchi airport despite lockdown||The Tiruchi International Airport has been witnessing export of vegetables and fruits to select foreign countries by non-scheduled overseas flights despite the lockdown. Activities at the international cargo terminal, which came to a standstill since late March when the lockdown was clamped, resumed in early May when the first shipment of overseas cargo was lifted from this non-metro international airport. Since then, there has been steady movement of overseas freight now and then lifted by different overseas carriers to Singapore, Dubai and Kuwait. Airport sources said in the last one month alone about 185 tonnes of cargo was exported from the airport which has also seen movement of evacuation flights to bring back Indians stranded abroad and rescue flights to take back stranded Malaysian nationals from Tamil Nadu. Maximum quantity of overseas freight consisting of vegetables, fruits and curry leaves was lifted to Singapore during the past month. A little over 160 tonnes of freight was lifted by Spice Jet and IndiGo airlines to Singapore on different dates over the last one month. The first shipment was sent from here on May 8. The sources say Singapore even otherwise used to be a major overseas market for vegetables exported from the Tiruchi airport during the pre-lockdown period when the consignments used to be sent in available belly space on board passenger flights. The lockdown period also saw for the first time a dedicated cargo freighter having been operated by the SpiceJet from Tiruchi to Singapore to lift vegetables and fruits. Besides Singapore, about 3.2 tonnes of overseas cargo was lifted to Dubai by the Air India Express and 18.92 tonnes to Kuwait by Kuwait Airways. Both flights were operated to bring back Indians from the two West Asian destinations in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic. The sources said besides vegetables and fruits, there were also a couple of overseas shipments of cheese from here. Spice Jet alone had operated 10 flights from Tiruchi to lift export cargo during the lockdown period followed by Kuwait Airways which operated three non-scheduled flights, the sources said. The steady movement of international freight especially during COVID-19 period is certainly a positive development for Tiruchi airport, a senior Airports Authority of India official said, adding that Tiruchi fared better in respect of export of cargo than other non-metro airports in the southern region. All the non-scheduled flights were operated upon obtaining specific approval from the Directorate General of Civil Aviation, the official said. During the pre-lockdown period, Tiruchi airport used to handle about 750 tonnes of export cargo on an average every month. The airport had exceeded the internal target set in respect of export cargo movement during the 2019-20 financial year. The target set was about 7,500 tonnes with the airport surpassing it by clocking a little over 8,100 tonnes during the 2019-20 fiscal, the official said.
09 June 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Tree sapling plantation events held||The Tiruchi Obstetric and Gynaecological Society in association with the Rotary Club of Shakthi , Tiruchi, and the Citizens for Uyyakondan Forum ( CFU ) organised a tree sapling plantation as part of a Go Green Tiruchi initiative to commemorate the World Environmental Day here on Sunday. Hundred trees of different species are planned to be planted in stages on the northern banks of the Uyyakondan channel near Uzhavar Sandhai, according to Deepa Mukhundhan, secretary of the Tiruchi Obstetric and Gynaecological Society. The CFU and the Rotary club of Shakthi had already taken up a joint effort of cleaning and making the area a walking track. The society was contributing 100 tree saplings to be planted along the stretch. V. Balakrishnan, Deputy Inspector General of Police, Tiruchi range, inaugurated the greening drive in the presence of Zameer Pasha, Governor Rotary District 3000, Ramani Devi, vice-president, FOGSI, Hemalatha , president, Rotary Club of Shakthi Tiruchi, and Narasimha Rao of CFU forum and others.
09 June 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Desilting of Hanumanadhi channel to begin shortly||After a gap of several decades, desilting of the 32 km-long Hanumanadhi watercourse from Rosmiyapuram near Panagudi to Perumanal near Koodankulam in the district will be taken up shortly to ensure hassle-free supply of water for irrigation to 47 tanks. The desilting is expected to improve groundwater table in the region, which, in turn, will neutralise fluoride content in the water table and also check seawater intrusion into coastal hamlets. To effectively divert water from Alanthauraiyar, which originates on the western slopes of the Western Ghats, to Hanumanadhi basin, a scheme was implemented in 1983. Though Kanjipaarai check dam and the canal downstream, which plays a major role in diverting water from Alanthuraiyar to Hanumanadhi, were damaged long ago due to heavy rain, the structures were not repaired till November last. After Collector Shilpa Prabhakar Satish received petition from farmers about the problem, she visited the spot situated deep inside the reserve forest area and released funds for reconstruction of the check dam and desilting of the channel. When the work was completed, several upstream irrigation tanks received water during the north-east monsoon last year. To make it more effective, desilting of Hanumanadhi watercourse has been taken up. Post-desilting, the watercourse will feed 47 irrigation tanks, improve groundwater table in fluoride-affected areas and check intrusion of seawater into the areas around Perumanal. “Farmers of this region, who have formedNam Hanumanadhi Iyakkam[Our Haruman River Movement] have joined hands with the district administration in reviving the river, now filled with silt and debris and encroached upon over the years,” the Collector says. “We will start the work shortly and ensure free flow of the river as it gets water from the Alanthuraiyar,” adds Ms. Shilpa. The alarming level of fluoride content in the groundwater in the region poses health hazards to those who consume it and the revival of Hanumanadhi watercourse will dramatically improve the quality of groundwater in Panagudi, Kaavalkinaru, Vadakkankulam and Sivasubramaniapuram, she points out. G. Sakthinathan, Deputy Director of Anna University Constituent Colleges, Chennai, who is extending technical support in the desilting operation, says: “If we can ensure the flow of water from the Western Ghats up to Perumanal, the fluoride content in the groundwater table will get neutralised to the desirable level and, hence, the desilting work is going to be taken up.”
09 June 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Two persons killed in accident||Two persons, including a five-year-old girl, were killed in a road accident near Nanguneri on Monday. Police said T. Kannan, 45, of Singaneri near Nanguneri was taking his niece Kaavya, 16, of nearby Thalapathisamudhram on a bike to get her hall ticket for SSLC public examination. His son, Sabareesh, 9, and another niece, Manisha, 5, were with them. When the bike crossed the four-lane national highway at Thalapathisamudram, a speeding car hit the two-wheeler, seriously injuring the quartet. Kannan and Manisha died on the way to Kanniyakumari District Government Medical College Hospital at Aasaaripallam in Nagercoil, while Sabareesh and Kaavya were admitted to a private hospital with grievous injuries. The bodies were sent to Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital for autopsy. Ervadi police registered a case.
09 June 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Farmers’ party petitions Collector||Farmers across the State will stage widespread protests if no action is taken to counter the Central government’s alleged proposal to scrap free electricity to farmers, said president of Uzhavar Uzhaippalar Katchi K. Chellamuthu in Tiruppur on Monday. In a petition to District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan, the party highlighted issues such as reopening of cattle markets and provision of compensation for farmers in Tiruppur district affected due to laying of high-tension power lines. Mr. Chellamuthu told presspersons that the draft Electricity (Amendment) Bill 2020 was not in the interest of farmers. The Central Government might implement the Bill despite assurances from Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami and Electricity Minister P. Thangamani that the scheme would continue, he alleged. Members of Tamil Nadu Farmers’ Associations led by district president S. Palanisamy staged a protest outside the Coimbatore Collectorate on Monday. The Association also petitioned Coimbatore Collector K. Rajamani.
09 June 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Man arrested under POCSO Act||Tiruppur North All Women Police arrested a 39-year-old man on charges of sexually harassing a 13-year-old girl on Sunday. The accused Selvam allegedly harassed the victim, who was living near his residence, police said. The accused was booked under the provisions of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act and remanded in judicial custody.
09 June 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Man found dead||A middle-aged unidentified man was found dead on railway track at Palayakadu in Tiruppur city on Monday. Police said that the man allegedly committed suicide by holding the electric line above the track. The deceased also suffered severe head injuries as his head purportedly hit the track after receiving the electric shock. Tiruppur Government Railway Police registered a case.  Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.
09 June 2020||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||‘COVID-19 patients’ names not disclosed’||Authorities of the Tiruvarur Government Medical College Hospital have denied that the names and other personal details of the COVID 19 positive patients were being leaked by the hospital, as alleged by a few persons in social media. A couple of persons had, through tweets, complained over the past few days that personal particulars of those who had tested positive were being released by the hospital. Describing the allegation as “absurd,” a senior medical officer of the hospital, who did not want to be identified, said the hospital authorities cannot be held responsible for the leaks as the details were collected by various other government departments.
09 June 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Ketti railway station to get a facelift||One of the most iconic stops along the Nilgiri Mountain Railway (NMR) - the Ketti Railway Station, known for its idyllic beauty and for being featured in many famous movies in the past, is being renovated after sustaining heavy structural damage during last year’s rain in the Nilgiris. The railway station, located a few km outside the Udhagamandalam town and in the Ketti valley, is known for being featured in iconic Kollywood movies. To take advantage of its charm and its popularity, the Salem division of the Southern Railways also incorporated the railway station into its “joy ride” package, where special trains were arranged to carry tourists from Udhagamandalam to Ketti, to provide a small taste to tourists of what it is like to travel the entire NMR route. During the heavy rain that hit the district in August of 2019, three eucalyptus trees from among the plantations surrounding the railway station uprooted and fell on top of the railway station, damaging the main structure of the building, including the roof. “There are plenty of equipment vital for the functioning of the line inside the building, so it has been decided to re-tile the entire roof,” said an official from the Salem division of Southern Railways. “Apart from re-tiling the roof, works will be taken up to renovate the platform as well as the fencing surrounding the railway station,” said an official from the railways, adding that the renovation work will have no impact on the trains passing through the station when services resume. “We expect the work to be completed in a couple of months time,” said the official. The renovation is expected to cost a little less than Rs. 1 crore.
09 June 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Renovation under way at iconic Ketti railway station||One of the most iconic stops on the Nilgiri Mountain Railway (NMR) — the Ketti Railway Station — known for its idyllic beauty and for being featured in many famous movies, is being renovated, after it sustained heavy structural damage during last year’s rains. The railway station is located just a few kilometres outside Udhagamandalam town. To take advantage of its charm, the Salem division of the Southern Railway also incorporated the railway station into its “joy ride” package in which special trains would carry tourists from Udhagamandalam to Ketti to provide them a taste of what it is like to travel along the entire NMR route. During the heavy rains in August of 2019, three eucalyptus trees fell on top of the railway station, damaging the building. “Plenty of equipment vital for the functioning of the line are in the building, and so it has been decided to re-tile the entire roof,” said an official from the Salem division. “As we will be working on the roof, work will be done to renovate the platform as well as the fencing surrounding the railway station,” said an official, adding that the project would have no impact on the trains passing through the station when services resume. “We expect the work to be completed in a couple of months,” said the official.
09 June 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Conservancy workers on contract stage protest||Conservancy workers employed on contract by the Udhagamandalam Municipality (UMC) staged a protest outside the UMC office premises on Monday, alleging that the contractor they were working for was arbitrarily deducting a quarter of their salary each month. The protesters said that a total of 150 workers were employed by the contractor, and he was supposed to pay each person Rs. 571 a day as wages. “However, the contractor deducts Rs. 150 and pays each worker Rs. 420 a day,” alleged members of the Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU), who protested alongside the workers on Monday. “At a time when the role of conservancy workers is so important in fighting the COVID-19 pandemic, contractors are refusing to pay wages to which the workers are entitled to, and the district administration should take cognizance of this and take action against the contractor,” the CITU said. The wage had been agreed upon for the contract workers in a meeting that saw the participation of the Nilgiris district collector, conservancy workers and a member of the National Commission for Safai Karamcharis, Jagadish Hiremani, in March this year. The workers have sought for wage revision and payment of outstanding dues as early as possible.
09 June 2020||June 09 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Veteran airman celebrates 100th B-day||When retired Warrant Officer of Indian Air Force P.D. Pandian celebrated his 100th birthday at his residence in Arumuganeri near Tiruchendur on Monday, he would not have expected a team of government officials, led by Revenue Divisional Officer, Tiruchendur, Dhanapriya, to drop in to greet him with a shawl and bouquet. His surprise and happiness knew no bounds when serving officers from Southern Air Command in Thiruvananthapuram entered his house in full uniform, the attire he loved the most, and greeted him with a salute and bouquet. Born on June 8, 1920, he joined the air force in 1944 and retired from service in 1975 after serving at various IAF bases across the country. “I was in charge of our convoy carrying arms and ammunition in the bases I served,” recalls Mr. Pandian, who participated in the India-Pakistan war in 1971. An outstanding volleyball player, Mr. Pandian won many special awards in intra-IAF tournaments. In 1977, when the badminton team from Arumuganeri, playing under the captaincy of 57-year-old Mr. Pandian in a tournament at Valliyoor, won the title, the spectators were amazed at the athleticism shown by the aged man, recalls his son Jacob Jebaraj, a retired primary school teacher. “My god-fearing father, a hardworking perfectionist, used to send Rs. 60 a month through postal money order to his parents during famine when as he was drawing a salary of Rs. 80,” Mr. Jacob recalls his grandfather as telling him. Though age and weakening physique did not affect Mr. Pandian’s mobility, chikungunya had a telling impact on the veteran airman. “His movements were affected a lot after he contracted the viral infection a couple of years ago,” Mr. Jacob says. When his relatives began narrating the failure of the revenue department to grant him seven acres of land, usually given to airmen after retirement, Mr. Pandian intervenes and stops them. “Do not blame anyone,” he says with magnanimity.
09 June 2020||June 09 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Low footfall and limited items on Day 1||Less than 50% of the hotels in Erode opened on Monday, served a limited number of items and saw low footfall. Erode has over 350 small, medium, large and chain of hotels and restaurants in the corporation limits. They were not allowed to switch on air-conditioners, were asked to carry out disinfection five times a day and shut their operations by 9 p.m. In a meeting with Erode Corporation Commissioner M. Elangovan, the Erode City Hotel Owners Association appealed for extending the time till 10 p.m., stating that more customers came only in the evening. While most of the large chain of hotels and restaurants remain closed, small and medium hotels functioned on Monday. Only idli and pongal with sambar were served in most of the hotels for breakfast. While a few hotels served full meals, the others served only variety rice. “We cannot expect good business on day one as people still fear venturing out”, said M. Ashokan, who runs a hotel on Perundurai Road. The norm that servers should wear gloves and masks was not followed in many hotels, thus posing a risk to customers. Hotels near the railway station and bus stand did not open. Many hoteliers in the city said they would operate only if the situation improved. “Our customers are mostly families and it will take more time for them to visit us”, said a restaurateur at Moolapalayam. “Still people believe that it is not the right time for eat out with families”, said another hotelier in the city. Only a trickle In Krishnagiri too there was lukewarm response from the public to the resumption of dine-in service at restaurants. Many eateries saw only a trickle, while some vegetarian restaurants saw the numbers swell for breakfast. Non-vegetarian restaurants that normally attract a large number of customers were seen struggling, with the menu depending on the customers’ choice. “If there is demand for mutton biriyani on a given day, we will increase it by 2 kg the next day,” said Satish Kumar, Manager of Mangalam. His restaurant had operated with a total workforce of eight persons -- from cooking to billing -- since the start of the lockdown, for home-deliveries. It had shuttered three course meal options, and restricted its catering only to biriyani. Restaurants like his have restricted entry for the public. For instance, Mangalam has closed its air-conditioned space. The open restaurant with six tables now has only three tables. Of the three, only two got filled, he said. The footfall was only 20 per cent of the pre-COVID times. “We have taken all precautions, including gloves, masks, caps for the workers,” he said. Takeaways in Salem In Salem, majority of the hotels restricted services to takeaways. Only a minimal number of restaurants offered dine-in service. Even bakeries avoided dine-in service. Hoteliers said the way forward was uncertain as fear of COVID-19 spread persisted among customers. They also said the operational costs would increase owing to the use of disposable items instead of reusable ones to serve food. The staff was also minimal, which impacted the time taken to serve the customers. “Only 40% hotels have opened and the response from customers is lukeworm. We are facing difficulties in bringing staff from other States and districts, said secretary of Salem District Hotels Association P.L. Palaniswamy. The government should consider exempting hotels from GST, in order to help them survive, he said.  (With inputs from S.P. Saravanan in Erode, P.V. Srividya in Krishnagiri and Vignesh Vijayakumar in Salem)
09 June 2020||June 09 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||HC questions haste to hold Class X exams||Asked how the lives of 9.79 lakh Class X students and over two lakh teachers could be put at risk, the AG said that all measures had been put in place to safeguard them. “Originally, the exams were to be conducted in 3,825 centres from March 27 to April 13. After postponement, we have now decided to conduct the exams in 12,690 centres between June 15 and 25,” the AG added. Only 10 students would be assigned to an examination hall spread over 400 square ft., as against the normal practice of accommodating 20 students. Candidates would be given three reusable face masks. In all, 46.37 lakh face masks would be distributed to students, teachers and others apart from providing soap, running water and hand sanitisers. The examination centre would also be disinfected twice daily, the AG said. Besides, special examination centres would be set up for students residing in containment zones to prevent them from mingling with others and adequate transport facilities would also be provided. Asked about the worst case scenario of a student testing positive for COVID-19 and dying, Mr. Narayan said that nobody could be held responsible if any such incident occurred despite precautions. He claimed that many parents and students actually wanted the examinations to be conducted at the earliest. Explaining the reason for the government’s decision to conduct examinations despite not allowing any school or college to function, the AG cited the difficulty in following physical distancing norms if schools were allowed to reopen. After hearing both sides, the judges decided to take a final call on the issue on Thursday when other pending cases on the same issue would also be taken up.  Originally, the exams were to be conducted in 3,825 centres. After postponement, we decided to conduct the exams in 12,690 centres Vijay Narayan Advocate General
09 June 2020||June 09 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore district||Till June 8   Persons tested +ve so far: 161 Domestic cases: 152 Imported cases: 9 Persons recovered: 147 Death: 1 (Another death cross-notified to Kerala) Active cases: 12    Home quarantined: 1,247 Positive: 114 (No fresh cases on Monday) Discharged: 114 (No active cases)
09 June 2020||June 09 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Street vendors seek permission to function||Street vendors at Chinna Kadai Veethi and nearby areas requested district administration to allow them function. The vendors selling fruits, vegetables and flowers have been provided with identity cards and they complained that while shops have been allowed to operate, officials should also allow them to function. The vendors said that they have been jobless ever since lockdown.
09 June 2020||June 09 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Three killed in road accident near Madurai||Three persons were killed when a car fell into a gorge at Palayur near Peraiyur on Sunday. Police said that eight men from T. Kallupatti had gone in the car of K. Bharathamuthu, 24, to take bath in a well in Saptur on Sunday afternoon. While returning home, Bharathamuthu, who was driving, lost control when he applied sudden brakes and the car fell into the gorge. While the driver and R. Balaji, 21, died on the spot, M. Gowtham Perumal, son of a Special Sub-Inspector of Police, Marimuthu, died on the way to Government Rajaji Hospital in Madurai. Five others injured were admitted to a private hospital. Saptur police are investigating.
09 June 2020||June 09 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||power shutdown||Coimbatore Owing to monthly maintenance work at R.S. Puram sub-station , there will be no power supply on June 10 between 8 a.m. and 2 p.m. in the following areas: Arokiyasamy Road, Ramachandra Road, D.B. Road (part), Lawley road, Thadagam Road, Cowley Brown Road, West Periyasamy Road, T.V. Samy road (West and East), Sambandam road (West and East), Sir C.V. Raman Road, Azad Road, Subramaniam road, Sukrawarpet (part), T.K. Street, Merikar Road, Ponnaiyarajapuram, E.B. Colony, Chokkampudur Road (part), Gopal Layout, Sami Iyer New Street, Gandhi park, Sullivan street (part), Telugu Street, Edayar street, Raja Street (part), BB Street (Part), P.M. Samy colony Sundapalayam Road (part), Flower Market, Makkaliamman Koil Street, Theppakulam Street, Lingapachetty Road, Thiyagarayar Pudhu Street, R.G. Street, Kamarajapuram Area, Devangapet Street 1, 2, 3, Syrian Church Road 1, 2, Devanga High School Road, Shanmuga Theatre Road, R.R. Layout, VVC Layout, Krishnasamy Road and Chinthamani (part).  Kovilpalayam sub-station between 9 a.m. and 2 p.m.:  Sarcarsamakulam, Kovilpalayam, Kurumbapalayam, Manickampalayam COINDIA (part), Vaiyampalayam, Agrahara Samakulam, Kottaipalayam, Kondayampalayam, Kunnathur, Kalipalayam and Mondikalipudur.  June 11   Peedampalli sub-station between 9 a.m. and 4 p.m.:  Kalangal, Peedampalli, Pattanam, Pappampatty, Akkanaickenpalayam, Pattanampudur, Pappampattypirivu, Kannampalayam, Nadupalayam (one part), Chinna Kuili, Naikenpalayam and Pallapalayam.  Kalapatty sub-station:  Kalapatty, Veeriyampalayam, Cheranma Nagar, Nehru Nagar, Sitra, Kaikolapalayam, Valliampalayam, Balaji Nagar, K.R. Palayam, Vilankurichi, Thanneerpandal, Lakshmi Nagar, Murugan Nagar, Peelamedu Industrial Estate, Sharp Nagar and Maheswari Nagar.  ERODE  Due to maintenance work at Vendipalayam sub-station , there will be no power supply in the following areas between 9 a.m. and 5 p.m. on June 10 . Areas affected are Vendipalayam, Molagoundampalayam, Kollampalayam Housing Unit, Solar, Solar Pudur, Nagaratchi Nagar, Transport Nagar, Lakkapuram, Puduvalasu, Parisal Thurai, Karukkampalayam, Nadarmedu (East areas only) and 46 Pudur (19 Road area) and Shastri Nagar. Also, due to underground cable works to be laid from    Erode sub-station , power supply would be disrupted from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. on June 10 at New Teachers Colony, Rani Street, Rana Lakshmanan Nagar, Kumalankuttai, Selvam Nagar, Geetha Nagar, Sangu Nagar, Pari Nagar, Palayapalayam and Pannai Nagar.
09 June 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||A self-less pursuit of common good||Of late, Jyotiba Kallappa’s attire is turning heads in Handiganur and surrounding villages. It is not his sense of fashion that is making him famous. It is just the fact that for the first time in three years, he has changed his shirt. He had taken an oath that he would not change his shirt till the government dug a tank in his village, and stuck to it for three long years. He had been going around various government offices wearing the same light blue shirt, asking them to sanction a percolation tank that could provide water to the fields. and every time he spoke to a government officer, he told them — pointing out at his shirt — that he would wear it as long as they did not sanction a tank. The social worker and worker leader always carried a cloth bag in which he had scores of copies of his applications, drafted in Marathi, for a tank in his village. “I don’t what anything for myself. I want the tank for the fields and our animals,” he wrote on the application. Finally, the Department of Rural Development and Panchayat Raj sanctioned a tank for Handiganur village. It will be taken up under the MGNREGA scheme. But Jyotiba Kallappa is not happy yet. “I will be happy when the tank is completely built and I carry home a pot of water from it,’’ he told The Hindu . A site of 21 acres, marked out of the 32-acre grazing land on the outskirts of the village, has been selected for the tank. Zilla panchayat officials have conceived it to be a micro watershed and begun work from the top. “We have begun work on the ridge to valley line. We are creating contour bunds and boulder checks from the mountain top to the valley side. Once we reach the plateau, we will start work on the tank. It will begin in a week,’’ ZP Chief Executive Officer K.V. Rajendra said. Gram panchayat officials say that the work may need between 1,500-1,600 workers on the project everyday. But Jyotiba Kallappa is not worried. “The site for the tank is surrounded by four or five villages. People from all these villages can contribute to the construction of the tank. I will personally go and invite workers to the site, as it would help percolate water and push up the aquifers in all the nearby villages,’’ he said. He is also happy that Maharashtra returnees from Handiganur and other villages will come to work on the MGNREGA site. “The COVID-19-forced lockdown may finally turn out to be a good thing for our village, after all,’’ he said. “The demand for work in our village is very high. I am sure the gram panchayat accommodates all of them,” he said.
09 June 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Ramesh Katti thanks party||Ramesh Katti, an aspirant for RS ticket whose name had been suggested by the State unit, released a video message to his followers congratulating Eranna Kadadi and thanking the party leadership for choosing an ordinary worker to the Upper House. Mr. Katti said he would cooperate with Mr. Kadadi and work with him in strengthening the party. His brother Umesh Katti has been a Ministerial aspirant.
09 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Three months after first case, Karnataka tally touches 5,760||Three months after the first COVID-19 case was reported in Bengaluru, the total tally in Karnataka touched 5,760 on Monday, with 308 new cases in 24 hours. The first case was a software engineer in Bengaluru with travel history to the United States testing positive on March 8. Bengaluru’s tally currently stands at 501. Monday also saw three deaths being reported in the State, taking the total number to 64 (besides two deaths of COVID-19 patients because of other causes). Winning praise The efforts of the State government and the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike have received appreciation from the Central government as well for containing the spread of virus, even though there has been an escalation in numbers in some districts with the influx of returnees from other States. Six States and 47 cities have followed the approach and strategy adopted by the BBMP war room. Hephsiba Rani Korlapati, special officer, BBMP COVID-19 war room, said BBMP’s preparedness, approach of leaving no case untraced, as well as micro-level planning and effective implementation helped the city keep numbers low. According to the civic body officials, sealing of containment zones also helped. A total of 34.39% of the containment zones have returned to normalcy.  Rise in Kalaburagi Of the 308 cases reported on Monday, 277 passengers have a travel history to other States, while one is a Maharashtra returnee. The largest number of cases were reported in Kalaburagi with 99 new cases. The second largest number of cases were reported in Yadgiri with 66 cases. All three deaths reported on Monday were in Bengaluru Urban. One of the deceased was a 67-year-old male patient who was diagnosed with Influenza like Illnesses and had Ischemic heart disease and ventricular dysfunction. He was admitted to the hospital on June 4 and died on June 8. A 48-year-old female patient who passed away also had a history of ILI. She had fever and breathlessness and was admitted to a private hospital on June 4 and died on June 5. The third patient was a 65-year-old patient diagnosed with a history of Severe Acute Respiratory Illnesses and breathlessness. She was admitted on June 4 to a private hospital and died on June 5.
09 June 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||BJP’s search for alternative leadership on in Belagavi||The Bharatiya Janata Party high command’s decision to field a lesser-known candidate from Belagavi for the Rajya Sabha polls, besides being a snub to the party’s State unit and Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, is also being seen as an attempt to find an alternative leadership in the large district of Belagavi, which has been an influx of leaders from other parties into the BJP fold. The choice of old-time party worker and former Belagavi Zilla Panchayat president Eranna Kadadi as one of the two candidates (the other being Ashok Gasti from Raichur) for the Rajya Sabha polls has trigged speculation that the party could still be searching for credible leadership within Belagavi. Recently, the party got prominent Congress leader Ramesh Jharkiholi into its fold along with his followers including Athani MLA Mahesh Kumatalli. However, taking a cautious route, the party high command had roped in Laxman Savadi and tried to groom him by making him Deputy Chief Minister despite him losing the Assembly elections. However, the strategy is yet to yield desired results as Mr. Savadi is still struggling to project himself as a leader who could become a rallying point for others, say party insiders. Many leaders say that the thinking is strengthening the party cadre at a time when there is influx of leaders from other parties. This would mean that the party is trying to retain the character of its organization by bringing in old-time party workers to the frontline, the insiders observe.  RSS push RSS leaders are said to have influenced the nomination of Mr. Kadadi and Mr. Gasti, according to leaders in Belagavi. “Mr. Kadadi enjoys good rapport with State and national-level RSS leaders. He is soft spoken and non controversial. He remains in touch with all sections of the party and is therefore seen as a go-between during disputes and carrier of confidential messages,” said a leader.  Unanimous election? The decision of the BJP high command to field only two candidates is likely to result in unopposed election of all the four candidates without any need for polls if no other candidate files nominations. While JD(S) national president H.D. Deve Gowda is filing his nominations today, veteran Congress leader Mallikarnjun Kharge already filed his nominations on Monday. This too has puzzled many leaders in the BJP as they are unable to understand whether it is a political gesture in favour of Mr. Gowda or a simple decision to desist from taking political risks of fielding an additional candidate.
09 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Minimal visitors at malls||Malls threw open their doors on Monday with various measures to maintain social distancing and hygiene. People entering malls were subjected to thermal screening before being allowed inside. Staff provided hand sanitiser and checked the hands of customers to make sure that there is no quarantine seal before allowing them in. To ensure a queue, bollards were kept at the entry point of some malls and markings were made on the floor to maintain safe distance. Anusha S, who visited Mantri Mall on Monday, said, “I study in a college nearby. I come here with friends on weekends. I was missing that part, and hence came here with friends after a long time,” she said, adding that a lot of measures had been taken at the mall for the safety of both customers and staff. Another visitor said that in cities like Bengaluru, malls are a part of recreation and that he was missing it for a long time. “I stay close by and visited the place out of curiosity,” the visitor said. Most people went to the supermarkets located inside malls to buy groceries and other household items. Shashikumar, a resident of Yelahanka, who visited a supermarket in RMZ Galleria Mall, said, “I used to come here with family members. I came today for household items. Staff insisted on people maintaining social distance during the time of purchase.” At the mall, security staff were seen wearing face masks and shields. Sanitisers were provided. In the eateries inside malls. people were seen sitting on alternate tables. At some shops, customers were asked to go for digital payments rather than cash transactions. Playing areas for children and movie theatres remained closed. Many stores were yet to open while some were under maintenance. At some malls, security guards were deployed for operation of elevators.
09 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Medical and dental students struggle with online classes||A first-year student of a city-based medical college spends two hours a day in front of her laptop to attend online classes. Earlier this week, as a teacher spoke about salivary glands, she and her classmates had a hard time visualising them. “During regular classes, we would cut open the glands and analyse where it is located inside our bodies. But imagining all this even though we are shown pictures during online classes is very challenging,” she said. Students who have been attending online classes for the past two months say they are struggling to understand concepts without hands-on exposure. The student said many tend to skip classes as they are unable to grasp the concepts. She also said that while they used to have six-hour classes — two for theory and the rest for practicals — now they log on for just two hours of online classes daily. “We have theory classes but are unable to correlate the concepts as there are no theory classes. The online classes serve little or no purpose at all,” a second-year medical student said. Students also said there are often technical glitches such as the slides in PowerPoint presentation not changing and the teacher’s voice being inaudible. What makes it more difficult is that the classes are not interactive and the students can only ask questions on the chat windows. In fact, many colleges have disabled the chat windows after students used them to discuss irrelevant topics in unparliamentary language. Recorded lessons Because of issues in Internet connectivity, many colleges have also sent pre-recorded videos for students to watch and learn. The students also have had internals online. While the theory examination was an open book exam that they had to write online, online viva was held for the practicals. Many students also complained that as they have limited number of online classes, they are being bombarded with assignments — many of which, they allege, don’t add value to their learning. Medical and dental students are also worried about the cascading effect all this will have on their exams. “We definitely need a crash course before appearing for the exams so that we understand the concepts more effectively. All we are doing now is memorising without actually understanding concepts,” said a second-year dental student. S. Sachidananda, Vice-Chancellor of Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences, said there have been a few complaints regarding online classes, but about 85% of students were attending the classes. He said the exam that was supposed to take place in June was now likely to be held in July. Many medical and dental colleges are hoping to conduct a crash course after the lockdown. While most students are unhappy with the new arrangement, college managements are hoping these classes will become a norm. “Online classes are very cost-effective for us. We spend almost half the amount on online lecturers as compared to physical lecturers. If the government takes a decision, college managements can share their teaching resources and the cost of medical education can be reduced drastically,” he said. Another senior official at the university said online classes had some pros and the best lectures could be stored in a repository for students to refer to during exam preparation.     We definitely need a crash course before appearing for the exams so that we understand the concepts more effectively. All we are doing now is memorising without actually understanding concepts A SECOND-YEAR DENTAL STUDENT
09 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Private hospitals get going after restrictions ease||Following the lifting of lockdown restrictions, private hospital managements are now limping back to normalcy. Many who were postponing non-emergency surgeries and treatments are now scheduling them. Over the last week, private hospitals are seeing around 50% admissions compared to pre-COVID-19 times. However, specialists are still avoiding surgeries and procedures that do not need to be done immediately. Orthopaedic, ENT, and ophthalmologic cases are being delayed. In all other specialities, hospital managements have been seeing an increase in patients over the last few days, out-patients and in-patients, said R. Ravindra, president, Private Hospitals and Nursing Homes’ Association, Karnataka. Private hospitals were doing only 10% to 20% business during the lockdown. Many had even asked doctors to take pay cuts due to decrease in patient load. S. Murali, chief of Clinical Services and consultant neurologist at Manipal Hospitals, said patient load has significantly improved since April. However, patients are allowed in the hospital after strict screening procedure, he said. He also said that the respective doctor was given the liberty to decide on non-emergency surgeries based on the clinical condition of the patient. “We run several tests that are part of the surgical risk assessment and in case we feel a COVID-19 test is needed before the surgery, we do that as well in line with the government regulation,” he said. Ajit Benedict Royan, medical director, HOSMAT Hospital, said many elective surgeries which were postponed are now being conducted. He said that a COVID-19 test is done for all patients who undergo surgery involving general anaesthesia. Fracture cases on the rise He said fracture cases, which were almost nil during the lockdown, have increased by 25% as traffic had increased.  COVID-19 test is done for all patients who undergo surgery involving general anaesthesia. Ajit Benedict Royan Medical director, HOSMAT Hospital
09 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Senior doctors do not attend to us, say COVID-19 patients at Victoria Hospital||A common grouse among patients in the COVID-19 ward at the Emergency and Trauma Care Centre on Victoria Hospital campus is that senior doctors and specialists are not attending to them, leaving the responsibility to resident doctors. Most of the senior faculty and specialists, they allege, are passing on instructions from the outside to resident doctors. “I was admitted for 11 days in the COVID-19 ward. No senior doctor came to the ward. I have only seen two doctors, one of whom collected my swab samples on the seventh day, besides two nurses and the cleaning staff,” said a 48-year-old patient from Mulbagal in Kolar district, who was discharged last Friday.Stating that he was waiting eagerly for his sample to test negative, the patient said, “Our progress is monitored only through phone calls by senior doctors to their juniors. They collected my blood samples on the first day of admission for testing my vital parameters. But whenever I asked them about my reports, they said they would ask the senior doctors.”  Many other patients who spoke to The Hindu over phone from the ward said only anaesthesia faculty visited the ‘red’ category patients in the ICU. Patients are classified into red, yellow, and green categories. While red covers those in the ICU, yellow covers patients with comorbidities being treated in the ward, and green indicates the asymptomatic ones. “This ward is in a hospital affiliated to Bangalore Medical College and Research Institute (BMCRI), which has excellent expertise and senior faculty. But none of them have got involved with patients in the COVID-19 ward. Anaesthesia faculty are the only senior doctors who so much as step into the ward,” said a 38-year-old patient. He added that at least occasional visits by doctors would reassure the patients. In fact, the Health and Medical Education departments have received several complaints that specialists and other senior faculty were not attending to COVID-19 patients in wards and were passing on instructions to resident doctors. Following this, Jawaid Akhtar, Additional Chief Secretary (Health and Family Welfare and Medical Education, recently issued a circular asking medical superintendents and district surgeons to prepare a roster and ensure that specialists attend to COVID-19 patients in wards. Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar said he was aware of the complaints. “We have already issued a circular. If they are not following it, we will initiate action against them,” he said. Although BMCRI does not fall under his jurisdiction, Health Minister B. Sriramulu called up a senior faculty member at the institute, who is part of the core team, and sought an explanation.  BMCRI Dean and Director C.R. Jayanthi denied the allegations and said senior doctors regularly went on rounds of the ward. “It is not true that senior doctors do not get involved in the treatment of COVID-19 patients. They monitor the patients’ progress and instruct resident doctors on what needs to be done. We have submitted a report to the government,” she said.
09 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Senior citizens can now travel in BMTC buses||People aged over 65 years can now travel by Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) buses. Though the BMTC had resumed bus services on May 19, at the time, the State government had advised senior citizens to stay at home and avoid travel as a safety measure. On Monday, the chief traffic manager (operations) directed the bus crew to allow senior citizens to board the bus. The order also states that concessions for senior citizens on normal and monthly passes will continue. A BMTC official said, “After resumption of services, many senior citizens started requesting the BMTC to allow them to travel. For their benefit, we have directed the bus crew to allow senior citizens to travel in city buses. However, the number of people travelling would be very low. Senior citizens are entitled to a 25% discount on the normal fare.” The Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) has increased pick up points. Now, apart from at Majestic and Mysuru Road Satellite Bus Station, KSRTC buses are picking up passengers at Navarang, Govardhan theatre, Hebbal, Yelahanka, Kalasipalya and Kengeri. Passengers will be subjected to thermal screening before boarding.
09 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Do States have a system to share data on water release, HC asks Centre||The High Court of Karnataka on Monday asked the Union government whether there existed any mechanism amongst States for sharing information on water release from dams for enabling them to prepare for floods. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice E.S. Indiresh posed this question orally while ordering issue of notice to the Union and State governments on a PIL petition that sought directions to mitigate the impact of floods with the use of proper technology, sharing of information, and a methodical approach under the Disaster Management Act. In his petition, Mallikarjuna A., an agriculturist and social activist from Chelur village in Gubbi taluk of Tumakuru district, pointed out that States were, at present, not bound by the law to intimate their neighbours on possible discharge from different dams into the rivers that also flow through neighbouring States. Narrating the losses and damage due to floods caused by the release of water from Maharashtra last year, the petitioner said it was high time the State and the Centre responded before calamity struck and used technology to predict not only rain, but also likely inflow of rainwater into dams. “With the availability of advanced technology, it is not only meaningless to say that we are losing lives, crops and thousands of crores of public and private assets, it also shows that we are lacking in will and passion to combat a calamity like flood,” the petitioner contended. The petitioner sought a direction to the State to develop a permanent networking system for reaching out to riparian States on forecasting floods and release of water from dams. Pointing out that the State has not conducted surveys contemplated under the Karnataka Land Revenue Act, thepetitioner sought a direction for resurvey for fixing the boundaries of natural resources such as rivers, lakes, tanks, mountains, and forests, as such an exercise would help rewrite the boundaries of natural resources and villages and clear obstructions to river flow.
09 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Guidelines not yet issued||Although it has been more than a week since the new academic year began and private schools started online classes, the Department of Primary and Secondary Education is yet to issue guidelines on conducting these classes. Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar said he had a meeting with officials on Monday, but it was inconclusive and the department would conduct another round of meetings on Wednesday. However, the move has not gone down well with parents, particularly those of pre-primary students. Many parents have decided that their children will not attend these classes. Suraksha S., the parent of a three-year-old, said her son’s preschool has online classes. “The school also gives a lot of homework that needs to be uploaded on the school portal. I do not log in as I find it completely unnecessary. I don’t want to hurry my child to learn quickly. A delay of a few months should be acceptable,” she said. Many parents have also complained to the department that schools were holding online classes to pressure them into paying fees.
09 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||RGUHS plans to hold virtual convocation||With social distancing becoming the norm, Rajiv Gandhi University of Health Sciences plans to conduct a virtual convocation. It will go ahead with the preparations once the Governor gives the nod. While some officials will be present on the dais, students can log in virtually. “It will be similar to a regular convocation. When we tell students that the graduating class can rise, they will have to take the oath standing in front of their computers. The gold medallists will also be awarded medals virtually,” said S. Sachidananda, Vice-Chancellor of the university.
09 June 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Poll panel defers elections||The Election Commission of India has put off elections for Graduates and Teachers’ constituencies of the Legislative Council scheduled to be held this month in view of the COVID-19 situation. Two members each from the constituencies are retiring on June 30. Following this, elections were supposed to be held this month to fill up the vacancies. The new dates are yet to be announced.A decision will be taken after review.
09 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Spike in use of disposables||Several hotels and restaurants that opened up on Monday have taken to serving food in disposables –some biodegradable, others mostly in plastic that is banned – raising concerns. “There is fear among customers that they may contract the infection in a hotel. We need to convince our customers that it is safe to eat here. Since COVID-19 can spread through saliva, eating in cutlery that others have used is a concern. So, most of us have taken to serving food in disposables,” explained P. Chandrashekhar Hebbar, president, Karnataka Regional Hotels and Restaurants Association. Only a few hotels have taken to using biodegradable disposables, like arecanut plates and banana plantain leaves. D. Randeep, Special Commissioner, Solid Waste Management, Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) said they will crack down on use of banned plastic. Using reusables like steel cutlery was the most sustainable option, he added. But SWM activists argue that BYOC (Bring Your Own Cutlery) is the most sustainable solution, not just from the perspective of waste but also for the health of citizens.
09 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Suvidha cabin for SWM staff||In a measure that will provide some relief to Solid Waste Management (SWM) staff, especially pourakarmikas who toil hard to keep the city clean, a ‘Suvidha cabin’ was inaugurated at Malleswaram on Monday. The cabin, designed as a facility room for ‘guardians of cleanliness’, consists of toilets, changing rooms and lockers. The cabin comprises separate space for men and women, and will have water facility along with a first aid kit and mobile charging points. A second such cabin is being readied in Jakkur.
09 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Official transferred||The State government on Monday transferred Rajkumar Khatri, Additional Chief Secretary to Government, Labour Department, and posted him as Additional Chief Secretary to Government, Agriculture Department.
09 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Illegal paan masala units unearthed||Officials of the Commercial Tax Department unearthed unauthorised paan masala manufacturing units functioning during the lockdown in Tumakuru and Chickballapur districts. An undeclared godown was also found at Sira where 340 bags of raw tobacco was stored. The godowns were sealed and penalty of Rs. 21 lakh levied.
09 June 2020||BIDAR,KARNATAKA||Bidar registers 48 positive cases||Bidar district on Monday reported 48 new COVID-19 cases. The total number of positive cases stands at 270. There are 167 active cases and 97 people have been discharged.
09 June 2020||DHARWAD,KARNATAKA||‘State govt. is thinking of providing Rs. 150 crore grant to city corpns.’||The State government is thinking of providing a Rs. 150-crore special development grant to all the 10 city municipal corporations in the State, Urban Development Minister Byrathi Basavaraj has said. Addressing presspersons here on Monday, Mr. Basavaraj said that each one of the municipal corporations would get these special funds in addition to the annual grants of Rs. 100 crore. The urban bodies have placed a demand seeking special grants. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa has agreed in principle to sanction the special grants and Cabinet approval would be given shortly, he said. Mr. Basavaraj said that poeple in tier-two cities are demanding improved basic amenities on lines with those available in Bengaluru. The annual budget of the Bengaluru Bruhat Mahanagara Palike is Rs. 12,000 crore and the population of that city is 1.50 crore. Although, it is not possible to announce similar amount of grants to other city municipal corporations, the government would do its best to ensure development of other cities in the State, he said. Property tax hike On the hike in property tax, he defended the government’s decision and said that it has been a tradition in the State to increase property tax once in five years and accordingly, this year, property tax has been increased up to 30 %. Following public outcry, the government has reduced property tax hike by five per cent. No further roll-back is possible. Further, there is no proposal before the government to introduce one-time settlement scheme to pay pending water cess, he added.  Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa has agreed in principle to sanction the special grants and Cabinet approval would be given shortly, says Byrathi Basavaraj
09 June 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Minister chairs meeting of district officers||Minister for Food and Civil Supplies K. Gopalaiah said here on Monday that he would take elected representatives of all parties into confidence to ensure the development of Hassan district. He was visiting Hassan for the first time on the day he was appointed Minister in-charge of the district. He chaired a meeting with district-level officers and elected representatives. Later, addressing a press conference where his attention was drawn to the government’s decision to shift three government degree colleges from the district, Mr. Gopalaiah said that he would discuss the matter with the Minister concerned after he returned to Bengaluru.
09 June 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Complete roll-back of hike in property tax sought||Taking exception to the delay in ensuring a complete roll-back of property tax hike in the twin cities by the State government, Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) has said that it will intensify its agitation. Addressing presspersons here on Monday, AAP Dharwad district unit president Santosh Naragund and other leaders, including Vikas Soppin, took exception to the tax hike during the pandemic and also mocked the 5 % tax rebate announced by the municipal corporation after protests. Mr. Naragund said that following the hike, a delegation of AAP office-bearers met district in-charge Minister Jagadish Shettar on May 27 and urged him take steps for a complete roll-back of the hike. “However, even 10 days after the meeting, the State government has not taken any decision on the issue,” he said.
09 June 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Devotees throng Kalaburagi temple||The famous Sharanabasaveshwar temple in Kalaburagi opened for devotees nearly after three months, on Monday. The temple was closed as per the lockdown guidelines issued by the government to contain COVID-19. Hundreds of people thronged the temple premises at 5 a.m. on Monday; they waited in queues outside the temple adhereing to social distancing guidelines. The Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) was put in place by the Sharanbasaveshwar Samsthan, restricting activities such as distribution of theertha and prasad, also offering flowers and coconuts, keeping COVID-19 in mind. The temple will be open between 7 a.m. and 10 a.m. and 5 p.m. and 8 p.m. Devotees have been asked to mandatorily wear face masks, maintain social distancing, and to use sanitisers before entering the temple premises. Other temples, including Ram Mandir, Koranti Hanuman Temple, Amrut Sarovar, Vaishnodevi Temple, Lakshminarayan Temple on the outskirts of the city, were thrown open on Monday.  To remain closed However, other famous religious places, including the Dattatreya temple in Deval Ganagapur, Bhagyavanti temple at Ghattarga village in Afzalpur taluk and the Chandrala Parameshwari temple at Sannati in Chittapur taluk in the district, will continue to remain closed till June 30, as a large number of devotees from Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana may flock to these prominent shrines once they are thrown open for darshan.
09 June 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Khwaja Bande Nawaz Dargah ‘Jhela Mubarak’ cancelled||The “Jhela Mubarak” procession that marks the start of the annual Urs of the 600-year-old Dargah-e-Sharief of the 14th Century Sufi saint Hazarat Khwaja Bande Nawaz Gesudiraz in Kalaburagi has been cancelled this year due to the COVID-19 situation. Sajjada Nasheen Syed Shah Khusro Hussaini appealed to the devotees from different parts of the country to postpone their visit as the “Jhela Mubarak” has been cancelled considering the high risk involved in organising such a procession during a pandemic. Though the State government has announced that all religious places can be thrown open to the public, Syed Shah Khusro Hussaini said that the dargah will not be opened right now. A decision on opening the dargah will be taken at an appropriate time. Safety measures as per the Standard Operating Procedure will be followed, he added.
09 June 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||99 positive cases in Kalaburagi district||Kalaburagi reported 99 new COVID-19 positive cases on Monday taking the total number of such cases to 759 in the district. All the 99 persons infected by coronavirus are those who returned from various States. As per the information provided by the district administration out of 759 cases, 213 persons have recovered. There are 539 active cases, while seven patients have died.
09 June 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||COVID-19 lab comes up at United Hospital||With the opening of an ultramodern molecular biology laboratory on its premises in Kalaburagi, the United Hospital, a leading trauma and critical care facility in the region, became the first private hospital in North Karnataka to have COVID-19 test facility. Addressing a media conference in Kalaburagi on Monday, Chairman and Managing Director of the hospital Vikram Sidaaraddy said that it was the first and only standalone private molecular biology lab outside Bengaluru in the State to conduct RT-PCR test to diagnose COVID-19.
09 June 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Govt. to allow sevas in temples after consultation with Centre||Minister for Muzrai Kota Srinivas Poojary said here on Monday that a decision on allowing sevas in temples will be taken after holding consultation with the Union government. Talking to reporters after having darshan at Kadri Manjunatha temple here, Mr. Poojary said that devotees have been demanding that temples be thrown open and they be allowed to offer prayers that would help in boosting their confidence in the fight against COVID-19. “Sevas will be allowed gradually in consultation with the Union government,” he said. The Minister said that most of the temples opened their doors to devotees on Monday. Some temples have postponed their opening as they expect a sudden surge of devotees. “I have to look into issues which have delayed the opening of Kateel Durgaparameshwari temple,” he said. Mr. Poojary came to the Kadri Manjunatha temple along with Mayor Diwakar and some councillors. Following darshan, priests of the temple sought permission to perform rituals to replace the “Garudagamba”. Mr. Poojary said that rituals can be performed by ensuring that there is no violation of safety norms.
09 June 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Govt. looks to encourage tribals to cultivate spice||To shore up the income levels of tribal communities in the State, the government will encourage them to cultivate spices such as ginger and turmeric with institutional support. Nagapura, on the outskirts of Nagarahole National Park in Hunsur taluk of Mysuru district, will be developed as a ‘Model Tribal Agricultural Village’ with funding from the Ministry of Tribal Affairs, Government of India. The implementation will be overseen by various agencies, including the State’s Department of Social Welfare. Kumar Naik, Principal Secretary, Department of Social Welfare, told The Hindu that 280 tribal families in Nagapura who have been resettled and allotted cultivable land would be encouraged to cultivate spices. “It is the second generation of tribals who are living there, and the objective is to encourage them to go beyond conventional agricultural practices,” he said. M.B. Prabhu, a tribal leader based in Hunsur, said tribals were not at home with conventional agriculture such as paddy or sugarcane cultivation. The adivasis are used to the forest environment and by introducing pepper cultivation in the second phase, the project will shift to tree-based agriculture, which will help replicate the forest ecology. It will not only help conserve the local ecology but will also lift up the economic status of the beneficiaries and bring about an attitude change in tribals towards agriculture, he added. The project is expected to be rolled out this year. Also on the anvil is a farmer-producer company to be managed by tribals and a processing unit to add value to turmeric and ginger. K.N. Harsha, scientist, Spice Board, Sakleshpur, said the broad contours of the project were to facilitate the tribal community to take up spice cultivation through good practices such as soil and water conservation, apart from helping improve their economic conditions. Employment The launch of a spice processing unit will not only add value to the produce, but will also provide direct employment to nearly 200 tribals through the year. “There are 530 hectares of cultivable land that will be brought under good agricultural practices, and tribals will also be encouraged to take up seed production instead of grains as the former is more lucrative,” said Dr. Harsha. The authorities have identified cultivation of ginger and turmeric to start with, and once irrigation facilities are made available they can also cultivate garlic and pepper. A seed production centre, an accredited nursery to cater to pepper plantations in Kodagu, and a tribal agricultural knowledge centre will also come up at Nagapura. Technical input will be provided by the Central Food Technological ResearchInstitute, the University of Agricultural Sciences, Bengaluru, Horticultural University, Spice Board, NABARD, and other agencies for initial hand-holding. Once the model is established, the template will be replicated in other parts of the State where tribal populations are significant and adivasis have taken to agriculture, Mr.Naik said.
09 June 2020||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Three foreigners detained inside Bandipur reserve||Three Portuguese nationals were detained by the Forest Department staff for trespassing into the Bandipur Tiger Reserve on Sunday evening. National parks and tiger reserves are out of bounds for the general public but the three foreign nationals were found moving around inside the forest on two-wheelers. T. Balachandra, Director, Bandipur Tiger Reserve, said the field staff alerted the higher-ups about the presence of three foreigners inside the tiger reserve and they were detained for questioning. “But they did not cooperate, and when I asked them to produce their ID proof they in turn asked for my ID following which the police were summoned,” said Mr. Balachandra. Questioned He said they were in Bengaluru in connection with the maintenance and repair of an aircraft belonging to a premier organisation and produced a letter to that effect. They were not supposed to leave Bengaluru but had reached Bandipur and they were being questioned by the Gundlupet police, Mr. Balachandra said. A forest offence case pertaining to trespassing into the tiger reserve was registered against the three who were now in police custody. The two-wheelers of the trio were seized.
09 June 2020||Mysuru/Hassan/Kalaburagi,KARNATAKA||Tourist places reopen, but wanderlust is yet to kick in||Many tourist destinations across the State were thrown open on Monday after weeks of closure, but the public response remained tepid. Visitors were few and far between at most tourist attractions, including Mysuru palace, Mysuru zoo, and Virupaksha Temple at Hampi in Ballari. However, Chamundeshwari Temple atop Chamundi Hills in Mysuru and the Hoysala temples in Belur and Halebid in Hassan district drew a fair share of local devotees. To 58 from 10,000 The iconic Mysuru palace, which draws an average of 10,000 to 12,000 visitors every day, saw just 58 visitors on Monday. “Even on days when there is a Bharat bandh or Karnataka bandh, we usually get 2,000 to 3,000 visitors.A majority of the tourists visiting Mysuru palace come from States like Tamil Nadu, Kerala, and Maharashtra. The tourist footfall is likely to remain poor as long as there are restrictions on inter-State travel,” said Subramanya, deputy director of thePalace Board. No entry tickets for Mysuru palace were booked online on Monday. Most of the visitors appeared to be locals or from nearby districts such as Chamarajanagar. All the visitors were screened for COVID-19 symptoms. An elderly man accompanying a family was asked to come back after the restrictions on entry of people aged above 65 and children aged below 10 were removed. Mysuru zoo recorded just 230 visitors on Monday. The Minister in charge of the district, S.T. Somashekar, who reopened the zoo after almost three months of closure, said 50 tickets were purchased by his supporters and aides, who accompanied him to the zoo. The zoo’s executive director Ajit Kulkarni told The Hindu , “Thankfully, we got some visitors on day one. This is a good precursor. We are in no hurry to attract many visitors. The safety of visitors, staff and animals comes first to us, and the resumption [of operations] has been planned in a staggered manner.” Though Tuesday is a weekly holiday for the zoo, a press statement was issued to clarify that the zoo, and the nearby Karanji Lake Nature Park, would be open on June 9. Meanwhile, Chamundi Hills and the tourist destinations of Belur and Halebid drew hardly any tourists on Monday. The visitors to Chamundeshwari Temple in Mysuru, Channakeshava Temple at Belur, and Hoysaleshwara temple at Halebid were mostly local devotees, who were also made to wear masks, screened, and made to follow social distancing norms. Other attractions Shravanabelagola, another major tourist attraction in Channarayapatna taluk of Hassan, however, has not yet opened its doors to tourists. The Sringeri Sharada Peetha in Chikkamagaluru district allowed devotees to visit the temples on its premises, but with safety precautions. Only 25 people wereallowed in at a time. In Kalyana Karnataka region, a few major attractions such as Virupaksha Temple in Hampi, besides Sharana Basaveshwara Temple and Khwaja Bande Nawaz Dargah in Kalaburagi, opened their doors to devotees. But only a handful people came there. Except for Virupaksha Temple, all the other historical monuments in Hampi heritage site remained closed for tourists. P. Kalimuthu, Deputy Superintendent, Archaeological Survey of India, which manages the site, told The Hindu that only living monuments were opened to the public, as per the government decision. The Kodagu district administration is, however, yet to take a call on reopening tourist sites. Deputy Commissioner Annies Kanmani Joy, after chairing a meeting with stakeholders of the tourism sector in Madikeri on Monday, said a decision on throwing open the popular destinations such as Raja Seat would be taken soon. Safari Safari at Bandipur and Nagarahole also resumed on Monday. While 11 people opted for the safari at Bandipur in the morning, 36 people booked the evening rides. To ensure social distancing, the norm is to accommodate only 50% of the carrying capacity in each vehicle.
09 June 2020||Shivamogga,KARNATAKA||Normal services from Thursday at McGann||Normal medical services at McGann Hospital, attached to Shivamogga Institute of Medical Sciences and a designated hospital for COVID-19 cases, would resume on Thursday, according to Minister for Rural Development and Panchayat Raj K.S. Eshwarappa. Speaking to presspersons after taking part in a meeting to review the functioning of McGann Hospital, Mr. Eshwarappa said that the building that hosts the super-specialty health centre on the hospital premises has been reserved to treat COVID-19 patients. A full-fledged dialysis services would be offered at the hospital from Saturday, he added.
09 June 2020||UDUPI,KARNATAKA||Colourful Yakshagana saris now for anyone’s wardrobe||Efforts are on to make and market Kase saris — which have colourful bold checks and are traditionally worn by Yakshagana (Badagathittu) artistes — to suit any woman’s wardrobe. The Karkala-based Kadike Trust, which has been working to popularise the Udupi sari, which enjoys the Geographical Indication (GI) tag, is now doing the same with Kase sari, which come in bright shades of yellow, red and black checks. “Some decades ago, the late Kamaladevi Chattopadhyaya, founder of the Crafts Council of India, who was attracted to the Kase sari, visited Manjunath Shettigar of Brahmavar, a master weaver, and collected some samples,” said Mamatha Rai, trustee of Kadike Trust. A couple of years back, the Crafts Council of India sought a couple of saris for exhibition at a national conference in Manipal. It was then that the trust decided to encourage weavers to weave Kase sari, which is being marketed as “Yaksha Udupi Sari”. “The marketing of this sari is fetching better returns for weavers and we are sharing profits with them,” Ms. Rai said. At present, about five weavers from three primary weavers’ cooperative societies (at Brahmavar, Shivally, and Talipady) weave these saris. “The Kase sari worn by Yakshagana artistes is 8.25 metres long. But we are getting it weaved for 5.5 metres with a pallu . We presently have orders for weaving 50 saris,” Ms. Rai said. Use of social media The trust has been using social media to popularise these special saris. It is also encouraging weavers’ societies in Udupi district to take up weaving of this sari and is facilitating its marketing. George Amanna, 68, a weaver, said the initiative to popularise Kase sari was laudable at a time when the demand for handloom saris was low. “I hope the trend of wearing Kase sari catches on,” he said. Shashikanth Kotiyan, secretary, Shivally Primary Weavers Service Cooperative Society, Udupi, said the society had weaved about 70 Kase saris (of 5.5 metres length) and supplied them to the trust for marketing so far.
09 June 2020||UDUPI/HASSAN,KARNATAKA||‘96 % of COVID-19 patients in Udupi returned from Mumbai’||Home Minister and Udupi district in-charge Basavaraj Bommai said on Monday that 96 % of COVID-19 patients in Udupi district were those who returned from Mumbai. Addressing presspersons after a review meeting here, Mr. Bommai said that 908 out of a total of 946 COVID-19 cases in the district had Mumbai travel history. Despite the district, which was in the Green Zone for two months, noticing a spike in COVID-19 cases, the discharge rate of recovered patients too was quite high. As many as 247 persons had recovered from COVID-19 and had been discharged from the COVID-19 hospitals in the district. “Our aim is to see that there is no fatality due to the disease,” he said. Of the 946 COVID-19 cases, 929 were asymptomatic, while only 17 cases were symptomatic. There were 627 active cases in the district. The district also had a high rate of testing for COVID-19. As many as 12,530 persons had been tested for COVID-19. At present, there were over 350 persons in institutional quarantine in the district. Byndoor had the highest number of quarantine zones in the district followed by Karkala, he said. Mr. Bommai said that he would take up the demand of the MLAs from the district to provide direct home quarantine facility to those who returned from Mumbai/Maharashtra and seal down their houses. “I will discuss this matter with the Chief Minister and Health Minister,” he said. Village Task Forces had been formed in all villages of the district to supervise those in home quarantine. Standard Operating Procedures would be drawn up for these task forces. A COVID-19 test lab would come up on the District Government Hospital premises here in about a fortnight, Mr. Bommai said. To a query, Mr. Bommai said that over 65 police personnel in the State had tested positive for COVID-19 in the State, and over 30 of them had been discharged after treatment. Steps taken In Hassan, Mr. Bommai told presspersons that the State government has been taking all necessary measures to avoid the spread of COVID-19 infection by quarantining all those who arrived from other States. Mr. Bommai, who chaired a meeting of police officers, said that the infection spread from those who arrived from foreign countries. Then, there were cases involving those who participated in the Tablighi event in Delhi. “Now, the number of cases is increasing because of people arriving from Maharashtra. People here need not panic. We are quarantining all such people and are also taking effective measures to avoid the spread of the infection,” he said. As many as nine policemen had contracted the infection in Hassan. They were recovering. The police had taken enough measures necessary to ensure the safety of the public, he said. Regarding the alleged misuse of funds in the 11th KSRP Battalion, the Minister said that the case had been referred to the CID.
09 June 2020||Vijayapura,KARNATAKA||Prayers offered at masjid||After the Union and State governments made an announcement allowing religious places to be thrown open to devotees, albeit with certain restrictions, the Jumma Masjid in Vijayapura witnessed people offering prayers on Monday. Built in 1578 by Ali Adil Shah, it is believed to be the biggest in South India having a capacity to accommodate around 3,000 persons inside the masjid and almost double the number in the open area within the premises. “Following government orders, we started offering prayers in the masjid,” said Mohammed Yusuf Kazi, chief imam of the mosque. Speaking to The Hindu , he said that all those coming to offer prayers would bring their own cloth on which namaz is offered. “We have removed all carpets,” he added. Mr. Kazi said that normally around 300 persons offered namaz daily in a single row. “Now, since social distancing has to be maintained, we are ensuing around six feet distance between each namazi. This means the same number of people will offer prayers in three rows,” he said. He said that wearing face mask has been made mandatory. Mr. Kazi said that on Fridays when around 3000 people will offer prayers, namazis will cover the entire space inside and in the open area of the masjid. He said that all namazis will have to undergo thermal screening.
09 June 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||66 test positive for pandemic in Yadgir||As many as 66 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Yadgir district on Monday With this, the total number of cases have been put at 581. So far, 92 patients have been discharged from hospital and one patient has died. There are 488 cases in the district. All the 66 persons who tested positive for the pandemic had returned from Maharashtra, and were in quarantine. After they tested positive, they were shifted to the designated COVID-19 hospital in Yadgir district. There were no fresh cases registered in Raichur district on Monday.
09 June 2020||June 09 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Prayers amidst a pandemic||Places of worship opened with various precautionary measures in place. People without masks were discouraged from entering. When The Hindu visited some temples and mosques, wearing masks, maintaining social distancing, use of hand sanitisers and body temperature check at the entrance were common. However, the footfall was low. Only darshana was allowed. There was no distribution of teertha and prasada, no special pooja or darshana in temples. Devotees were not allowed to sit in the temple premises for long. “We have opened the temple after 75 days. It is quite a different atmosphere now,” said a priest at the Halasuru Someshwara temple. Shambavi V. (name changed), a devotee, said that every Monday, the Halasuru Someshwara temple wore a festival look, but now it is completely different. “I am a regular visitor. Precautionary measures are in place,” she said. At most mosques, mats for namaz and water for cleaning are not being provided. D devotees have been advised to bring mats from homes. Mosque authorities have also advised people over 65 to pray from home. At the Jamia Masjid near K.R. Market, people started offering prayers from Monday. Churches in the city will be opened post July 13.
09 June 2020||June 09 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Greens oppose canal work in blackbuck conservation reserve||A group of environmentalists has opposed the construction of a canal as part of Upper Bhadra project through Basur Kawal Blackbuck Conservation Reserve and Biluvala Kawal in Kadur taluk. They have demanded that the State government realign the canals considering the conservation of wildlife and grasslands, critical for breeding Amrit Mahal cattle. In a press release on Monday, Shreedev Hulikere of WildCAT-C, D.V. Girish of Bhadra Wildlife Conservation Trust, and S. Girijashankar, former member of State Board for Wildlife, urged Visvesaraya Jala Nigam Ltd., the agency implementing the project, to realign the canals avoiding wildlife habitats. They have also written to senior officers of the State government on this issue. The agency had sought forest clearance for 31.57 ha of Basur Kawal and 15.3 ha of Bilwala Kawal in Kadur taluk to lay canals to carry water from Bhadra reservoir to dry areas. The environmentalists said the State government had declared Basur Kawal as Blackbuck Conservation Reserve as per recommendation of the Karnataka State Wildlife Advisory Board in 2012. Besides that, protecting the grasslands would be significant considering the wildlife endemic to these areas. “The area had been an important habitat for blackbuck, Indian wolf, Indian fox, Indian Courser, and Sand Grouse among others. Karnataka originally had 4 lakh acres of Amrit Mahal Kawal. Now, it has come down to only 60,000 acres,” environmentalists said.
09 June 2020||June 09 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Customers trickle into restaurants||Hotels and restaurants opened for dine-in on Monday after over two months, to a new normal of social distancing, disposable cutlery and thermal scans. Industry bodies indicate restaurants got a mixed response, with the number of customers less than a quarter of the pre-lockdown levels. Restaurants had precautionary measures for both customers and employees. Thermal scans and hand sanitisers at the entrance were in place at most hotels in the city, and wearing masks was mandatory. At hotels with seating arrangements, only two persons were allowed to sit at a table for four. Some hotels, such as Vidyarthi Bhavan in Gandhi Bazaar, have tweaked the infrastructure and created fibre glass partitions on the tables to avoid contact between customers. At most hotels with self-service, hoteliers had drawn boxes six feet apart for customers to queue up to collect food. While all Darshinis have hand sanitisers, very few of them have put up thermal scanners. However, it is evident that citizens are yet to take to eating out in the COVID-19 era. “The business has been lower than what we expected – less than 25% of the normal levels,” said P. Chandrashekhar Hebbar, president, Karnataka Regional Hotels and Restaurants Association. “There is a latent fear among people that eating out may lead to contracting the infection. It will take time to remove that fear psychosis,” he said, adding the Association expects it will be at least three months before business picks up. Chef Manu Chandra, Bengaluru chapter head of National Restaurant Association of India, said the response on day one was mixed. “Some restaurants were happy to report their customers returning. But others may take some time to revive business. We are unsure of how this would pan out. By June-end, we may be able to have a clearer picture,” he said. “There are labour issues, as several of the workers have gone home. Coming back and the mandatory quarantine are issues,” he added. Mr. Hebbar said nearly 40% of the labour workforce had gone home, crippling nearly 20% of the industry. The State government has not allowed restaurants to serve liquor on their premises. Pubs and resto bars have not been allowed to open. NRAI petitioned Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Monday to allow liquor to be served in restaurants. “When liquor is being sold at retail counters, we don't see why a customer cannot have a drink at a table. With social distancing and curfew from 9 p.m., business is already down to less than half. We need to leverage our real estate well to make the business viable. Liquor sales are key to this,” Mr. Chandra said.
09 June 2020||June 09 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Government tweaks quarantine rules again||The State government on Monday tweaked quarantine norms again for passengers coming from Maharashtra. Now, asymptomatic passengers will have to undergo seven days institutional quarantine followed by seven days home quarantine. Home quarantine period was till now 14 days. The norms also offer relaxation to business travellers coming from other States to Karnataka for a short duration. The order issued on Monday states that if a business traveller is coming for 48 hours, he is exempted from COVID-19 test and quarantine but will have to wear mask, use hand sanitisers, and follow other etiquette. Only if the duration of the business traveller in Karnataka is more than 48 hours and less than seven days, they will have to undergo a COVID-19 test on arrival and can complete his/her engagements after the negative test report. The order exempts the business traveller from the test and quarantine if they have a COVID-19 negative test which is not more than two days old. In another move, business travellers from Karnataka who go to other States and return within four days need not be tested or follow quarantine norms when he or she gets back. They should report their health status on the Apthamitra helpline for 14 days. Transit travellers should have a ticket that is not more than a day old and if the passenger is travelling via road, they will be stamped and will have to give address proof of their destination. The order states that the Deputy Commissioner of the district or BBMP Commissioner can assess the quarantine details of the inter-State traveller. If the Deputy Commissioner feels that quarantine can be bettered by changing it from home to institutional or vice-versa, he/she can do it by providing information to the State surveillance unit with reasons for change.
09 June 2020||June 09 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Bengaluru unlocked||
09 June 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||KSSP calls for deepening of channel at Thottappally||The Kerala Sastra Sahitya Parishad (KSSP) has urged the State government to ensure the deepening of the leading channel of the Thottappally spillway along with the opening of the Thottappally pozhi (sandbar) mouth. In a statement issued here on Monday, KSSP district president, B. Krishnakumar said that the sand removed from the Thottappally pozhi should be redeposited, after separating minerals, at Purakkad coast (north of the Thottappally harbour), where coastal erosion was rampant. He said that the move to redeposit the sand at Chellanam was unscientific. “The government is deepening the leading channel and removing sand from the Thottappally pozhi mouth to reduce the severity of the flood. Although there is a difference of opinion, it needs to be done on an experimental basis. The sand is given to Kerala Minerals and Metals Ltd (KMML) and Indian Rare Earths, both public sector undertakings. But, local residents remain sceptical of the government move. This is because a lot of enthusiasm is being shown in removing mineral-rich sand from the pozhi, but at the same time departments concerned are showing a lackadaisical attitude in regard to the deepening of the leading channel,” Mr. Krishnakumar said. He said that along with deepening of the leading channel, steps should also be taken to restore its width at the earliest. Deepen other pozhis “The Thottappally Spillway alone will not be sufficient to ensure the flow of excess water. The Thrikunnapuzha cheepu should be opened along with deepening of small pozhis,” Mr. Krishnakumar said. The KSSP suggested the planting of plants of different species to protect the coast and prevent sea erosion. Last month, as per a State government decision, around 550 trees in a land in the possession of the Irrigation Department close to the Thottappally pozhi were chopped down. According to the government, the trees were felled to widen and deepen the mouth of the pozhi to ensure the smooth flow of water from Kuttanad through the Thottappally Spillway to sea. The government further allowed the KMML to remove sand from the pozhi and the place where the trees once stood. According to officials, the KMML has been given permission to extract two lakh cubic m. of sand. The KMML will pay Rs. 465 per cubic m.
09 June 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Products from aquatic weeds||A team of researchers and students has launched EichhoTech, a start-up venture aimed at utilising the aquatic weed Eichhornia crassipes (Water Hyacinth) for the manufacturing of a diverse range of eco-friendly value-added products. It was inaugurated by A.M. Ariff, MP, on Friday. Anoop Kumar V., a research scholar at the P. G. Department of Zoology and Research Centre, of Sanatana Dharma (SD) College, Alappuzha is the chief executive officer and team leader of the start-up. Other members include Haree Krishna, Issac George and Arya. S, all postgraduates from the Zoology Department of the college. G. Nagendra Prabhu, principal investigator, Centre for Research on Aquatic Resources, S.D. College, Alappuzha will guide the team as its mentor and transfer technologies that he had developed over 20 years to the start-up. Mr. Prabhu said that it was the first student start-up from S.D. College. The value-added products from Water Hyacinth include biodegradable pots for indoor and outdoor plants, multi-purpose boards, pens, exclusive designer works of art, souvenirs among other things. The team has already secured financial assistance, external mentoring and technical support from experts for three years through the Young Innovators Programme of the Kerala Development and Innovation Strategic Council of the State government, a pressnote issued here said.
09 June 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Elderly woman in quarantine dies||An elderly woman who was in home quarantine in the district after returning from another State last week, died on Monday. The deceased was identified as a native of Pavukkara. Officials with the Health Department said that the person had developed chest pain and was immediately rushed to a private hospital at Parumala in Pathanamthitta in the morning. Although medics performed a procedure on her, she later died at the hospital. Cardiac arrest “According to a preliminary assessment, the person died due to cardiac arrest. Her body is being kept at a morgue in Pathanamthitta,” said an official. Although the deceased had not shown symptoms of COVID-19, her body fluid samples have been sent for testing and results are awaited, the official added.
09 June 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Five more in Alappuzha||Five more people including four of a family tested positive for COVID-19 in the district on Monday. According to officials, all five are imported cases. One of the patients, a 50-year-old Haripad native, came from Dubai on June 3. As he was showing symptoms of the disease on arrival at Karipur international airport, the person was immediately shifted to the Government Medical College Hospital (MCH), Manjeri in Malappuram. A woman and her three daughters, hailing from Thazhakara, had come from Abu Dhabi on May 31. They were in quarantine after reaching the district. Officials said that the four had been shifted to the MCH, Alappuzha, for treatment. The number of active cases in the district stands at 79. The district has so far seen 95 COVID-19 cases.
09 June 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||Mosques to remain closed||In the wake of the widespread outbreak of COVID-19, the Thalassery Joint Muslim Jamath has decided to close down all the 51 mosques in Thalassery Municipality. The Jamath also appealed to mosque committees to take up cleaning work in view of the monsoon.
09 June 2020||KASARAGOD,KERALA||Virtual Q app for patients||The Kasaragod General Hospital (GH) has introduced a ‘virtual Q’ mobile app to issue tokens to patients during the pandemic period. The app named GHQ was developed by the department of computer science at LBS Engineering College. District Collector D. Sajith Babu launched the app here on Monday. Tokens can be booked using the app from Tuesday from 6 a.m. to 8 a.m., said Dr. K.K. Rajaram, superintendent, General Hospital. The app can be downloaded fromhttp://tiny.cc/ghque.
09 June 2020||KASARAGOD,KERALA||Antibody tests to ascertain community spread||Considering the exponential rise in the number of COVID-19 cases and to ascertain whether community spread is on, the Health Department has decided to conduct antibody tests in the district from Monday. District Medical Officer A.V. Ramdas said health workers, policemen, public relations officials, government employees, migrant workers, truck drivers, people with recent travel history, those in home quarantine and government centres, people above 60 years of age, and those diagnosed with lung diseases would be tested. Besides police personnel, Accredited Social Health Activists, anganwadi staffers, journalists, food suppliers, shopkeepers, volunteers, and those who have come into contact with truck drivers will be examined. The tests will be conducted at Manjeswaram Taluk Hospital, Mangalpady Taluk Hospital, Panathadi Taluk Hospital, Kanhangad District Hospital, and Kasaragod General Hospital. Teams of medical officers, staff nurses, lab technicians, and junior health inspectors will be deployed.
09 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Food authority drive against lacing of fish with chemicals||The Food Safety and Standards Authority is set to step up operations against the use of harmful chemicals to preserve fish. The monsoon trawling ban comes into effect on Wednesday midnight and the ban period is associated with comparatively less supply of fish in the market, prompting unscrupulous elements to resort to the use of harmful chemicals as fish prices have shot up in the wake of the lockdown. A senior official of the Food Safety Authority said on Monday that nine tonnes of fish, found to contain harmful chemicals or stale, were seized and destroyed during the last two months in Ernakulam district. Operations by the authority officials had continued at different places in the district in the wake of complaints. Major markets and fishing harbours were under observation. In case of particular complaints even small outlets would be targets of inspection, said the official. The clarification came amidst allegations from local fishermen that the government was turning a blind eye to the practice of selling adulterated fish in the open market. There is considerable concern among the fishermen’s community that fish from other States would be used to fill the demand-supply gap as the trawling ban comes into effect for two months. The National Fish Workers’ Forum leader, T. Peter, alleged that there was some laxity on the part of the authorities in keeping a vigil over the retail fish market. The charges have been denied by the authorities who said they were aware of the situation and vigilant against malpractices. Prices down Meanwhile, the price of fish has cooled considerably over the past fortnight after the lockdown restrictions were eased on fishing activities. The price of oil sardines came down to about Rs. 170 a kg on Monday from Rs. 280 a week ago, said M.S. Jayan, a fish worker in Champakkara. Matsyafed sources said that its outlets were not procuring sardines as no local supplies were available. Indian mackerels sold for Rs. 360 a kg on Monday while tunny varieties were selling for between Rs. 260 and Rs. 300 a kg in the retail market in Ernakulam. Shrimp varieties sold for Rs. 430 to Rs. 500 while trevally sold for Rs. 440 a kg. Local favourites such as pearspot was dearer and sold for Rs. 450 to Rs. 500 a kg. Smaller seer fish weighing about 1 kg sold for Rs. 480.
09 June 2020||Kochi,KERALA||CSML system to streamline public access to govt. services launched||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan inaugurated Cochin Smart Mission Limited’s (CSML) Integrated Command Control and Communication Centre (IC4) and solar power project via videoconferencing on Monday. “The IC4 system streamlines public access to services since it uses technology to connect the workings of various departments,” he said. In case of flood or disease outbreaks, extending immediate help to affected areas will become easier with interactive web maps of the city available at the centre, including that of the road network and traffic. Public’s portal A citizen’s web portal and mobile app are part of the IC4 project, allowing people to file complaints including those related to waterlogging, streetlights, illegal constructions and waste management, through the system. Residents who do not have access to the technology can access the system through Akshaya e-centres, the Chief Minister said. Officials concerned are required to act on the complaints in a time-bound manner. Visuals from CCTV cameras installed in public places across the city can be accessed from the centre. LED streetlights set up as part of the CSML project can also be controlled from a single point. While police, fire and rescue services and KSEB services have been integrated at the centre, eventually other government services are also likely to be included. The centre will function from the premises of the Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium metro station. CSML’s solar power project was also inaugurated. As many as 28 buildings have been equipped with solar panels that will generate 14.6 lakh units of renewable energy per year. This is likely to reduce the government’s expenditure on electricity by around Rs. 1.2 crore, besides reducing carbon emissions by around 1,000 tonnes. Minister for Local Self-Governments A.C. Moideen, Hibi Eden, MP, MLAs P.T. Thomas and T.J. Vinod, and Mayor Soumini Jain participated in the meet.
09 June 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Three more test positive in district||Three more persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Ernakulam on Monday. One person is a 55-year-old Chennai native who had reached here on May 31 from Nigeria. Another person is a 35-year-old Edathala native who had reached here on May 26 from Kuwait. The third patient is a 27-year-old from Thuravur, Angamaly, who had reached here on June 1 from Abu Dhabi. All three were under institutional quarantine. There are now 52 COVID-19 patients in the district. Of them, 47 are in the Government Medical College Hospital (MCH), one patient is in a private hospital and four are being treated at INHS, Sanjeevani. The total number of people in quarantine is 10,814, of which 9,447 are in home quarantine, 566 are in COVID Care Centres and 801are in paid quarantine facilities.  BIN-19 installed District Collector S. Suhas on Monday inaugurated an automated mask disposal machine on the Collectorate premises. Kochi-based VST Mobile Solutions came up with the facility called BIN-19. This was created with technical help from Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute for Medical Sciences and Technology, Thiruvananthapuram. Developed with techniques supported by Internet of Things (IoT), the facility works without any human touch. BIN-19 also has a facility to sanitise hands that drop mask into it.
09 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||‘PC Kuttanpillai’ may go in for early retirement||It had taken the Kerala Police quite a great deal of undoing through the social media and off it to get rid of the name “Kuttanpillai police”, which symbolised everything that was wrong about the men in khaki. But even then whenever the police were found out of line, that derisive term was evoked to remind them of the bad reputation they once had. Now it seems that “Kuttanpillai” has come back to haunt the force yet again with a video posted by the social media wing of police on their YouTube channel on Sunday bringing them brickbats. Yet another initiative The video titled “PC Kuttanpillai Speaking” was yet another social media initiative of police to reach out to the public about its cyberspace presence and round-the-clock surveillance. But it seems to have backfired with some online commentators and women activists deriding it as police’s attempt at ‘roasting’, a phenomenon of outspoken online criticism popularised recently by a young Malayali youngster by the name Arjun who turned an online sensation with his ‘roasting’ videos during the lockdown. And if that was not bad enough a section of the video involving a popular female TikTok star was dubbed by activists outright misogynist. “We have never regarded the video as ‘roasting’ while the portion involving the TikTok star was included with her consent. A rather sharp and abusive comment to her video and her equally sharp response was used to drive home the message that it was not free-for-all in the cyber space and that police were monitoring,” said an officer associated with the creation of the video. Asked whether the choice of the name Kuttanpillai was a mistake to begin with, he said that the choice was deliberate as the idea as the intro of the video itself went on to establish was that the likes of “Kuttanpillai” have no place in the force any longer. New age face “We wanted to reflect the new age and tech-savvy face of police by propagating our initiatives like cyberdomes. All that we tried was to package it in a way to attract people’s attention instead of going for drab awareness videos. Even the comments on the video were largely positive till a YouTube channel and some activists started targeting it,” he said. Revival for channel With the attempt evoking hostile response police are seriously mulling whether to retire “PC Kuttanpillai” for good. Notwithstanding the setback, the video seems to have rejuvenated the moribund YouTube channel of the police with its subscription soaring from a mere 9,000-odd to over 1.70 lakh in just over 24 hours. The video itself attracted over a lakh likes and over six lakh views.
09 June 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Major temples to reopen today||After remaining closed for almost three months during the COVID-19 lockdown, a few major temples that are under the administrative control of the Cochin Devaswom Board (CDB) will be thrown open to worshippers on Tuesday. They include the Siva Temple, Ernakulam; Sree Krishna Temple, Ravipuram; Devi temples at Valanjambalam and Chottanikkara and Sree Poornathrayeesa Temple, Thripunithura. Most of the 406 temples managed by the Board would be open from Tuesday, said A.B. Mohanan, president, CDB.  Thermal screening Worshippers and management committees have been asked to strictly follow physical-distancing norms and health guidelines issued by State and Central governments. Worshippers will be screened for fever using thermal scanners. They will have to register their names, address and contact numbers at temples. Hand sanitisers and liquid soaps will be provided. Only 10 persons would be allowed entry into temples at a time, said Mr. Mohanan. There is a ban on offerings to temples including Thulabharam . Devotees would not be allowed to take sandal paste and Theertham ( sacred water) on their own. All set “Preparations for receiving worshippers have been made at Siva Temple,” said P. Rajendraprasad, president of Kshetra Kshema Samithi. Devotees would not be allowed to stay inside the temple precincts during the time of rituals, he said. The Board authorities don’t expect a heavy rush of devotees on day one. “There is a growing understanding about the COVID-19 situation and the need for maintaining physical-distancing norms among the general public. So the devotees are unlikely to reach temples in large numbers,” Mr. Mohanan said. The CDB has suffered a loss of around Rs. 45 crore during the lockdown period as most of the annual temple festivals and rituals had to be called off. As revenue sources dried up, the Board had to depend on the interest accumulated on fixed deposits in banks to pay salary of its around 2,000 employees, he said. Meanwhile, the Ameda Temple authorities issued a press release saying that the temple, located at Udayamperoor near Thripunithura, will remain closed to the faithful for some more time.
09 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Community testing from today||Tests to detect the presence of antibodies in the wider community as part of COVID-19 surveillance will begin in the district on Tuesday. A meeting convened by District Collector S.Suhas on Monday issued the necessary directions in this regard. About 500 samples would be tested in the first phase. Assistant nodal officer of Ardram, Dr. Nikhilesh Menon, and assistant laboratory surveillance officer, Dr.Gouri Kripa, would be the nodal officers of the programme. Healthcare workers in COVID-19 hospitals, volunteers, policemen, traders, and hotel employees will be tested as a priority. Patients reaching government and private hospitals with respiratory illnesses too would be tested for antibodies. Those who have completed the quarantine period and do not have any symptoms would also be tested. In seven days, 11 categories of people will be tested. In category 1A, 14 employees from COVID-19 treatment centres, medical college hospital and 12 employees from hospitals in Aluva, Muvattupuzha, and Karuvelipady would be tested. The next category of 1B would comprise employees of non-COVID-19 hospitals. Muvattupuzha, Kochi, Aluva, and North Paravur are the taluks selected for antibody testing in this category. Police personnel, field officials, employees of local self governments, mediapersons, and anganwadi employees come next under category 2A, while ration shopkeepers, food distributors, community kitchen volunteers come in category 2B. The rest of the people, including those in quarantine in COVID-19 care centres, the elderly, and members of the general public would be tested in a phased manner.
09 June 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Writ plea against Faircode selection||A writ petition was filed on Monday in the High Court challenging the selection of Faircode Technologies, Kochi, for developing a virtual queue management app for liquor sale in the State. In its petition, Teebu Marketing Pvt. Ltd., Kochi, a start-up that specialises in developing mobile phone applications, alleged that the selection process adopted by Kerala Startup Mission (KSUM) was illegal. The petitioner too had participated in the technical presentation before the technical committee of the KSUM. The petition alleged that the selected company was not a start-up. It was selected in violation of all guidelines prepared by the State Electronics and IT Department regarding the awarding of mobile app projects for start-ups.
09 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||High Court sets aside suspension of CI||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court on Monday set aside the order suspending N.G.Sreemon, Thodupuzha Circle Inspector from service for involving himself in a civil dispute case. The Bench comprising Justice A.M.Shaffique and Justice Gopinath P, however, directed the disciplinary authority to take appropriate action against the officer in accordance with the law. A single judge had ordered his suspension on a writ petition filed by Babychan Varkey. The Bench observed that suspension of an officer arises only when the disciplinary authority prima facie forms an opinion that the officer should be kept under suspension pending inquiry. When a court directs that an officer should be suspended, it virtually negates the right of such an officer to challenge the order of suspension in appropriate proceedings. The single judge might have issued the order because the officer was involved in several misconducts, but still it was not appropriate for the court to direct suspension of an officer of the government, the bench said.
09 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Flyover case: VACB asked to share details with ED||The Kerala High Court (HC) on Monday asked the Vigilance Anti-Corruption Bureau (VACB) to share the progress of the investigation and the essential details of the Palarivattom flyover corruption case registered against former Public Works Minister V.K. Ebrahim Kunju, MLA, with the Enforcement Directorate (ED) to enable it to conduct effective probe into a money-laundering case, a spin-off of the corruption case. Justice Sunil Thomas passed the directive when a petition filed by G. Girish Babu of Kalamassery, Kochi, seeking a VACB probe into alleged illegal money transactions involving crores of rupees during the time of demonetisation into the account of Chandrika , a mouthpiece of the Indian Union Muslim League.
09 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Case of cheating against financial firm||The Ernakulam Central police have registered a case against a financial institution in the city on charge of cheating people by promising them housing loans. The case was registered against the institution on MG Road on a petition filed by two victims on not receiving the loans as promised. The petitioners claimed to have lost Rs. 2.50 lakh and Rs. 75,000. The police suspect that more than 100 persons might have fallen prey to the alleged fraud. The victims were allegedly enticed by promising housing loans running into crores of rupees against collateral securities irrespective of the liabilities attached to them. While Rs. 5,000 was collected as registration fee from each applicant, between Rs. 9,000 and Rs. 25,000 was collected towards valuation of properties, the police said. This was in addition to the collection of Rs. 2 lakh to Rs. 10 lakh in the guise of insurance though it was not known how many had paid for the insurance.
09 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Held for attacking councillor||One person has been arrested on the charge of assaulting and injuring Kochi Corporation Councillor A.B. Sabu on Monday. Ansar (29), the driver of a goods auto, was charged under Sections 283 (causing danger or obstruction in public way or line of navigation), Section 324 (voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons) and Sections 427 (mischief causing damage). The driver had attempted to navigate the goods auto through a one-way road near Thykoodam where drain work was being carried out. When residents and Mr. Sabu attempted to stop the auto, the Councillor who represents Poonithura, was reportedly attacked.
09 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||1 held in flood relief scam second case||Days after registering a second case in the embezzlement of funds from the Chief Minister’s Disaster Relief Fund (CMDRF) in the distribution of relief to the victims of the 2018 deluge, the C-Branch has registered the first arrest in the case. Vishnu Prasad, who served as clerk in the CMDRF section of the district collectorate and is the key accused in the first case, was the one arrested.  The probe team stumbled upon a second and even bigger embezzlement suspected to be running in excess of Rs. 50 lakh even as they were investigating the first case.
09 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Attack on youth: 2 held||The police have arrested Basil Eldhose, the key accused in a case related to the hacking of a youngster in Muvattupuzha town on Sunday evening. Eldhose, 20, who had been absconding after the attack, was arrested from a hideout at Kothamangalam around 8 p.m. on Monday. He will be produced in court on Tuesday. The police also detained a 17-year-old, who is the second accused in the case. He allegedly drove the motorcycle on which Eldhose approached the victim and hacked him. The police on Monday picked up the juvenile from his friend’s house at Kothamangalam where he was hiding after the incident. The victim, Akhil Sivan, 20, an automobile engineering student in Kochi, was rushed to the Kottayam Medical College Hospital, where he underwent emergency surgery, and is now reportedly out of danger. “The first accused had been harbouring a grudge against the victim, who was in love with his sister,” said a senior police officer. He reportedly had an argument with his sister on Sunday, and probably vented his anger on the victim. Though some reports had painted the incident as an attempt at honour killing, the police ruled that out.
09 June 2020||Kochi,KERALA||HC moved against SWC chief||A quo warranto writ petition was filed on Monday before the Kerala High Court seeking to remove M.C. Josephine as Chairperson, State Women’s Commission (SWC), for her purported statement that her party, CPI(M), was functioning as police station and court. In her petition, Kerala Pradesh Mahila Congress president Lathika Subhash said Ms. Josephine made the statement when asked about allegation against CPI(M) MLA P.K. Sasi.
09 June 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Joseph faction defers no-trust move||Striving hard to avoid a flare-up in the Kerala Congress (M) over the change of guard at the Kottayam district panchayat, the Congress appears to have received a temporary relief with the Kerala Congress (M) faction led by P.J. Joseph deferring its plan to move a no-confidence motion against the rival group for a couple of days. Official sources attributed the deferment to an intervention by senior leader and AICC member Oommen Chandy. Based on a request by the Mani faction, Mr. Chandy urged the rival group to put the motion on hold till Wednesday evening. While confirming the decision, the Joseph faction leaders also remained hopeful that the Congress, which has a commitment to execute the post-sharing agreement, would extend its unconditional support to the motion. Last week Mr. Joseph had set a deadline of two days for the incumbent president of the local body — a nominee of the Mani group — to step down from the post. Reconciliation talk Meanwhile, a reconciliation talk initiated by Revolutionary Socialist Party (RSP-B) leader Shibu Baby John the other day too had failed to reach a breakthrough as the Jose faction stood firm on its stance of not handing over the post to the rival group. Instead, it urged the mediators to wait for the decision of Election Commission of India (ECI) on the ongoing factional dispute while also pointing out that a change of guard in the time of COVID-19 outbreak would create difficulties for public. At the same time, the faction also expressed its willingness to offer the post to the Joseph group if the UDF wins the local body in the next election.
09 June 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Three cases in Kottayam||Three women, who had returned to Kottayam from various overseas destinations, were tested positive for COVID 19 here on Monday. Officials said two women from Thalayolaparambu and Akalakunnam, who returned from Kuwait on May 27 were tested positive for the virus infection. The two had been admitted to an institutional quarantine centre near Thuruthy on their arrival here. The third patient, a 30-year-old woman from Kodungoor, came from Jeddah on May 29 and was remaining in home quarantine. With these latest cases, the total number of active cases in Kottayam district rose to 35..
09 June 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||13 new patients in Kozhikode||As many as 13 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kozhikode on Monday, taking the total number of active cases in the district to 70. According to a release by District Medical Officer V. Jayasree, six of them had returned from Abu Dhabi on May 27. Another five persons had returned from Kuwait on May 27. The remaining two are from Pantheerankavu in Kozhikode city, aged 49 and 19. They had returned from Chennai by car on May 17. 8 cases in Kasaragod Eight persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Monday. District Medical Officer A.V. Ramdas said three of the patients had come from Kuwait, two from Dubai, and three from Maharashtra. With this, the total number of patients in the district have reached 109. In Kannur The number of COVID-19 patients continued to soar, with four more testing positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Monday. The patients include three who returned from abroad and one from Mumbai. With this, the number of COVID-19 patients in the district has risen to 262. Of them, 146 were discharged. In Wayanad Two fresh COVID-19 cases were reported in Wayanad district on Monday, raising the total number of cases to 45. Meanwhile, two persons recovered from the disease on Monday. Of the 45 cases reported in the district, 26 have been discharged. As many as 3,675 persons, including 638 tribal people, are under observation.
09 June 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||New visa validity period rule puts NRIs in trouble||A new visa norm set by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) to allow Indians to travel abroad against the backdrop of the COVID-19-induced lockdown has placed hundreds of Non-Resident Indians (NRIs) in a piquant situation. The revised Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) released by the MHA for movement of persons stranded in India who wish to travel abroad stipulates that the visas issued by their host country should have a minimum validity of three months. The UAE-based Pravasi Bandhu Welfare Trust chairman K.V. Shamsudheen, who had already apprised Union Home Minister Amit Shah and Pavan Kapoor, Indian Ambassador to the UAE of the issue, said that the Emigration Department did not have a practice to check the validity of the visas of residents arriving the airport. “Even if the passengers have a one-day validity of that country’s visa, the authorities permit them to land at their airport. Some countries have stipulated the minimum validity of passport and not visas for arrival,” he said. Good gesture As a compassionate measure, Mr. Shamsudheen said that the UAE authorities had already announced that all visas expiring after March 1, 2020, would be considered valid till the end of December 2020. Its government instructed all stranded UAE visa-holders to register online to extend their visa till the year-end. A large number of UAE residents who had visited the country for multiple reasons including holidaying, business and emergency health situation, cannot travel back to the host country owing to the new minimum visa validity period instructed by the Centre. “Many of their families are in the UAE. Some of them are in critical situation in various establishments. Many students will also be stuck in India for longer period,” he said. “The Centre should revise the new rule and permit all residents travel to the UAE. Otherwise those stranded Indians who cannot meet the visa validity rule will lose their jobs,” Mr. Shamsudheen said. According to the SOP, only those persons will be allowed to travel to the destination countries, who are citizens of that country; who have an Overseas Citizenship of India (OCI) green card; Indian nationals who are holding visa of that country with a minimum residual validity of three months. Minister’s tweet Meanwhile, Union Minister for Civil Aviation Hardeep Singh Puri tweeted that a decision to resume regular international operations would be taken as soon as countries ease restrictions on entry of foreign nationals. Destination countries have to be ready to allow incoming flights.
09 June 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Plan to relocate fishers to safer places yet to be a reality||The plan to shift around 2,600 fishermen families living along vulnerable coastal areas in Kozhikode district to safer locations has not turned a reality, with the authorities yet to identify a suitable spot for the rehabilitation project. Objections raised by fishermen families to some of the proposals have also affected the realisation of the project. According to sources in the Fisheries Department, only around 550 families have expressed willingness to accept the relief package and relocate from their existing locations. Most beneficiaries say that they deserve a better rehabilitation package with better monetary benefits. Representatives of various fishermen’s organisations claim that the State government’s rehabilitation package gives only Rs. 10 lakh to a family to buy around three cents of land and build a house less than 600-sq. feet. However, many beneficiaries say it is not sufficient to meet the actual requirement, considering the high value of land, its distance from the harbours, increasing cost of construction and the difficulty in accommodating larger families in small houses. A field study conducted by the Fisheries Department found that all the families identified for the proposed housing assistance scheme lived within 50 metres of the coastline, which is highly prone to sea erosion. According to the study, their relocation continues to be an important issue, considering the safety aspects and the increasing incidents of sea erosion every year. At the same time, Fisheries Department officials say they are not in a position to compel beneficiaries to accept the package and shift to newer locations. According to them, they can only submit the list of interested beneficiaries to the government and implement the project in a time-bound manner. The department is also on the lookout for cheaper land, especially the poramboke land under the possession of the Revenue Department. Meanwhile, fishermen’s association leaders say no one will cooperate with the implementation of the scheme if the government is not ready to revise the existing package. The new houses offered to them should be close to the coastal areas to support their vocation, they add.
09 June 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Husband of woman who moved SC dies||A UAE-based expatriate and the husband of a pregnant woman who had filed a writ petition in the Supreme Court seeking help to return home to deliver their baby, died in Dubai early on Monday. Nithin Chandran, 29, hailing from Perambra in Kozhikode was a mechanical engineer employed with a construction company in Dubai. His wife Athira Geetha Sreedharan was on the first Vande Bharat Mission flight from Dubai to Kozhikode on May 7. Reason unknown Following the suspension of flights to India, Athira had filed a petition for the delivery of their first baby due in the first week of July. Nithin was also supposed to fly with his wife, but he decided to stay back as he did not want to waste a seat on the emergency repatriation flights. The cause of his death has not been ascertained. His body was shifted to Rashid Hospital in Dubai from his apartment for collecting the sample for COVID-19 test before shifting to the police mortuary. Nithin was active in social service including Blood Donors Kerala-UAE chapter and a volunteer of INCAS Youth Wing, a community group.  Pregnant woman in UAE petitioned SC seeking help to return home for delivery.
09 June 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||14-day observation after home quarantine must||District Collector S. Sambasiva Rao on Monday said those returning from abroad or other States would have to compulsorily undergo 14 days of room quarantine at home and complete 14 days under observation. In a release, he said the order also applied to those who might have been in direct contact with patients. After the 14-day room quarantine, people should not venture out of their homes unless for essential purposes, and for that they need to get permission from the ward-level rapid response teams. Police personnel should also monitor their movements. Mr. Rao said the directions were issued in line with the Health Department’s guidelines to contain the spread of the disease as the number of patients among inter-State travellers and expatriates had been going up.
09 June 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Kozhikode Corporation launches app for schools||The Kozhikode Corporation has launched an interactive management mobile application for schools under its ‘Comprehensive Education 2020’ project. ‘Edusap’, launched by Mayor Thottathil Raveendran here on Monday, is designed to handle everything from admissions to transfer certificates on a single platform. The app, which can be accessed using the login ID provided by institution heads, will offer study materials and online classes. It may be downloaded from Play Store or App Store, and a web application is available onwww.edusap.in.
09 June 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Four held on charge of attacking police station||Four persons were arrested in connection with a petrol bomb attack on the Nemmara police station on Saturday night. The arrested are Rajesh, 27, Ramesh, 27, Mithun, 19, and Aneesh, 24. All of them hail from from Idappadam, Thiruvazhiyad. According to the police, they came on two bikes and threw bombs at the station. The image of Rajesh, the main accused, throwing bombs was reportedly captured by the surveillance camera at the station. Following an alleged altercation between the friends of the accused and the police over use of face masks, three persons, Karthik, 24, Pampa Vasan, 50, and Ajith, 25, were arrested recently. It was the arrest that reportedly provoked Rajesh and others to attack the station.
09 June 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||3 more cases in Pathanamthitta||With three more Non-Resident Keralites (NoRKs) testing positive for SARS-CoV-2, the number of COVID-19 patients in the district went up to 106 on Monday. A total of 25 persons among them have already been cured of the disease, according to an official bulletin. A 50-year old woman who reached her home at Parumala from Sharjah on May 30, a 43-year old man who came to his home village of Pandalam from Kuwait on May 28 and a 52-year-old man who came to his home at Eraviperoor near Thiruvalla from Abu Dhabi on May 27 were the three persons who tested positive for SARS-COV-2 on Monday. A total of 4,327 persons are in quarantine in different parts of the district as on Monday. As many as 3,311 people among them have come from various other States and 906 people came from abroad while 110 others are contacts of the patients. A total of 109 quarantined people, that included the patients too, were placed under observation at the isolation wards of various hospitals in the district as on Monday evening. In isolation Of this, 38 persons are at the Pathanamthitta General Hospital, eight persons at the District Hospital in Kozhencherry, two at the General Hospital in Adoor, 37 persons at the Firstline Covid Treatment Centre at Menanthottom Hospital in Ranni, and 24 others at various private hospitals in the district. According to the bulletin, the nasal and throat swabs of 213 persons tested negative. The Health Department is awaiting clinical examination results of 389 throat swab samples from the virology laboratory in Alappuzha.
09 June 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||TDB to ensure physical distancing||The Travancore Devaswom Board (TDB) has made elaborate arrangements at its temples to ensure physical distancing and compliance of various other lockdown guidelines when the temples will be thrown open to devotees after a long gap of 77 days on Tuesday. The Temple advisory committees and TDB officials supervised the cleaning work at various temple complexes across the district on Monday. Murli Malayalappuzha, temple advisory committee president of the famous Bhagavathy temple at Malayalappuzha near here, told The Hindu that flow of devotees to the temple complex would be streamlined and regulated as per the guidelines prescribed by the government. Spots have been marked on the floor for the devotees to wait in queue, keeping definite physical distance, there by avoiding contact. Mr. Murali said the entry of devotees to the temple complex from outside too would be monitored to avoid crowding or grouping together of people. The practice of distributing ‘theerthom’ (holy water) and kalabhom (sandal paste) too would be discontinued with as per the directives issued by the State government as a preventive measure against COVID-19, he said. Intensive cleaning drive was taken up at the temple complexes of the Thiruvalla Sreevallabha Temple, Aranmula Sree Parthasarthy Temple, Chenganur Mahadevar Temple and at the Kaviyur Mahadevar temple on Monday.  Devotees who wish to visit the temple during the period will have to register their names online through the virtual queue system of the Kerala Police.
09 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Three NoRKs test positive in capital||Three Thiruvananthapuram natives who returned from the United Arab Emirates tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Monday. While one of them have been admitted to the Manjeri Government Medical College Hospital (MCH), the others are undergoing treatment in the capital district. A 56-year-old man who hails from Madavoor was admitted to the Manjeri MCH soon after he landed at the Calicut International airport on a special flight from Abu Dhabi on June 3. The man, who had fever and cough, tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Abu Dhabi on May 26, a short while before he was set to embark on a flight. But he was permitted to travel later as another sample returned negative three days later. However, he was shifted to the Manjeri MCH upon his arrival, owing to his persistent cough, and was admitted to the observation ward there with 10 other patients. The second patient, a 44-year-old man from Attingal, returned to Thiruvananthapuram from Dubai on May 29. While he spent seven days in an institutional quarantine facility in the city, he was permitted to go home on Sunday (June 7), two days after his throat swab was collected. However his sample tested positive for the infection on the same day and he was hospitalised. The third patient is a 42 year old from Maranalloor. He reached the Thiruvananthapuram international airport from Dubai on May 28.  79 being treated Currently, 79 patients, including seven Kollam natives, two from Alappuzha and one each from Pathanamthitta and Ernakulam, are being treated in the district. Five Thiruvananthapuram natives are being treated in Alappuzha, Kottayam, Ernakulam and Malappuram (two patients). The district administration placed 742 people in quarantine on Monday, taking the total number of people being monitored to 14,181. Forty-seven symptomatic people were hospitalised. Meanwhile, the City police registered a case against a person from Thumba for violating home quarantine norms. The accused, a driver who had returned after transporting migrant workers to West Bengal, was quarantined at Pallithura. He has been charged under the provisions of the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance 2020 and the Kerala Public Health Act. Eight persons have violated quarantine norms in the city thus far. Stringent action The authorities have warned strict action against those violating quarantine norms in view of the high risk of community transmission, particularly with lockdown restrictions being gradually withdrawn. Convening a review meeting, Tourism Minister Kadakampally Surendran said those found to be violating home quarantine would be arrested and subjected to legal action. He also ordered officials to paste stickers on houses where persons were in quarantine. The City police also registered petty cases against 133 people for failing to wear masks outdoors.
09 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Experts sceptical about timing of antibody tests in State||Kerala launched extensive COVID-19 rapid antibody testing across districts on Monday, with a plan to do at least 15,000 tests a week among health workers in hospitals, those in home quarantine and vulnerable populations such as those with high social exposure, to check if silent disease transmission is happening in the community. Several public health experts are sceptical about the value of antibody testing in the community at this stage of the pandemic, when the case graph is set to scale the peak of disease transmission and already there are very evident signs of “imminent” community transmission. Though Kerala, as many other Sates, had tried to do antibody testing much earlier in the epidemic, in April, the lack of reliable antibody kits had torpedoed that plan. Clues on spread Conducting the antibody testing amongst the health-care workers in hospitals, both COVID and non-COVID, apart from giving clues regarding the spread of infection, will also help the State identify health personnel who may have been exposed to the virus earlier and hence can be deployed on the front-line for patient care. Kerala has procured COVID-19 antibody testing kits manufactured by HLL Lifecare Ltd. for the simultaneous detection of IgG and IgM antibodies through serology (blood tests). Some 10,000 kits have already been supplied to districts and another 40,000 are being procured, the Chief Minister had announced. Since the idea of herd immunity has sparked much interest, antibody testing will answer public health questions like the proportion of the population which may have attained immunity through silent, prior exposure to the virus. But researchers are still not sure about the value of these tests, given the uncertainties and limitations of antibody tests. Questions abound There are still many unanswered questions whether the antibodies that result from SARS-CoV-2 infection will provide sufficient immunity to prevent re-infection or how long this immunity will last. It takes at least one to three weeks for a person to develop IgM antibodies in response to SARS-CoV-2 infection. A negative IgM test could leave a person with a false sense of security. The government is yet to disclose the sensitivity and specificity of antibody testing kits under field conditions. However, the State government seems to be moving ahead with the plan for antibody testing, hoping that any immunity derived, however short-lived, may help these people tide over the current crisis.
09 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||52-day trawling ban from midnight||With the monsoon season trawling ban set to begin on Tuesday midnight, Fisheries Minister J. Mercykutty Amma has urged fishers and trade unions/organisations in the sector to cooperate with the 52-day, annual fishing holiday. All boats that are out at sea should return before midnight. Fishing vessels from other States should leave Kerala shores before the ban becomes effective, the Minister said on Monday. Increase The ban, designed to coincide with the fish-breeding season, would help to replenish marine fishery resources, the Minister said. Marine fish production in Kerala, she added, had risen to 6.09 lakh metric tonnes in 2018-19 from 4.88 lakh metric tonnes in 2016-17. The Fisheries Department had hired 20 privately-owned vessels for carrying out patrols and rescue operations during the 52-day period. If needed, more boats would be hired, she said. Fuel bunks in fisheries harbours and landing centres would be remain shut for the duration of the ban, the Minister added. Marine ambulance The proposed marine ambulance would begin services this month, Ms. Mercykutty Amma said. She also urged fishers to reduce the use of the larger traditional fishing craft during the ban. She also urged traditional fishermen to strictly follow the instructions issued by district administrations from time to time when venturing out to sea. Weather-related inputs should be closely monitored before setting out, she added.
09 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Corpn. cleans up places of worship||The city Corporation on Monday cleaned up places of worship in the city, ahead of their opening following the easing of curbs by the government. Teams of sanitation workers from the local body cleaned up the Sree Chamundi temple at Karikkakom, Beemapally mosque, Attukal Bhagavathy temple, Sree Padmanabhaswamy temple, Madre De Deus Church at Vettukad, the Kannanthura church, the Shanghumughom church, the Shanghumughom Devi temple, the Udiyannoor Devi temple and Nandavanam Muslim Association hall. Mayor K. Sreekumar said that people should be allowed to malls and hotels only after properly disinfecting the places.
09 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Most private buses keep off road||Even as the Kerala State Road Transport Corporation buses and private buses are facing operational losses due to lack of patronage, only 300 privates buses conducted service on Monday, that too openly flouting physical distancing norms, seeking to step up pressure on government for hiking fare. The police seized over a dozen private buses in Kollam and Ernakulam districts on the day for allowing passengers to stand and travel flouting the physical distancing norms. The buses were released later after imposing a penalty of Rs. 4,000 each. Association stance The breach of rules by operators to make money did not have the backing of the Joint Action Council of Bus Owners, council chairman Lawrence Babu said. “We have not given any call to the operators and they are taking decisions individually as the income is not enough even for paying fuel bills,” he said. As part of putting pressure on the government to hike the fare, the private operators preferred to keep buses off the road. “Only 300 of the 12,500 private buses operated on Monday. More buses will keep off the road in the coming days,” Mr. Babu said. Minister’s stance The private bus operators toughened the stance after Transport Minister A.K. Saseendran made it clear that a fare hike could be considered only after getting the report of the Fare Revision Committee. Passengers have started feeling the pinch as government offices and other institutions have started functioning normally on Monday. Passengers in rural areas and regions where KSRTC do not conduct service are the worst hit. The Malabar region, where private buses run most of the services, is badly affected. In Attingal, Varkala, and Kilimanoor areas in the capital district, private buses have stopped plying. Inter-district services The KSRTC operated only 2,300 services on Monday. The KSRTC operated inter-district services between adjacent districts allowing passengers in all seats. “We are not getting revenue even for meeting the fuel bill. Although the number of services operated has been increased from the 1,586 on Saturday, the patronage was less,” a top KSRTC official said.
09 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Capital set to become first ‘Pachathuruthu’ district||Thiruvananthapuram is set to become the first ‘Pachathuruthu’ (green islet) district in the State by the end of the month. The afforestation programme is being spearheaded by the Haritha Keralam Mission in association with local self-government institutions across the State. As many as 153 ‘Pachathuruthu’ have been created in 78 local bodies in the district so far. The Mission is aiming to set up 226 such mini-forests within June 30. While 27.85 acres of land had been utilised for creating 124 ‘Pachathuruthu’, another 3.25 acres were dedicated to establish 29 of such plantations in the district on the occasion of the World Environment Day on June 5. As many as 10,788 saplings of various plant species are being cultivated on these plots. Karavaram grama panchayat, which has created 19 such green covers in its 18 wards, had earned the recognition of becoming the first ‘Pachathuruthu’ panchayat in the district. First for police Bagging yet another laurel for the district, the Pangode police created the first ‘Pachathuruthu’ to be developed on the compound of a police station in the State. Christened ‘Rananganam’, the mini-forest was developed on 30 cents of land adjacent to the police outpost.  As many as 153 ‘Pachathuruthu’ have been created in 78 local bodies in the district so far
09 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Collector to hold online adalat||District Collector Navjot Khosa will conduct an online complaint redressal adalat on June 11. The adalat will consider complaints and grievances from people residing in Varkala taluk limits.  Those wishing to present complaints have been requested to submit them from the Akshaya centres at Thumbode, Moothala, Maithanam, Punnamoodu, Puthenchantha, Kallambalam, Chennankode, Pullanicode, Karavaram and Edava. The complainants will be allotted time slots to interact with the District Collector. The interaction will be held through videoconferencing from the respective Akshaya centres during the adalat.
09 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Air sanitiser from NIIST to disinfect aerosols||The National Institute for Interdisciplinary Science and Technology (CSIR-NIIST) here has developed a low-cost air sanitiser which could prove ideal for enclosed public spaces such as hospitals, given the COVID-19 scenario. The system ‘disinfects’ aerosols, the fine particles suspended in air. It exposes them to a combination of antimicrobial filters and germicidal UVC radiation and releases clean air.  Many infectious diseases of bacterial, fungal and viral origin are transmitted through aerosols, which are minute (micron size) respiratory droplets that reach air when people cough, sneeze or even talk. It was reported that aerosolised COVID-19 could move around a radius of 13 feet from an infected person, NIIST officials said. “Direct inhalation can take these aerosols deep into the lungs or aerosols can get deposited on surfaces leading to a source of contact transmission. Studies related to COVID-19 have further reported that coronavirus can stay active in aerosols up to three hours (depending on surrounding conditions) and on surfaces up to several days,” the institute said in a statement here. Reduction in bacteria The air sanitiser was developed by a team led by Krishnakumar B., Principal Scientist, NIIST. The team tested the unit with aerosols spiked with known bacterial cultures of Staph aureus and E. coli, and found a significant reduction in bacterial cell count in the exhaust air. “Following the outbreak, we had embarked upon a number of initiatives to help the public fight the pandemic. The air sanitiser can find application in public spaces such as hospitals, seminar halls and clinics where the chances of aerosol-mediated disease transmission are higher,” NIIST director Ajayaghosh A. told The Hindu . The NIIST has now transferred the technical know-how to M/s Ecocure Technologies, Thiruvananthapuram, an MSME, for commercial production.
09 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Local body election a litmus test for all major contenders||With the dispute between the Kerala Congress (M) factions over power-sharing in the Kottayam district panchayat remaining unresolved, the local body elections, which are just four months away, would prove to be a litmus test for the Left Democratic Front (LDF), United Democratic Front (UDF), and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). Trends in the local body elections that precede the Assembly elections are usually indicative of voter preferences. Strife within KC(M) Maintaining a clear lead is in the local body election is crucial for the LDF and the UDF. Individual performance is also decisive for allies as the power to bargain for Assembly seats largely rests on the performance in strongholds. This is being cited as a prime reason for the uncompromising stance the Mani and Joseph factions in the Kerala Congress (M) had adopted in the case of the Kottayam district panchayat. For electoral gains, the LDF is banking on the upper hand it gained in the protest against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, the stark differences within the UDF, especially the KC(M), and the schism in the BJP. Against CAA The role played by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan by enlisting the support of the Opposition in the initial protests against the CAA had helped the front gain considerable clout in minority strongholds. The decentralised COVID-19 management model, with local bodies in the thick of action, has also won encomiums for the front. BJP’s aim Since this is the first electoral test after a change of guard in the BJP State leadership, onus is on the current crop of leaders to improve the party’s performance. Local body elections will have to be held in October so that the newly elected committees can come into being by November 11, which is a constitutional obligation.
09 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||LMV licence valid for driving autos||Motorists with valid driving licence for Light Motor Vehicles can now drive autorickshaws as per the Transport Mission Mode Project’s flagship uniform pan-India applications Sarathi for driving licence. Henceforth, no separate driving licence will be issued for driving autorickshaws in the State as it cannot be ported separately in the Sarathi, the Web application developed by the National Informatics Centre (NIC) for the Ministry of Road Transport and Highways (MoRTH). Those holding driving licence for autorickshaws will be ported as e-rickshaws and they need not take separate driving licence for Light Motor Vehicles for plying autorickshaws. Under the new dispensation, the MVD can issue driving licence for e-rickshaws. But, they cannot drive fossil-fuelled autorickshaws. State Transport Commissioner M. R. Ajith Kumar, in his order on June 8, said those holding e-rickshaw driving licence issued before January 1, 2019, under the old driving licence issual system will be allowed to drive autorickshaws in the State. The Transport Commissioner’s intervention comes in the wake of reports of numerous driving schools pressurising those coming forward to obtain driving licence for plying autorickshaws to go for the costly LMV licence in the wake of the absence of autorickshaw category in Sarathi. Porting Joint Transport Commissioner and Secretary, STA, Rajeev Puthalath said 80% of the porting of the driving licences into Sarathi had already been completed by the department. “Motorists can look forward for more services and features once the porting of the driving licences issued in Ernakulam, Thrissur and Idukki districts is completed,” he added. Under Sarathi, licence renewal, duplicate licence renewal, addition of class, international driving permit, learner’s licence and licence-related fee and charges are covered.
09 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||New norms for re-entry to child-care centres||The government has issued orders that children living in child care institutions who have returned to their homes in the wake of the lockdown will be readmitted only after conducting a home study. A certificate of the child welfare committee concerned will be mandatory for readmitting the children to the institutions. Destitute certificates issued by village authorities will not be valid for admitting a child to a child care institution, says the order issued by the Women and Child Development Department. Alternatives As per the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015, a child should be placed in institutional care only as a last resort after making a reasonable enquiry. The Supreme Court, the order says, has directed that State governments should consider deinstitutionalisation as a viable alternative. It has also observed that every child in need of care and protection need not be placed in a child care institution. Alternatives such as adoption and foster care should be considered. The Women and Child Development Director has reported that of the 20,000 children in the institutions, 16,980 have gone back home, leaving behind 5,049 children. Accordingly, the government has ordered that no child will be admitted to a child care institution without the orders of the child welfare committee. Parents should submit a request to the committee for accommodating the children in an institution. Evaluation method The home study of children who have returned to their houses will be conducted by the department. In districts where the number of such children is more than 20, the study should be conducted by Child Development Project Officer or ICDS supervisor with the support of anganwadi workers. After evaluation, the report should be submitted to the child welfare committee.  A certificate of the child welfare committee concerned will be mandatory for readmitting the children to the institutions.
09 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Infant found near Ammathottil||A four-day-old infant was abandoned in the rain near the Ammathottil electronic cradle of the Kerala State Council for Child Welfare at Thycaud on Saturday night. The council authorities have named the infant Sahyan, after the Western Ghats, as he was found a day after the World Environment Day. According to a press release issued by council general secretary J.S. Shijukhan, the infant weighing 2.5 kg was abandoned near the cradle in the pouring rain, though the cradle was available. Due to the rainy season and the pandemic, the area around the cradle is constantly under surveillance. As soon as the infant’s cry was heard, Syamkumar, an employee of the council, rushed to the spot. The nurses gave necessary first aid to the infant who was later shifted to the SAT Hospital.
09 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Containment strategy goes awry: Chennithala||Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala on Monday said the government’s scheme to impose mandatory institutional quarantine on arrivals for seven days collapsed due to contradictory orders. Persons returning to Kerala from within the country and outside were puzzled whether they should head home for self-imposed isolation or to places designated as institutional quarantine centres by the government. Mr. Chennithala highlighted a video which purportedly showed government authorities dropping a set of Gulf returnees midway home from the airport. “The arrivals had no clue how to proceed from there after sitting cooped up in a bus for nine hours,” he said. The State’s containment strategy was in disarray. “It is like closing the windows to the pandemic and leaving the main door open,” Mr. Chennithala said. The government had not increased testing for SARS-CoV-2 citing insufficient number of kits. Its claim that there was an adequate number of beds and ventilator-enabled ICUs was a hoax. He urged the government to notify a specific number of beds in private hospitals as COVID-19 wards. Govt. clarification The government clarified that it has categorised persons who have “undertaken international travel or interstate travel in the last 14 days” as “primary high-risk contact”. Such persons who have a bath-attached private room to isolate themselves can opt for “14-day strict quarantine” at home or a hotel of their choice. The authorities will observe members at home for COVID-19 symptoms for the 14 days after the quarantine period ended. An official clarified that arrivals who did not have such facilities to isolate themselves at home could opt for institutional quarantine at one of the centres designated by the government.
09 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||CET alumni donate PPE||The College of Engineering Thiruvananthapuram Alumni Association (CETAA) has donated personal protective equipment (PPE) to the General Hospital as part of the philanthropic activities led by its 1996 batch. A delegation comprising CETAA president and CET Principal Jiji C.V. and secretary Jayasree P.K. handed over 500 PPE kits, 1,800 N95 masks and 300 goggles to hospital superintendent Padmalatha J. and deputy superintendent Anil V., a statement issued here said.
09 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Arrested||The Venjaramoodu police on Monday arrested Dileep Kumar, 40, of Nellanad for allegedly shooting his father Parameswaran Nair, 65, and injuring him on May 28 using an air gun.
09 June 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||One more COVID-19 death in Thrissur||One more COVID-19 death was reported from Thrissur on Monday. A 43-year-old man of Vijayaraghavapuram, near Chalakudy, who was undergoing treatment at the Government Medical College Hospital here, succumbed to the disease. This is the third COVID-19 death in the district. Dinny Chacko, a teacher who arrived from the Maldives on May 10, was shifted to the Medical College Hospital while he was in quarantine at his relative’s house. His wife, three-year-old son and mother-in-law too were tested positive for SARS-CoV-2, but all three of them have recovered. Meanwhile, 27 new cases of COVID-19 were reported from Thrissur on Monday.
09 June 2020||June 09 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||All set for reopening||
09 June 2020||June 09 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||In farming mode||
09 June 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||30 GGH staff in quarantine after three in general ward test positive||Thirty staff members of Government General Hospital, Anantapur, have been quarantined following three patients treated in the general ward of the non-COVID-19 hospital, turned positive. In second such incident in the GGH here, 19 junior doctors (12 male and seven female), three senior doctors and other paramedical personnel working at the GGH were quarantined on Sunday night and Monday. In the first incident at the same hospital in the first week of April, a patient from Hindupur with COVID symptoms was being treated in the general ward and he tested positive posthumously. 173 discharged Five of the 40 persons, who had come in contact with the patient then, turned positive. Meanwhile, the number of positive cases has been on a steady rise in the district from 224 on June 1 to 306 by Monday(June 8) morning against 290 on Sunday. ‘Cases likely to rise’ There are 129 active cases in the district and 173 have been discharged. The district administration, in anticipation of a rise in the numbers due to influx of migrants, is readying 5,000 beds, District Medical and Health Officer K.V.N.S. Anil Kumar told The Hindu . ‘Expanding bed capacity’ Currently, there are 125 beds in RTD Bathalapalli Hospital, 60 in KIMS Saveera Hospital in Anantapur, 40 in Hindupur District Hospital and another 90 beds will be available by this Saturday at the new Super Speciality Hospital constructed near JNTU, Anantapur Campus. Dr. Anil Kumar said the administration had taken over three private hospitals in Anantapur town and would utilise those beds for COVID cases if there is an alarming surge. Three large function halls on the Gooty Road within the Anantapur municipal limits have also been served notice to keep them vacant so that they could be utilised for turning them into COVID Care Centres in case of need. The official said that going by the experience so far, 85% of the positive cases would not need any hospitalisation or treatment. All those needing oxygen support will be taken to designated hospitals and those with no symptoms or mild symptoms would be treated in COVID care centres or allowed to be home quarantined if they have sufficient facility to isolate a positive person, he explained. Two positive persons have been given this option in Anantapur so far.
09 June 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Temple staff have darshan under new norms at Srisailam||A trial run of general darshan at the Sri Bhramaramba Mallikarjuna temple at Srisailam was conducted on Monday by taking all precautionary measures as per COVID-19 protocol, said Executive Officer Karanam S. Rama Rao. All the employees and archakas registered their names online on the website: www.srisailamonline.com, and carried their identity cards along with the registration/ticket purchase proof generated online. Leg-operated sanitiser dispensing stands were placed all along the queue line and hands and legs washing facilities, with sufficient water, were created close to the main entrance of the temple. Circles have been drawn all along the queue line to ensure physical distancing is maintained. All the devasthanam employees and archakas wore masks and showed the registration slips at the entrance for a machine to scan and produced their ID proofs. No teertham or free prasadam distribution was done. Other temples shut Normal pujas were conducted in the main Mallikarjuna Swamy temple, while the other temples within the complex remained shut and will not be opened for the common devotees also, who would be allowed from Thursday. Awareness on COVID-19 was being done continuously over the public address system.
09 June 2020||CHINTOOR (EAST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||Tribals take out rally against torching of machinery||The tribals of Venkatramapuram hamlet in Chintoor Agency on Monday took out a rally, condemning the suspected Maoists’ act of torching the machinery at the ongoing road and bridge works on Saturday. Raising slogans and holding placards and photographs of the incident, the tribals, including women and children, took out the rally from their hamlet to the project area (Sarivela -Venkatramapuram), where the Maoists reportedly set fire to the machinery. ‘For better access’ The tribals questioned the motive behind the act, and said that such acts would be an impediment to development of the Agency. The project, once completed, would provide the tribals better access to the mainland, particularly during times of health emergency, as it connects Venkatramapuram hamlet in Tummala panchayat with Sarivela to reach the Chintoor headquarters. Later, some of protesters left for the Integrated Tribal Development Agency(ITDA) headquarters in Chintoor where they submitted a written representation to the ITDA-Chintoor Project Officer A. Venkata Ramana, appealing him to initiate action to resume the construction activity across the Chandravanka stream, which has been stalled since Saturday. Speaking with The Hindu : Mr. Ramana said: “We have received requests from the tribals, seeking resumption of the construction activity of the road and the bridge.” Referring to the representations by the tribals, Mr. Ramana added that the tribals of Tummala panchayat have reiterated that they would be deprived of safe access to reach the Chintoor headquarters for medical and health needs during the rainy season in the absence of the bridge and road works.
09 June 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Red sanders trees to dot barren hills in Chittoor||The Barren Hills Afforestation (BHA) programme of the Forest Department is in full swing in Chittoor district, with trees to be planted in a targeted 30,000 hectares out of a total of 1.52 lakh hectares. The social forestry division of Chittoor observed week-long World Environment Day celebrations, and reiterated the commitment to turn the barren hills into a green zone in a phased manner. Divisional Forest Officer G. Srinivasulu inspected the red sanders plantation atop the Durgamma hillock at Puttur and planted saplings with spiritual value at the hillock temple. The DFO said that in the 2020-21 financial year, the BHA drive would receive the maximum impetus in the district. He said that the red sanders species, which are predominantly present in the Seshachalam biosphere, would soon be dotting the barren hills of Puttur and Nagari areas. The red sanders plantations would also come up at some of the select zones in the district, he said. “To raise a red sanders tree is very difficult. But once the plant turns a year old, it will grow wonderfully, despite hard climatic conditions,” Mr. Srinivasulu said. The DFO said that in the target area, as many as 400 saplings would be planted in each hectare as per the density factor. “While hundreds of saplings have already survived on the barren hills, our earlier project of ‘Beautification of Hills’ is giving positive results in vast stretches. The flowering varieties planted a couple of years ago are now fully grown and ready to give the desired results,” he said. The official said that a big achievement of the social forestry division in Chittoor this summer was that 90% of the plants on the barren hills were protected from the trouble of wild grass catching fire. “The grass was removed close to all the plants on the slopes. Workers were deployed to water the plants on the hillocks in hot summer, while watchers were posted to prevent the grazing of cattle and sheep,” Mr Srinivasulu said.
09 June 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Action mooted against woman doctor||District Medical and Health Officer P. Penchalaiah on Monday said that based on complaints by public, departmental action would be initiated against P. Anitha Rani, the medical officer of the primary health centre at Penumuru. The DMHO was also critical of the allegations of the doctor against senior district officials. At a press meet here, the DMHO said that Dr. Anitha Rani stopped attending emergency medical services at the PHC on March 22 (Janata Curfew), insisting that only COVID-19 cases would be attended to. Some local people complained to the district authorities against her in this regard. She then lodged a police complaint that some villagers had intimidated her, threatening to post some objectionable content in social media, the DMHO said. Later, the doctor made allegations against some senior officials, contending injustice to her. The DMHO said her service record showed that several public complaints were filed against her earlier in the places where she worked in the State. Dr. Penchalaiah said that a few days ago Dr. Anitha Rani was posted to the TB wing in Chittoor on deputation. Considering her fresh allegations, departmental action would be initiated against her, he added. SP reacts Meanwhile, Superintendent of Police S. Senthil Kumar told the media that it was not true that the police had not responded properly to her complaint earlier. He said that criminal cases were registered against the accused named in her complaint under IPC sections and SC/ST (POA) Act.
09 June 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Local temples see moderate crowds||Close to 3,000 employees of the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) along with their family members thronged the Balaji link bus station near Alipiri at the foot of Tirumala hills, at Tirupati on Monday, to board buses bound for Tirumala to have darshan of Lord Venkateswara during the trial run. The APSRTC staff, in coordination with the TTD officials, monitored the issuance of tickets to the employees and boarding the buses. The COVID-19 guidelines were in place at the bus-stand and Alipiri tollgate and those who boarded the bus were made to wear face masks, use sanitizers and maintain six-foot social distance. Thermal screening was in place at the entry points manned by personnel with PPE. The local temples under TTD administration — Govindaraja Swamy temple, Goddess Sri Padmavathi Ammavari temple at Tiruchanur, Kalyana Venkateswara Swamy temple at Srinivasa Mangapuram, Prasanna Venkateswara Swamy temple at Appalayagunta and Lord Shiva temple at Kapila theertham — witnessed devotees in moderate numbers The TTD staff had cleared the devotees through online and SMS modes for darshan. The Lord Varasiddi Vinayaka temple at Kanipakam near Chittoor went into a festive mood, opening darshan for the devotees, after 80 days. Residents of Irala, Tavanampalle and Chittoor mandals visited the temple and had a darshan by following COVID-19 guidelines. No darshan at Srikalahasti In view of the red and containment zones, darshan for devotees remained suspended at the famous temple of Lord Shiva at Srikalahasti on Monday. The pilgrim town witnessed more than 100 COVID-19 positive cases during the last 80 days, amounting to one-fourth of the total cases in Chittoor district.
09 June 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM keen on developing Kondaveedu Fort: MLA||Chief Minister is committed to developing the historic hill fort of Kondaveedu into an important tourist destination in the State, according to V. Rajani, MLA of Chilakaluripet. After laying the foundation stone for an electrical substation in Kondaveedu village of Edlapadu mandal, Ms. Rajani said that the new substation would be built at an estimated cost of Rs. 3.5 crore. The MLA said that the electrical substation would meet the power demands. The government sanctioned 10 km of 33KV and 8.3 km of 11 KV electrical lines. Superintendent Engineer A. Murali Krishna Yadav, Executive Engineers G. Srinivas Reddy, Pichaiah, and K. Ramanaidu, ADE Rambotla and MRO Sujatha were present.
09 June 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Land survey, digitisation of records in State soon||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has asked the officials to conduct a comprehensive land survey in three phases and digitise the findings. At a review meeting on Monday, Mr. Jagan said that the survey would be taken up at the village secretariat level and the data would be digitised to keep the record clean and transparent besides avoiding duplication. The officials explained to the CM the need for the survey due to the lack of digitisation. Mobile courts would be pressed into service to address any disputes or problems, they said. The data would be stored at different locations and encrypted to avoid manipulation. In digitised mode, transfer and sale of land would be easy and the auto mutation process would bring in transparency. The officials showed the working of Karn’s networking and how it would avoid duplication. The CM had given the nod and asked them to take up the survey on a priority basis and take it up in three phases. The teams should be fanned out with mandal as a unit, he said.
09 June 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Guntur chilli yard opens for business after many weeks||Asia’s largest chilli yard opened on Monday after several weeks of lockdown. It witnessed low activity on the first day as only a few traders turned up. Collector I. Samuel Ananda Kumar issued the proceedings allowing opening of the market, but with graded opening of shops. According to the order, 30% of shops are allowed to open on the first day and gradually more shops will be allowed to operate. The yard was closed down after March 25 following the nationwide lockdown and the area had been declared a containment zone and restrictions imposed on movement of vehicles. Farmers suffer Consequently, thousands of chilli farmers were forced to sell their produce at a cheaper price locally in their villages. The February-May period is the high season for chilli when popular varieties like Badiga and Teja are sold for a premium. However, this year the farmers were forced keep their produce in cold storages bearing additional expenditure. The chairperson of the Agricultural Market Committee, Guntur, Ch. Yesuratnam said they made arrangements to ensure safety measures like social distancing by drawing circles. E-Nam would be implemented to prevent the role middlemen, he said.
09 June 2020||K. UmashankerCHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Laughter is the best medicine||After a gap of 80 days, over 1,200 industrial units, including three hazardous factories, went into full-fledged restart mode in the district on Monday. This prompted the managements to launch “clap and laughter therapy” for the workers, who are yet to overcome the unsavoury moments of the COVID-19 lockdown, in the backdrop of financial crunch and threat of losing jobs and cut in salaries. Deputy Chief Inspector of Factories (Rayalaseema) M.V. Sivakumar Reddy told The Hindu that 1,00,898 workers employed in about 1,200 factories would be cheered up and made to get back into working mode through clap and laughter therapy. “During inspections, we observed that a majority of the workers are in a confused state of mind. The impact of lockdown had resulted in stress in their families and their general mood is dominated by apprehensions about their future. At this stage, it will be risky to allow them to work in hazardous industries and on high-speed machines,” Mr. Reddy said. The official said the services of yoga trainers and therapists would be utilised to bring back enthusiasm among the workers. “We have launched the clap and laughter therapy at a couple of hazardous industries in Sri City and Kuppam. The workers, who earlier looked dull, are now slowly returning to normal.” Mr. Reddy said the lockdown had dampened the mood of workers. “It has slowed down their thinking process and they are prone to diversions. This would not only endanger their lives, but also others in the unit, besides spreading the ill-effects in the surroundings in case of any mishap. We want to leave no stone unturned to increase the confidence among the workers,” the official said. Training Meanwhile, the Department of Factories has urged industrial units, which are using ammonia, to register their firms and opt for a week-long training for their workers. All the units were instructed to follow the COVID-19 guidelines, including wearing of masks, use of thermal screening, sanitisers and maintaining social distancing norms.
09 June 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Collect one lakh tonne sand per day’||East Godavari Joint Collector (Revenue) G. Lakshmisha on Monday directed the AP Mining Development Corporation (APMDC) authorities to increase the sand collection from 30,000 MTs per day to one lakh tonne with immediate effect to meet the sand requirement across the district. In a review meeting with boat operators and transportation agencies, Mr. Lakshmisha has stated that the sand reaches and stock points would remain open 24x7 for the next 20 days to extract the more sand. “All arrangements are being made to ensure the supply of sand to the customers within the 30 kilometers of distance in each Assembly segment. An action plan has been prepared to deliver the sand from the stock point,” said Mr. Lakshmisha.
09 June 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kurnool to ramp up COVID testing||The number of COVID-19 swab tests will be increased by a large number daily very soon, and about 3,000 samples are collected daily to keep a check on the spread of Coronavirus, District Collector G. Veerapandian said on Monday. Reviewing the COVID-19 situation in the district with COVID Nodal officers, Mr. Veerapandian said that so far 52,000 tests had been done, and Kurnool district stood in the first place in the State in testing samples either in RT-PCR, TrueNAT, or CLIA. The testing capacity would also be increased shortly and the spread pattern monitored closely, the Collector said. There were sufficient number of beds available in the district with 1,000 oxygenated beds already available another 500 would be added very soon to meet any big spurt in the number of positive cases. The total number of positive cases stood at 766, while only 144 were active cases with 28 deaths. The number of containment zones also had come down to 31 from 50 at one time. Mr. Veerapandian asked the nodal officers to not take it easy as the number of positive cases being reported on a daily basis were coming down. Eight persons were discharged from the COVID Hospitals on Monday in the district including a two-year-old boy and five-year-old girl. Results awaited In Anantapur, the administration has been conducting close to 300 tests a day according to a specific strategy to find out the pattern of virus spread from the migrant labourers, farming community and other groups along with other districts in the State so that a pattern could be established and strategies devised to curb the spread in the groups where highest numbers emerge. The results are expected in a day or two.
09 June 2020||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Nellore, Prakasam report 13 new cases||Thirteen more persons, most of them migrants, tested positive for the viral disease in the last 24 hours in Nellore and Prakasam districts. Of the eight new cases in Nellore district, Sangam and Chejerla reported two each, while Sitaramapuram, Ojili and Chittamuru reported one each, a health bulletin issued by the Medical and Health department said here on Monday. One person who had been isolated on his return from Hyderabad also contracted the disease. As many as 432 persons were quarantined in the district. Meanwhile, five patients were discharged from hospital on recovery. In Prakasam district, a seven-year-old boy who has returned from Pune, Maharashtra along with his parents, was among the five-newly infected persons, COVID-19 nodal officer John Richards said. A 50-year-old Mumbai returnee to Chintalapudi village and another 17-year-old boy from the same village tested positive in Chandrasekharapuram mandal. A 25-year-old infected man from Mittapalem village also from the same mandal had returned from Hyderabad.
09 June 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Anantapur man held ‘for cheating’ govt. staff||Prakasam police on Monday arrested a 38-year-old man from Ananatapur for cheating some police personnel and other government employees of Rs. 11.8 lakh. Modus operandi Prakasam Superintendent of Police Siddharth Kaushal said the accused, R.Srinivas, who is on judicial remand, had collected details of various suspended government staff including police personnel. Then he extracted money from them by calling them with stolen mobile phones after changing the SIM card and by posing himself as a superior officer, according to police. The accused had paid commission to persons willing to receive the extracted amount for a commission of Rs. 2,000 for every one lakh deposited into their bank accounts. The IT core team kept track of mobile phones used by him from time to time to crack the case. The victims of the offender included a writer in Giddalur police station, a constable in V.V. Palem police station, another constable in Ongole Taluka police station and a reserve Sub-Inspector with Armed Reserve police wing, the SP said. Police recovered Rs. 2.8 lakh from the offender in connection with two cases, one each in Giddalur in Prakasam district and Atmakur in neighbouring SPSR Nellore district. As many as 20 Non-Bailable warrants are pending in Bengaluru, Kadapa, Kurnool, Chittoor and Anantapur districts for cheating government and private employees using the same modus operandi in, among other places Hindupur, Nellore, Kadapa, Jamalamadugu and Atmakur, the SP said.
09 June 2020||Rajulapudi SrinivasVIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police to open first rowdy sheet on a woman in city||The city police will open the first woman rowdy sheet against Koduri Padmavathi, who is reportedly involved in three cases in Penamaluru and Patamata police station limits. A resident of Ramalayam Veedhi, Sanathnagar, under Penamaluru police station limits, Padmavathi, was allegedly involved in two cases in 2012. She was allegedly involved in an attempt to murder case at Thotavaari Veedhi, Patamata, that took place on May 31. Her son, K. Manikanta alias Pandu, is prime accused in the murder case, while Padmavathi has also been named as an accused in the same case, the police said. Police Commissioner Ch. Dwaraka Tirumala said 24 persons involved in the group clash, attempt to murder and murder cases at Patamata had been arrested so far, and a few more would be arrested soon. “In all, 417 rowdy sheeters and 497 trouble mongers, involved in various anti-social activities, are staying in Vijayawada Police Commissionerate limits,” the Police Commissioner said on Monday. “We are planning to extern a few accused in the fresh cases. Already seven rowdy elements were externed from Vijayawada Police Commissionerate,” Mr. Tirumala Rao said. If police invoke PD Act and extern Padmavathi, she will be first woman to face the Act and externment for involving in criminal activities in the city, a police officer said. “Police are probing the role of Manikanta’s mother in the group clash that led to the murder in Patamata recently. Padmavathi allegedly abetted the crime and incited violence. Instructions have been given to the police concerned and intelligence sleuths to probe on her activities,” the Police Commissioner said.
09 June 2020||RAMPACHODAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Official takes stock of flood preparedness||Authorities of the Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA-Rampachodavaram) are preparing themselves to meet any contingency in case of floods in river Godavari in the coming weeks. At a review meeting with the officials concerned on Monday, ITDA In-charge Project Officer Praveen Adithya asked the officials to keep ready 28 boats for flood relief operations, if necessary. The ITDA is gearing up for the relief operations based on the flood mitigation plan prepared by the Irrigation Department. “The boats should be certified before being deploying for flood relief operations. A trial run must also be carried out,” said Mr. Praveen. Boat surveyor Varma was asked to ensure standards of the boats. “People from villages will have to be evacuated if the flood alert-1 is sounded. All the measures are being taken to complete construction of houses in rehabilitation colonies,” said Mr. Praveen. People should be evacuated to the temporary relief camps only in the event of delay in the construction of the works in rehabilitation colonies, he said.  Directive to GCC Meanwhile, the Girijan Co-operative Corporation authorities have been directed to ensure availability of commodities in their godowns at Devipatnam to meet the requirement for three months. The newly appointed Panchayat Secretariat staff have been asked to get information about the flood-prone areas to join in the relief operations.
09 June 2020||SRIKAKULAM/VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Aadhaar proof mandatory for darshan in temples||Many temple authorities adopted stringent measures for devotees who came for a darshan on Tuesday, when the temples reopened. The Arasavalli Sri Suryanarayana Swamy temple authorities allowed devotees only after verification of Aadhaar cards. Thermal screening, sanitisation and staying in social distancing circles were also made mandatory, according to Assistant Commissioner of Endowments Departmen Y. Bhadarji and temple Executive Officer V. Hari Suryaprakash. Special prayers The temple priests, led by chief priest Ippili Sankara Sarma, offered special prayers to seek the divine protection for the people who were worried with the spread of coronavirus. The COVID-19 protocol was observed in other major temples including Srikurmam, Srimukha Lingam, Narayana Tirumala, Shiva Balaji temple. Festive look In Vizianagaram, major temples such as Sri Pyditalli Ammavari temple, Astalakshmi temple, Sri Kanyakaparameswari Temple, Ramanarayanam and others wore festive look with the flower decoration. Although the temple authorities were performing regular pujas in the last two and half months, devotees were not allowed.
09 June 2020||Staff Reporter VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||New waste management system comes in for praise||The People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA), India, has thanked Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy for the State's newly adopted unique waste management system under the Andhra Pradesh Environment Management Corporation (APEMC). "Thank you Y.S.Jagan Mohan Reddy. We are sure this will help animals too," tweeted PETA, India, referring to the news of setting up of launch of an online waste exchange platform managed by APEMC in coordination with the AP Pollution Control Board. Minister for Energy, Forest, Environment, Science & Technology Balineni Srinivas Reddy in response to PETA, tweeted saying, "Andhra Pradesh is blessed with rich biodiversity that boasts some of the rarest fauna. We are proud of our natural heritage and committed to preserving them." Under the new programme, APEMC will ensure proper handling of the waste from cradle to grave. The APPCB will consider and make the necessary provisions for industries and organisations to hand over the waste generated by their units, which cannot be treated within their premises, to APEMC for management of waste, in accordance with Environmental Rules & Regulations, says a release by the government. The programme offers the country's first online waste exchange platform.
09 June 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tirumala temple opened for trial run of darshan||The hill temple of Lord Venkateswara here was on Monday opened for trial run of darshan for the public. Though the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams did not compromise in the performance of day-to-day rituals, the famed temple was kept out of bounds for devotees since March 20 — five days ahead of the announcement of nationwide lock down in the wake of COVID-19 — and re-opened after an interval of 80 days. The TTD has imposed several restrictions in the darshan of deity. It resolved to allow its employees and their families during the first two days of the trial run, followed by local denizens on the third day, to identify and plug the deficiencies, if any, before allowing the general public from June 11. Restrictions Devotees above 65 years of age and children below 10 years would not be allowed. Besides making face masks and social distancing mandatory, devotees would be barred from visiting sub-temples within the main temple complex and strictly urged to use herbal sanitiser before and after making their offerings into the ‘hundi’ and refrain themselves from touching it. Employees who are likely to come into direct contact with devotees, including the temple annadanam staff, volunteers and barbers were provided with PPEs. TTD Chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy, who supervised the trial run, expressed his happiness at the arrangements and felt that there was scope for allowing more number of devotees with minor modifications. Speaking to media, he said the intention behind the trial run was to get a first-hand report at the ground level. After taking stock of the three-day trial run, a decision whether or not to increase the number of devotees would be taken. Toll fee Meanwhile, the TTD deferred the proposal of increasing toll fee at its Alipiri security point at Tirupati. During its February board of trustees meeting, the TTD had resolved to categorise the passenger vehicles and introduce fast-track system at its toll gate in accordance to the guidelines issued by National Highway Authority (NHA). However, a final call over the issue will be taken post COVID-19 scare.
09 June 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||Free darshan tokens at Tirupati from June 10||The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams has resolved to provide free darshan (dharma darshan) tokens for the darshan of Lord Venkateswara on June 11 at three places in Tirupati. The tokens will be issued from 5 a.m. on the previous day (June 10) for the benefit of the devotees. About 3,000 tokens will be made available on a daily basis, which can be availed by devotees at APSRTC bus station, Vishnu Nivasam and Bhoodevi complex at Alipiri bus station. The TTD trust board has decided to allow the general public for darshan from June 11 onwards after the completion of the three day trial-run. Likewise the local denizens at Tirumala who will be allowed for darshan on June 10 can avail themselves of the tokens a day in advance at TTD counters at three places including APSRTC bus station, Kowsthubham guest house and Central Reception Office (CRO). About 6,000 tokens have been allocated for them as part of the trial run.
09 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kanaka Durga temple to open for devotees from tomorrow||Sri Durga Malleswara Swamyvarla Devasthanam conducted a trial run with its employees on Monday. The devasthanam authorities have plans to throw open the temple to devotees for darshan from Wednesday (June 10). Endowments Minister Velampalli Srinivasa Rao, devasthanam Chairman Pyla Somi Naidu, Executive Officer M.V. Suresh Babu, and others were present. The Minister said: "Darshan is being resumed in a totally new environment necessitating several safety measures. Several measures against the spread of the COVID-19 virus are being taken." The devotees would have to wash their feet and hands and enter the maha mandapam queue line for darshan. The temple has put sanitiser stands at various places. The body temperature of each devotee would be checked before they enter the queue line, Mr. Srinivasa Rao said. Slot booking The devasthanam has made arrangements for darshan of 250 devotees per hour in each queue line. The devotees can book a slot for free darshan or Rs. 100 ticket darshan, he said. The temple authorities will conduct the trial run again on Tuesday to try out the new system. The 'antaralaya darshan' has been cancelled. Other darshan timings are from 6 a.m. to 11.30 a.m. and again from 12.30 p.m. to 5 p.m. No ‘theertham’ Also, the devotees will not be allowed to prepare pongal and offer the same to the presiding deity. The priests will neither offer 'setari' or ‘theertham' to the devotees visiting the temple.
09 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||PD Act to be invoked against accused in gang war, murder||Police Commissioner Ch. Dwaraka Tirumala Rao has said that Preventive Detention (PD) Act will be invoked against the prime accused involved in the alleged gang war-cum-murder that took place at Patamata in the city on May 31. “The police have so far arrested 13 persons of K. Manikanta alias Pandu gang and 11 belonging to T. Sandeep gang (who died in the clash). PD Act would be booked against the main accused,” Mr. Tirumala Rao said. Rowdy sheets would be opened against all the accused in the case. Four cases had been registered regarding the clash and the murder under Sections 302 IPC, 307 and other charges, he said. Externment The Police Commissioner said two rowdy-sheeters, one B. Tech and an MBA graduate, a few Intermediate dropouts, persons allegedly addicted to ganja and members of the ‘blade batch’ were involved in the group clash. “To ensure safety for the public and to maintain law and order, police will extern the main accused from the city,” Mr. Tirumala Rao said. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order) V. Harshavardhan Raju at a press conference on Monday said police recovered three knives, two iron rods, six blades and other lethal weapons from the arrested persons. The accused were all natives of Mangalagiri and Vijayawada, Mr. Harshavardhan Raju said. More arrests “Based on the information of the arrested persons and on their call data, a few more persons involved in the group clash and murder would be arrested soon,” Mr. Harshavardhan Raju said. Central Zone Assistant Commissioner of Police P. Nagaraja Reddy, Patamata CI R. Suresh Reddy and Penamaluru circle inspector M. Satyanarayana were present.
09 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP releases chargesheet against YSRCP government||The Telugu Desam Party (TDP) has released a chargesheet on the one year rule of the YSRCP in the State, alleging that the party had tricked the people with false promises of navaratnalu. Releasing a copy of the chargesheet on Monday, TDP national general secretary N. Lokesh said that the ‘one chance’ given by the people to the YSRCP was being used for the destruction of the State. “The successive governments have introduced a battery of schemes to ensure the welfare of people. But, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has introduced schemes for scams,” he said. Referring to the Navaratnalu, Mr. Lokesh alleged that the flagship programme of the government had become a bundle of scams and lies. “Nine burdens, nine scams, nine lies, nine human rights violations, nine Constitution violations, nine diversion of funds are the achievements of the YSRCP government,” he alleged. ‘Schemes shelved’ He further said that the government had shelved popular schemes and programmes such as Chandranna Bima, Pelli Kanuka, free sand and festival gifts. “The cent land scheme is all set to become the biggest scam in the country. Ava land scam would be around Rs. 222 crore. The volunteers are collecting lakhs of rupees from the people who have applied for the cent land,” alleged Mr. Lokesh. Asked about the YSRCP’s claims on welfare benefits, Mr. Lokesh said that the Chief Minister had promised to cover 82 lakh beneficiaries under the Amma Vodi scheme, but after coming to power, only 43 lakh have been given the benefits thus far. “The elderly poor were promised a hike of Rs. 1,000 in pensions prior to the polls, but have got only an increase Rs. 250. For each and every promise made as part of the Navaratnalu, the Chief Minister is now using ‘conditions apply’ clause in their implementation, he added.
09 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Writ plea filed in HC against Ramesh Kumar||S. Srikanth Reddy, a native of Uppalapadu in Guntur district, has filed a writ petition in the High Court praying that N. Ramesh Kumar be restrained from functioning as State Election Commissioner (SEC). He has also appealed to the court to quash G.O. 11 dated January 30, 2016 through which Mr. Ramesh Kumar was appointed as SEC, on the ground that it was in violation of Article 243 K (1) of the Constitution. The writ plea is likely to come up for hearing after the summer vacation ending on June 12. The petitioner argued that the power to appoint SEC is given to the Governor without specifying that such appointment would be subject to the provisions of any law made by either Parliament or the State Legislature. Therefore, the power to appoint SEC is with the Governor, who can exercise that power at his or her discretion and not under any law made thereof. Besides, Mr. Srikanth Reddy asserted that the State Legislature has the powers under Article 243 K (2) to make any law regarding the conditions of service and tenure of SEC. Some provisions specifying the eligibility for holding the SEC post on the government’s recommendations is not in conformity with the Constitutional spirit, Mr. Srikanth Reddy submitted .
09 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ganja seized, eight persons arrested||The Police Commissioner’s Task Force seized ganja worth about Rs. 12.30 lakh and arrested eight persons, including three women. The smugglers were all natives of Visakhapatnam district. On a tip-off that ganja was being smuggled from the Agency area in Visakhapatnam, the Task Force team led by Additional DCP K. V. Srinivas Rao and ACPs V.S.N. Varma and T. Kanaka Raju intercepted two cars at Gannavaram, on the city outskirts, and recovered the contraband on Monday. “The Task Force team busted the racket and retrieved the ganja packets concealed in the vehicles,” Police Commissioner Ch. Dwaraka Tirumala Rao said. The smugglers were all natives of Narsipatnam, Chintapalli and Kothapalem of Visakhapatnam district, he added.
09 June 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||No hugging or shaking hands in hotels||The Tourism Department on Monday issued COVID-19 guidelines for Tourism Sector by Special Chief Secretary Rajat Bhargava. The guidelines are related to employees’ hygiene and safety, protocol for handling suspected and positive cases, check-in protocols and etc. There are instructions for what should be done if a guest sneezes or coughs at check-in time. Instructions for cleaning room and common areas and garbage disposal have also been included. Aarogya Setu app In the definition of social distancing, it is mentioned that no hugging and shaking hands should be allowed and a distance of 6 feet should be ensured. All the guests should have Aarogya Setu app on their mobiles. Posters with helplines and general information should be put up. Hand sanitisers, masks, garbage bags, chemicals for deep cleaning, thermal guns and hand gloves must be used.
09 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Construction workers need govt. aid: CPI(M)||CPI(M) leader Ch. Babu Rao has said that the government has completely failed in solving the sand scarcity. As a consequence, nearly 60 lakh construction workers have lost their livelihood. There was no sand policy at all for five months and then came the lockdown. The illegal sand business, which resulted in the price of the mineral going up steeply, and a rise in cement prices dealt a severe blow to the construction industry. It was the workers who bore the brunt of the crisis. If the government did not come to their rescue, the plight of construction workers would worsen, Mr. Babu Rao stated in a press release. He said Rs. 10,000 each should be given immediately.
09 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP facing a disaster threat: Yanamala||The Telugu Desam Party (TDP) politburo member and Leader of Opposition in the Council Yanamala Ranakrishnudu has stated that the YSRCP government is facing a ‘threat of disaster’ with the party MLAs criticising the performance of the party during the one year at office. In a statement on Monday, Mr. Ramakrishnudu alleged that the people were up in the arms against the State government. “Sensing the mood of the people, the YSRCP MLAs are criticising the government. They are avoiding public contact fearing backlash. Except for recorded videos, none of the MLAs or MPs are seen on the ground,” he said. ‘No development’ The TDP has already expressed concerns over the corruption and absence of any development in the past one year. “Development is nil but corruption is full during the YSRCP rule. The ruling party MLAs’ comments are enough to say how unpopular Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has become in just one year of his rule,” said Mr. Ramakrishnudu. He said that the Chief Minister was making futile efforts to suppress the criticism.
09 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||MUDA limits extended||The State government on Monday issued orders extending the area of Machilipatnam Urban Development Authority (MUDA). Villages in Machilipatnam municipal corporation, Pedana, Guduru, Gudlavalleru, Bantumilli, Kruthivennu, Mudinepalli, Kalidindi, Mandavalli, Kaikaluru, Avanigadda. Koduru and Nagayalanka were brought under MUDA limits.
09 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||G.N. Reddy removed as Advocate on Record in SC||The State government has withdrawn the services of G. Nageswara Reddy as Advocate-on-Record (AoR) in the Supreme Court, according to a G.O. issued by Secretary (Legal, Legislative Affairs and Justice) G. Manohara Reddy on Monday. Mr. Nageswara Reddy is one of the two Advocates-on-Record for Andhra Pradesh in the apex court. Mahfooz A. Nazki is the other AoR. With the removal of Mr. Nageswara Reddy, Mr. Nazki remains as the sole AoR for the State in the Supreme Court.
09 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP spoilt the future of people: Naidu||Telugu Desam Party national president N. Chadrababu Naidu has stated that the YSR Congress Party has spoiled the future of people in just one-year rule. In a series of tweets on Monday, Mr. Naidu said the YSRCP came to power by prostrating before people and pleading them to give it one chance. Keeping up with that spirit, they should have competed with previous governments to win the hearts of people. Instead, they misused the opportunity given to them. The development took a reverse turn in all spheres. The funds meant for poor people were either being diverted or misused. There were cuts and cancellations in the welfare programmes for the poor, he alleged. A.P. has turned into “rowdy state” making people's lives miserable. There were no gang wars during the five-year rule of the TDP. The YSRCP’s chaotic policies were an example of how criminals would run a rule. In the regime of betrayers, all sections of people would be left devastated, he said.
09 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Women’s panel files suo motu case||The Andhra Pradesh Women’s Commission on Monday filed a suo motu case on the alleged harassment meted out to N. Anita Rani, a doctor working at the Penumuru Primary Health Centre in Chittoor district. Commission Chairperson Vasireddi Padma said based on the news reports telecast in some news channels that the doctor was harassed by some persons, the Commission filed a case. “The Chittoor District Collector, Superintendent of Police and the District Medical and Health Officer (DM&HO) have been directed to inquire into the allegations and submit a report to the Commission,” Ms. Padma said. M.J. Nirmala said the Commission would record the statement of Dr. Anita and conduct an inquiry into the allegations and render justice to the victim. Director R. Suez said the panel would inquire on since how many days the doctor was being harassed, persons involved in it and whether the police and health department personnel responded in time or not on the allegations, and other details.
09 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Coronavirus fear: hotels, malls see fewer visitors on Day One in city||The response on the first day to the opening of temples, hotels and malls was lukewarm, as threat of COVID-19 continued, on Monday. All the major temples like Sri Varaha Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy temple at Simhachalam and Sri Kanaka Mahalakshmi temple at Burujupeta in the Old Town area did not witness many devotees. “It is only a trial run at Simhachalam temple and only employees are allowed,” said an official. “Today, we have allowed only devotees, living in the areas surrounding the temple. There was only one entrance and the devotees are checked with a thermal gun, social distance markings have been painted. The devotees have to wear masks and produce their Aadhaar cards. They have to wash their feet and sanitise their hands before entering the temple,” Sri Kanaka Mahalakshmi temple Executive Officer S. Jyothi Madhavi said. “There are 972 temples in the district. We are not allowing devotees into the sanctum sanctorum of the temples. Devotees are abiding by our guidelines and wearing masks. Kumkum can be distributed in packets but ‘prasadam’ and ‘theertham’ is not allowed. Devotees are not allowed into temples located in containment zones. Only the daily rituals will be conducted by the priests in those temples,” Assistant Commissioner of Endowments Shanti Kalingir told The Hindu . The malls were taking all precautions like sanitising their premises, provision of hand sanitiser liquid and ensuring that their customers wore maskes. The CMR Central witnessed moderate crowd on the first day of opening after the lockdown. The customers waited in boxes drawn on the floor outside the mall to get into the premises. The staff cleaned the premises at regular intervals. Some of the malls were allowing only two persons in their lift and the staff members were also seen instructing the customers not to gather at one place. “The average crowd at the restaurants is around 15 % and in the rooms it is barely 3% but we are strictly adhering to the guidelines to check the spread of coronavirus like fumigation of rooms, the entire premises, parking area and regular cleaning,” says Prashant, president of the Hotels and Restaurants Association of AP. “We are providing masks, gloves and headgear to our staff. Only two persons can sit at a table and we are impressing on our guests to stay single in the rooms, except in the case of couples with a kid. The housekeeping staff is also supplied all the safety kits and all this is taking a little more time for service despite the fewer number of guests,” he says.
09 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Widespread rain likely in coastal A.P.||Thunder and lightning followed by heavy rain brought respite from the summer heat in many areas of the city on Monday evening. Those living on Beach Road had a terrifying experience with deafening sounds from the sky. The streaks of lightning provided a feast for the eyes in the backdrop of night sky. Meanwhile, the Cyclone Warning Centre (CWC), here, said that a low pressure area is likely to form over East Central Bay of Bengal during the next 24 hours. It is likely to move west northwestward and become more marked during subsequent 24 hours. Under its influence, and the convergence of lower level westerlies along the west coast, fairly widespread rainfall is expected over coastal Andhra Pradesh on June 9, with heavy rainfall at one or two places. Widespread rainfall, accompanied by heavy to very heavy rainfall at one or two places is likely over coastal A.P. between June 10 and 12. Fishermen cautioned The southwest monsoon has entered some parts of Rayalaseema and conditions are becoming favourable for its further advance into some more parts of Rayalaseema, and some parts of Coastal A.P. during the next two days. Squally weather, with wind speed reaching 40 to 50 km/hr, is likely along and off coastal Andhra Pradesh between June 9 and 12. Fishermen are advised not to venture into the sea and along and off coastal A.P. during the same time.
09 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||71 cases in last four days set alarm bells ringing in district||The district recorded highest single day spike by recording 20 COVID-19 positive cases on Monday. In the last four days, the district recorded 71 cases, which has set the alarm bells ringing, and the district administration is on its toes. With the 20 new cases, the total number of active cases stand at 100, with 98 discharges, one death so far and taking the total tally to 199. As per a release from the district administration, there are 52 containment clusters with 26 being very active, nine active and 17 being dormant clusters. Explaining the clusters codification, Principal of Andhra Medical College P.V. Sudhakar said that very active clusters are those where a case has been recorded in the last four days, active are the ones where the last case was recorded 10 days ago, dormant are the ones where the last case was recorded 14 days ago and denotified are the ones where the last case was recorded 28 days ago. Apart from 52, there are nine dormant clusters. Though the areas from where the cases were registered on Monday were not disclosed, sources in the Health Department said that they were from Sriharipuram, Atchutapuram, Madhurawada, Gajuwaka and Visakha rural.
09 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Gas leak: high-power panel to probe change in design of LG Polymers tank||The high-power committee probing into the gas leak incident at LG Polymers in Visakhapatnam on Monday said that the experts had brought to its notice that the design of tank in which styrene monomer was stored had been changed and a detailed investigation would be done in this regard. Observations Speaking to the media, the panel members said the experts had made several observations and all would taken into account during the probe. The tank design was apparently changed sometime in 2019 reportedly due to some issues with the floats. A chemical responsible for maintaining the temperature thereby preventing auto-polymerisation of styrene monomer was reportedly pumped into the tank from the bottom level owing to the change in design. However, the best suited practice mandates that the chemical should be pumped from the mid-level of the tank. And it was reportedly done without the approval of the authorities concerned including the Department of Factories. With the chemical reportedly being added from the lower level of the tank, there was a possibility that it did not react with the styrene monomer in the upper part, leading to auto-polymerisation due to the rise in temperature. The auto-polymerisation might have led to formation of styrene vapour that leaked out from the gooseneck and dip hatch. “These are some observations made by the experts. We will probe into every aspect in detail,” said Special Chief Secretary (Environment and Forests) Neerabh Kumar Prasad, who is leading the high-power committee while interacting with the media here. The media interaction was done as part of the inquiry and the HPC members agreed to the reports of some possible discrepancy in the number people present inside the plant at the time of the incident. Lack of alarm Initially, the company had claimed that there were 15 people at the time of gas leak, but experts probing the incident reported that the number was eight and those present were reportedly not qualified to discharge the duty assigned to them. “This also has come to our notice and we have asked the plant management to submit full details of their HR list,” said Nerabh Kumar. In response to a question raised by The Hindu on the allegations of lack of gas leak alarm, the committee members said that it has been brought to their notice by experts.
09 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||1,140 kg ganja seized, 2 arrested||Officers from the Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) arrested two persons and seized about 1,140 kg ganja at Chuttumetta area in Pedabayalu, mandal when it was being transported in a four-wheeler on Monday morning. The accused have been identified as Muvvala Chiranjeevi and Killo Chittibabu, both natives of G. Madugula mandal. It is learnt that accused hired the vehicle from Ekamanbida in G. Madugula and were driving towards a destination in Visakhapatnam. The accused stated that the contraband belonged to Pangi Kiran and Pangi Laxman of Ekamanbida village. Further investigation is on to arrest the kingpins.
09 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP leaders fete Minister on completion of one year in office||Several leaders of the YSR Congress Party felicitated Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao on Monday for completing one year in office as a member of the State Cabinet. At a meeting conducted by party city president Vamsi Krishna Srinivas here, the leaders praised Mr. Rao for trying relentlessly for the development of Visakhapatnam. A cake was cut and the Minister was felicitated with a huge garland. Later, the Minister distributed clothes to the auto drivers of 21st ward, senior citizens and orphans in the Visakhapatnam North constituency and saris to women of the South constituency. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Srinivasa Rao alleged that former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu was spreading lies on social media. He said that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy was earned the distinction of being among the top five CMs in the country and predicted that he would reach the top very soon. Among others, MP M.V.V. Satyanarayana, VMRDA Chairman Dronamraju Srinivasa Rao, MLAs Tippala Nagi Reddy, Adeep Raj, U.V.R. Raju (Kanna Babu), Petla Uma Sankara Ganesh, K. Bhagya Lakshmi and former MLAs Malla Vijaya Prasad and T. Vijay Kumar were present.
09 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Historic decisions mark Modi’s first-year rule’||Historic decisions have been taken by the Narendra Modi government during its second term, former MP Kambhampati Haribabu said at a media conference organised, in connection with the completion of one year rule of the NDA at the Centre, here on Monday. The abolition of Article 370 in a democratic manner after discussion in both Houses of Parliament was intended to ensure the development of Jammu and Kashmir. The Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) had raked up unnecessary controversy as vested interests tried to mislead Muslims. The objective of the CAA was to provide citizenships to Hindus, Christians and others, who were in a minority in Afghanistan, Bangladesh and Pakistan, but never intended to deprive Muslims of their citizenship. Mr. Haribabu explained that it was the cherished dream of crores of Indians to see the temple of Lord Rama in Ayodhya. A trust was established for rebuilding of the temple as per the directions of the Supreme Court. Similarly, the abolition of the triple talaq, which was causing injustice to Muslim women, was also done after discussion in both Houses. The former MP recalled the welfare measures launched by Prime Minister Narendra Modi to help the people tide over the crisis due to the lockdown imposed to check the spread of COVID-19.
09 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Senior Assistant of PHC in ACB net||A Senior Assistant at a Primary Health Centre (PHC) at Minimuluru was trapped by the Anti Corruption Bureau (ACB) sleuths at Paderu in the Agency area of the district on Monday. Chetti Shobarani, the accused, was ‘caught red-handed’ by the ACB sleuths, while she was allegedly accepting a bribe of Rs. 19,000 from the complainant K. Bhagyavathi, an ANM, for passing her field travel allowance bill. The ACB officials seized the bribe amount and the records and produced the accused in the ACB Special Court in the city on Monday. The case is under investigation.
09 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Third death after Styrene leak||One more person, Kadali Satyanarayana (58), died in Venkatapuram village, here on Monday, taking the toll post the styrene vapour leak from LG Polymers India plant on May 7 to three. According to the family members of the deceased, the entire family was hospitalised after styrene vapour leaked from the chemical plant, and Satyanarayana was discharged a few days ago from the King George Hospital (KGH). He died on Monday, and the family members alleged that he died of health complications after inhaling the vapour. SHO of Gopalpatnam Police Station P. Ramnaiah said that based on a complaint filed by the family members suspecting that he had died due to inhaling the styrene monomer vapour, a case has been booked and his body had been sent for post-mortem.
09 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kidney patient gets help from PM Relief Fund||A kidney patient from the city received Rs. 3 lakh as assistance from the PM Relief Fund towards kidney transplantation, on the intervention of Visakhapatnam MP M.V.V. Satyanarayana. N. Rajasekhar, had been suffering from kidney disease for a long time. The doctors told that a kidney transplant was the only option available to him. The family members approached the MP and sought his assistance as they were not in a position to afford the treatment.  Mr. Satyanarayana handed over the letter to the patient at his office at Lawson’s Bay Colony on Monday.
09 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Oncology wing launched in Visakha Steel General Hospital||Visakha Steel General Hospital (VSGH) has been equipped with an oncology wing for the first time as an employee welfare initiative. Rashtriya Ispat Nigam Ltd Director (Personnel) K.C. Das inaugurated the new section on Monday.
09 June 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Hopes high in N. Andhra as Jagan meets Tollywood team today||The North Andhra region with its picturesque locations is expected to be the biggest gainer if the scheduled discussions on Tuesday between Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and Tollywood personalities led by Chiranjeevi turn fruitful. On behalf of the State film industry, they may give a big wish list to the Chief Minister in Amaravati, seeking subsidies for movies, particularly small budget films, land for construction of new studios and other facilities. The then Chief Minister Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy had allocated 317 acres of land when the industry sought nearly 1,000 acres for setting up studios and other facilities. Many shootings have been taking place in Vizianagaram, Srikakulam and Visakhapatnam areas for decades. Prema Kanuka starring Akkineni Nageswara Rao and Sridevi was mostly picturised in P.V.G. Raju’s bungalows and Ramateertham temple. K. Viswanath’s Subhasankalpam , Jandhyala’s Mudda Mandaram (1981) and Nalugu Sthambalata (1982), Maro Charitra , Bobbili Simham , Drysyam , Malleswari and Guru were among those filmed in this region. Ideal locations Film director A.B. Anand says that the wonderful locations near Parvatipuram, Sithampet and Araku are ideal for shootings. “Film industry will certainly come to A.P. when it is given wholehearted support for shootings. Many artists in the region will come to limelight once more shootings take place here,” he remarks. Film critic Bharadwaja Chakravarti says that the historical places in and around Vizianagaram will come into focus with shootings here in the future. Sunray Resorts Managing Director I.A. Raja Varma opines that film activity in the region will boost tourism sector too. “Our resort witnessed many shootings in the last couple of years. We hope more shootings will spur economic activity in the region. With the proposed Bhogapuram airport, actors from Mumbai can also reach easily here,” he says. Employment Visakhapatnam Short Film Club founder and production manager J. Ramjee says that many youngsters will get jobs both on and off screen when film-related activity picks up. Advantages “Shooting expenditure will be less in North Andhra and producers need not pay huge remuneration for local actors. These two advantages will certainly make Telugu film industry to look at this region,” he adds.
09 June 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Foundation stone laid for work on reservoir||Minister for Municipal Administration Botcha Satyanarayana on Monday said that the government has made all arrangements for the distribution of seeds at the doorstep of the farmers. The Minister laid the foundation stone for the commencement of modernisation works at the Andra reservoir, near Mentada in the district. He said that the work, taken up at Rs. 15.95 crore, would be a boon for farmers. The Minister said the government was according utmost priority for the Rythu Bharosa scheme. Vizianagaram Collector M.Hari Jawaharlal and others officials were present in the meeting.
09 June 2020||June 09 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Arrest people who ‘harassed’ Dalit doctor in Chittoor: Congress||The Andhra Pradesh Congress Committee (PCC) has demanded the arrest of the persons who allegedly harassed Dalit doctor Anitha Rani at Penumuru in Chittoor district. PCC president Sake Sailajanath, in a press release here on Monday, charged that ruling the YSR Congress Party leaders were behind the “harassment” of Dr. Anitha Rani. Over two months had passed since Dr. Anitha Rani had made a police complaint, but there has been no action against the accused, he said. It was very unfortunate that the police did not take any action in the case even though she had provided all the necessary evidence, the PCC president said. Dr. Anitha Rani, who got a good job in the USA, did not take it up because she wanted to serve the people of her country. Such service-minded doctors were being targeted by the ruling party leaders, the PCC chief charged. ‘Akin to Vizag incident’ The government machinery, including the police in Chittoor district, were behaving in a way similar to that in the case of Dr. Sudhakar in Visakhapatnam, the Congress leader alleged and demanded that an independent body be constituted to look into the allegations to ensure that justice was done. NSUI demand Meanwhile, the NSUI demanded that the Class 10 exams be scrapped in Andhra Pradesh also. NSUI State president Madhu Yadav, in a statement here, said that it has been demanding this for the past three months and now Telangana has announced that it would not be conducting Class 10 examinations. This was the only way to protect students from becoming victims of coronavirus, he said.
09 June 2020||June 09 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Foot operated taps to be set up at free meals complex||TTD Chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy on Monday exhorted the authorities to install foot-operated water taps at Nitya Annaprasadam complex akin to those set up inside the hill temple. Mr. Subba Reddy, who inspected the hill temple and Vaikuntam complex along with Additional Executive Officer A.V. Dharma Reddy, felt that the taps would go a long way in containing the spread of COVID-19. Devotees could wash their hands without directly touching the taps. The Executive Engineer (water works) was asked to compile with the instructions with immediate effect.
09 June 2020||June 09 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Picking up threads||
09 June 2020||June 09 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Close enough!||
09 June 2020||June 09 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Clarification||In response to a news item published in these columns on Monday, Jana Sena Party general secretary Bolisetty Satyanarayana clarified that he had consulted Prof. K.V. Rao on gas leak incident at LG Polymers on May 9. Later, Prof. Rao was appointed a member of the technical panel appointed by the high-power committee to probe into the styrene vapour leak on May 7. The JSP leader clarified that he had never contacted Prof. Rao after his appointment in the committee.
09 June 2020||ADILABAD,TELANGANA||New Central Ordinance can dismantle MSP regime||The Farming Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance 2020 and the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Ordinance, 2020 brought in by the Union government on June 3, will result in dismantling of the protective mechanism available to farmers against exploitation, according to experts at ground level who are going by information available so far. The Ordinances which ease down restrictions on participation by traders at every stage of agriculture will render the minimum support price (MSP) regime irrelevant as well as legalise the existing exploitative practices in backward areas like Adilabad and Kumram Bheem Asifabad district, part of former composite Adilabad. The first Ordinance says farmers need not go to respective agriculture market yards for selling their produce and can sell it to anyone anywhere outside the market yard. The rules for private trade have also been eased in that anyone who is a valid PAN card holder can purchase agriculture produce directly from farmers. “There are about 4 lakh small and marginal farmers, all cotton farmers, who also comprise the section which is exploited by private moneylenders and financiers operating illegally as per relevant law. Any fall in market price of the produce has government agencies purchasing the produce at MSP — which also ensures that farmers get relatively higher price even if the money lender recovers his dues by lifting the harvest at the field level itself,” opined senior farmer leader of the ruling Telangana Rashtra Samithi and chairman of Jainad mandal Primary Agriculture Cooperative Society B. Goverdhan Reddy. “There is also the danger of financiers entering the field as there will be no supervision of authorities. I therefore appeal to the State government to disallow operation of the Ordinances,” he added.
09 June 2020||ADILABAD,TELANGANA||Huge haul of banned cotton seeds||The special task force forged to control sale of the illegal Bt3 cotton seeds in Adilabad district seized as many as 785 packets of such seeds from house in Ramnagar locality and arrested two persons involved. The seized seeds were worth Rs. 5.5 lakh, according to Superintendent of Police Vishnu S. Warrier. The Superintendent of Police told reporters that the special task force comprising of two inspectors of police and 10 constables besides Agriculture Department officials seized the seeds on Sunday. He said the accused Sk. Mehraj and Md. Mustafa were arrested while one Kalunath of Neemuch in Madhya Pradesh has also been included as accused as he had sold the spurious seeds to the two locals. Mr. Warrier said a special action plan has been drawn to curb sale of the fake seeds in villages. Officials are meeting village elders and asking them to inform the police in case anyone attempts to sell cotton seeds at cheaper prices.
09 June 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Darshan resumes amid Vedic chants||Amid physical distancing norms and intensive thermal screening to curb the spread of coronavirus in place, the famous temple dedicated to Lord Sitarama in Bhadrachalam reopened for darshan, after more than two-and-a-half months, on Monday. Spiritual fervour marked the reopening of the historic shrine as a sizable number of face mask-clad devotees made a beeline to the temple to have darshan of the temple deity. Though the turnout of devotees was thin in the first hour, it picked up later in the day as devotees mostly from within the temple town and the neighbouring mandals thronged the shrine to worship Lord Sitarama. The temple security personnel allowed the devotees inside the temple after checking their body temperature using thermal scanners at the main entrance of the shrine. Physical distancing norms were strictly implemented in queue lines and in the entire temple complex as per the stipulated safety protocols. As many as five foot-operated sanitiser dispensers have been set up within the temple complex. The day also saw the beginning of cash offerings in temple hundies by devotees, one of the major sources of revenue for the temple. The Bhadradri temple suffered an estimated revenue loss of Rs. 6 crore during the last 80 days due to lockdown, temple sources said. Meanwhile, almost all major temples, mosques, churches and other places of worship across the old undivided Khammam district reopened on Monday in conformity to the COVID-19 safety precautions.  No prasadam   Warangal Special Correspondent adds: The staff of the historic Bhadrakali temple in the city took all the necessary steps to help devotees maintain physical distance and also made available sanitisers at the entrance of the temple. Chief Whip D. Vinay Bhaskar and his wife visited the temple here and offered special prayers. After observing the COVID-19 precaution measures and arrangements, he appreciated Executive Officer R Sunitha The temple priests and administration have not offered theertham and laddu prasadam to devotees.  No-contact blessings Nalgonda Staff Reporter adds: Devotee footfall at the Sri Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy Devasthanam Balalayam on Yadagirigutta remained low on Monday. Although only temple staff and locals were allowed, the attendance still remained low, and physical-distancing norms in queues, darshans too were in place. Priests ensured no-contact prayers and blessings.  District Collector Anita Ramachandran visited the temple and performed puja with officials. She said the darshans on the trial day was to check and rectify if there were any loopholes, as regular darshans would witness more number of devotees from Tuesday. Ms. Ramachandran advised that devotees under the age of 10 and above 60 not to visit as the pandemic impact remains stressful. Disinfectant tunnel Karimnagar Special Correspondent adds: All the temple shrines have been reopened on Monday amid chanting of Vedic hymns. Contrary to the expectations, the arrival of devotees was minimal at -- Sri Raja Rajeshwara Swamy Devasthanam in Vemulawada, Sri Laxminarasimha Swamy Devasthanam in Dharmapuri, Sri Anjaneya Swamy Devasthanam in Kondagattu, Koti Lingala, Kaleshwaram and others shrines in the district. At Vemulawada temple main entrance, the devotees were made to pass through the disinfectant tunnel to check the spread of virus into the shrine. Temple EO M Ramakrishna Rao inspected the arrangements and interacted with the devotees. The temple authorities distributed food packets to around 300 devotees at Nityaannadhana satram.
09 June 2020||CHANDLAPUR (SIDDIPET),TELANGANA||Renuka Yellamma temple fades into history||Renuka Yellama temple in this village is getting submerged in Ranganaiksagar with the release of Godavari water into the reservoir. In the midst of the yet-to-be-filled reservoir is a huge tree spreading its canopy across, standing as a witness to the transforming history. Under the tree is the Renuka Yellamma temple built several decades back. An RCC roof nearby provides shelter to devotees visiting the temple. Inside is a 10-foot idol of Goddess Renuka Yellama in sitting posture. According to sources, officials made several attempts to relocate the temple by dismantling it, but could not succeed. “We sent heavy equipment several times to demolish the temple,but for one reason or the other we came across hurdles. At one instance several snakes entered the heavy machinery,” an official told The Hindu .
09 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||State sees 92 new cases, 5 deaths||The number of COVID-19 cases in Telangana touched 3,742 as 92 more samples tested positive for the virus. Five more COVID-19 patients died taking the toll to 142. Telangana Health department officials did not issue a medical bulletin till late in the night. State Health Minister Eatala Rajender’s office in a late night released details on number of positive cases, deaths and number of people discharged. A total of 393 were discharged on Monday, who will be under quarantine — the highest in a day till date. Gandhi Hospital’s superintendent M Raja Rao said they have discharged asymptomatic patients -those who do not have have fever, cough, cold- and those under 50 years. Of them, 310 who have a separate room at home will be under home quarantine. The remaining 83 will be quarantined at Nature Cure Hospital near Ameerpet. Whoever were discharged will be given a kit consisting of tablets, a prescription on when the tablets have to be taken, some dos and don’ts Until recently, whoever tested positive were admitted to Gandhi Hospital. However, the hospital authorities said that around 700 patients were asymptomatic. Two persons including a Singareni coal miner succumbed to COVID virus in various parts of undivided Karimnagar district on Monday making it a total of three deaths in the district. A coal miner (operator) from Pothana colony in the Eight incline colony in the Godavarikhani coal belt succumbed on Monday while undergoing treatment in Hyderabad. A 31-year-old person from Vallabapur village of Veenavanka mandal died during treatment at NIMS in Hyderabad. ( With inputs from Special correspondent in Karimnagar )
09 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Catholic churches reopen||Several mainline Protestant denomination churches in Telangana have decided against reopening the places of worship till June 30 in wake of spike in number of COVID-19 cases in the State while the Catholic churches resumed their services from today. Adhering to the Ministry of Home Affairs guidelines and the Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) issued by the Central and State governments, the Catholic churches opened on Monday, according to Swarna Bernard, Vicar General, Archdiocese of Hyderabad. “We had six services at St Mary’s Basilica, Secunderabad, today,” said Reverend Bernard adding that all the SOPs were followed by the church. There were a maximum of 50 church goers, who were allowed to attend each service. The idea of having more services is to reduce the presence of people. Rev Bernard said that thermal screening, sanitisation of the premises and other protocols were diligently followed. However, the Church of South India, Medak Diocese, deferred reopening of its churches coming under 110 pastorates across Telangana till June 30. Reverend T. Bhaskar, Vice-Chairman, of CSI, Medak Diocese said in view of the rising cases of COVID-19, it was decided that all the CSI churches will remain closed till June 30. “Even one case of COVID-19 positive patient attending the service will force the entire congregation to go for quarantine. We felt it was better for the members to stay home till situation eases,” he said. Methodist Church of India, Hyderabad Regional Council executive secretary Reverend C. G. Dayanand in a circular to all its district superintendents said that it was not safe to conduct worship service without meeting the demands of SOPs. “After careful study and detailed discussions and consultations, it was decided that it is not safe to call for large gathering since coronavirus is on the rise. In the interest of the church and the interest of the people’s health and life, it has been decided not to have worship service till June 30,” the circular said. The over 200-year-old CSI Church of St. John the Baptist, Secunderabad, in a message to its members said: “Reports indicate that there has been an increase in the number of COVID-19 cases in the twin cities, in the past few days. Even though the government has allowed reopening of religious places as part of the lockdown relaxations, the Pastorate Committee has, after careful examination and based on the decisions of various other churches, decided not to open our church till June 30, 2020.”
09 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||First recipient of plasma therapy in TS recovers after multiple setbacks||His world came crashing down when doctors at a private hospital said he had only a few days to live. Facing severe breathing issues, the 44-year-old city resident was coming to terms with the body blow when he suffered another setback — he tested positive for COVID-19. “Doctors at the private hospital where I was first admitted said my respiratory system had failed and that I have to be on ventilator till the time I want to be alive,” said the private company employee, who is known as COVID patient no. 1311 in official files. “I had taken three steps towards the hospital building and felt as if I would collapse,” he said.  Even as he was dealing with his medical condition, he received the news that nine members of his family, including his parents, wife, two children and siblings, had also tested positive for COVID-19. “I was gripped with fear and tension,” he said. Soon enough, he learnt about convalescent plasma therapy clinical trials at Gandhi Hospital, which is one among the many hospitals and institutes in the country that received the nod of Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) to conduct such trials. Hospital Superintendent and principal investigator of the clinical trials, M. Raja Rao and senior doctors explained to him about the plasma therapy, possible side effects and process involving ICMR among other details. After enquiring with his cousins and family doctor, he gave his approval to be part of the trials. In fact, he was the first of the five participants of the convalescent plasma therapy, which is expected to bring down the mortality rate. In this, neutralising antibodies-filled plasma collected from recovered COVID patients is infused into other patients as part of treatment. Clinical trials are on to test its effectiveness; it is not a treatment option yet. “I received the first dose of plasma on May 14 and experienced improvement by the next day. The second dose was administered on May 16. Dr Raja Rao, Dr Trilok Chand and post graduate student K. Hemanth constantly counselled me. Other doctors, too, checked on me,” P1311 said. He was discharged on May 30 and is stable. Barring his mother, all others in his family recovered. Plasma donation appeal Having benefited from the plasma therapy, he has appealed to recovered patients to donate plasma. “I humbly request all those who recovered to donate their plasma so that more lives like mine can be saved. My brother’s daughter who has recovered is ready to donate plasma. We have informed doctors about it,” P1311 said. Four more patients had also participated in the clinical trials. Dr Raja Rao said that all have recovered.  I received the first dose of plasma on May 14 and experienced improvement by the next day. The second dose was administered on May 16. The doctors constantly counselled me. Patient no. 1311
09 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Thermal image screening cameras at railway stations||South Central Railway (SCR) has installed bullet thermal image screening cameras at Secunderabad and Hyderabad railway stations for thermal image screening of passengers. The equipment consists of thermal screening camera, network video recorder and LED monitors along with alarm mechanism. One thermal camera has currently been installed at Secunderabad station gate no. 3 on Platform no. 1 near general booking area and the other camera at Hyderabad station main entrance. Two more cameras are being planned at Secunderabad station this week. Total cost per camera with accessories is around Rs. 4.4 lakh per unit. It is to cut down on the time taken for screening each passenger as the device can simultaneously screen up to 30 passengers within its range or six metres from the entrance. Temperature of the passenger will be displayed on the LED monitor as real picture along with 30 thermal images within the coverage area. Body temperature of the passengers recorded will be exhibited on the LED screen as a text message followed by alert audio alarm. Cameras are able to scan and record the temperature of the passengers standing in two different lines simultaneously. Data stored can also be retrieved, SCR Chief PRO Ch.Rakesh said on Monday.
09 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Minister allays doubts on domestic power bills||Minister for Energy G. Jagadish Reddy asserted that there is no abnormality in the domestic power bills issued for the last three months this week after taking the actual energy consumption data and has attributed the increase in the bill amount to increase in the consumption. Stating that generation of bills was completely transparent the Minister assured that mistakes, if any, in computing the bills, would be rectified and help desks would be opened in all electricity revenue offices to clarify consumers’ doubts on the bills as also looking into discrepancies, if any. Cash payment The Minister stated that consumers could pay the bill amount, as per the bills generated this month, in three instalments in case of physical payment since the option was not available in the online payment gateways. Addressing a press conference here on Monday along with Special Chief Secretary (Energy) Ajay Misra, Chairman and Managing Director of Telangana State Southern Power Distribution Company Limited (TSSPDCL) G. Raghuma Reddy and others, the Minister said the payment in instalments would, however, attract an interest of 1.5% per month as per the tariff orders of the Electricity Regulatory Commission (ERC). Summer consumption The Minister stated that as per energy consumption analysis during the summer season, it would increase by 35% to 40% and this year it had gone up by another 10% to 15% due to the lockdown conditions under which most of the working class were restricted to their home, including some of them allowed to work-from-home, adding to the consumption of energy in the domestic category. He reiterated that month-wise collection of energy consumption data was not possible in April and May due to the lockdown conditions and as part of the measures to prevent the spread of coronavirus infection. The Minister admitted that generation of bills with three months data had given scope for doubts among some sections but such apprehensions were unfounded and the bills were generated scientifically in the method approved by the ERC.
09 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||95 % of deaths in TS due to co-morbidities, say officials||A meeting convened by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao with senior health officials on Monday took the stand that 95 % of coronavirus fatalities in the State were for reasons other than the virus. “Nearly 95 % of patients who died had ailments like kidney, heart, liver, respiratory, cancer, diabetes and blood pressure. Their death was identified with coronavirus though co-morbidities was the cause. This was an unscientific understanding and misleading campaign which led to alarm among public,” the officials told Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao. A release said the officials informed Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao that there was a conspiracy behind the campaign run by vested interests and the media. This affected the medical services to patients at hospitals. The officials requested the Chief Minister to appeal to the Supreme Court against the High Court directive to carry out examination into the cause of death of all those who died irrespective of whether they suffered from coronavirus or not. It was impractical to implement High Court order because 900 to 1,000 people died of various reasons daily in the State. They regretted that the status of coronavirus in the State and the projections in the media were a mismatch. It created alarm among public. Spare capacity The Gandhi Hospital had the capacity to treat 2,150 positive patients but the occupancy was only 247 as of date. About 1,000 beds were equipped with oxygen units. The facilities at the hospital were never fully utilised since the outbreak of the pandemic. In fact, Telangana was far better placed in treating coronavirus patients than other States. There were 9.61 lakh personal protection equipment kits and 14 lakh N-95 masks available in the State. The officials also informed the Chief Minister that attempts were made to demoralise health staff by projecting that doctors and para-medical staff tested positive. This was a natural phenomenon world over as the treating doctors and staff were anyhow affected. Also, public interest litigations on the dangers from coronavirus were frequently filed in court. As a result, senior doctors had to appear in court daily. It affected medical services in hospitals. Replying to their apprehensions, the CM agreed that many patients were asymptomatic though they tested positive for coronavirus. He expressed the government’s preparedness even if the cases went up in State. The government followed the guidelines of Indian Council of Medical Research in giving treatment to seriously affected persons in hospitals. Those who were asymptomatic though they were affected were given treatment at home.
09 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Door delivery of diesel set to go places||Door-to-door delivery of diesel, an initiative of national oil marketing companies to rope in startups for catering to customers whose fuel requirement is large at a location of their choice, is set to gain momentum. “We will be coming out with an advertisement this month for all the interested startups to empanel,” says R. Sravan S. Rao, Executive Director and head of Indian Oil Corporation (IOC) for Telangana and Andhra Pradesh. The call for expression of interest is aimed at taking the programme, beyond the pilot projects launched since 2018 in a few cities, to many locations across the country, including a few in the Telugu States. Doorstep delivery of diesel by the oil marketing companies namely IOC, Bharat Petroleum Corporation and Hindustan Petroleum Corporation, is targeted at a few user industries such as telecom, construction and mining or specifically telecom towers, earth moving equipment and heavy machineries. While bus and trucks operators are high-volume customers, the programme is for those who cannot come to the outlets or operating at remote locations. The doorstep delivery is also meant to cater to shopping malls and commercial establishments that require diesel for their generators. The idea is to avoid the trouble for such customers of purchasing fuel in barrels and storing the same at the site. Many of them also lack facilities to store. Making doorstep deliveries happen will be bowsers or mobile dispensers mounted on trucks for the purpose. According to Mr. Rao, the bowser will be automated, secured with e-locking and the movement of the truck monitored on a real time basis. Under the e-locking mechanism, the dispenser lock can be operated only within the geo-fenced area and with a one-time password received by the customer. While the oil companies will facilitate diesel supplies, from their terminals, depots or the company-owned, company-operated outlets, to the startups, the latter will have to invest on the bowser, reach out the potential customers and market the product. The revenue for the startups will be by way of a facilitation fee that they will collect from the customers. Under the pilot projects, doorstep delivery both by retail outlets of the oil companies as well as by the startups has been under way at few locations. Sources say in Telangana, it is under way at a couple of places. The proposed roll-out in more cities is to be undertaken only with start-ups as part of engaging with new entrepreneurs in innovative business solutions. Existing dealers desirous of participating can do so through a separate entity. But for now, there is opposition to the programme with leaders of trade voicing concerns about more competition.
09 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Furnish precise details of patients’||Giving crucial data pertaining to rise in COVID-19 is not enough; the details of alarming rise in positive cases and other statistics about the virus must be uploaded online so that people understand the extent of its rampant spread and take safety measures, the Telangana High Court said on Monday. Hearing a PIL plea filed by Amrita Aryendra of Hyderabad, a bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy said the government should ensure people realise how quick the virus is spreading, by disseminating all information. The pandemic is rising alarmingly with each passing day. Unless citizens know how the extent of the contagion, they would not be in a position to understand what safety precautions to take so that they do not fall prey to the virus, the bench said. The petitioner said while other States were parting with all details about COVID-19 affected areas and persons, the Telangana government was not doing so. The Kerala government was extensively publicising all facts and figures relating to coronavirus through newspapers and TV news channels, she said. Unless people have clear and precise information, they would not realise the seriousness of the situation and may become vulnerable. “Suppressing such information from citizens would only further aggravate the situation and the virus surreptitiously spreads. This will result in medical disaster,” the CJ observed. Data on number of samples collected, details of samples tested and how many of them emerged positive is key to understand the pattern of the spread of the virus. Further, how many primary and secondary contacts of the positive persons were identified, detailed of those traced and the number of persons quarantined is also essential to assess the severity of the spread of the virus. The government should disseminate all such information including the persons admitted in hospitals and those discharged, the bench said. The bench instructed Advocate General B.S. Prasad to file a detailed report on all the points raised by the petitioner by June 18 when the plea would be heard again.
09 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Governor visits NIMS, meets sick doctors||Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan visited Nizam’s Institute of Medical Sciences here on Monday and extended moral support to doctors and para medical staff who are undergoing treatment for cornonavirus at the hospital. She met them and wished them a quick recovery. Later, speaking to the media, she said that the State government is with the people of Telangana and extended full support to all the frontline warriors like police, sanitary staff and mediapersons. She advised people to be careful, maintain social distancing and wear masks to stay safe. Later, the Governor visited Balaji Temple, Jubilee Hills, and offered prayers for COVID patients.
09 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Recykal, UNDP, HCCB ink pact for better plastic waste management||Digital technology firm in the waste management space Recykal has joined hands with United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and Hindustan Coca-Cola Beverages (HCCB) for developing sustainable plastic waste management practices. Under Project Prithvi, their pan-India partnership, Recykal will leverage its cloud and mobile applications to raise consumer awareness of segregation and recycling. It will enable collection, channelisation of plastic waste from schools, colleges, corporates, residents welfare associations and bulk generators to connect with recyclers closing the loop of the recycling ecosystem. Soft skills training The initiative will also focus on informal sector inclusion activities like providing soft skills training, opening of bank accounts, enabling digital transactions for waste pickers, kabadiwalas and aggregators, said a release from Recykal on Monday. Co-founder Abhishek Deshpande said the startup’s digital technology will drive positive behavioural changes among consumers, enable transactions in the waste value chain and bring scale, measurability, traceability to the Prithvi initiative.
09 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||IIIT-H incentive for girl students||IIIT-Hyderabad has introduced special incentives to increase gender diversity and set a target of at least 25% representation of female students admitted to the four-year B.Tech programme through JEE mode of admission for 2020-2021. Several measures are being taken to facilitate this, including incentives such as 25% waiver on tuition fee for all female students admitted through JEE mode in 2020 for all four years of their BTech programme, merit scholarships at the beginning of second year of B.Tech programme and voluntary application fee of Rs. 500 for applying through the JEE mode. Diversity pool “Our education provides students access to incredible opportunities, be it jobs, admission in reputed universities for higher studies, or grounding to become an entrepreneur. Through our diversity pool, we hope to empower more women students to join us and create their own career paths,” said dean (Academics), IIIT-H, Jayanthi Sivaswamy. More details are available on the website, http://ugadmissions.iiit.ac.in/Diversity/index.html.
09 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||UVC-based disinfectant cabinet to prevent surface contamination||International Advanced Research Centre for Powder Metallurgy and New Materials, an autonomous R&D centre of Department of Science and Technology, and MEKINS Industries have co-developed a UVC-based cabinet for disinfecting non-critical hospital items, laboratory wear and PPEs in the research laboratories to prevent surface contamination. It can also be used to disinfect items exhibited to customers in commercial establishments and several domestic items. UVC light irradiation with 254 nm is strongly absorbed by RNA part of COVID-19 leading to molecular structural damage via a photodimerisation process and thus inactivating it, informed an official spokesperson on Monday. UVC exposure is the best known among the methods to disinfect virus-prone objects including stethoscopes, blood pressure measuring equipment, patient care items, mobile phones, wallets, laptops, laboratory reusable gloves, lab coats, micropipettes, smaller measurement equipment, papers and so on. The compact UVC disinfection cabinet consists of four UVC lamps of 30W (on sides) and two lamps of 15 W (top and bottom). It gives a flux sufficient to disinfect articles of various dimensions placed in shelves separated by metal grilled frames to allow sufficient light from all sides. For the safety consideration and to avoid direct exposure of UVC light to the user, the lamps switch on only when the door is locked. The irradiance intensity is measured at various points within the box to assure sufficient radiation to disinfect all the placed articles within 10 minutes. The partition frames in the cabinet are removable so that even bigger objects like lab coats, blazers and suits can be disinfected when required. The cabinet is multifunctional and useful for research and academic institutes, corporate offices, hospitals, clinics, nursing homes, hotels, restaurants, commercial outlets and domestic usage for fighting COVID-19, the spokesperson added.
09 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||BRKR Bhavan, GHMC employees test positive||COVID-19 created a flutter in the Burgula Ramakrishna Rao Bhavan, the State administrative headquarters, on Monday as an outsourcing employee reportedly tested positive for the virus. After the employee working on the seventh floor was confirmed COVID-positive, officials asked employees to vacate the floor. Staff and officials, majority of them belonging to Finance department, were instructed to take up home quarantine. Officials are now trying to track people with whom the affected employee had contact over the past few days. As the news spread, several employees working in the 8th floor too preferred not to attend duties as a precautionary measure. Steps have been initiated to sanitise the 7th and 8th floors of the building. Meanwhile, GHMC headquarters saw its first COVID case with a junior assistant from the Solid Waste Management wing testing positive. The 39-year-old had not been coming for the duty for the past four days. Suffering from fever and other COVID-19 symptoms since June 4, he was declared positive on Sunday and admitted to hospital. Fourth floor of the seven-storeyed GHMC corporate office building, which housed the SWM wing, has been sealed and all the employees have been asked to self quarantine at home. The entire floor and canteen on GHMC premises was disinfected by the Entomology wing on Monday.
09 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Revanth hits out at KTR||Intensifying his verbal attack against Minister K.T. Rama Rao on the issue of owning land in violation of the guidelines of GO 111, working president of the TPCC A. Revanth Reddy has reiterated his allegation that the Minister owns land in Janwada village on the city outskirts. “In his response to my charges, Mr. Rama Rao has stated on a social media platform that he said he did not own any land in the survey numbers from 301 to 313 in violation of GO 111. Leaders of the ruling party, including legislator Balka Suman, had stated that KTR was not the owner of the farmhouse in question at Janwada but he had taken it on lease. However, a report by the police submitted to the court on my (Revanth Reddy) arrest make it amply clear that KTR owns land there and the family keeps frequenting there regularly,” Mr. Revanth Reddy, who is also Member of Parliament from Malkajgiri, said. Talking to newspersons here on Monday, the Congress leader said the police had sent him to jail on March 5 on the charges of using a drone illegally. In the remand report submitted to the court, the police had mentioned that KTR owned land at Janwada. Mr. Revanth Reddy stated that in survey no. 301 two acres of land was registered in the names of KTR and his wife on March 7, 2019 and Mr. Rama Rao himself had mentioned in his 2018 election affidavit that he owned property worth Rs. 2 crore in the name of Urbana Ventures in Janwada. Minister lying He further stated that “KTR had got constructed a palatial farmhouse with one-lakh square feet on 25 acres land there and he was also lying about not having land in the survey numbers from 301 to 313”. Stating that KTR owned land at two places in Janwada, the Congress MP said he referred to land in survey no. 301 but both KTR and Balka Suman were talking about other lands.
09 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Provide relief to people on bills’||The Communist Party of India (CPI) has requested the State government either to provide special subsidy to domestic category consumers of power or to collect the bill amounts equal to those issued during April, May and June last year in the wake of coronavirus pandemic impact on the earnings of poor and middle-class households. State secretary of CPI Chada Venkat Reddy said in a statement that the domestic consumers had received huge bills this month after collection of energy consumption data for the last three months at a time, resulting in slab change and steep increase in the amount payable. In the absence of income during the lockdown period, the power bills had become a huge burden for the downtrodden, poor and middle-class families. Commercial units Similarly, the commercial establishments too had received huge bills due to slab change although they could run their activities barely for a month in March, April and May. He suggested the government to facilitate the below poverty line families to pay bills in category one and two or implement the telescoping billing system for the last three months consumption against the non-telescopic system in which the bills were being generated now. He also urged the government to waive the late fee on bill payments due to the pandemic conditions. Cong. MP’s letter Meanwhile, Congress MP from Bhongir Komatireddy Venkat Reddy has requested Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao not to burden the poor and middle-class people with huge power bills when most of them had no source of income for the last three months due to the COVID-19 lockdown. In a letter addressed to the Chief Minister on Monday he felt that huge power bills would compound the troubles of those sections. The MP suggested changes in the computation of bills for the lockdown period so that there is some relief to majority of consumers. He stated that the Congress party would agitate on behalf of people in case the government failed to provide any relief to people from huge power bills.
09 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||TRSV lauds CM’s decision||Telangana Rashtra Samiti Vidyarthi Vibhagam (TRSV) has lauded the Chief Minister’s decision to cancel the SSC exams keeping in view the safety of students. In a statement here, TRSV leader Kishore Goud thanked the Chief Minister for taking such a bold decision and showing the way for the country during the pandemic. He said parents, students and teachers were equally happy with the decision as safety of students was of paramount importance during this crisis.
09 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Tahsildar arrested for graft in land dispute case||The Anti-Corruption Bureau arrested Sheikhpet Tahsildar Ch. Sujatha in the follow-up to the investigations into bribery of revenue and police staff in a land dispute at Banjara Hills. The ACB had already arrested Sheikhpet Mandal Revenue Inspector K. Nagarjuna Reddy and Banjara Hills Sub-Inspector of police A. Ravindra Naik and remanded them to judicial custody. The agency had also searched the house of Sujatha and questioned Revenue Divisional Officer Vasantha Kumari on Sunday. Nagarjuna Reddy had reportedly demanded Rs. 30 lakh from a person Khalid to settle the dispute over a land at Banjara Hills valued at Rs. 50 crore. He was nabbed by the ACB while accepting Rs. 15 lakh. On the other hand, Ravindra Naik had demanded Rs. 3 lakh for condoning the criminal aspect of the case. The ACB further probed the case to investigate the involvement of higher ups and in this background searched the house of Sujatha. A release said she was arrested for being in possession of huge cash which she could not satisfactorily account for. It was suspected to be ill gotten money. She will be produced in court.
09 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Notices to government over encroachment of OU land||Telangana High Court on Monday issued notices to the State government along with OU Vice-Chancellor over the alleged encroaching upon 8,000 square yards of land of the university campus. A post-doctoral fellow of OU., Poladi Ramana Rao, wrote a letter to Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan seeking intervention of the court to protect the lands of the university. The bench headed by CJ issued notices to Chief Secretary, Revenue Principal Secretary, Chief Commissioner of Land Administration and other officials. The matter was posted to June 19 for next hearing.
09 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Govt. allows film, TV shoots, cinemas shut||The State government has permitted film and TV shootings while continuing to keep cinema halls closed in view of spread of coronavirus. The file allowing film and TV shoots was signed by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao on Monday in the wake of leaders of film industry submitting a representation to him recently. They also sought permission for post-production works on shoots that were completed and reopening of cinema halls. A release said Mr. Rao allowed post-production works as soon as film and TV shoots were completed but not reopening of cinema halls as it was barred by the Centre. The shoots should, however, take place in adherence to safety guidelines.
09 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Sanitation drive concludes||The GHMC has during its weeklong sanitation drive cleared roads, private plots and nalas of debris and garbage. The drive had begun on June 1 and ended on June 8. A total of 4,131 kilometres of road length and 1,516 open plots have been cleared of garbage and debris. A total of 4,198 metric tonnes of garbage and 12,437 metric tonnes of debris and construction waste has been removed from the roads.
09 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Medicines at doorstep||The South Central Railway (SCR) has informed that about 1,500 retired and serving railway staff with various chronic diseases like diabetes, hypertension, cardiac and other health issues got benefited through the supply of medicines at the doorsteps from April 18 through the available volunteers of Scouts & Guides within the vicinity of 30 sq. kms. This is to avoid travel to the Central Hospital for taking regular medicines. Requests from the retired/serving employees and their families are being received through WhatsApp.
09 June 2020||NIZAMABAD,TELANGANA||Prepare water map of Nizamabad city: KTR||Municipal Administration Minister K.T. Rama Rao has asked the authorities to prepare a water map of Nizamabad city and complete water and energy auditing within the coming 15 days. He urged them to undertake rainwater harvesting structures in a big way in the current monsoon and said they could be built at empty places, parks, government offices and at all other places wherever possible. An ideal and possible method needs to be adopted after thorough review on waste management methods, he said while addressing a meeting of MLAs and authorities on the development of Nizamabad city at his chambers in Hyderabad on Monday. Minister for Roads and Buildings V. Prashanth Reddy, MLAs B. Ganesh Gupta, Bajireddy Govardhan, A. Jeevan Reddy, Mayor D. Neetukiran, the Collector C. Narayana Reddy and the Commissioner, MCN, Jitesh V. Patil were among those who participated in the meeting.  When Mr. Prashanth Reddy urged Mr. Rao to release Rs. 161 crore for ongoing works in the MCN limits the latter positively responded.
09 June 2020||P Sridhar,TELANGANA||TSWRDC student bags virtual exchange fellowship||Digital technology made it possible for P Divyasri, a B.Sc (MZC) first year student of the Palvancha-based Telangana Social Welfare Residential Degree College (TSWRDC) to participate in a “Virtual International Fellowship” from her home, amid the coronavirus-triggered crisis. She is one among 40 first year undergraduates of the TSWRDCs selected for Virtual Exchange Fellowship (VEF) of two weeks’ duration being organised by the International Association of Students in Economics and Commercial Sciences (AIESEC). All the 40 students were selected based on their performance in an English proficiency test and interview held online in May during the lockdown. The VEF encompasses online seminars involving participants from England, Egypt, Sri Lanka, Indonesia, Pakistan, Peru and Bahrain. It focuses on seven themes including Cross Cultural Interaction and Leadership.
09 June 2020||PEDDAPALLI,TELANGANA||SCCL unions plan protests on June 10, 11||All the national trade unions of the Singareni Collieries Company Limited (SCCL) have decided to organise two-day agitational programmes at all the mines in the Singareni region on June 10 and 11 opposing the Centre’s decision to allow privatisation of the coal mines. On June 10, the unions have decided to stage dharnas in front of the general manager offices of the all UG and OCP mines in the coal belt and on June 11 they would attend to their duties wearing black badges. As a prelude to the agitational programmes, the national trade unions have started organising the gate-meetings at all the mines mobilising the coal miners for the agitation against privatisation. Barring the recognised trade union — Telangana Boggu Ghani Karmika Sangham (TGBKS) — all the national trade unions — INTUC, AITUC, BMS, HMS, IFTU and CITU, among other trade unions — were participating in the agitation and organising gate-meetings at mines in the entire coal belt area The trade union leaders have threatened to intensify their agitation if the government failed to withdraw its move after June 11.
09 June 2020||V. Geetanath,TELANGANA||Ready to run 171 more Shramik Specials, says Railway Board Chairman||The Railways is ready to run up to 171 trains and more in the next few days till June 15 to ensure “each and every labourer or ‘shramik’ reaches his or her respective home State. Close to 66 of these trains could be from Kerala, 26 from Tamil Nadu, and 5-10 trains from other States, mostly towards West Bengal and Odisha besides Uttar Pradesh and Bihar while one ‘Shramik Special is scheduled to be run from Goa on June 16, disclosed Chairman of Railway Board, Vinod Kumar Yadav, on Monday. “We have been undertaking a big and difficult operation for the migrant labourers through 4,315 trains and transported 58.40 lakh (passengers) with the cooperation of originating and receiving States. Despite the fear of COVID-19, railway personnel are working round the clock to get the special trains ready within 24 hours’ notice of the respective States,” he explained, in an exclusive interview. No profit motive Mr. Yadav was at pains to state that the Railways migrant specials are not for “profit or income generating motive” because “Rs. 200 crore or more expenditure is not beyond its capacity to absorb. “There has been a lot of debate about fares being charged, but it was only a ‘nominal fare’ for better train management. If it was free for all, it would have led to chaos. We were dependent on originating States to gather, screen and bring labour. We had to cancel up to 250 trains due to lack of permissions and demand. Several States including Telangana and Andhra Pradesh accepted to pay the fares which is 15% of what we usually charge for special trains returning empty. Tickets were issued to the States directly to bring some order and prevent crowding at stations,” he said. The chairman asserted that complaints of lack of food and water was “blown out of proportion” while trains travelling to wrong direction was “fake news”. “Originating States were providing first meal and water, thereafter we were supplying free packed food in each coach with the help of RPF personnel. IRCTC contracting staff were apprehensive of distributing inside due to the virus fear. In one instance, before the RPF personnel entered, passengers tried to distribute the packets themselves leading to fights. These videos were going viral,” he claimed. Seventy-one trains had to be diverted between May 19 to 26 because of ‘heavy demand’ when an average of 250 trains were being run daily predominantly towards UP and Bihar causing “congestion from Mumbai to Gorakhpur”.
09 June 2020||WARANGAL URBAN DT,TELANGANA||Three Maoist sympathisers arrested||The city police arrested three alleged sympathisers of the banned naxal Maoist party here on Sunday. The arrested persons were identified as Ugge Shankar alias Shekar, a former State committee member of Maharastra of the Maoist party, Golluri Praveen Kumar, Telangana Praja Front (TPF) Warangal Urban district president and a former militia member, of Mankiyapur village of Bheemadevarapally mandal, and Kothuri Indarasena alias Chinnana, a former militia member, of Kaniparthy village of Kamalapur mandal in the district.
09 June 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha airlifts migrants from Andamans||Stepping up its effort to bring home its natives stranded in places having no rail connectivity, the Odisha government airlifted 180 migrant workers from Andaman and Nicobar Islands on Monday. The migrant workers flew from the Port Blair airport by a special flight of Air Asia and landed at the Biju Patnaik International Airport in the city. More than 600 people have so far been flown down from Jammu & Kashmir, Himachal, Manipur, Nagaland and Tripura, the State government said.
09 June 2020||CHANDIGARH,||‘Punjab revenue may dip by 30%’||Punjab Chief Minister Captain Amarinder Singh on Monday said capital expenditure in essential sectors such as health, education and infrastructure would be retained at Rs. 5,000 crore, notwithstanding the economic crisis facing the State, which was expecting a shortfall of nearly 30% in the Total Revenue Receipts (TRR) in the financial year 2020-21 on account of lockdown effect. Reviewing the economic situation of the State at a videoconference of the Empowered Committee of Cabinet on Fiscal Management, the Chief Minister said the focus of his government was on ensuring that salaries and pensions continue to be paid on time.  ‘No compromise’ “No compromise could be made to ensure funding for all front-line departments, such as health, police and local bodies, which were working 24X7 in battling the disaster,” he said. As per the Finance Department’s estimates, Punjab can expect TRR of around Rs. 62,246 crore during FY 2020-21, i.e. a shortfall of around Rs. 25,758 crore or a 29.26% dip. The Chief Minister said the power subsidy to farmers would continue and there was no question of the government accepting the condition to replace it with direct cash transfer for availing of the additional borrowing limit allowed by the Centre. “This so-called power reform was violative of the country’s federal structure,” he said, adding that he would write to the Prime Minister on this issue as the Central government could not put conditions on States for availing loans. Pointing out that this, and the recent Ordinance on agricultural reforms, could further pave the way for elimination of the MSP regime, Captain Amarinder said he would convey Punjab’s opposition to the Centre very strongly.
09 June 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Protests in Punjab against agri ordinance||Farmers under the banner of Kisan Mazdoor Sangarsh Smiti on Monday held protests in several districts of Punjab against the Centre’s recent ordinance on agriculture sector. Farmers staged sit-in protests in Amritsar, Tarn Taran, Ferozpur, Moga, Jalandhar, Hosiarpur and Fazilka districts and submitted memoranda to local authorities addressed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, demanding revocation of Farming Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance, 2020. Sarvan Singh Pandher, general secretary of the Punjab unit of KMSS, told The Hindu that the implementation of the ordinance will lead to exploitation at the hands of big corporate houses.
09 June 2020||GURUGRAM,||Most eateries in Gurugram shut despite govt. orders||While the Haryana government has allowed the restaurants in the State to run dine-in services at half their capacity, a majority of them in the Millennium City remained shut on Monday due to reduced timings and restrictions on bars. Also, some of them were either unaware of the directions or lacked clarity. Most of the restaurants in DLF Cyber Hub and Sector 29, housing several hotels and restaurants in the city, remained shut. Claiming that owners were set to lose more by opening restaurants, National Restaurant Association of India’s Gurugram chapter head Inderjeet Banga claimed that only around 10 % restaurants, mostly without bars, had opened. He said that with the bars remaining shut, most of the restaurants could not even reach the break-even point. “Around 65 % of the business for restaurants comes from dinners. Since they are not allowed to operate after 8 p.m., that is gone. Similarly, running the restaurants at half the capacity will rob us of 50 % business during lunch,” said Mr. Banga. Besides, the restaurants running from the shopping malls were not allowed the dine-in, he said. Seeking more pro-business guidelines from the government, Mr. Banga, who runs “Pirates of Grill” at a shopping mall on Mehrauli-Gurugram Road, said: “If we open, we will bleed to death. We prefer to remain shut and die. The landlords are also adamant on rentals.” In Cyber Hub, only a couple of restaurants were open and those too were also allowing dine-in. Rakesh Kumar, a manager at Haldiram’s, said they were seeking clarification from the DLF management in view of the government directions on whether or not to allow dine-in. “Since Cyber Hub falls in the category of a shopping mall, we are not sure whether we can allow dine-in. But we have made all preparations. The capacity has been reduced from around a hundred to just 30,” said Mr. Kumar. Bikanervala, a restaurant in Sector 29, allowed the dine-in and had a few customers as well. The restaurant’s manager Nitin said they expected a 10-15 % increase in footfall and had made arrangements to ensure social distancing.
09 June 2020||GUWAHATI,||Bonanza for Assam teachers ahead of polls||Ahead of the 2021 Assembly elections, the Bharatiya Janata Party-led Assam government has brought the services of 46,150 contractual teachers in State government schools at par with the regular ones. The announcement made by Education Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma on Sunday evening came amid the retrenchment and job loss, mainly in the private sector. The decision was taken at a Cabinet meeting on May 26. Mr. Sarma said the contractual teachers mostly employed after clearing the teacher eligibility test (TET) would now be eligible for all benefits the regular government school teachers enjoy. “I won’t say their jobs have been regularised because the Supreme Court has barred the use of the word, but they will be able to serve till they attain the retirement age of 60 years,” he told newspersons. The State’s Education Department has no specific data on the number of regular teachers. But associations of primary and secondary school teachers say the number will not be less than 2.5 lakh. The decision on the contractual teachers is expected to yield electoral dividends for the BJP, which has set a 100-seat target in the 126-member Assembly for the State polls less than a year away. The BJP’s tally in 2016 was 60. The appointment of teachers has usually been political in Assam. This, electoral analysts say, is done with the voters associated with such teachers in mind. Also of political significance, particularly in rural areas, has been the State government’s decision making admissions across government educational institutes free.  ‘COVID-19 relief’ “As an attempt to provide relief to families affected by COVID-19, we have decided to give free admissions to all students this year irrespective of the income of their families from higher secondary to postgraduate level, including medical, engineering, agriculture and veterinary colleges,” Mr. Sarma said. Colleges have been asked not to take fee for prospectus, excursions and other programmes.
09 June 2020||Kolkata,||Low-pressure area over Bay of Bengal||A low-pressure area is likely to develop over east-central Bay of Bengal in the next 24 hours causing light thunderstorms in Kolkata and adjoining areas of south Bengal, officials of the Regional Meteorological Centre in the city said on Monday. “Due to this formation of a low-pressure area, conditions are likely to become favourable for advance of the Southwest Monsoon into some parts of northeastern States like Sikkim, Odisha and West Bengal during 11-12 June 2020,” the weather office predicted. Kolkata and adjoining areas have been receiving rainl in the past 24 hours. Overnight rainfall recorded at Alipore in the city from Sunday evening was around 69 mm. Certain parts of the city were waterlogged because of the rain.
09 June 2020||New Delhi,||Eateries, temples, Palika Bazar take precautions||Restaurants, temples and Palika Bazar market at Connaught Place opened on Monday after nearly two and a half months of lockdown. Most sites took precautions to ensure social distancing, screening and sanitsation, but saw scant footfall. While most consumers visited markets for essential needs, others came kill time or make videos to share on social media. Rakesh Lal came to Wenger’s in CP all the way from Gurugram. “I had been coming to the store every month for the last 30 years. During the lockdown, the store was not delivering to Haryana,” said Mr. Lal as he waited in a queue outside the shop. Several popular eateries that had been offering home delivery during the lockdown, opened up their dining halls. At Cafe Coffee Day in CP, the store manager was handing out roses to customers — after spraying sanitiser and thermal screening. “We have had only two sets of customers all day,” said Raeez, the manager. “We would be lucky if we had any more. But if they came we will seat them leaving one table apart,” he added. At most fast-food restaurants, markings had been made on the floor to ensure customers observe social distancing. Some of the staff also wore full safety gear while other employees dispensed sanitiser. At the entrance to Palika Bazar underground market, there were two queues: one for people being thermal screened and another for those who had been refused entry as their body temperatures was deemed too high. “It is so sunny, the machine is just catching that. I will wait in the shade for a while and it will be okay,” said Junaid who had come to get his phone fixed. Traders worried Inside, traders worried that customers would not want to visit the market as the central air conditioning had been turned off following government guidelines. Prateek Goyal, who had come to take stock of his garments store, said that business activities could not go on as before and some system of stores opening on alternative days would have to be set up. “We are also worried about falling sick, but what can we do? Work has to go on,” he added. The primary concern for most traders was paying rent to the New Delhi Municipal Council. Asserting that the only reason businesses were being allowed to open was because the government’s own coffers were running dry, Darshan Kakkar, president of the market association, said that authorities must provide relief. “I am ready to either give up my business or to give up my life,” said Meher Elahi, another member of the association appealing for authorities to provide relief. The Hanuman Temple near CP has installed a sanitisation tunnel, and there are markings on the ground to ensure social distancing. Following government guidelines, prasad offerings have been disallowed and the bells have been covered up with cloth to stop worshipers from ringing them. As a special initiative, a man dressed as Hanuman was deployed inside the temple, to dance to the beat of drums. Among those who visited Connaught Place were people with very specific purposes such as those visiting branded mobile centres for repairs, purchasing specific sets of clothes or to fulfill a craving. Apart from the focussed customers were multiple couples, sitting on benches trying to steal a moment alone, and others who had arrived to shoot videos. Shinu, a student from Balgarh in Haryana, commuted for nearly 90 minutes with his four friends and two models to shoot Tik-Tok videos. “We shoot prank videos,” said a member of the troupe. Unclear as to what the prank was going to be, the group was seen moving around CP trying to find a good location to shoot. Others took pictures posing in front of the market’s iconic white pillars. All were without masks, to ensure the shot was not compromised.
09 June 2020||New Delhi,||Licence to go, but people prefer to eat and pray another day||Several northern and eastern States, in line with the progressive unlocking of restrictions put in place in late March, threw open malls, restaurants and religious places on Monday with adherence to norms prescribed by the Centre. While Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath led from the front in Uttar Pradesh by conducting the prayers at the Gorakhnath temple in Gorakhpur of which he is also the head priest, the response to the easing of restrictions was largely tepid across States with COVID-19 cases continuing on their steep ascent nationwide. Several shopping malls in the cities of Rajasthan, including Jaipur, reopened on Monday, though there were very few customers. Most of the hotels and restaurants remained closed because of the stringent conditions of maintaining distance between tables. A long queue of shopkeepers and employees was visible outside Gower Tower mall in Jaipur, where they were thermal-screened at the entrance. In Punjab’s Amritsar, the holiest Sikh shrine, the Golden Temple, and the popular Durgiana Hindu temple were opened for devotees with precautionary measures but most places of worship witnessed no rush. Outside containment zones, hotels and restaurants too reopened but only a few customers were seen. In Haryana, apart from Gurugram and Faridabad districts, most religious places and shopping malls were reopened across the State. In Panchkula the Mata Mansa Devi temple, where online registration has been made mandatory for devotees, will reopen only on June 9. Many major shrines, temples and mosques reopened in Uttar Pradesh. In Ayodhya, temples like the Hanuman Garhi and the makeshift Ram temple reopened but saw limited footfall amid tight vigilance arrangements and regular sanitation. Devotees were allowed to offer prayers five at a time but from a distance. Devotees also offered namaz at the Eidgah mosque in Lucknow. However, in many places like Mathura and Moradabad religious places deferred opening. In Bihar, too, shopping malls, restaurants and religious places reopened after a gap of two months to fewer footfalls. “Only asymptomatic devotees are being allowed to enter the temple premises,” said a constable conducting thermal screening at the entrance gate of Patna’s Mahavir Mandir. However, the world famous Mahabodhi temple in Bodh Gaya will be reopen on June 10. In the Madhya Pradesh capital Bhopal, restaurants in containment-free areas flung doors open, hotels were unbolted and billboards outside malls illuminated yet again for the first time after 83 days. But it was mostly regulars and students who were brave enough to step out for leisure. In the city’s bustling economic enclave MP Nagar, the city’s biggest DB Mall is limping back to life with at least 50% of its outlets thrown open on Day 1. From 11 a.m. to 2 p.m., the mall had witnessed 700-800 visitors, considerably less than 5,000 in the period every weekday before the pandemic struck. “For how long could you stay indoors? But this doesn’t mean you step out without caution and care,” said Sanjay Garg, marketing manager at a Bhopal-based firm, who was visiting the mall with family. Life is slowing limping back to normalcy across Odisha with lifting of certain restrictions. But all religious places and shopping malls in the State will remain closed till June 30. As per an order issued on Sunday, hotels and restaurants have been permitted home delivery/takeaways and delivery of food by aggregators.  Buses back on roads The Odisha State Road Transport Corporation resumed bus operations on 66 routes connecting 22 towns in the State on Monday. The city bus service in Bhubaneswar had already resumed. Two-day shutdowns on weekends are being enforced till June end in 11 districts to contain the spread of novel coronavirus. Places of worship across the Northeast had limited footfall after temples, mosques, churches and other religious institutions were allowed to open after more than 75 days. Some major temples such as Kamakhya in Guwahati remained shut. In Tripura, some 300 people visited the popular Tripureshwari temple in Udaipur, about 64 km south of Agartala. “In normal times, 1,500-2,000 devotees and tourists visit the temple a day,” said Udaipur Sub-Divisional Magistrate Aniruddha Roy. Most other temples and mosques opened in Tripura but the churches did not. “Catholic churches are awaiting proper guidelines and SOPs from the State government,” said Bishop Lumen Monterio of the Catholic Diocese in Tripura.   (With inputs from Jaipur, Chandigarh, Lucknow, Patna, Bhubaneswar and Guwahati)
09 June 2020||New Delhi,||Malls reopen but shoppers stay away||With precautionary measures like temperature checks and sanitisation tunnels in place, several malls in the city reopened on Monday after over two months of being shut due to the nationwide lockdown. Apart from screening at the main entrances, retail outlets were seen carrying out their own checks as well as providing sanitisers to shoppers. As mall sanitisation staff, somse in PPE kits, walked around the premises cleaning and disinfecting common areas, red crosses on every third step of an escalator indicated the need to maintain social distance. Even though many outlets and restaurants are yet to open, consumers started trickling in by late afternoon. The food court at Select City Walk mall in Saket, which is usually packed during lunch hour, saw only three-four tables occupied. Luv Sharma, a resident of Tilak Nagar, said: “Even though I am slightly concerned about the rising number of COVID-19 cases in Delhi, I decided to step out as I had a few shopping coupons that I wanted to redeem. They were issued pre-lockdown and its been a long time already. So, I decided to come on the first day itself.” At Ambience Mall in Vasant Kunj, the food court bore a deserted look with most outlets and restaurants still shut with notices telling customers that they would “open soon”. Store managers and employees of various outlets at the malls said that new rules for shoppers were in place. Some apparel stores such as H&M said that following every outfit trial by a customer, the clothes were being ironed as a precautionary measure; while some like Lifestyle at Ambience Mall said that trying out clothes was no longer permitted. Anil Kumar Giri, an employee at Lifestyle, said: “While trials are no longer allowed, customers now have 90 days to return bought items as opposed to the 30-day rule which was in place earlier.” Bookstores like Crossword saw around five-seven customers till late afternoon, staff members said. “Very few customers have come since morning. New measures are in place; every book will be sanitised after the customer is done browsing,” said Laxman Singh Chauhan, an employee at the Saket store. Stores selling make-up have introduced a “no touch” policy according to which a shopper will have to buy the product without touching or testing it.
09 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Police file chargesheet in Rattan Lal murder case||The Delhi police on Monday filed a chargesheet in two cases related to the alleged murder of Head Constable Rattan Lal during the north-east Delhi riots in February. The Crime Branch of Delhi Police filed the 925-page chargesheet before Metropolitan Magistrate Rakesh Kumar Rampuri who put up the matter for consideration on June 22. One chargesheet has named 17 persons, including Shahrukh Mallick, Mohd Yunus, Mohd Ayub, Mohd Danish, Mohd Arif, Jalaluddin, Mohd Ibrahim, Mohd Nasir, Imran Ansari and Mohd Adil, as accused who allegedly were part of a mob that attacked the police force on the main Wazirabad road, Chand Bagh, in north-east Delhi on February 24. The other was filed against six persons for murder, rioting, unlawful assembly, promoting enmity between groups. All the accused are in judicial custody in the case. The police have listed 164 witnesses in the chargesheet. Wazirabad protests According to the chargesheet, during investigation, it emerged that the sit-in protests at Wazirabad since mid-January was used as a “spring board to propel riots”. The ensuing riots snowballed into fierce rioting in various pockets of the north-east district and initially one community remained aggressive on February 24 which was followed by violent reactions from the other community on the next day, the police alleged. Investigation revealed that there was a “deep-rooted conspiracy” which triggered the riots, the chargesheet said. It further said that the probe has established that the riots were not impromptu but were conspired with an intent to create communal strife, to malign the image of the country under the garb of democratically opposing the Citizenship Amendment Act. While explaining the sequence of events that led to the riots and the killing of officer Lal, a senior police officer said that the probe revealed that “an atmosphere was created” over a period of time to instigate people against the CAA. Subsequently, the officer said, a “chakka jaam” was planned to increase momentum of the movement and “when the opportune moment arrived when U.S. President Donald Trump was in India”, the first thing that was done was block 66 Foota Road and Wazirabad Road, impacting thousands of people. The conspirators caused disruption by spreading misinformation on the CAA and road blockade, which triggered communal violence, the police said. Officers attacked When the mob attacked police officers on February 24, DCP (Shahdara) Amit Kumar Sharma, ACP (Gokulpuri) Anuj Kumar and other police officers suffered serious injuries. According to the FIR, the mob had then chased injured police officers into Mohan Nursing Home and vandalised it. Another FIR registered in the connection with the violence said that after attacking police officers, the rioters had barged into a building on the main Wazirabad road and had thrown stones and fired gunshots from its rooftop. One of the rioters, Shahid, was killed of a gunshot injury, the second FIR had said.
09 June 2020||New Delhi,||Girl who exposed Bois Locker Room receiving threats||One of the girls who had shared screenshots of chats from Instagram group ‘Bois Locker Room’ alleged that she was receiving threats and offensive messages on social media, following which the Delhi Police’s Cyber Cell registered an FIR, officials said on Monday According to the police, the Instagram group was being used to share obscene messages and morphed pictures of underage girls on social media sites. The girl lodged a complaint with the local police last week after she received “threats, obnoxious and offensive” messages on social media for posting about the ‘Bois Locker Room’, the officials said. The complaint was then transferred to the Cyber Cell of the Delhi Police, a senior police officer said. “We have registered an FIR based on the complaint from the girl. The nature of content she received was threatening but primarily obnoxious in nature,” the police officer said Information about the Instagram group came to light after a girl shared screenshots of its activities. Following this, the group started being called out on the social media. The police said that during monitoring, it was noticed that the group was being used by the participants to share obscene messages and morphed pictures.
09 June 2020||New Delhi,||Plea against govt. order on testing||The Delhi High Court on Monday sought response from the city government on pleas seeking to quash a June 2 order that excluded asymptomatic people from undergoing COVID-19 tests. A Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan issued the order on separate petitions by K.K. Aggarwal, Padma Shree Awardee and President of Heart Care Foundation of India (HCFI); and Renu Goswami, a 77-year-old Delhi resident. The court asked the government to submit its response on the petitions by June 22, the next date of hearing. Rising cases Dr. Aggarwal argued that asymptomatic, pre-symptomatic, and mild or very mild symptoms cases will increase exponentially. He added that a study on COVID-19 has pointed out that between 5% and 80% of people testing positive for COVID-19 may be asymptomatic. Ms. Goswami, in her plea, said she suffers from several co-morbidities, including Coronary Arterial Disease, hypertension, and as such falls within the category of “high risk”. She said the June 2 order ends up excluding direct contacts of patients like family members, domestic helps, and professional colleagues.
09 June 2020||Noida/Ghaziabad,||U.P. implements checks as Delhi opens borders||It was smooth sailing for commuters coming to the Capital from Noida and Ghaziabad with Delhi opening up its borders on Monday. However, people trying to enter Uttar Pradesh had a harrowing time as U.P. Police launched a drive to check vehicles coming from the Capital. Long queues were seen in the morning during rush hour at Noida and Ghaziabad borders. Policemen manning barricades said they have been instructed to stop vehicles from Delhi that do not have valid e-passes. “I don’t know why everyday rules get changed. I have to travel daily from Delhi to Ghaziabad for my job, and everyday I waste around an hour in entering the city,” said Virendra Mishra, a resident of Vaishali.  While most of the congestion was due to the checking, another reason was the turning back of vehicles upon being denied access beyond the U.P. border. The situation was similar at U.P. gate, Anand Vihar and Bhopura border. Strange situation “This is a strange situation. I went to my office in Delhi without any problem in the morning but now have been stopped from going back home. Where am I supposed to sleep?” asked Rajesh Gaur, a resident of Sector 135 in Noida. “When I asked the policeman what I am supposed to do, he told me I should have thought of that before I entered Delhi. This is ridiculous.”
09 June 2020||Aurangabad,||Two prisoners escape from COVID care centre; one official suspended||Two prisoners, who recently tested positive for coronavirus, escaped from a COVID care centre in Aurangabad district, a prison official said on Monday. The duo bent grilles of a window to sneak out and used bed sheets as ropes to climb down from their room at the facility late on Sunday night, he said. A prison employee has been suspended and a case has been registered at Begumpura police station. “Teams have been sent out and a search for the prisoners is on,” a jailofficial told PTI . A couple of days ago, 29 undertrial prisoners of Harsul jail tested positive for COVID-19. They were later sent to a COVID care centre for treatment. Two of them, Sayyed Saif and Akramkhan, both residents of Aurangabad, escaped from the facility. Mr. Saif was facing trial for offences of cheating and forgery, while Mr. Akramkhan was arrested in a case of murder and criminal conspiracy, he said. After the 29 prisoners tested positive, 15 rooms at a COVID care centre in Kileark were identified for their treatment. As many as 14 jail personnel, including two officers, were deployed there in two shifts and the rooms of prisoners were kept locked from outside, the official said.
09 June 2020||Aurangabad,||250-bed facility set up||A 250-bed hospital to treat COVID-19 patients has been set up by the State-run Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) within one month in Aurangabad city, and will be ready for use in a week’s time, District Collector Uday Choudhari said on Monday. The facility has come up in an MIDC building in Chikalthana industrial area and will work as a COVID care centre for now, with the option of converting it into a dedicated COVID healthcare centre if required, Mr. Choudhari told PTI . “It will require a staff of 60 and we have sent a proposal to the National Urban Health Mission to run the facility smoothly after the COVID-19 outbreak is contained,” Aurangabad Municipal Commissioner Astik Kumar Pande said.
09 June 2020||Mumbai,||Maharashtra seeing a circus, not a sarkaar: Rajnath Singh||Maharashtra is witnessing a circus and not a sarkaar (government), Union Defence Minister and senior Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Rajnath Singh said on Monday. He was addressing a virtual Jan Samvad rally of party workers in the State. While stating that the Centre would extend all possible help to the State in its fight against COVID-19 and relief measures to recover from cylcone Nisarga, Mr. Singh wondered how could a government guided by Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar be so directionless. “Maharashtra, and in that Mumbai, is among the worst affected due to COVID-19. I watch news about non-availability of ambulances to patients, bodies in hospital and such. Sometimes I feel there is no government in the State. What is happening?” he asked. The Defence Minister expressed disbelief over the fact that a government comprising three parties, with a former CM in the Cabinet, is so directionless. Ranking U.P. and Karnataka higher than Maharashtra in their fight against COVID-19, Mr. Singh said the States had still managed to control the spread of the virus. Mr. Singh also pointed out that the ruling party was instead criticising people like actor Sonu Sood, who has been helping migrant workers. “It seems Maharashtra has circus in the name of sarkaar (government). It has no vision for development,” said the Union Minister, launching an attack on the BJP’s former ally, Shiv Sena. “The Sena fought the election with the BJP and betrayed us after the polls because of its greed for power. People wanted Devendra Fadnavis as CM but the Sena’s selfish motives overpowered people’s will. Is this the party late Balasaheb Thackeray founded?” he asked. Mr. Singh finally said despite all this, the Central government led by the BJP would help the State. The minister also attacked the Congress, saying power without responsibility was a nature of the party. “How can Rahul Gandhi say that his party has no say in decisions? They should run the government in coordination at least in difficult times. The Congress is so directionless that it could not even become main opposition party in the Lok Sabha in 2019,” he taunted. Earlier in his speech, Mr. Singh claimed that India’s economy in 2019 stands improved as compared to that in 2013. “Under the UPA government, the country’s economy stood at ninth position and today we are fifth in the world. We are the world’s fastest growing economy and the world accepts it.”
09 June 2020||Mumbai,||Delhi couple on bail longs to see ‘adopted’ child||Amid the lockdown, a Delhi-based couple is unable to meet their son, whose ‘adoption’ is linked to a human trafficking racket because of which the police have lodged the boy at a children’s welfare home in Mumbai. The parents claimed to have adopted the boy from Mumbai about four years ago, but the police said it is a case of human trafficking, in which they caught six couples and some ‘intermediaries’. Before the lockdown, the three-and-a-half-year old boy’s parents came here from Delhi and used to meet him daily at the Chembur-based children’s welfare home. But after the lockdown came into force in March, the couple flew back to Delhi and is now only able to have a 10-minute video call with their son in a day. “I have an 18-year-old daughter and I adopted the boy through one Pawan Sharma in November 2016,” the boy’s adoptive father told PTI . He said Mr. Sharma assured proper documentation of the adoption and in January 2017, he provided the child’s birth certificate, saying it was the “final document”. “In 2018, Mr. Sharma also helped one of my relatives get a child in Delhi. However, all of a sudden, in July 2019, Mumbai Crime Branch officials landed at my sister’s place and claimed that I adopted the child illegally,” he said. “On July 7, I along with my relative, who had also taken a child from Mr. Sharma, reached Mumbai and appeared before the Crime Branch to take custody of both the children. However, our sons were sent to the children’s home and we were arrested,” he said. The man said he was able to secure bail after a few months and approached the Bombay High Court along with his relative and four other Mumbai-based parents, who were arrested for similar offences. In November 2019, the Bombay High Court issued an order to check the credentials of all the six parents and they were allowed to meet the children at the welfare home every day from noon to 4 p.m., he said. “On that basis, we kept meeting our children from October last year till March 21. We also filed for legal adoption in a sessions court while a petition to quash the police FIR is pending before the High Court,” he said. The man said after the lockdown, he flew back to Delhi and is now able to make only a 10-minute video call in a day to his son. When contacted, a Mumbai Crime Branch official told PTI that they busted the human trafficking racket in July last year and caught six couples who “bought” children. “At least nine intermediaries were involved in the racket, including nurses from hospitals in poor localities, surrogate mothers, and employees at IVF (in-vitro fertilisation) centres. We had also arrested the alleged ‘mastermind’, Mr. Sharma, who is a Delhi resident,” he said. Mr. Sharma, the six couples, and the intermediaries are currently out on bail, he said, adding a charge sheet is likely to be filed soon in the case.
09 June 2020||Mumbai,||Uddhav calls toddler chided by parents over physical distancing||Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray spoke to a three-year-old girl whose parents had playfully chided her for ‘violating’ physical distancing norms. Mr. Thackeray called up the father of Anshika Shinde, whose video expressing apology for inadvertently touching currency notes while handing them to the milk vendor went viral on social media. The Shinde family, living at Vishrantwadi in Pune, was in for a pleasant surprise when the Chief Minister called and spoke to Anshika, telling her to contact him if her parents scolded her again. In the video, Anshika’s mother is heard telling her that she will inform ‘Uddhav uncle’ about her act of touching the currency notes while handing them to the milk vendor. Mr. Thackeray, who was apprised of the viral video, rang up the girl’s father and asked him not to trouble a Shiv Sainik (Shiv Sena worker). “I came to know that you are scolding Anshika using my name,” a jovial Thackeray is heard saying in the call recording. The girl’s father told the CM that she loved him very much, to which Mr. Thackeray responded, “Anshika, tell your parents that you are a good girl and will listen to them. But if they scold you again, then inform me.”
09 June 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Cyclone impact: all roads cleared in Raigad||The roads that were blocked after cyclone Nisraga created havoc in Raigad district on June 3, have finally been cleared, Collector and District Magistrate Nidhi Choudhari said on Monday. Meanwhile, the number of deaths has increased to five after one of the six injured succumbed during treatment. The latest victim, a man from Pen, had come under an electrical pole and received head injuries. “The roads connecting all the 1,905 villages have been cleared and the National Disaster Response Force teams have been withdrawn. By Sunday, we could travel to all the villages without any hurdle. However, work is under way in small gallis in some of the villages,” Ms. Choudhari told The Hindu . Electricity to 785 villages has been restored till now, she said. “The villages where power is yet to return are mainly from Shrivardhan, Murud, Mhasla, Mangaon, Tala and Alibaug talukas.” Vehicle-mounted generators are being sent to the villages which are still in the dark. “The generators are being used to pump water and also to charge inverters at residences,” the Collector said. Around 25 engineers, 80 staff, eight contractors, and 170 labourers have been deployed in the district for restoring the electricity. Trees have fallen onto wadis and residential compounds causing extensive damage, Ms. Choudhari said, urging people to be alert as many trees would have become weak and might collapse. With many houses becoming roofless as tin and trampoline sheets were blown away, there is a sudden surge in demand of such sheets in market following which the prices have drastically gone up. “We contacted a few manufacturers from Nashik, Palghar and Raigad, who have started supplying them in large numbers,” Ms. Choudhari said.
09 June 2020||Panaji,||Allow returning Goans free quarantine facilities: Oppn.||Goa’s COVID-19 cases increased by 30 on Monday, 28 of which were from Mangor Hill, the State’s first containment zone, an official said. The other two cases detected were that of a man who had travelled by train from Gujarat and another by road from Maharashtra. “The number of COVID-19 cases in Goa is 330, of which the active cases are 263,” the official said. Thirteen patients were shifted from ESI Hospital in Margao to a COVID care centre set up at a primary health centre in Shiroda, State health secretary Nila Mohanan said. Meanwhile, in an all-party meeting called by Chief Minister Pramod Sawant on Monday to discuss the COVID-19 situation, opposition parties demanded that people returning to the State not be asked to pay for quarantine facilities. Among those who participated were Congress MLA and Leader of Opposition Digambar Kamat, GFP chief Vijai Sardesai, Independent MLA Rohan Khaunte, and Goa NCP chief Jose Philip D’Souza. “We demanded that Goans arriving in the State not be charged for quarantine facilities. Those working in different ships should also be provided free quarantine facilities when they return. We also sought a financial package for the State,” said Mr. Kamat, a former CM. Mr. Sardesai hit out at the State for announcing standard operating procedures before this meeting, and said all stranded Goans must be brought back.
09 June 2020||June 09 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Rajasthan tops in job scheme’||Rajasthan Commissioner for Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme Purna Chandra Kishan says that 49.52 lakh labourers returning from their native villages got work under the scheme.  What are the latest figures of engagement of labourers under MGNREGA in Rajasthan? The total number of labourers engaged under MGNREGA in Rajasthan is 49.52 lakh, the highest in the country. Last year, 32.25 lakh labourers were engaged. More than 10 lakh labourers are migrant workers and roughly 85% of them have obtained job cards. We generated 29.42 crore mandays in 2018-19 and 32.89 crore mandays in 2019-20. The achievement of 2019-20 was the highest since the scheme’s inception in Rajasthan. The unprecedented increase in demand in May and June this year is because of the livelihood crisis in the rural areas and pressure from the migrant labourers. Which district has registered the highest number of workers during the pandemic? Bhilwara has registered the highest number of workers. Banswara, Dungarpur and Udaipur districts have also registered a very high number of MGNREGA workers. What types of works have been sanctioned under MGNREGA? Individual beneficiary works, such as land improvement, construction of cattle sheds, goat sheds, poultry sheds and piggeries and the Pradhan Mantri Grameen Awas Yojana are preferred because of social distancing. However, not more than 5 to 8 lakh labourers can be engaged in such works, which are mostly material intensive... we have to focus on labour intensive community works, such as development of pastures, playgrounds and crematoriums, model water reservoirs, irrigation works and plantations. How will increasing number of days for employment help the distressed labourers? Increasing the guaranteed 100 days to 200 days will help the poorest of the poor who normally complete the mandated days.  Increasing the guaranteed 100 days to 200 days will help the poorest of the poor
09 June 2020||June 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Homecoming preparations||
09 June 2020||June 09 2020 00:00 IST,||China to train 14 million migrant workers in 2 years||China on Monday outlined plans to train 14 million migrant workers in vocational programmes over the next two years, as it combats an unprecedented jobs crisis in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. At least seven million rural migrant workers will be trained in the coming year, the Ministry of Human Resources and Social Security said, in an initiative that “will target rural migrant workers including those with a job or without, and those who newly resettled in cities or returned to their hometowns, as well as poor labourers”, State media reported. 290 million workers The pandemic has severely impacted China’s 290 million migrant worker population, many of who were left stuck in their hometowns in January and subsequently found no jobs to return to after the gradual lifting of lockdowns by April. The outbreak hit during the annual new year holiday, by when most factories were closed and much of the migrant population had already returned home. China’s unemployment peaked at around 80 million in March, according to estimates, although official figures were much lower. According to UBS, the number of people not working reached 70 to 80 million in March, subsequently falling to between 33 million and 40 million in May, the Wall Street Journal reported. The new plan calls on rural areas that have seen a large number of unemployed migrant workers return to lead in training, aimed at helping them find jobs locally or start businesses. Local governments have been asked to target specific industries that can absorb laid off workers, including construction, machinery, catering and logistics. Limited support For an officially Communist Party-run state, the Chinese government provides limited financial support for unemployed workers, which does not generally cover the migrant population. In an effort to support laid off workers, China’s Premier Li Keqiang in a visit to Shandong province last week called for unleashing what is being called the “street vendor economy”, referring to allowing people to start street-side small businesses, in a marked shift from past crackdowns on unlicensed retailing in cities. “They are part of China’s vitality,” he said, referring to the opening of China’s economy in the late 1970s when the government for the first time allowed self-employed businesses to open after the Maoist era. “Self-employed businesses must survive and thrive,” he said, highlighting the example of the city of Chengdu in Sichuan province, which created one lakh jobs by supporting 36,000 street stalls, the South China Morning Post reported. The shift in policy on street-selling has generated heated debate in China over the past week, given the harsh approach in the past to informal street-selling, which is regulated by an urban management authority called “Chengguan” that is widely reviled in China for heavy-handed enforcement. “Who would have thought the day would come when family planning officials would beg people to have a second child,” read one comment on WeChat reported by the Post, “and Chengguan would invite vendors to go out onto the street?”
09 June 2020||Washington,||Minneapolis council votes to dismantle police after protests||The council of the U.S. city of Minneapolis voted late on Sunday to dismantle and rebuild the police department, after the death in custody of George Floyd sparked nationwide protests about racism in law enforcement, pushing the issue onto the national political agenda. Floyd was killed on May 25 when white Minneapolis police officer Derek Chauvin pressed his knee on the unarmed black man’s neck for nearly nine minutes. Chauvin has been charged with second-degree murder and was to appear in court on Monday. “We committed to dismantling policing as we know it in the city of Minneapolis and to rebuild with our community a new model of public safety that actually keeps our community safe,” Council President Lisa Bender told CNN. Minneapolis Mayor Jacob Frey, however, is against getting rid of the department. Call for police reform On Sunday, protesters in cities including Washington, New York and Winter Park, Florida, began focusing their outrage over the death of the unarmed Floyd into demands for police reform and social justice. Mitt Romney, a Republican Senator from Utah, joined a group of Christian protesters marching towards the White House. He tweeted photos of himself in the procession, along with the simple caption, “Black Lives Matter.” Although Mr. Romney has been a rare Republican voice of opposition to Mr. Trump, he was joined last week by Republican Senator Lisa Murkowski, who said criticism of Mr. Trump was overdue. His tough approach to putting down protests continued to draw exceptional rebukes from top retired military officers, a group normally loath to criticise a civilian leader. Former Joint Chiefs of Staff chairman Colin Powell joined them on Sunday, saying Mr. Trump had “drifted away” from the Constitution. Mr. Powell, a Republican moderate, said Mr. Trump had weakened America’s position around the world and that in November’s presidential election he would support Democrat Joe Biden. Condoleezza Rice, who succeeded Mr. Powell as Secretary of State under President George W. Bush, told CBS she would “absolutely” oppose using the military against peaceful protesters, adding, “This isn’t a battlefield.”
09 June 2020||Paris,||Notre-Dame workers start removing scaffolding||Workers at Notre-Dame cathedral in Paris on Monday began the delicate task of removing tons of metal scaffolding that melted together during the fire that destroyed the monument’s roof and spire last year, one of the riskiest operations in the rebuilding effort so far. Around 40,000 tubes were fused into a tangled mass in the intense heat of the blaze, and must be removed without further damaging the limestone walls supporting the gothic vault. Half of the metal remains suspended some 40 metres (130 feet) above the church’s floor. “When all this is taken care of, we’ll be extremely relieved because the cathedral will have been saved,” said Christophe Rousselot, director general of the Fondation Notre-Dame, the charity that is overseeing the collection of donations to the cathedral. “Pieces of the scaffolding could fall and weaken parts of the walls,” he said, describing the work as “very complicated, with a sizable degree of risk.” A telescopic lift carried workers into the middle of the structure for a last evaluation, and a towering crane installed at the site brought up equipment. Sawing it apart Later this week, workers will be suspended by ropes to start sawing apart the scaffolding, an operation expected to last through the summer, Mr. Rousselot said. The scaffolding had been installed for a renovation of the spire that was being carried out when the fire erupted on the evening of April 15, 2019. Millions of people around the world watched as the fire tore through the church’s roof, causing its steeple to collapse and sending billowing fumes containing toxic molten lead into the air. Workers first had to install a new lattice of scaffolding to encompass the roughly 40 tonnes of molten metal and stabilise it as well as the fire-scarred walls of the 13th-century masterpiece. Two teams of five will take turns cutting away the tubes one by one while hanging from rope harnesses. Marking the first anniversary of the disaster in April, President Emmanuel Macron reiterated his goal of restoring Notre-Dame to its former glory by 2024. But the renovation has been slowed by a series of delays.
09 June 2020||Berlin,||Married couple to share the role of Germany’s Slovenia Ambassador||The Foreign Ministry in Berlin appointed a married couple to share the Ambassador’s job in Slovenia, an unprecedented arrangement for Germany that allows them to balance work and family life. Natalie Kauther, 45, and Adrian Pollmann, 43, said they will share the post in the capital Ljubljana for four years from August. They have both been working for the Ministry since 2005 and foreign assignments are part of the job, but have three children, aged seven, eight and 10, and were keen to find a family-friendly arrangement. They came up with the idea of a job share and put it to Foreign Minister Heiko Maas, who agreed to give it a try. Mr. Pollmann will be Ambassador for the first eight months and Ms. Kauther will then take over for eight months in a rotating system. They have already done a job share once before: as joint Deputy Ambassadors to Sarajevo.  The couple admit having very different personalities, according to a report by ARD broadcaster, but hope this won’t cause any diplomatic spats. “We see most things pretty similarly,” Mr. Pollmann said. Switzerland named a couple as joint Ambassadors to Thailand in 2009 and France also nominated a husband-and-wife team to Zagreb between 2016-2019.
09 June 2020||Paris,||‘Lockdowns averted 3 million deaths in Europe’||Lockdowns prevented around 3.1 million deaths in 11 European countries, according to a new modelling study published on Monday, as most nations tiptoe out of the strict measures to halt the spread of the new coronavirus. Research by Imperial College London, whose scientists are advising the British government on the virus, found that restrictions such as stay-at-home orders had worked to bring the epidemic under control. Using European Centre of Disease Control data on deaths in 11 nations in the period up to May 4, they compared the number of observed deaths in the countries against those predicted by their model if no restrictions had been imposed. They estimated that approximately 3.1 million deaths had been averted by the policies. Researchers also calculated that the interventions had caused the reproduction number — how many people someone with the virus infects — to drop by an average of 82%, to below 1.0. “Our results show that major non-pharmaceutical interventions, and lockdown in particular, have had a large effect on reducing transmission,” the authors said in the study, published in Nature Research . The researchers estimated that cumulatively between 12 and 15 million people had been infected in the period — or between 3.2 and 4% of the population of the 11 nations.
09 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Intra-Afghan talks to begin soon: Abdullah||The Afghanistan government is preparing for the first round of intra-Afghanistan talks with the Taliban “soon”, said Abdullah Abdullah, the recently appointed chief of the High Council for National Reconciliation, on Monday. The talks are expected to be held in Qatar, Mr. Abdullah said, while other countries that have offered to facilitate the talks, including Germany, may host future rounds. “Khalilzad [has been] in Doha talking to Taliban delegates there in order to finalise the details, before the start of intra-Afghan negotiations,” said Mr. Abdullah, referring to the U.S. Special Envoy on Afghanistan, Zalmay Khalilzad’s visit to Qatar, Pakistan and Afghanistan this week. Mr. Abdullah was speaking to a group of international experts at a “Track-2” dialogue organised by the Kabul-based Heart of Asia Society (HAS).  The intra-Afghan dialogue will also see more calls for the Narendra Modi government to engage the Taliban. In the past few weeks, both Mr. Khalilzad and Russian Special Envoy for Afghanistan Zamir Kabulov, have said in separate interviews to The Hindu that they feel it is time for India to give up its opposition to talks with the Taliban which New Delhi has thus far seen as a terror group allied to Pakistan. At least two senior Afghan officials also told The Hindu that they expected New Delhi to soften its stand on the Taliban once the intra-Afghan talks begin.
09 June 2020||Tehran,||Iran scientist returns after prisoner swap||An Iranian scientist returned home on Monday after his release from a U.S. jail in what the Islamic republic said was a prisoner exchange it hopes can be repeated between the countries. Majid Taheri — an Iranian-American who had been working at a clinic in Tampa, Florida — had been detained in the United States for 16 months. He was freed last Thursday as Iran released U.S. Navy veteran Michael White, who had been detained in the country since his arrest in July 2018. Upon his arrival at Tehran’s Imam Khomeini International Airport, Mr. Taheri was greeted by Deputy Foreign Minister Hossein Jaberi Ansari.
09 June 2020||Badhoevedorp,||Badhoevedorp, Netherlands, June 8, 2020 (AFP) -||Lawyers for a Russian suspect in the trial of four men accused of downing flight MH17 in 2014 said COVID-19 has hampered efforts to prepare a defence. The trial resumed at a high-security courthouse outside Amsterdam’s Schiphol airport on Monday.AFP
09 June 2020||June 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Who’s afraid of monetisation of the deficit?||As the government began to wrestle with the severe downturn caused by the novel coronavirus pandemic, some economic pundits urged the government to go out and spend without worrying about the increase in public debt. They said the rating agencies would understand that these are unusual times. If they did not and chose to downgrade India, we should not lose too much sleep over it. Rating and fundamentals Well, the decision of the rating agency, Moody’s, to downgrade India from Baa2 to Baa3 should come as a rude awakening. The present rating is just one notch above the ‘junk’ category. Moody’s has also retained its negative outlook on India, which suggests that a further downgrade is more likely than an upgrade. The rationale given by Moody’s should especially make people sit up. The downgrade, Moody’s says, has not factored in the economic impact of the pandemic. It has to do with India’s fundamentals before the onset of the pandemic and the extended lockdown with which India responded. The message should be clear enough. Any further deterioration in the fundamentals from now on will push India into ‘junk’ status.  We should not lose sleep over a further downgrade and simply borrow our way out of trouble? Anybody who thinks so is living in cloud cuckoo land. Whatever the failings of the agencies, in the imperfect world of global finance that we live in, their ratings do carry weight. Institutional investors are largely bound by covenants that require them to exit an economy that falls below investment grade. If India is downgraded to junk status, foreign institutional investors, or FIIs, will flee in droves. The stock and bond markets will take a severe beating. The rupee will depreciate hugely and the central bank will have its hands full trying to stave off a foreign exchange crisis. That is the last thing we need at the moment. Work towards an upgrade We have to put our best foot forward now to prevent a downgrade and bring about an upgrade instead. To do so, we need to note the key concerns that Moody’s has cited in effecting the present downgrade to our rating: slowing growth, rising debt and financial sector weakness. These concerns are legitimate. Many economists as also the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) expect India’s economy to shrink in FY 2020-21. The combined fiscal deficit of the Centre and the States is expected to be in the region of 12% of GDP. Moody’s expects India’s public debt to GDP ratio to rise from 72% of GDP to 84% of GDP in 2020-21. The banking sector had non-performing assets of over 9% of advances before the onset of the pandemic. Weak growth and rising bankruptcies will increase stress in the banking sector. The government’s focus thus far has been on reassuring the financial markets that the fisc will not spin out of control. It has kept the ‘discretionary fiscal stimulus’ down to 1% of GDP, a figure that is most modest in relation to that of many other economies, especially developed economies. (‘Discretionary fiscal stimulus’ refers to an increase in the fiscal deficit caused by government policy as distinct from an increase caused by slowing growth, the latter being called an ‘automatic stabiliser’ ). Keeping the fiscal deficit on a leash addresses the concerns of rating agencies about a rise in the public debt to GDP ratio. But it does little to address their concerns about growth. The debt to GDP ratio will worsen and financial stress will accentuate if growth fails to recover quickly enough. The government’s stimulus package relies heavily on the banking system to shore up growth. But there is only so much banks can do. More government spending is required, especially for infrastructure. Clearing misapprehensions We need to increase the discretionary fiscal stimulus without increasing public debt. The answer is monetisation of the deficit, that is, the central bank providing funds to the government. Mention ‘monetisation of deficit’ and many economic pundits will cower in terror. These fears are based on misconceptions about monetisation of the deficit and its effects. A common misconception is that it involves ‘printing notes’. One image that leaps to mind is the printing presses of central banks cranking out notes with abandon. But that is not how central banks fund the government. The central bank typically funds the government by buying Treasury bills. As proponents of what is called Modern Monetary Theory point out, even that is not required. The central bank could simply credit the Treasury’s account with itself through an electronic accounting entry. When the government spends the extra funds that have come into its account, there is an increase in ‘Base money’, that is, currency plus banks’ reserves. So, yes, monetisation results in an expansion of money supply. But that is not the same as printing currency notes. What could be the objection to such an expansion in money supply? It could be that the expansion is inflationary. This objection has little substance in a situation where aggregate demand has fallen sharply and there is an increase in unemployment. In such a situation, monetisation of the deficit is more likely to raise actual output closer to potential output without any great increase in inflation. Exponents of the MMT make a more striking point. They say there is nothing particularly virtuous about the government incurring expenditure and issuing bonds to banks instead of issuing these to the central bank. The expansion in base money and hence in money supply is the same in either route. (The precise sequence of central bank transactions in these two cases and the identity in outcomes is shown in Macroeconomics by Mitchell, Wray and Watts, three economists who are among the leading exponents of MMT). The preference for private debt is voluntary. MMT exponents say it has more to do with an ideological preference for limiting government expenditure. But that is a debate for another day. Central banks worldwide have resorted to massive purchases of government bonds in the secondary market in recent years, with the RBI joining the party of late. These are carried out under Open Market Operations (OMO). The impact on money supply is the same whether the central bank acquires government bonds in the secondary market or directly from the Treasury. So why the shrill clamour against monetisation of public debt? About inflation control OMO is said to be a lesser evil than direct monetisation because the former is a ‘temporary’ expansion in the central bank’s balance sheet whereas the latter is ‘permanent’. But we know that even so-called ‘temporary’ expansions can last for long periods with identical effects on inflation. What matters, therefore, is not whether the central bank’s balance sheet expansion is temporary or permanent but how it impacts inflation. As long as inflation is kept under control, it is hard to argue against monetisation of the deficit in a situation such as the one we are now confronted with. We now have a way out of the constraints imposed by sovereign ratings. The government must confine itself to the additional borrowing of Rs. 4.2 trillion which it has announced. Further discretionary fiscal stimulus must happen through monetisation of the deficit. That way, the debt to GDP ratio can be kept under control while also addressing concerns about growth. The rating agencies should be worrying not about monetisation per se but about its impact on inflation. As long as inflation is kept under control, they should not have concerns — and we need not lose sleep over a possible downgrade. T.T. Ram Mohan is a professor at IIM Ahmedabad. E-mail: ttr@iima.ac.in
09 June 2020||June 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Resume dialogue with Nepal now||The time of a pandemic is not the time to have a hostile neighbourhood. At this moment, India should ideally lead in creating momentum for deeper regional and sub-regional cooperation in South Asia. Ironically, the recent developments with Nepal have been the opposite of that. India and Nepal have reached a new low in bilateral relations when both countries are facing a humanitarian crisis. Official statements On May 8, the Defence Minister of India tweeted: “Delighted to inaugurate the Link Road to Mansarovar Yatra today. The BRO achieved road connectivity from Dharchula to Lipulekh (China Border) known as Kailash-Mansarovar Yatra Route. Also flagged off a convoy of vehicles from Pithoragarh to Gunji through video conferencing.” The announcement and its timing surprised even the keen observers of India-Nepal relations. No one thought that a road project in this territory would get inaugurated so urgently and through video conferencing. The announcement immediately put the Nepal government, the people and political players there on high alert. The Oli government’s sharp reaction was unexpected — the road was being built for years, so for it to pretend that it was unaware of this development and therefore surprised at its inauguration defies logic. In a statement, the Nepalese Ministry of Foreign Affairs expressed regret at India’s move. It said, “As per the Sugauli Treaty (1816), all the territories east of Kali (Mahakali) River, including Limpiyadhura, Kalapani and Lipu Lekh, belong to Nepal. This was reiterated by the Government of Nepal several times in the past and most recently through a diplomatic note addressed to the Government of India dated 20 November 2019 in response to the new political map issued by the latter.” It cautioned the Indian government against carrying out “any activity inside the territory of Nepal”. It stated that “Nepal had expressed its disagreement in 2015 through separate diplomatic notes addressed to the governments of both India and China when the two sides agreed to include Lipu Lekh Pass as a bilateral trade route without Nepal’s consent in the Joint Statement issued on 15 May 2015 during the official visit of the Prime Minister of India to China.” Nepal said it believed in resolving the pending boundary issues through diplomatic means. It said that Kathmandu had proposed twice the dates for holding the Foreign Secretary-level meeting between the two countries. There was a long-awaited response to this from the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA). Without giving any specific date, the MEA assured Nepal that talks would begin after the lockdown was lifted. The delay is not understandable. Why can’t discussions take place over video conferencing? India’s response to Nepal’s note said: “The recently inaugurated road section in Pithoragarh district in the State of Uttarakhand lies completely within the territory of India. The road follows the pre-existing route used by the pilgrims of the Kailash-Mansarovar Yatra. India and Nepal have established mechanism to deal with all boundary matters. The boundary delineation exercise with Nepal is ongoing. India is committed to resolving outstanding boundary issues through diplomatic dialogue and in the spirit of our close and friendly bilateral relations with Nepal.” Nepal’s Foreign Minister Pradeep Kumar Gyawali asked why talks on this important matter could not take place under lockdown when the ‘inauguration’ of the road could take place during the COVID-19 crisis. We also believe that it should take place without wasting even a day. The strain in ties also reflects the tensions in Nepal’s politics. Prime Minister K.P. Sharma Oli stepped out of diplomatic nicety when he indulged in reactionary nationalism and termed the “Indian virus” as more damaging than the “Chinese virus”. He also questioned India’s faith in ‘Satyameva Jayate’. On India’s part, the problem lies in overlooking the past realities of Lipulekh region. The Army Chief’s statement that “there is reason to believe” that Nepal’s recent objection was “at the behest of someone else”, hinting at China’s possible role, was eminently avoidable. This too drew sharp reactions from Nepal. A unique relationship India and Nepal enjoy a unique relationship that goes beyond diplomacy and the governments of the day. Both countries are interdependent through shared social, cultural, economic and other civilisational links. Here, the ties are not between the governments alone. Over three million Nepalese live in India and lakhs of Indians live in Nepal. The Gurkha Rifles, known for the best in warfare, are incomplete without the Nepalese. They fight to keep India secure, so where is the scope for conflict? The people of Nepal fought for India’s independence. B.P. Koirala and many more Nepalese made enormous sacrifices during the freedom struggle. Both countries have open borders and unique ties. This reminds us that both countries have shared interests while respecting each others’ sovereignty. There is no place for a ‘big brother’ attitude. The regimes in New Delhi and Kathmandu have to exercise caution and restraint. The boundary controversy on Lipulekh, Kalapani and Limpiyadhura should be seen in retrospection. It must be admitted that Nepal’s kings had neglected this territory for decades. The area attained prominence only with Nepal’s tryst with parliamentary democracy beginning in 1990. The consistent neglect for the area is evident in the fact that the last official record of any government work that happened there was in 1953. A census was conducted in this area by the royal regime of Nepal and the land records from there were archived at the Darchula district office. Article 8 of the India-Nepal Friendship Treaty, 1950 says, “So far as matters dealt with herein are concerned, this Treaty cancels all previous Treaties, agreements and engagements entered into on behalf of India between the British Government and the Government of Nepal”, though the treaty does not define the India-Nepal boundary. On the issue of defining the boundary, the Treaty of Sugauli (1816) and the 1960 agreement between India and Nepal on the four Terai districts prevail. The Sugauli Treaty outlines the east of Mahakali River as Nepal’s territory, and the west of it as India’s territory. The dispute today is with regard to the origin of the Kali River. Nepal claims that the origin is in the higher reaches of this hilly territory which would establish its claim on Kalapani and Lipulekh. The Boundary Committee constituted in the year 2000 failed to resolve the issue. There is a need to renew it to end the cartographic tussle between the two countries. It is time to repose faith in constructive dialogue with empathy to resolve any matter that disturbs the calm between the two countries. In good and bad times, India and Nepal have to live together. Diplomatic dialogue should be resumed at the earliest possible. Embassies on both sides should be allowed to function freely. Nothing of the sort that happened in 2015 should be repeated now. India should not shy away from a dialogue even during the COVID-19 crisis. The MEA’s latest statement should materialise in action and restore trust and confidence through constructive dialogue. Yashwant Sinha is former Minister of Finance and Minister of External Affairs; Atul K. Thakur is a policy professional and columnist
09 June 2020||June 09 2020 00:00 IST,||The critical role of decentralised responses||The novel coronavirus pandemic has brought home the critical role of local governments and decentralised responses. In terms of information, monitoring and immediate action, local governments are at an advantage, and eminently, to meet any disaster such as COVID-19. While imposing restrictive conditionalities on States availing themselves of the enhanced borrowing limits (3.5% to 5% of Gross State Domestic Product, or GSDP) for 2020-21 is unwarranted, the recognition that local governments should be fiscally empowered immediately is a valid signal for the future of local governance. This article makes some suggestions to improve local finance and argues that the extant fiscal illusion is a great deterrent to mobilisation. Core issues COVID-19 has raised home four major challenges: economic, health, welfare/livelihood and resource mobilisation. These challenges have to be addressed by all tiers of government in the federal polity, jointly and severally. Own revenue is the critical lever of local government empowerment. Of course the several lacunae that continue to bedevil local governance have to be simultaneously addressed. One, the new normal demands a paradigm shift in the delivery of health care at the cutting edge level. Two, the parallel bodies that have come up after the 73rd/74th Constitutional Amendments have considerably distorted the functions-fund flow matrix at the lower level of governance. Three, there is yet no clarity in the assignment of functions, functionaries and financial responsibilities to local governments. Functional mapping and responsibilities continue to be ambiguous in many States. Instructively, Kerala attempted even responsibility mapping besides activity mapping. Four, the critical role of local governments will have to be recognised by all. A few suggestions for resource mobilisation are given under three heads: local finance, Members of Parliament Local Area Development Scheme, or MPLADs, and the Fifteenth Finance Commission (FFC).  Local finance Property tax collection with appropriate exemptions should be a compulsory levy and preferably must cover land. The Economic Survey 2017-18 points out that urban local governments, or ULGs, generate about 44% of their revenue from own sources as against only 5% by rural local governments, or RLGs. Per capita own revenue collected by ULGs is about 3% of urban per capita income while the corresponding figure is only 0.1% for RLGs. There is a yawning gap between tax potential and actual collection, resulting in colossal underperformance. When they are not taxed, people remain indifferent. LGs, States and people seem to labour under a fiscal illusion. In States such as Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and Jharkhand, local tax collection at the panchayat level is next to nil. Property tax forms the major source of local revenue throughout the world. All States should take steps to enhance and rationalise property tax regime. A recent study by Professor O.P. Mathur shows that the share of property tax in GDP has been declining since 2002-03. This portends a wrong signal. The share of property tax in India in 2017-18 is only 0.14% of GDP as against 2.1% in the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) countries. If property tax covers land, that will hugely enhance the yield from this source even without any increase in rates.  Land monetisation and betterment levy may be tried in the context of COVID-19 in India. To be sure, land values have to be unbundled for socially relevant purposes.  Municipalities and even suburban panchayats can issue a corona containment bond for a period of say 10 years, on a coupon rate below market rate but significantly above the reverse repo rate to attract banks. We are appealing to the patriotic sentiments of non-resident Indians and rich citizens. Needless to say, credit rating is not to be the weighing consideration. That the Resurgent India Bond of 1998 could mobilise  over $4 billion in a few days encourages us to try this option.   MP fund scheme The suspension of MPLADS by the Union government for two years is a welcome measure. The annual budget was around Rs. 4,000 crore. The Union government has appropriated the entire allocation along with the huge non-lapseable arrears. MPLADs, which was avowedly earmarked for local area development, must be assigned to local governments, preferably to panchayats on the basis of well-defined criteria. A special COVID-19 containment grant to the LGs by the FFC to be distributed on the basis of SFC-laid criteria is the need of the hour. The commission may do well to consider this. The local government grant of Rs. 90,000 crore for 2020-2021 by the FFC is only 3% higher than that recommended by the Fourteenth Finance Commission. For panchayats there is only an increase of Rs. 63 crore. The commission’s claim that the grant works out to 4.31% of the divisible pool and that it is higher than the 3.54% of the FC-XIV is obviously because the size of the denominator is smaller. Building health infrastructure and disease control strategies at the local level find no mention in the five tranches of the packages announced by the Union Finance Minister. The claim for a higher award to LGs is loud and clear. The ratio of basic to tied grant is fixed at 50:50 by the commission. In the context of the crisis under way, all grants must be untied for freely evolving proper COVID-19 containment strategies locally. Further the 13th Finance Commission’s recommendation to tie local grants to the union divisible pool of taxes to ensure a buoyant and predictable source of revenue to LGs (accepted by the then Union government) must be restored by the commission. Flood, drought, and earthquakes are taken care of by the Disaster Management Act 2005 which does not recognise epidemics, although several parts of India experienced several bouts of various flus in the past. The new pandemic is a public health challenge of an unprecedented nature along with livelihood and welfare challenges. The  first  Report speaks of mitigation funds and even prepared a disaster risk index, to map out vulnerable areas. These are redundant in the present context. The 2005 Act may have to be modified to accommodate the emerging situation. COVID-19 has woken us up to the reality that local governments must be equipped and empowered. Relevant action is the critical need. M.A. Oommen is an Honorary Fellow, Centre for Development Studies, Thiruvananthapuram
09 June 2020||June 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Fighting sea blindness||This newspaper recently carried an article, “Third aircraft carrier not required as military’s focus is on land borders: sources”. In it defence sources questioned the need for a third aircraft carrier citing budgetary constraints. They propounded the immediate requirement of a strong Army supported by a capable Air Force. There can be no two views about this. What needs deliberation is whether (a) naval warfare is undertaken just for the sake of naval warfare; and (b) a maritime country like India can ever be strong without a strong Navy, since it depends on the sea for over 97% of its trade. An incomplete understanding One source said the Indian Navy “has seen action only twice, 1965 and 1971, on the sidelines of the land operations and the aircraft carrier had minimum role”. India has seen classic naval action only once, in 1971, which was also a decisive victory. The political directions available on record indicate that the involvement of the Navy in 1965 was kept to the minimum; in fact, it was prevented from operating beyond the north of Okha. That the 1971 war was land-centric is belied by documentary evidence. Both adversaries viewed sea communications as central to the war. Notwithstanding the attacks on Karachi by small missile boats, the ‘centre of gravity’ was on the Eastern front, where the carrier was deployed. Terming carrier involvement as peripheral displays an incomplete understanding of military history. In An Odyssey in War and Peace , Lt Gen J.F.R Jacob noted the maritime orientation of the briefing by Gen Sam Manekshaw and the Director of Military Operations, Maj Gen K.K. Singh, who identified the ports as “prime objectives”. It reads: “At the meeting, held in the operations room, Manekshaw, K.K. Singh, Arora and I were present... KK Singh spelt out the objectives, maintaining that if we captured Khulna and Chittagong... the war would come to an end”. Gen Jacob recommended utilising “our naval superiority” to have an “effective naval blockade”. The official history of the Pakistan Navy  ( The Story of the Pakistan Navy ) acknowledges that “the success of Pakistan’s counter-plans hinged largely on reinforcements and resupply of the eastern theatre of war by sea... (by) breaking India’s naval blockade”. If the Indian Navy had not effectively stymied this plan, Pakistan was hopeful of a “stalemate” followed by international intervention. Almost a lakh Pakistani soldiers would possibly not have surrendered unless they had lost their “will to fight”. The Indian Navy, using its lone carrier, ensured that no reinforcements or supplies were forthcoming and no escape route was possible. Indian Naval history ( Transition to Triumph ) also records that “by themselves the ships of the Eastern Fleet were too few and too slow to enforce contraband control and help would be needed from Vikrant’s aircraft. But the extraordinary extent to which Vikrant’s aircraft actually succeeded in assisting ships in contraband control and apprehending merchant ships, over and above their air strikes against East Pakistan, came to be fully realised only after the war.” The contemporary argument that a carrier’s utility in “future war scenarios will be short and swift” is interesting. Pakistan Navy history laments “vague concepts” such as “a short, sharp war” leading to it being accorded a lower inter-service priority. This rendered it incapable of “providing protection to the sea lines of communication between the two wings” and led to the 1971 debacle. Another shibboleth that needs discarding is the claimed ability of any air force providing effective air cover at sea. In 1971, for example, carrier-borne aircraft repeatedly attacked Chittagong and Cox’s Bazar airfields on the request of the Air Force. Impact of parochialism There are other counterpoints to the article too. First, stating that China went in for a carrier only after building its army is a narrow interpretation. This may have been Hobson’s choice. Aircraft carrier operations take years to master even if a ship is available. Further, China’s 2015 defence white paper states that “the traditional mentality that land outweighs sea must be abandoned”. Even as China is reducing its land forces to focus on the sea, ‘sources’ are propounding that India do the exact opposite. Second, forgoing a carrier due to budgetary constraints is counterproductive. An indigenously constructed carrier can galvanise the economy given the large number of industries and MSMEs involved in the supply chain. Third, carriers being required only for global powers is debatable. India had initiated procurement of INS Vikrant within a few years of independence. Carriers cannot be built overnight. Planning for the future requires foresight. Parochialism and sea blindness in an era of COVID-19 budget cuts can have a long-term impact on comprehensive national power. Captain D.K. Sharma, a retired Naval Officer, was the Spokesperson, Indian Navy, at the Ministry of Defence
09 June 2020||June 09 2020 00:00 IST,||The e-diplomacy experiment||The first India-Australia virtual leaders’ summit on June 4 had a lot on the menu, ranging from military interoperability to jointly tackling COVID-19. The two countries upgraded their relations to a ‘comprehensive strategic partnership’. The summit was noteworthy for its novel modus operandi. Adapting to the times Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the Indian delegation were on a video conference call with Prime Minister Scott Morrison and the Australian delegation. The dangers posed by COVID-19 have compelled the traditionally glad-handing, backslapping and tourism-promoting art of summit diplomacy to adapt. Just as corporations and educational institutions have migrated to online mediums, nation states are left with no choice but to do the same. E-summits are physically safer for leaders and also time-saving and economising events where costly physical journeys with entourages can be avoided. Mr. Modi has engaged in a few multilateral ‘e-diplomacy’ rounds since the COVID-19 outbreak. He convened the SAARC leaders’ video conference on March 15, joined the Extraordinary G20 Leaders’ Summit via video link on March 26, and made his maiden appearance at the Non-Aligned Movement virtual summit on May 4. These were all single-issue focused and brief affairs. But the bilateral summit with Australia was elaborate and involved the exchange of multiple agreements. It has been a maxim in diplomacy that face-to-face interactions at the highest level mark the zenith of foreign relations. The British scholar Ernest Satow dubbed summits “ a permanent feature of diplomatic topography”. The formal negotiations during summits, the closed-door restricted sessions, the fireside chats, the walks in the woods, the photo-ops and the outreach to live audiences in the host and home countries are all part of the package. But now without all the protocols and structured dialogues in cozy settings, it is doubtful if major breakthroughs or deals requiring direct intervention of leaders can happen. There is a danger that ‘e-diplomacy’ will become less productive in terms of deliverables, especially where crucial sticking points need ironing out. While the backroom legwork and minutiae of agreements can be hashed out by lower-level bureaucrats communicating remotely, online summits will simply not satisfy the broader political goals and bigger objectives that heads of state carry with them. Threat to cyber security Another threat to virtual summits comes from cyber insecurity. In pre-COVID-19 times, summit venues used to be thoroughly sanitised and debugged to prevent sensitive foreign policy content from being spied upon or leaked. E-diplomacy is riskier and could be subject to hacking of classified content, making the leaders warier. This could reduce the spontaneity and candour of their conversations. It is arguable whether new ideas or proposals which entail geo-strategic alignments can emanate out of e-summits. Yet, having some summit is better than no summit at all. However artificial and unsatisfying the video conferencing medium is, key partners like India and Australia have to get on with it and hold high-level meetings as part of their strategic signaling. With Australia and India trying to forge coalitions of middle powers in sustaining the balance of power in the Indo-Pacific, gaps in diplomatic summits can convey weakening of collective resolve. For those missing the drama and the trappings of a ‘real’ summit, social media-savvy politicians might generate visuals to cherish in spite of the limits of virtual diplomacy. In a build-up to the India-Australia e-summit, Mr. Morrison offered vegetarian samosas via Twitter and Mr. Modi replied that he wanted to enjoy them together “once we achieve a decisive victory against COVID-19.” In-person summits will restart one day. But the online interlude has to go on because diplomacy has to go on. Sreeram Sundar Chaulia is Dean at the Jindal School of International Affairs
09 June 2020||June 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Step by step||With official talks getting under way over the weekend, the month-long stand-off between Indian and Chinese soldiers along the LAC in Ladakh and Sikkim has entered a more considered phase. There was little expectation that the videoconference on Friday, held between External Affairs Ministry officials in Delhi and their Ministry of Foreign Affairs counterparts in Beijing, and talks between the Leh Corps Commander with the South Xinjiang Military Region Commander, held in the Chushul-Moldo region on China’s side of the LAC on Saturday, would bear fruit immediately. However, statements from both sides that the talks will continue indicate a desire to resolve the situation. The MEA and the MFA have also reiterated their commitment to abide by agreements between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Chinese President Xi Jinping, which came after the last big stand-off, at Doklam in 2017, to not allow “differences to escalate into disputes”. During the Doklam incident, even after a meeting between the leaders on the sidelines of a G-20 summit, it had taken several high-level engagements to ensure a drawdown to the 73-day stand-off. Given the differences between the situation now and previous incidents, it would be naive to assume that this stand-off can be resolved quickly through talks. The stand-off is at more than one location, including the Finger areas of the Pangong Tso, Galwan Valley and Gogra post in Ladakh and the Naku La pass in Sikkim, and it will require careful study to decide how to de-induct soldiers. Furthermore, a “status quo ante” will require that Chinese soldiers vacate areas where they have dug in for weeks now. Nothing short of their full withdrawal should satisfy India, which means that more than talks on the ground and by diplomats, there is a need for strong political direction from Beijing to the PLA to do that. Otherwise, India must prepare for a long-drawn stand-off, and manoeuvres aimed at ensuring China’s pull back. In addition, even as the government tries to analyse the reasons for China’s aggressive action, it must introspect on signals it misread and warnings that went unheeded across its strategic command. If such skirmishes normally follow the melting of snowlines, for example, then why was the LAC not adequately manned in April-May? Serious notice should have been taken of China’s protests on the redrawing of the Jammu-Kashmir and Ladakh maps, as well as the impact of the Home Minister’s vow in Parliament to “take back” Aksai Chin. The Defence Minister has said that Chinese troops arrived in “heavy numbers” and therefore the government must also study what intelligence was received ahead of such movement, and when action was taken upon it. Finally, why has the stand-off emerged at all, after the intense summit-level conversations in Wuhan and Mamallapuram to discuss building trust at the LAC? Given the government’s silence on events thus far, it is unlikely that it will put out answers to these questions publicly, but in any event, they must be sought.
09 June 2020||June 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Selling space||For the United States to send American astronauts to space from American soil after a gap of nine years is a milestone in itself. That this took place at the time of one of the biggest civil rights upsurges since the 1960s makes it almost like an escape to fantasy, riding on the wings of a public-private partnership between NASA and Elon Musk’s SpaceX. The less expensive journey is a clear financial advantage as the U.S. has been paying the Russians $80 million to put one astronaut into space ever since they stopped NASA’s human space launch programme. Thus, SpaceX comes in to provide advantages in costs, innovation and safety. In the 2000s, when Mr. Musk showed off his rockets and lobbied in Washington DC, he was mostly ignored, yet now, NASA wants him to find customers for space flights. This can expand the power of U.S. commerce exponentially. Japanese billionaire Yusaku Maezawa has already signed up as a potential traveller to the moon and back. With this partnership, Americans have taken yet another leap of faith in creating commerce in space. If his plans get realised, Mr. Musk could make space flights as common as domestic flights. Technologically, it is a remarkable feat. The collaboration brings in a ‘willingness to fail’ which has kept SpaceX alive. This is coupled to the propensity to ‘qualify every component’, which has been NASA’s strength. NASA has partially outsourced its work of innovating, testing and building new technology to market players such as SpaceX. It has made clear its desire to invite more such innovative space companies to participate. India under Prime Minister Modi has also opened up the space sector including ISRO facilities to private players. The emergence of successful partnerships here will likely depend on how well they stand up against the American example of allowing for failure. ‘Fly, test, fail, fix’ has been the rubric followed by SpaceX. India has not witnessed such huge experiments in space except by the state-led ISRO, its most recently celebrated one being the Mars Orbiter Mission at the cost of Rs. 7 per km, which is cheaper than autorickshaw travel as cited by Mr. Modi himself, famously. ISRO already has a competitive edge in the global market for space technology. The opening up of space technologies could harbour many an innovation of this kind; however, it calls for a high degree of accountability coupled with a non-partisan approach on the part of all players. The state’s role as a just arbiter in finding a delicate balance between entrepreneurial adventure and vested interests is a prerequisite to compete in space with the superpowers.
09 June 2020||June 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Grave Mistake (From an editorial)||A long-term strategy seems to be contemplated by the Tamil Nadu Government in its campaign against the use of the English language in school and college. Recently, a Government order was issued restricting the entry of children into the English medium sections of middle and high schools unless they had had their primary education in English or were the children of Central Government servants or of persons whose mother tongue was not Tamil. This order has been strongly criticised at a public meeting when it was pointed out that it was highly discriminatory. Since pupils are now studying English from the third class, it is quite possible for many children to enter English-medium sections in the higher classes. Further, it is not the children of Central Government servants alone who are likely to move from State to State. This happens to many other classes of professional people and businessmen. As one correspondent pointed out, the proper way to avoid this kind of discrimination would be to open at least one English medium section in every school controlled or recognised by the Government.
09 June 2020||June 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Economy to contract 3.2% in FY21: WB||The Indian economy is expected to contract by 3.2% in this fiscal year as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic and its associated restrictions, the World Bank said in its Global Economic Prospects (GEP) June 2020 report released on Monday. Growth is forecast at 3.1% next year. The world economy, as a whole, is set to witness its deepest recession since World War II, with a forecasted contraction of 5.2% this year — some 60 million could be pushed into extreme poverty, World Bank Group President David Malpass had warned last week. With updated data now available, this number could be 70-100 million, a Bank economist told reporters on a briefing call on Monday. Emerging market and developing economies (EMDEs) are expected to contract by 2.5% this year, and economic activity in advanced economies is forecast to shrink by 7%, as domestic supply and demand, finance and trade have been disrupted due to the pandemic. Countries most reliant on global trade, tourism, external financing and commodity exports are likely to be hit the hardest. “This is a deeply sobering outlook, with the crisis likely to leave long-lasting scars and pose major global challenges,” said World Bank economist Ceyla Pazarbasioglu. In the baseline scenario, global growth is set to rebound at 4.2% in 2021, with EMDEs growing at 4.6% and advanced economies growing at 3.9%. This, however, is the baseline forecast and assumes that pandemic-induced domestic restrictions will be lifted by mid-year in advanced economies and a bit later in EMDEs. The downside scenario is more severe — the global economy could shrink this year by as much as 8% (5% for EMDEs), followed by weak recovery at just above 1% growth next year. India grew 4.2% in FY20 India’s growth is estimated to have slowed to 4.2% in FY 2019-20 (year ended March 31, 2020). Output is expected to contract by 3.2% (so growth is -3.2%) in FY2020-21, as the impact of the pandemic (the restrictions on activity) will largely fall in this year, despite the fiscal and monetary stimulus. Balance sheet stress The growth forecast for this fiscal year is 9 percentage points lower than the GEP forecasts from January 2020, when the forecast for this fiscal was a (positive) 5.8% — the world was not yet in the grip of the pandemic. Spillover effects from weak global growth and balance sheet stress are also weighing down on economic activity, as per the report. India is forecast to see some recovery next year and grow at 3.1%.
09 June 2020||MUMBAI,||Facing labour shortage, says L&T||Even as Larsen and Toubro (L&T) is looking to re-start work at its construction sites with the easing of the lockdown, India’s largest engineering and construction firm is facing acute shortage of labour as over one lakh workers — almost half its labour — have gone to their homes in U.P., Bihar, Jharkhand, West Bengal and Orissa during the lockdown.  The company has restarted most of its factories and about 90% of the 1,000-odd project sites with almost half of the labourers, but execution remains a challenge.  When asked for comments about the migrant labours crisis, S N Subrahmanyan, MD and CEO, L&T, told The Hindu , “We had 2.25 lakh labourers working with us pre-Covid; now we have 1.2 lakh people with us. We need to get back one lakh people to resume operations.”  L&T is also banking on onboarding a large number of labourers coming from the Gulf region who have been laid off due to the significant fall in the oil prices.  “We expect most of the labourers to come back by the end of this month. Our project teams are tapping labourers returning to India from the Middle East due to job losses there,” he said.  When asked about the U.P. government assuring jobs to most migrant workers returning and the possibility of their staying back, Mr. Subrahmanyan said, “All this will happen; it’s a psychological issue more than anything else. Labourers will ultimately come back to organisations that have treated them well, taken care of them with good facilities.”  L&T’s infrastructure division, which accounts for a majority of revenues, is facing challenges due to halt of work in multiple projects across Andhra Pradesh on the State government’s directions to review all projects ordered by the previous government; stoppage of all construction work in the NCR region by the Supreme Court during winter for environmental reasons; lower fund allocation in some States; and, execution challenges in the last few weeks of the year on account of the pandemic, among others.  According to Mr. Subrahmanyan, workers generally return to their home States during Holi or the harvest season and return after that.
09 June 2020||Mumbai,||RBI moots comprehensive norms for sale of loans||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) has proposed a comprehensive set of norms for sale of loans by banks which could be either standard or sub-standard. The move is aimed at building a robust secondary market for bank loans that could ensure proper price discovery and can be used as an indicator for impending stress, the central bank said. At present, the guidelines for sale of loan exposures, both standard as well as stressed exposures, are spread across various circulars of the RBI. Observing that loan sales are carried out by lenders for reasons ranging from strategic sales to rebalancing their exposures or as a means to achieve resolution of stressed assets by extinguishing the exposures, the RBI said, “A dynamic secondary market for bank loans will also ensure proper discovery of credit risk pricing associated with each exposure, and will be useful as a leading indicator for impending stress, if any, provided that the volumes are sufficiently large.” These guidelines will be applicable to commercial banks, all financial institutions, non-banking finance companies and small finance banks. The directions will be applicable to all loan sales, including sale of loans to special purpose entities for the purpose of securitisation, the RBI said. “The price discovery process has been deregulated to be as per the lenders’ policy,” the draft norms said. According to the draft framework, standard assets would be allowed to be sold by lenders through assignment, novation or a loan participation contract . The stressed assets, however, would be allowed to be sold only through assignment or novation, the draft said adding, “stressed assets may be sold to any entity that is permitted to take on loan exposures by its statutory or regulatory framework”. It is also proposed to do away with the requirement of Minimum Retention Requirement (MRR) for sale of loans by lenders. Comments have been invited from stakeholders on the draft framework by June 30. The central bank has also proposed significant changes in securitisation norms which are aimed at development of a strong and robust market for such transactions. The revision in guidelines is an attempt to align the regulatory framework with the Basel guidelines on securitisation that have come into force effective January 1, 2018, the RBI said. Only transactions that result in multiple tranches of securities being issued reflecting different credit risks will be treated as securitisation transactions, and accordingly covered under these revised norms. The norm has prescribed a special case of securitisation, called Simple, Transparent and Comparable (STC) securitisations with clearly defined criteria and preferential capital treatment. The definition of securitisation has been modified to allow single asset securitisations. Securitisation of exposures purchased from other lenders has been allowed, according to the revised guidelines. “One of the key changes relates to differential treatment for Residential Mortgage Backed Securities (RMBS) compared to other securitisations in respect of prescriptions regarding minimum holding period (MHP), minimum retention requirements (MRR) and reset of credit enhancements,” the draft norms said.
09 June 2020||Bengaluru,||Titan net up 21%, revenue falls||Titan Company Ltd. on Monday reported a net profit growth of 21% during the fourth quarter of FY 2019-20. However, its total income for the quarter declined 5.5% to Rs. 4,469 crore, from Rs. 4,727 crore a year earlier. The standalone profit before tax for the quarter was Rs. 516 crore, against Rs. 465 crore a year earlier, before extraordinary items. The growth in profit before tax for the quarter, despite the decline in revenue, was possible due to significant compression of cost in anticipation of the disruption, the company said in a statement. For the whole year ended March 2020, Titan posted total revenue of Rs. 20,156 crore, growing 4.7% over the previous year. Titan’s M.D, C.K. Venkataraman, said: “The company’s good performance across all its divisions in the first two months of the quarter was negated considerably by the COVID 19 pandemic in the second half of March... we opted to shut all stores even before the lockdown was officially implemented. Our stores are now opening up with strict social distancing norms across the country, other than in containment zones.” The CFO, S. Subramaniam, said, “The jewellery business had a good quarter till the lockdown despite high gold prices.” The company’s income from watches grew 4.9% to Rs. 557 crore. The eyewear business declined 17.4% in the quarter, recording income of Rs. 108 crore from Rs. 130 crore a year ago. Other segments of the company comprising Indian wear and accessories recorded an income of Rs. 41 crore, compared to Rs. 37 crore in the previous year, a growth of 12.5%. The watches business, with revenue of Rs. 2,615 crore for the year grew at 7.2%. The eyewear business achieved revenue of Rs. 544 crore for the year, a growth of 6.4%. The company’s retail chain stands at 1819 stores, as on March 31, 2020 with a retail area crossing 2.3 million sq.ft. nationally for all its brands.
09 June 2020||MUMBAI,||Mutual funds see dip in equity scheme inflows||Mutual funds (MFs) saw a dip in equity scheme inflows in May compared with the previous month as net flows through systematic investment plans (SIPs) also contracted marginally. The number of SIP accounts, however, registered a small gain in May as overall assets under management of the MF industry rose to Rs. 24.55 lakh crore in May from the Rs. 23.94 lakh crore in April, data from Association of Mutual Funds in India (AMFI) showed. As per the latest data, equity schemes witnessed net inflows of Rs. 5,256.52 core in May, lower than the previous month’s Rs. 6,212.96 crore. Further, the flows through SIPs continued to decline at Rs. 8,123.03 crore in May from April’s Rs. 8,376.11 crore. In May, the benchmark 30-share Sensex had lost almost 1,300 points, or 3.84%, in sharp contrast to April when the index rose more than 14%, or 4,249 points. The SIP flow in March was pegged at Rs. 8,641.20 crore. The number of SIP folios, however, rose marginally to 3.16 crore in May from the 3.14 crore in April. Flows into debt funds saw an increase at Rs. 63,665 crore compared with the previous month’s Rs. 43,431 crore. “On the debt side, investors taking advantage of the conducive reducing interest rates trend and shifting towards high quality AAA-rated paper has resulted in a steady rise in net flows,” said N. S. Venkatesh, CEO, AMFI, adding credit risk concerns had ebbed as redemptions reduced following regulatory support. Credit risk funds, which have been in the news for the quality of paper they hold, saw net outflows of Rs. 5,173 crore in May, much lower than the previous month’s Rs. 19,239 crore. Among exchange traded funds (ETFs), gold funds also registered a rise in net inflows at Rs. 815 crore (Rs. 731 crore in April) as many market participants were seen recommending the yellow metal as a hedge against volatility among most other asset classes.
09 June 2020||MUMBAI,||‘Pak. copper shipments to China rose at India’s cost’||Billionaire industrialist Anil Agarwal, chairman of Vedanta Limited, has written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi on June 4, requesting to allow the opening of its Sterlite Copper plant in Tamil Nadu in the overall interests of the economy. According to Mr. Agarwal, India has lost over Rs. 40,000 crore due to closure of this plant, of which $1.2 billion was lost in foreign exchange alone. Citing media reports in Pakistan, Mr. Agarwal said in his letter that Islamabad’s copper shipments to China had increased 400% in the last three years to $550 million last year, boosting Pakistan’s local economy even as Chinese firms were vying to capture India’s copper market. “My care and concern is that the closure has impacted our country in multiple ways; country has become, for the first time in the last two decades, a net importer rather than an exporter of copper resulting in a heavy import bill,” Mr. Agarwal said in his letter, a copy of which was reviewed by The Hindu . Due to the closure of the plant, thousands of workers had been rendered jobless, aggravating the unemployment situation and adding to the exodus of the migrants. “The closure has led to idling and rusting of precious machinery and materials and loss of revenue to the exchequers of both the Centre and the Government of Tamil Nadu in the form taxes, cess, etc,” Mr. Agarwal said in the letter.
09 June 2020||Chennai,||Stimulus has not helped MSMEs: AIMO survey||Over 78% of the 60 million MSMEs and 83% of self-employed have expressed unhappiness over the financial stimulus announced by the Centre recently as they have not seen the direct benefits of it over the last three weeks, according to a survey conducted by the All India Manufacturers Organisation (AIMO). “When the FM announced the details, everyone believed it was more than sufficient to tide over and rebound from the crises. However, over the last three weeks, the positive mindset has turned into a confused mindset for many of those who responded as they have not experienced the direct benefits of the package despite many visits to the banks,” said Harish Metha, national vice-president, AIMO said. “It is apparent from the survey the Rs. 3.50 lakh crore package is ‘adequate’ for the MSME sector. But, the methodology of allocation and mechanics of implementation are still unclear among those surveyed,” said Kenny Ramanand, honorary general secretary, AIMO.
09 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||GST returns via SMS for nil tax liability businesses||Businesses with no tax liability but which still have to file their monthly Goods and Services Tax (GST) returns, will now be able to do so via text messaging, rather than logging onto the GST portal. The move will ease the compliance burden of more than 22 lakh registered taxpayers, the Finance Ministry said on Monday. “In a significant move towards taxpayer facilitation, the Government has today onwards allowed filing of NIL GST monthly return in FORM GSTR-3B through SMS,” said an official statement. “This would substantially improve ease of GST compliance for over 22 lakh registered taxpayers who had to otherwise log into their account on the common portal and then file their returns every month,” it added. The returns must be filed using SMS sent from a registered mobile number and verified through a one-time password (OTP). The status of returns filed can still be checked by logging into the portal. There are more than 1.22 crore businesses registered under the Goods and Services Tax regime.
09 June 2020||Mumbai,||‘Bank credit to grow at multi-decade low’||With economic activity being sharply impacted by COVID-19, bank credit growth will likely nosedive to a multi-decade low of 0-1% this fiscal, rating agency Crisil estimated. It had earlier estimated growth at 8-9% . The forecast presumes a base case scenario of GDP contracting 5% in FY21. “This crisis is unprecedented and so will its economic fallout be — such as lower capex demand and lower discretionary spends — slowing down credit offtake significantly in the current fiscal,” said Krishnan Sitaraman, senior director, Crisil Ratings.
09 June 2020||New Delhi,||Corporate tax sop date may be extended||Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman on Monday said the government will consider an extension in the deadline for availing the lower 15% corporate tax rate on new investments, due to COVID-19. In the biggest reduction in 28 years, the government, in September last year, slashed corporate tax rates by up to 10 percentage points to attract private investment and push sagging economic growth. Base corporate tax for existing companies was reduced to 22% from 30%, and to 15% from 25% for new manufacturing firms incorporated after October 1, 2019, and starting operations before March 31, 2023.
09 June 2020||CHENNAI,||Gomathi handed four-year ban||Gomathi Marimuthu, the 2019 Asian athletics championship 800m gold medallist, has been stripped of her medal and banned for four years by the Athletics Integrity Unit (AIU) after her ‘B’ sample also returned positive for anabolic steroid nandrolone. All of Gomathi's competition results between March 18 and May 17, 2019, stand annulled. The Tamil Nadu athlete's medals, titles, ranking points and prize and appearance money are to be forfeited as well. Gomathi, who was provisionally suspended in May last year when her 'A' sample returned positive, has also been ordered to pay the AIU, within 28 days, £1,000 towards legal and other expenses. AFI president Adille Sumariwalla said: “AFI will not be involved in the case, it has zero tolerance towards doping. We are doing 1,500 tests every year. And we are also working to make doping a criminal offence.” Gomathi still has the option of approaching the Court of Arbitration for Sport (CAS), he said. Speaking to The Hindu , Gomathi said: “I am going to appeal. I need the help of the State Government. I am confident that I didn’t take any prohibited substances. It could have possibly been in the non-vegetarian food that I had had.” Had NADA intimated her that she had been found positive in the domestic meets before her departure to Doha, Gomathi said she would have been able to investigate and know the truth. “NADA said I tested positive in the Federation Cup and the selection trials for the Asian championship. If they had informed me earlier, and not after the Asian championships, I would have had the time and not suffered the embarrassment in Doha.” She revealed that only her lawyer was consulted by the AIU in April as her doctor was on COVID duty.
09 June 2020||KOLKATA,||Boxer Lovlina Borgohain keen on getting better||One of the most well-known faces of the 627 people of Bara Mukhia village in Golaghat district of Assam, Lovlina Borgohain, is not yet satisfied with her achievements. The two-time World championships bronze medallist boxer seeks to further excel in her sport. Understandably, the 22–year-old, who has secured an Olympic quota place in 69kg, is disappointed to miss out on the National camp. “Earlier, there was a problem (to train at home) due to the lack of equipment. “Since I am part of TOPS, I asked for the equipment and got a punching bag and strength and conditioning equipment. It has benefited me. However, I am missing out on the camp as I cannot do proper training at home,” Lovlina told The Hindu . Memorable Nevertheless, Lovlina — who wholeheartedly helped fellow villagers by distributing food packets in the early phase of the lockdown — has spent some memorable time while being at home. “Some time back, our financial condition was not good. We used to wonder what we would eat next. So, I know the condition of people in our area very well. There are people who don’t get to eat if they don’t work. A few weeks back, the situation was really bad. I did whatever I could to help people. “Spending so much time with the family is relaxing. I also get time to watch videos of some fights and learn a few things. “I can apply those only when I get back in the ring,” said Lovlina, who is in contention for this year’s Arjuna Award. The postponement of the Olympics has been welcome sign for Lovlina, who is also an Asian championships bronze medallist. “I have got more time to hone my skills. I may have got some medals, but I am not satisfied with my performance. I end up with a bronze medal. I want to work on my game and make it better. “For me, the most important thing is the psychological aspect — how to handle different situations. The more we spend time on sparring, the more confident we become. “For example, two opponents can use the same technique differently. One can figure out how to tackle both only in the ring.”
09 June 2020||Chennai,||Training for top sailors to begin from June 15||The Tamil Nadu Sailing Association (TNSA) is looking to start training for its top sailors from June 15 at the Port of Chennai. TNSA had written to Chennai Port with the Standard Operating Procedures it would follow and Chennai Port has assured complete support. Speaking to The Hindu on Monday, TNSA president Ashok Thakkar said sailors belonging to SDAT schemes — Elite, Mission International Medal (MIMS) and Champions Development Scheme (CDS) will be part of the training camp. There are 20 sailors in the schemes, including top names like Varun Thakkar, K.C. Ganapathy and Aishwarya Nedunchezhian. Guidelines On the guidelines to be followed, Thakkar said “Only after the first boat is onshore will the second boat be launched. “There will be no physical classrooms like earlier for briefing before sailing and debriefing when the sailors come back. That will be done online. Training will happen five days a week. We will begin with seven sailors.” Confident Thakkar said he was confident that the Port authorities would give their clearance by the weekend. Chennai Port had asked TNSA to stop all sailing activities after the first lockdown was announced. After nearly three months, it is expected that sailing action will resume.
09 June 2020||HYDERABAD,||Telangana Hockey plans to expand base||Telangana Hockey (TH) has initiated measures to reviving the sport in the State by inviting applications from 21 districts to be granted affiliation. A letter to this effect was sent by TH general secretary Alphonse Lazarus to all the newly-formed districts in the State with the last date for submission of the applications being June 15. A committee, comprising the President Saral Talwar, general secretary and other members to be nominated soon, will review the applications via a video conference on June 16 before granting affiliations. This move was necessitated because of a directive from Hockey India which made it clear to the State body that it should have a representation of more than 10 of the 31 districts to function as a competent authority. Right now, only 10 districts are affiliated as was the case before Telangana State was formed. “Yes, we are already getting applications with some districts like Medchal, Kamareddy and Bhongir sending two or three applications. So, we will be very careful with the whole process,” a top official of Telangana Hockey told The Hindu on Monday. Lodha guidelines “We will also implement Justice Lodha guidelines regarding players’ representatives. The internationals will have voting rights as in cricket but who will represent them (one player each for men and women) on the Telangana Hockey apex council will be decided after a detailed discussion with them,” he said. Reviving clubs “We are also planning to revive some of the 20-odd clubs including AC Guards Red Hills, Coronation, BHEL Ramachandrapuram, AP Police, AG’s Office in view of their contribution to the sport over the decades,” the official said. “The other important objective is to make use of the funds of about Rs. 30 lakhs , which were earlier frozen in the bank because of legal disputes in the State Association,” he pointed out. “We are getting ready for post-Covid-19 scenario and very keen to start with hosting Inter-schools and colleges tournaments before planning something big,” the official concluded.  The State body that should have a representation of more than 10 of the 31 districts to function as a competent authority Right now, only 10 districts are affiliated as was the case before Telangana State was formed
09 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Paes prefers to play mentor||Leander Paes may be keen to play in a record eighth Olympics in Tokyo. However, he was compelled to say ‘no’ when Purav Raja queried whether he would compete in the 2024 edition if Tokyo got cancelled. It was a heady climax for the Sunday Instagram show, Chai with Raja , as special guest Lara Dutta teased the host by saying that the show should be named ‘Rum with Raja’, possibly as a means to celebrate husband Mahesh Bhupathi’s birthday. Love-hate relationship The former Miss Universe joked that Bhupathi had become “one year older, [but] I don’t know whether he has turned wiser”. She also equated the love-hate relationship of Paes and Bhupathi to the one between Shah Rukh Khan and Salman Khan. Paes was thrilled to talk about his film Rajdhani Express , but said that his successful business ventures were “Olympics, Grand Slam doubles and mixed doubles”. He opted to mentor the boys, rather than become the Davis Cup captain again. He entertained the viewers, wielding his tennis racquet like a cricket bat to imitate the cover drive of Sachin Tendulkar, the pull of M.S. Dhoni and the straight six of Virender Sehwag. “Give me the best, give me Virat Kohli,” said the 46-year-old Paes when the host proposed a fitness challenge by a cricketer. Even though he praised Rahul Dravid, happy to see him “fight in the trenches”, Paes picked Sourav Ganguly for his fascinating career and predicted an ICC position for the former India cricket captain and the current BCCI president. Magic wand When asked what he did not have, Paes said, “a magic wand to eradicate poverty.” Between Bhupathi’s backhand return and Bopanna’s serve, Paes picked the latter, saying, “it is one hell of a serve”.
09 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Strict norms in place for resumption of LaLiga||The action in LaLiga is all set to resume on June 11. Addressing the Indian media through video conference, the managing director of LaLiga India, Jose Cachaza, announced that 110 matches were scheduled to be completed at 20 grounds in a six-week period, in what he termed “difficult way of finishing the season.” The matches will be held at 5.30 p.m., 8.30 p.m., 11 p.m. and 1.30 a.m. IST. Limited presence It was announced that the health of players, officials and support staff would be constantly monitored and only 250 people, including players and television crew, would allowed in the stadiums, which will not have spectators. While the action on the pitch will not be any different from the past, except for a semblance of social distancing, the bench will have an extension and the players would sport masks. For the TV audience, and especially for the millions in Asia following the matches on Facebook Live, there will be digitisation to engage the viewers. “The important message is, we can sort of take control of our lives. A few fans in the stadium would have been good, but we need to keep our guard up against the virus,” said Cachaza. Cachaza also hoped that Indian cricketers would be hitting the ball soon. Defending champion Barcelona is leading the table with 58 points from 27 matches, two ahead of Real Madrid.
09 June 2020||Chennai,||SDAT allows four athletes to use its facilities||The Sports Development Authority of Tamil Nadu (SDAT) has given permission to tennis players Prajnesh Gunneswaran, Sasi Kumar Mukund, Manish Sureshkumar, and fencer C.A. Bhavani Devi to start their training programme at its facilities. While the tennis players will have access to the SDAT Nungambakkam tennis stadium, Bhavani Devi will get to use the facilities at the Nehru indoor stadium. The athletes will have to adhere to proper social distancing norms and other SOPs laid down by the State government. Bhavani Devi was on the verge of qualifying for the Olympics when the pandemic struck. “For the last two months, I have been training at home but there are constraints of space. The indoor stadium has good flooring and there is more space to work around. I am thankful to have been granted this permission,” said the fencer.
09 June 2020||LUCKNOW,||Curb the instinct to apply saliva: Kuldeep||Left-arm wrist spinner Kuldeep Yadav has started training in earnest, bowling four hours daily, and is striving hard to curb his natural instinct of applying saliva on the ball. Kuldeep is sweating it out under his childhood coach Kapil Pandey at the local ground where he learnt all his cricket. Ready for action “It’s only been a week that I have started outdoor training and I believe, within next few weeks, I would be ready for competitive cricket as and when it starts,” said Kuldeep. For the 25-year-old, the biggest concern is controlling the habit of using saliva. “Since childhood, we have this habit of applying saliva on the ball to keep the shine. With new rules in place, I am trying to get rid of the habit. I believe it needs to be imbibed in training sessions first. Hopefully, we will have some alternative in place,” said Kuldeep, Asked which format he would like to play once cricket resumes, Kuldeep said that T20 will be his choice. “Once competitive cricket resumes, I would prefer playing in the IPL.” He feels that cricket is not the priority now. “We have seen the crisis of migrant labourers across India, especially in Delhi and Mumbai. People are jobless and you can’t just think about your sport.” said the talented spinner.
09 June 2020||Paris:,||Diack appears in Paris court||Lamine Diack, the former IAAF head , went on trial here on Monday facing a potential 10-year prison sentence on charges of accepting millions of dollars to cover up Russian doping tests. The 87-year-old Senegalese was in charge of IAAF between 1999 and 2015 and is charged with “giving and receiving bribes”, “breach of trust” and “organised money laundering”.AFP
09 June 2020||PANAJI,||Bedia extends stay at FC Goa||Indian Super League (ISL) franchise FC Goa, on Monday, announced that Spaniard Edu Bedia has signed a new deal with the club, which will keep him here till 2022. Bedia was roped in at the start of the 2017-18 ISL season from Real Zaragoza, and has featured in 51 matches for Goan club in the ISL, bagging nine goals and nine assists, said a media release issued by the club.
09 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram:,||Jayamohan Thampi passes away||Former Kerala Ranji Trophy player Jayamohan Thampi (64) passed away here on Monday. A wicketkeeper-batsman Jayamohan Thampi, from Alappuzha, played six matches for Kerala in the early ’80s. Thampi was one of the main players of the SBT team in the ’80s. He also served as junior selector for the Kerala Cricket Association. He is survived by two sons. The KCA has condoled Thampi’s death.
09 June 2020||MADRID,||Messi back in training||Lionel Messi trained again with his teammates on Monday to give Barcelona a massive boost ahead of its LaLiga return against Mallorca on Saturday. Messi has been suffering from tightness in his right thigh and had not trained fully since last Tuesday. He sat out sessions on Wednesday and Friday before working alone at Camp Nou on Saturday. But Barcelona said in a statement its captain has re-joined “the rest of the team in the week of the return to competition in the Spanish league”.
09 June 2020||Wellington,||Once again great Kiwi attributes, says Neesham as NZ becomes COVID free||New Zealand cricketer James Neesham on Monday congratulated the citizens of his country as the last COVID-19 case recovered and now the nation has no active cases. “Coronavirus free NZ! Congratulations everyone. Once again those great kiwi attributes: planning, determination and teamwork do the job,” Neesham said in a tweet. —IANS
09 June 2020||BERHAMPUR,||Affordable shoe sole sanitiser developed||An affordable ultraviolet-C (UVC) shoe sole sanitiser, developed by the Industrial Training Institute (ITI) in Odisha’s Berhampur was formally launched via video conference on Monday, and its first unit was handed over to a COVID-19 hospital at Sitalapalli on the outskirts of the city. Threat of transmission of pathogenic viruses and microbes through the soles of footwear is extremely high at hospitals and public places like schools, offices, airports, railway stations, shopping malls and hotels. “As fear of COVID-19 is going to be a part of our life in the coming months, we decided to innovate existing technology to develop this affordable UVC sole sanitiser,” said Rajat Kumar Panigrahy, Principal, ITI-Berhampur. The innovation costs Rs. 6,000-Rs. 7,000. Similar sole sanitisers are marketed at a price of USD 5,000 in America, and some private companies in India are selling such devices at Rs. 50,000, Mr. Panigrahy said. The device includes a covered portable platform with a shoe sole receiving surface. When a person stands on it and places his or her shoe soles on the surface, a timer unit lights up the UVC lamps underneath, which direct UVC rays for eight seconds to eradicate micro-organisms on the soles. Out of three types of UV radiations named UVA, UVB and UVC, short wavelength UVC damages and alters DNA of all potentially harmful microbes, including viruses, making them incapable of replication. To avoid leakage of UVC harmful to human eyes, the device has a leak-proof cover over the chamber where the footwear is placed. Prototypes of this sole sanitiser were virtually inaugurated by the chairman of the Odisha Skill Development Authority (OSDA), Subroto Bagchi.  Dr. Umashankar Mishra, head of the COVID-19 hospital in Sitalapalli, said the shoe sole sanitiser would be of great help as it would eradicate the need for disinfection of shoes worn by medical personnel with soap or chemicals. The standard device can disinfect the soles of both shoes at a go. A cheaper, single chamber unit has also been developed, in which soles can be disinfected one after the other. Its affordability ensures the device can be used in shops and homes as well.
09 June 2020||CHENNAI,||Role of microRNA in growth and spread of tongue cancer cells||Researchers at the Indian Institute of Technology Madras have identified a specific microRNA (miRNAs) called ‘miR-155’ that is over-expressed in tongue cancer. The research team has shown that knocking out miR-155 causes death of cancer cells, arrests the cell cycle and regresses tumour size in animal models and reduces cell viability and colony formation in bench top assays. The finding could help develop molecular strategies to manipulate miR-155 expression to develop therapeutics for tongue cancer. The miRNAs affect cancer growth through inhibiting or enhancing the functions of certain proteins. The research team of Devarajan Karunagaran, head of the Biotechnology department and his research scholar Shabir Zargar, collaborated with researchers from the Adyar Cancer Institute and the Sree Balaji Dental College and Hospital in the city and the Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru. Their research paper was published in the journal Molecular and Cellular Biology . Mr. Karunagaran said: “MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are short noncoding RNAs containing 20–24 nucleotides that participate in virtually all biological pathways in animals. They have been found to play important roles in many cancers, in carcinogenesis (start of cancer), malignant transformation and metastasis — the development of secondary cancer. The miRNAs associated with cancer are called ‘Oncomirs’.” Many of the Oncomirs affect cancer by suppressing the performance of tumour-suppressing agents. Some of them can prevent the growth and spread of cancer cells and yet others prevent tumour growth itself, he said. miRNA manipulation is being combined with conventional cancer treatment methods such as chemotherapy, radiotherapy and immunotherapy.
09 June 2020||June 09 2020 08:02 IST,||Sudoku - June 9, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
09 June 2020||New Delhi,||With over 1,000 fresh COVID-19 cases, city’s tally climbs to 29,943||As many as 1,007 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Delhi in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 29,943, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Monday. Also, 62 more deaths have been reported taking the total number of deaths to 874. But all the deaths did not happen in the past 24 hours. Of the total cases, 11,357 people have recovered and there are 17,712 active cases. Of the total 8,575 COVID-19 designated beds available in different hospitals in the city, 4,162 are vacant, stated the bulletin. Also, a total of 2,55,615 tests have been conducted till date and 13,405 people are under home quarantine. The number of containment zones in the city has jumped to 183 from just 73 in about 20 days, the bulletin also stated. On May 18, the Health and Family Welfare Department of the Delhi government raised the issue of a decrease in the number of containment zones in the city, even though the number of COVID-19 cases in the city was on the rise.
09 June 2020||New Delhi,||COVID-19 admission only after payment of Rs. 4-8 lakh: hospital||Saroj Super Speciality Hospital, a private hospital in the city, has released a circular that the bill for COVID-19 patients would be a minimum of Rs. 3 lakh “irrespective of the number of days of stay or category of patient”. However, M. Khajuria, executive director of the hospital, who issued the circular, said that it has been superseded by another circular. “We have issued another circular on June 6 and we have revised the rates. These are not the current rates,” Mr. Khajuria told The Hindu . He promised to share the new rates and the circular, but did not respond to multiple calls and messages. The earlier order dated June 4 said that the patient will be admitted “only after advance payment” of Rs. 4 lakh, Rs. 5 lakh, or Rs. 8 lakh depending on the type of room. “This is to inform all concerned in the hospital, all panels, that Saroj Super Speciality Hospital and Saroj Medical Institute as per instructions from Govt. of Delhi, India, are going to start facility for treatment of COVID-19 patients,” the order said. “Rs. 3 Lacs will be the minimum bill irrespective of number of days of stay/category of the patient… Patient will be admitted only after advance of Rs. 4 Lacs in 2 bedded/3 bedded category and Rs. 5 Lacs in Single Room and Rs. 8 Lacs in ICU. This is as per the order by the management and for immediate implementation (sic),” the June 4 circular read. Also, under different packages, it was mentioned that the “package per day for ICU with ventilator” is Rs. 1 lakh. On Monday evening, the hospital issued a clarification, after the circular was highlighted by the media. Hospital clarifies “It has been brought to our notice that an out-of-date circular, which was for panel patients, is being circulated on social media as the treatment charge for COVID-19 patients. We confirm that COVID-19 patients’ admissions have started only from June 8. 2020, and are being charged as per the revised treatment cost declared to the Government of Delhi on June 6, 2020. We at ‘Saroj’ encourage treatment at home and have offered a package of less than Rs. 1,900 per day, including COVID kit,” the clarification read. When contacted, another official at the hospital did not disclose the new rates or the new circular, which was mentioned by Mr. Khajuria.
09 June 2020||New Delhi,||Not all govt. hospitals refusing to treat patients from other States||The Aam Aadmi Party government’s decision to reserve Delhi government-run hospitals and private hospitals in the city only for its residents evoked mixed reactions from hospitals dedicated for COVID-19 treatment. At Lok Nayak Hospital, which has the highest number of beds for COVID-19 patients in the city, officials and staff said that they had not turned away any patient on the basis of their residence. “Almost all the patients we get are from Delhi, but we do get some patients from other States. I’m here on duty from 9 a.m. and we haven’t denied admission to anyone since morning. We are not checking any documents,” said a doctor. “There were 148 admissions today,” a senior hospital official told The Hindu.  The security staff and ambulance drivers also confirmed that they get patients from other States. But at GB Pant Hospital, another Delhi government-run hospital, which is 50 metres from Lok Nayak Hospital, a doctor at the emergency said that they were referring people from other States to Central government-run hospitals. Centre-run hospitals “In the last fours I was on duty, we have referred about 10 patients from other States to Central government-run hospitals such as RML Hospital. We are checking their [patient’s] Aadhaar card or other documents,” the doctor said. However, Manish Kumar, 26, from Sonipat said, “My cousin was referred here and he has been admitted,” Mr. Kumar said at the gate of the hospital.
09 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Women duped of Rs. 1 crore by god-man and friend; FIR lodged||A 49-year-old woman, who is a mother to a special child, and her relatives were allegedly cheated of Rs. 1 crore by her friend and a self-styled god-man in south-west Delhi’s Vasant Kunj. A senior police officer said that an FIR has been registered under Section 420 (cheating) and 34 (common intention) of the Indian Penal Code and further probe is under way. The victim, a resident of a posh locality in Vasant Kunj and a fashion designer by profession, told the police that in May 2017, a close friend of her had told her about a god-man who was capable of solving issues, including litigations and matrimonial issues. The complainant said that her son – now 20 years old – is a special child and for his well-being, she had thought of meeting the god-man. “When we met the Baba, he said both my sons were possessed by evil and he would have to perform a ritual to cure them. For the ritual, he demanded two gold coins weighing 8 gm each,” she said, adding that she had handed over the coins to her friend in June 2017. The complainant said she was “completely brainwashed” by her friend into believing in the god-man and also persuaded her three relatives and another friend. Similar transactions were allegedly made in 2018 and 2019 as well. “She continued to say that she was performing rituals for us and we believed her,” she said, adding that all had given gold and cash worth Rs. 1 crore to the woman. “She had given us red pouches and said that those contained the gold coins which we had given to them. But we were strictly told not to open them for two years,” the complainant said. In January this year, the victims grew suspicious as nothing had changed. Finally, one day they opened the pouches were shocked to find stones in it. The complainant said that she first asked the friend to return her money and gold but when she refused, they decided to approach the police. Based on the complaint, an FIR was registered on June 5.  When we met the Baba, he said both my sons were possessed by evil and he would have to perform a ritual to cure them. For the ritual, he demanded two gold coins weighing 8 gm each One of the victims
09 June 2020||New Delhi,||Government order on hospital admission challenged in High Court||Following the controversial decision of the Delhi government directing all State-run and private hospitals to admit only bonafide residents of the Capital for treatment of COVID-19, a bunch of petitions has been filed in the Delhi High Court challenging the move as “unconsitutional and discriminatory”. The petitions have challenged the June 7 order of the Delhi government terming it as unconstitutional, arbitrary and discriminatory. One of the petitions, filed by advocate Gautam Kumar and law student Gaurav Sarkar, has contended that although they are residing in Delhi for more than a year, they do not have any proof. They said the decision was violative of Article 14 ands 15 of the Constitution as it treats a person residing in the NCT of Delhi and not having the valid proof of residence “unequally with the other persons”. Another petition filed by advocates Abhay Gupta and Prashant Arora said: “Right to Health, needless to say is a Fundamental Right, and can be abridged only in a manner known to law, or otherwise they are sacrosanct and sacred, and the Respondent cannot deprive the citizens their Fundamental Right.” They said that classification made by the Delhi government was “illegal and unlawful”. An application by financial economist Abhijit Mishra said the order of the Delhi government was in “complete disrespect to our national integrity which is based on equality before law to all the citizens”.  Meanwhile, a petition was filed by social worker Kulbir Singh seeking to constitute a monitoring committee for looking into the mismanagement in the healthcare sector at the ground level.
09 June 2020||New Delhi,||‘Delhi’s health system is struggling with deficiencies’||The Capital is now at number three in terms of the total number of COVID-19 cases with the lowest recovery, which testifies to the “failure of the health system” under the Delhi government, the BJP alleged here on Monday. New Delhi MP and BJP national spokesperson Meenakshi Lekhi, while wishing Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, who is scheduled to undergo a test for COVID-19 on Tuesday, a speedy recovery questioned as to why the AAP government’s flagship mohalla clinics were shut at this crucial time. “More than 90 maternity centres have been closed. There is a shortage of medical lecturers, the operation theatre of GB Pant Hospital is closed, there is a shortage of PPE kits, Delhi’s health system is struggling with such deficiencies,” she said.
09 June 2020||Gurugram,||COVID-19 cases in Gurugram breach 2,000 mark||The cumulative number of COVID-19 cases in Gurugram breached 2,000 mark with a record 243 cases recorded in a single day on Monday. The tally for Gurugram now stands at 2,165, which is almost half of the State’s total cases. According to the State evening bulletin, 406 cases have been reported across Haryana taking the tally to 4,854.
09 June 2020||New Delhi,||DU teachers, students protest against online exams||Teachers and students of DU on Monday took to Facebook to protest against the university’s proposal to conduct at home open-book examinations. Protesters changed their profile pictures to add a frame of “DU against online exams” to mark their dissent against the university’s move.
