09 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Centre firm on farm laws as Bharat Bandh passes peacefully||Union Home Minister Amit Shah told a select group of farmers’ leaders late on Tuesday that the Centre would not repeal the three contentious farm sector laws, on a day that saw nationwide road blockades and peaceful protests in support of the demand for a rollback of the laws. Mr. Shah said the Centre will give a written proposal of the amendments it is willing to make to the three laws by Wednesday morning, All India Kisan Sabha leader Hannan Mollah told journalists after the meeting. The leaders of all protesting farmer federations will meet at noon at the Singhu border to discuss the Centre’s proposal, Mr. Mollah said. “We don’t want amendments, we want repeal of laws. There is no middle path,” he added. However, a leader who did not wish to be named said some groups wished to see and consider the government’s proposal before rejecting it. The unexpected meeting with the Home Minister came hours after farm unions under the banner of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha claimed that more than 50 lakh people participated in the Bharat Bandh call at 20,000 locations across the country. At least 25 political parties supported the bandh, along with trade unions, retail and transport associations and many professional bodies. Talks put off As a result of the late night “informal” meeting, the sixth round of talks between all the farmers’ unions and the government will not be held on Wednesday as scheduled, Mr. Mollah said. However, it is not known if all the groups are still holding that position. Mr. Shah and Union Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar met 13 farmer leaders. By calling a select group, some divisions appear to have been created among the farmer groups. The Rashtriya Kisan Mahasangh, which had two leaders present at the meeting, said the written proposal would cover the Centre’s stand on all of the demands, and not only on the amendments to the laws. “After receiving the government’s written proposal, the farmer leaders will meet and formulate their own strategy. Farmer leaders are adamant on all our demands: repealing the three agricultural laws, enforcing an MSP guarantee law, withdrawal of the Electricity Bill, 2020, and the withdrawal of fines for stubble burning,” said RKMS spokesperson Abhimanyu Kohar. So far, the official talks have taken place at Vigyan Bhavan, led by Mr. Tomar on the government side. On the farmers’ side, the delegation included representatives from all 32 of the Punjab unions, plus a few leaders from other regions and national outfits.
09 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Peaceful protests nationwide mark farmers’ Bharat Bandh||The Bharat Bandh called by the farmers’ unions, protesting against the recent farm sector laws, affected normal life on Tuesday in large parts of northern India, especially Punjab, as well as Odisha, and the southern States of Telangana and Andhra Pradesh. Farm unions under the banner of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha claimed that more than 50 lakh people participated in the Bharat Bandh call at 20,000 locations across the country. At least 25 political parties supported the bandh, along with trade unions, retail and transport associations and many professional bodies. Pre-emptive arrests Large numbers of protestors and leaders, including several legislators, were detained during the day, both pre-emptively and during the agitation. Major highways around Delhi, and in parts of northern India faced a chakka jam until 3 p.m. Farm unions have been agitating for more than two months, demanding the repeal of three contentious Central laws meant to reform agricultural marketing. They fear the laws will affect government procurement at minimum support prices and benefit large corporates to the detriment of the small farmer. At a press conference at the Singhu border, farmer leaders claimed success. “It is very clear today that the struggle is not just restricted to Punjab, and not just restricted to farmers. This has become a struggle across all sections of society in India. The government of India now knows it doesn’t have a way out,” said Gurnam Singh Chaduni, leader of one of the biggest factions of the Bharatiya Kisan Union in Haryana. Shops and businesses were closed in many parts of Punjab. Farmers, trade bodies and government employee associations held sit-ins on key roads, including national and State highways, as well as near railway tracks, severely disrupting traffic. Public transport, including buses and taxis, were hardly seen plying on the roads. Fuel stations were also closed. Supply of essential commodities was disrupted at a few places during the shutdown, which remained peaceful. In Chandigarh, however, most markets remained open.
09 December 2020||Pune,||Robust response to bandh in rural Maharashtra||The shutdown called by the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee against the Centre’s new farm laws received a robust response in Maharashtra’s rural hinterland on Tuesday, with shops downing shutters and bus services suspended. The protests, spearheaded by outfits like Raju Shetti’s Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghatana (SSS) and the Left-affiliated All-India Kisan Sabha (AIKS), with support of the ruling coalition parties in the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government, saw agitators burn copies of the new laws, stage roadblocks and raise slogans against the Union government. Agriculture Produce Marketing Committees (APMCs) remained shut in most places across the State. “The shutdown has received an overwhelming response in the rural areas, where the agrarian population is concentrated. Today’s bandh has made a mockery of the Centre’s claims that the protests are only limited to a couple of States…it has demonstrated that the agitation has thesupport of the majority of farmers and commoners across the country,” said the SSS chief. Dr. Ajit Nawale, State Secretary, AIKS, appealed to the Centre to take cognizance of tremendous support for the farmers by all sections of society, including labour outfits and traders’ associations. Anti-graft activist Anna Hazare, too, endorsed the agitation by going on a day-long fast in his native village Ralegan Siddhi in Ahmednagar district. In contrast to rural areas, the shutdown received mixed response in the urban pockets where transport was largely unaffected. Even so, protests by the ruling parties were held across cities. Supriya Sule, the NCP’s Lok Sabha MP from Baramati (in Pune district) exhorted the Centre to engage in dialogue with farmers.  Locals not hit Mumbai and neighbouring areas also witnessed mixed response to the bandh. The bandh however did not affect suburban local trains and BEST buses. Parts of Mumbai, such as Dharavi and Mankhurd however, witnessed an agitation by a group of Sikh protesters. They held a protest near Mankhurd after police allegedly stopped them from going to Azad Maidan in south Mumbai. Shiv Sena had appealed to the people to voluntarily support the bandh. While extending support, NCP state president and Irrigation minister Jayant Patil wore a black band as a mark of protest. The Mumbai NCP presdient Nawab Malik held a rally in support of the bandh, while State Congress president and Revenue Minister Balasaheb Thorat held a demonstration outside party headquarters in south Mumbai. The Aam Adami Party also held a protest at Azad Maidan where sons and daughters of farmers arrived in bullock carts. In neighbouring Navi Mumbai, the Vashi APMC was closed in support of the bandh.  (With inputs from Alok Deshpande)
09 December 2020||Kolkata,||Twin bandhs hit normal life in West Bengal||Normal life was affected in several districts on Tuesday with supporters of different parties enforcing two bandh calls in north and south Bengal districts. While in several districts of south Bengal supporters of the Left parties tried to enforce the Bharat Bandh called by farmers protestinf the new farm laws by blocking railways and roads, in north Bengal it was Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) supporters who tried to enforce the bandh called in protest over Monday’s violence at Siliguri. Left party supporters tried to block suburban Railways by throwing banana leaves on the overhead railway lines. Eastern Railway officials said movement of trains was affected in the Diamond Harbour section and at Jadavpur, Rishra, Ashoknagar railway sections. Bandh supporters squatted on railway tracks with flags and even climbed on to train engines. As many as 26 trains were cancelled at Sealdah. At several places in Kolkata and suburbs, roads were blocked for vehicular traffic. There were rallies by Congress and Left parties at several places in Kolkata and in the districts. Shops and commercial establishment remained shut at various places. There were fewer private vehicles on the streets. Meanwhile, in north Bengal supporters of BJP blocked roads by burning tyres at Alipurduar and Cooch Behar districts. There were fewer vehicles at the Siliguri Tenzing Norgay bus stand, the biggest in Siliguri. BJP supporters also tried to enforce bandh at Malda . In the town BJP supporters closed the post office and forced employees to leave. The BJP MLA from Malda, Swadhin Kumar Sarkar, was detained for trying to enforce bandh. Except the Trinamool Congress, supporters of all political parties tried to enforce bandhs in different parts of the State. The Trinamool Congress leadership including Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee have extended moral support to Bharat Bandh but said party supporters would not try to enforce the strike.
09 December 2020||ELURU,||Nickel, lead found in patients’ blood samples||Officials of the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), the National Institute of Nutrition (NIN) and other teams found the presence of nickel and lead elements in blood samples collected from patients in the Eluru Government General Hospital (GGH). Presence of lead and nickel chemicals in the blood may affect the neurological system. The chemicals will cause epilepsy, vomiting, breathing problems, convulsions, temporary loss of memory, dizziness and other symptoms, the specialists said. Joint Collector Himanshu Shukla on Tuesday said blood samples of the patients had been sent to the AIIMS, New Delhi, by air on Tuesday. “We noticed nickel and lead elements in the blood samples. A report will be submitted to the Centre. More investigations should be done to find out the reasons for the situation,” said an expert of the AIIMS. Experts from the World Health Organisation (WHO), the National Institute of Virology (NIV), the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), the National Centre for Disease Control (NCDC), the Indian Institute of Chemical Technology (IICT), NIN and AIIMS have been camping in West Godavari and monitoring the situation, said Andhra Pradesh Health and Family Welfare Commissioner Katamaneni Bhaskar. The teams were visiting the affected areas in Eluru town and the GGH and were investigating different angles. They spoke to the residents in the affected colonies. “We collected blood, smear, stool, urine and other samples from the patients and recorded their statements on the sufferings and symptoms. Samples are being sent to New Delhi, Hyderabad, Pune and other places for thorough investigation,” said an NIN official. Doctors said all the victims were admitted with similar complaints and had common symptoms. But, the presence of the chemicals in the blood samples was very less as the patients were recovering fast. If the quantity of the toxins was high, or spread through air, it would affect the neurological system, said a neurosurgeon. “We are trying to find out whether the chemicals were water or food-borne. A documentation is being made based on the medical reports and the statements of the patients,” said a specialist, who camped in Eluru.
09 December 2020||New Delhi,||Centre did not allow me to go sit with farmers, says Kejriwal||On the day of the Bharat Bandh, which was supported by the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), the party alleged that its national convener and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal was kept “under house arrest” by the “Central government’s Delhi Police”, a claim denied by the police. The party claimed that when its MLAs went to meet the CM, Delhi Police “beat them up”, and even a domestic help was not allowed to enter Mr. Kejriwal’s house. Later in the evening, addressing party leaders at his residence, Mr. Kejriwal said: “I wanted to go to the border as a common man and not as a CM and sit with farmers and support them and come back. I feel that they [the Central government] came to know about my plan and did not allow me to go today.” Denying the allegations, Deputy Commissioner of Police (North) Anto Alphonse said: “The allegation of Delhi CM being put under house arrest was incorrect. Police were present around his residence due to security reasons. The people who wanted to meet the CM were permitted. We had tied up with the CM residence staff for movement of authorised persons.” When contacted, a party spokesperson said around 7 p.m. that there was no longer any problem for Mr. Kejriwal to meet anyone, or for party leaders to meet him.
09 December 2020||HYDERABAD,||Bandh total in Telangana with TRS support||A total and peaceful bandh was observed across Telangana on Tuesday in response to a call given by several farmers’ organisations demanding repeal of three farm laws enacted earlier this year by the Centre stating they were against the interest of the farming community and helpful to corporate and trade sectors. The bandh was successful mainly due to the support of TRS government to the protest and participation of its rank and file actively, although all parties except Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), several farmers’ bodies, scores of trade unions and employees associations also supported and took part in the bandh. However, the event also provided an opportunity for political sparring as both the BJP and Congress targeted TRS for supporting bandh. Leaders of the two parties alleged that the ruling party’s support to the bandh was only a cover-up to its failures in helping farmers. They criticised the State government for not giving bonus to superfine varieties of paddy after asking farmers to cultivate it in a large scale and not providing insurance cover to crops. On the other hand, several Ministers accused the Centre of not allowing the State to pay bonus to paddy as the Food Corporation of India (FCI) had threatened to stop procurement of rice in the event any extra amount was paid to farmers over the minimum support price, stating that such a step would cause problems in other States.  All Ministers, MPs, MLAs, MLCs, Zilla Parishad Chairpersons, other elected representatives and party functionaries along with party workers held demonstrations on highways and other important locations. Similarly, leaders of Congress and Left parties, trade unions and employees associations participated in road blockades at several places. All private and commercial establishments remained closed and RTC buses remained in depots following a call given by the ruling TRS for not commencing their operations till afternoon. Accordingly, the RTC buses came onto the road only towards the evening, although the commercial establishment commenced operations early in the afternoon. Participating in the blockage of Bengaluru highway at Burgula Gate near Shadnagar along with some senior leaders, TRS working president and Minister for IT and Industries K.T. Rama Rao said his party was ready to wage a long battle for farmers’ interests. He said the farming community was asking for an assurance on MSP and nothing more. Stating that the new farm laws were beneficial to corporate companies and traders and not small and marginal farmers, who comprise 85% of the farming community, KTR wanted the Centre to explain farmers in Telangana as to why it was not allowing bonus payment for paddy. Speaking after participating in the bandh, State Congress president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy said it was Congress party that had opposed farm bills in Parliament. He criticised the TRS government for not implementing loan waiver and crop insurance and non-payment of bonus to paddy. Pass resolutions Minister for Finance T. Harish Rao, who participated in the road blockade near Toopran along with MP. K. Prabhakar Reddy and others urged all mandal and zilla parishads and rythu bandhu samithis to pass resolutions demanding repeal of the anti-farmer laws enacted by the Centre.
09 December 2020||Bengaluru,||Land reforms Bill passed in Council with JD(S) support||Amid intense protests by farmers, the controversial Karnataka Land Reforms (Second Amendment) Bill, 2020 that seeks to remove restrictions on agricultural land purchase in the State was passed in the Legislative Council on Tuesday, with the Janata Dal (Secular), which had earlier opposed the Bill, supporting it. Crucial support The support of the JD(S) was crucial as the BJP, with 31 members, does not enjoy majority in the 75-member Council. While the Congress and the JD(S) together had successfully stalled the Bill in the monsoon session after it had been passed in the Legislative Assembly, voting had not been possible as the Council had been adjourned sine die . The passage of the amended Bill came on a day when farmers had called for a nationwide bandh to oppose change to farm laws.
09 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Bandh partial in State||The Bharat Bandh call given by the farmers' organisations in protest against the farm laws brought in by the BJP government at the Centre evoked partial response in the 13 districts of the State on Tuesday. With the bandh supporters confining mostly to bus stations and highways that witnessed rallies and demonstrations, normal life by and large remained unaffected. The APSRTC buses stayed off roads till 1 p.m. and educational institutions also remained closed. But banks and Central government offices functioned normally. Left Party leaders led rallies and protests in many cities and towns denouncing in strong terms the Modi government's anti-farmer policies. They demanded immediate rollback of the farm laws. The Telugu Desam Party and the Congress supported the farmers’ cause by participating in the protests at several places. TDP president N. Chandrababu Naidu called for a national debate on the issue and said the Central government should build a consensus after holding discussions threadbare with the farmers and their various associations the nuances of the new laws. The ruling YSR Congress Party, however, was put on defensive as the party supported the farm laws in Parliament. Leaders of the TDP and the YSRCP engaged in a Twitter war on the issue. The TDP leaders grabbed the opportunity to cause embarrassment to the ruling party by posting videos of Parliamanet session where the Bills were tabled and the YSRCP leaders extended their support.
09 December 2020||New Delhi,||Some COVID-19 vaccines may get nod in the next few weeks||The Union Health Ministry on Tuesday said “some of the COVID-19 vaccine candidates may receive licence in the next few weeks”, with preparatory activities for a vaccine roll-out being carried out by the Central government in collaboration with the States and the Union Territories. The Ministry, at a press conference, said getting vaccinated is voluntary and that vaccination cannot just be a State’s or the Centre’s responsibility; “it has to be people’s participation”. Rajesh Bhushan, Secretary, Health, said, “While we cannot predict when the three vaccine candidates currently with the Drugs Controllers General of India seeking emergency use authorisation will be cleared as they have to go through the due clearance process, India’s regulatory framework has a specific provision for the grant of emergency use authorisation under the New Drugs and Clinical Trial Rule, 2019.” “This provides that under specific special situations mentioned in the rule, relaxation, abbreviation, omission,or deferment of data, including local clinical trial data, may be considered for approval. Other countries also have laws. The timeline for issuing licence is under the national regulator’s domain,” Mr. Bhushan added.
09 December 2020||New Delhi,||Centre did not allow me to take part in protest, says Kejriwal||On the day of the Bharat Bandh, which was supported by the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), the party alleged that Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal was kept “under house arrest” by the “Central government’s Delhi Police”, a claim which was denied by the police. The party claimed that when its MLAs went to meet the CM, Delhi Police “beat them up”, and even a domestic help was not allowed to enter Mr. Kejriwal’s house. Later in the evening, addressing party leaders at his residence, Mr. Kejriwal said: “I wanted to go to the border as a common man and not a Chief Minister and sit with farmers and support them and come back. I feel that they [the Central government] came to know about my plan and did not allow me to go today.” Denying the allegations, Deputy Commissioner of Police (North) Anto Alphonse said: “The allegation of Delhi CM being put under house arrest was incorrect. Police were present around his residence due to security reasons. The people who wanted to meet the CM were permitted. We had tied up with the CM residence staff for movement of authorised persons.” When contacted, a party spokesperson said that by 7 p.m. there was no longer any problem for Mr. Kejriwal to meet anyone, or for party leaders to meet him.
09 December 2020||Bengaluru,||Legislature session cut short by five days||The ongoing legislature session will be curtailed by five days in view of the upcoming elections to gram panchayats. The session, which was to go on till December 15, will now end on December 10. The gram panchayat elections are scheduled to be held on December 22 and 27. The results are to be declared on December 30. Announcing the decision to end the session early in the Legislative Assembly on Tuesday, Speaker Vishweshwar Hegde Kageri said the Business Advisory Committee of the Legislative Assembly had taken a call on it. He said this was following requests from MLAs who had cited the upcoming elections to gram panchayats. With the changed schedule, the discussion on “one nation, one election” concept, which was to be taken up on December 14 and 15, will now be taken up only in the next session, the Speaker said. This concept has been put forward by Prime Minister Narendra Modi.
09 December 2020||Bengaluru,||Party draws flak||While support from the JD(S) came as a shot in the arm for the BJP to ensure passage of the Karnataka Land Reforms (Second Amendment) Bill, 2020, on Tuesday, the regional party’s turnaround on the issue drew flak from farmers’ organisations. Several farmers’ leaders who staged a flash protest in the city shortly after theCouncil passed the Bill not only criticised the ruling BJP, but also raised slogans against the JD(S) and H.D. Kumaraswamy. “JD(S) leaders claim they are the sons of the soil and theirs is a farmers’ party, with a womanfarmer carrying a stack of hay as their symbol. But today, they betrayed us...,” rued Kodihalli Chandrashekar, president of Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha.
09 December 2020||December 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Mount Everest ‘grows’ taller; China, Nepal announce new height||8,848 metres — the answer to one of the most widely popular quiz questions, and a number drilled into the minds of school students around the world for decades, is set for a revision, with the world’s tallest mountain getting a new official height on Tuesday that adds a few centimetres to its already lofty peak. Nepal and China jointly announced the new height of Mount Everest as 8,848.86 metres in a high-profile virtual ceremony, with their Presidents exchanging letters and the Foreign Ministers in attendance, all aimed at showcasing both a deepening strategic relationship and the amicable resolution of a long-running debate. Everest — also known as Sagarmatha in Nepal and Mount Qomolangma in China — was “an important symbol of the China-Nepal friendship”, China’s President Xi Jinping said, calling it a “peak of China-Nepal friendship”. The mountain lies on the border between Nepal and Tibet and the summit can be accessed from both sides, although the Nepal route is more popular. Three-metre difference Mr. Xi said survey teams from both countries had spent more than a year on the project and had “overcome all kinds of difficulties, solidly carried out their work, and finally reached a conclusion on the snow-covered height based on the International Height Reference System”. China’s State media reported that the previous calculation by China in 2005 placed the peak at 8,844 metres, while Nepal said it was closer to 8,847 metres. Resolving the three-metre difference, attributed to China calculating the “rock height” underneath the snow and Nepal using the “snow height” which included the snowcap, was the aim of the joint project, with both sides agreeing to reach a consensus when Mr. Xi visited Nepal in October last year. A Chinese team made a journey to the peak on May 27, the Beijing-based Global Times reported, adding that they were aided by “end-to-end” 5G technology.  Advantage China For Nepal and China, the height of Everest wasn’t merely an academic debate. It also had ramifications for a lucrative tourism industry. Officials told the Kathmandu Post the slightly higher “snow height” was “one of the key reasons why Nepal had been drawing Everest aspirants in droves”. Ang Tsering Sherpa, former president of the Nepal Mountaineering Association, told the newspaper that climbers from Nepal “started to swell from 2007 when China started issuing Everest climbing certificates stating the height as 8,844.57 metres against 8,848 metres in certificates issued by Nepal for the same peak”. “Now, there will be a common height which will end all debates,” he said, but it would give China an advantage in the climbing stakes because “climbing Everest through the northern side is much cheaper than climbing from the southern side”. Nepal, he added, had other advantages, such as offering a more scenic and “life changing” trek as opposed to China, where you can drive up to the base camp. According to the Post , Nepal generates $4 million from permits alone, besides others revenues generated from climbers. The change could also impact livelihoods in Nepal. “China is producing a lot of high-altitude climbing guides. The government trains them for at least two years,” Mr. Sherpa was quoted as saying. “Within a few years, China will not require Nepali Sherpa climbing guides although the majority of climbing guides on the Chinese side are Sherpas now.” Beyond tourism, the end of the debate is also politically symbolic of two increasingly close neighbours. The new height of 8,848.86 metres replaced the long-associated 8,848 metre-height, which was, newspapers in Beijing and Kathmandu noted, a legacy from 1954, and a measurement carried out by the Survey of India.
09 December 2020||kolkata,||Row over TMC MP’s remarks on media||The Kolkata Press Club on Tuesday issued a condemnation of Trinamool Congress MP Mahua Moitra’s pejorative remarks on the media while the party leadership expressed disapproval of her comments. A video of Ms. Moitra referring to media persons as “dui poeshar press (2 paisa press)” at a party meeting at Gayeshpur in Nadia has gone viral on social media, stoking outrage. “The comments are unwarranted and insulting,” said the statement signed by Press Club secretary Kinshuk Pramanik. The MP’s reaction later justifying her comments added to the outrage. “I apologize for the mean, hurtful accurate things I said,” Ms. Moitra tweeted and added that her “meme- making skills are improving”.
09 December 2020||New Delhi,||SC clears land acquisition for Chennai-Salem NH||The Supreme Court on Tuesday gave the green signal for the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) and the Union government to acquire land for the 277.3 km-long Chennai-Krishnagiri-Salem National Highway project, worth more than Rs. 10,000 crore, saying “national highways are the arteries of India’s economy”. The eight-lane highway (NH179A and NH179B) is a part of the first phase of the ‘Bharatmala Pariyojna’ project, which stretches across 24,800 km and has an estimated outlay of Rs. 5.35 lakh crore. The highway intends to cut travel time between Chennai and Salem by half. “By its very nomenclature, a national highway is to link the entire country and provide access to all in every remote corner of the country for interaction and to promote commerce and trade, employment and education, including health related services. This approach enhances and furthers the federal structure. The existence of a national highway in the neighbourhood paves the way for the fulfilment of aspirations of the locals and their empowerment,” a three-judge Bench, led by Justice A.M. Khanwilkar, observed in a 140-page judgment.
09 December 2020||Mumbai,||‘Conduct workshop for prison authorities’||Referring to civil rights campaigner Gautam Navlakha being denied his spectacles at Taloja Central Jail, the Bombay High Court on Tuesday said, “Humanity is most important. This is high time to conduct a workshop for prison authorities.” A Division Bench of Justices S.S. Shinde and M.S. Karnik said,“Humanity is most important. Everything else will follow. Today we learnt about Gautam Navlakha’s spectacles.” On Monday, The Hindu reported that Mr. Navlakha’s partner Sahba Husain had alleged his spectacles were stolen on November 27 and he was not allowed to inform his family about this till November 30. He is almost blind without the spectacles as his power is more than 6.5, Ms. Husain had said.
09 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC clears land acquisition for Chennai-Salem highway||The Supreme Court on Tuesday gave the green signal for the National Highway Authority of India and the Union government to acquire land for the 277.3 km-long Chennai-Krishnagiri-Salem National Highway project, worth more than Rs. 10,000 crore, saying “national highways are the arteries of India’s economy”. The eight-lane highway (NH179A and NH179B) is a part of the first phase of the ‘Bharatmala Pariyojna’ project, which stretches across 24,800 km and has an estimated outlay of Rs. 5.35 lakh crore, to improve the efficiency of freight and passenger movement.
09 December 2020||CHENNAI,||CM defends Centre on aid||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Tuesday said it was wrong to say the Centre was not giving aid to States during natural calamities. “We need more funds, and this was conveyed to the Central team, which met me after assessing the damage caused by Cyclone Nivar,” he said.
09 December 2020||December 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Shah meets 13 farmer leaders||Home Minister Amit Shah met 13 farmer leaders on Tuesday night, at the end of a day of nationwide protests and Bharat Bandh called by the farmer organisations. By calling a select group, some divisions appear to have been created among the farmer groups. The meeting came on the eve of the scheduled sixth round of negotiations between Union Ministers and farmer groups.page 9
09 December 2020||December 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Home ahoy!||
09 December 2020||New Delhi,||SC clears land acquisition for Chennai-Salem highway||The Supreme Court on Tuesday gave the green signal for the National Highway Authority of India and the Union government to acquire land for the 277.3 km-long Chennai-Krishnagiri-Salem National Highway project, worth more than Rs. 10,000 crore, saying “national highways are the arteries of India’s economy”. The eight-lane highway (NH179A and NH179B) is a part of the first phase of the ‘Bharatmala Pariyojna’ project, which stretches across 24,800 km and has an estimated outlay of Rs. 5.35 lakh crore, to improve the efficiency of freight and passenger movement.
09 December 2020||ELURU,||561 people affected so far||The number of people affected with neurotoxin symptoms in Eluru town is increasing every hour, and over 500 cases were reported by Tuesday evening. According to the officials 561 patients were admitted with epilepsy, dizziness and vomiting symptoms in the last four days. West Godavari Joint Collector Himanshu Shukla said 81 patients were undergoing treatment in Eluru Government General Hospital (GGH), while 450 were discharged and 22 cases have been referred to Vijayawada and Guntur GGHs. Meanwhile, leaders of various political parties blamed the State government for the situation.
09 December 2020||New Delhi,||SC nod for Chennai-Salem NH land acquisition||The Supreme Court on Tuesday gave the green signal for the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) and the Union government to acquire land for the 277.3 km-long Chennai-Krishnagiri-Salem national highway project, worth more than Rs. 10,000 crore, saying “national highways are the arteries of India’s economy”. The eight-lane highway (NH179A and NH179B) is a part of the first phase of the ‘Bharatmala Pariyojna’ project, which stretches across 24,800 km and has an estimated outlay of Rs. 5.35 lakh crore. The highway intends to cut travel time between Chennai and Salem by half.
09 December 2020||New Delhi,||SC nod for Chennai-Salem NH land acquisition||The Supreme Court on Tuesday gave the green signal for the National Highway Authority of India (NHAI) and the Union government to acquire land for the 277.3 km-long Chennai-Krishnagiri-Salem national highway project, worth more than Rs. 10,000 crore, saying “national highways are the arteries of India’s economy”. The eight-lane highway (NH179A and NH179B) is a part of the first phase of the ‘Bharatmala Pariyojna’ project, which stretches across 24,800 km and has an estimated outlay of Rs. 5.35 lakh crore. The highway intends to cut travel time between Chennai and Salem by half.
09 December 2020||Pune,||First Mumbai nearby||Recoveries continued to outpace cases with as many as 6,365 patients being discharged across Maharashtra on Tuesday while 4,026 new COVID-19 cases were reported. The total case tally now stands at 18,59,367 with the number of active cases dipping further to 73,374. The cumulative recoveries have reached 17,37,080 with the State’s recovery rate rising incrementally to 93.42%. As many as 53 deaths were reported, taking the death toll to 47,827. The low case surge must, however, be viewed in the context of the lower number of samples tested — just over 45,000 as compared with a daily average of over 70,000.
09 December 2020||Srinagar,||Illegally detained, house locked up: Mehbooba||Former Chief Minister and Peoples Democratic Party chief Mehbooba Mufti on Tuesday said she was locked up inside her Srinagar residence and disallowed to visit the “evicted families” at Budgam in central Kashmir. “Illegal detention has become the GOI’s favourite go-to method for muzzling any form of opposition,” she tweeted.
09 December 2020||New Delhi,||Capital’s AQI in ‘very poor’ category||The air quality of Delhi and Gurugram was in the ‘very poor’ category on Tuesday. and Noida’s continued to be in the ‘severe’ category. The national capital’s air quality is expected to stay in the ‘very poor’ category for the next two days. Stubble burning in neighbouring States accounted for 2% of PM2.5 pollution in Delhi.
09 December 2020||Bengaluru,||State to seek increase in paddy procurement||The State government on Tuesday told the Assembly that it would approach the Centre to seek not only an increase in the procurement period of paddy under the MSP scheme from the present three months, but also to hike the quantum of procurement. But Law Minister J.C. Madhuswamy declined the suggestion for adding an incentive to MSP.
09 December 2020||Bengaluru,||Property owners vexed by rule changes||Several property owners who have already paid betterment charges and development cess to redevelop or renovate their properties are being served notices seeking both charges running into several lakhs. The confusion stems from a recent notification of an amendment to Karnataka Town and Country Planning Act on hiking plan sanction fee, betterment charges, and development cess.
09 December 2020||Bengaluru,||Paddy procurement: State to approach Centre||The State government on Tuesday told the Legislative Assembly that it would approach the Centre to seek not only an increase in the procurement period of paddy under Minimum Support Price (MSP) scheme from the present three months, but also to hike the quantum of procurement allowed.
09 December 2020||HUBBALLI,||98 nominations filed on second day||As many as 98 sets of nomination papers were filed in the election to the various gram panchayats in Dharwad district on Tuesday, the second day of filing nomination papers. On the first day, 11 nomination papers were filed.
09 December 2020||Kolkata,||War of words over BJP supporter death, police claim death due to shotgun injuries not used by them||A day after the death of Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) supporter Ullen Roy in Siliguri, a war of words erupted between the Trinamool Congress and BJP. While Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee alleged at a public rally that BJP killed its own supporter for publicity and propaganda, BJP leadership and the family members of the deceased maintained that Roy died in police action. Meanwhile, earlier in the day the West Bengal police tweeted that the BJP supporter died due to shotgun injuries, and the police does not use shotgun. In a series of tweets on Tuesday morning the police said it is “obvious that during yesterday’s protest in Siliguri, armed persons were brought and they fired from firearm”. Criminal Investigation Department ( CID) will investigate the death, police added. “The deceased received pallet [pellet] injuries from a shotgun fired from close range by a person standing near the deceased in the protest program. This is unprecedented. Bringing armed persons in protest programs and inciting them to fire is unheard off,” it tweeted.
09 December 2020||Mumbai,||Second Mumbai nearby||Faced with financial constraints due to the lockdown, representatives of 14 transport unions on Tuesday met Maharashtra Navnirman Sena chief Raj Thackeray, urging him to talk to the government on their behalf in a bid to get them assistance. Among their major demands were relief from exorbitant interest rates applied by non-banking financial companies despite guidelines from the Reserve Bank of India and interest-free moratorium on loan repayment till March 2021.
09 December 2020||MANGALURU,||MUDA to develop 160 sites at Kunjathbail||The Mangaluru Urban Development Authority has proposed to develop a housing layout on 20 acres at Kunjathbail in the city. It will have about 160 sites, according to chairman of the authority Ravishankar Mijar.
09 December 2020||CHENNAI,||Tamil Nadu records 1,236 new COVID-19 cases||Chennai, along with five other districts, accounted for more than 50% of the 1,236 fresh coronavirus infections reported in the State on Tuesday. Among the remaining districts, Perambalur recorded no new cases for the fourth day in a row.
09 December 2020||MADURAI,||Notification on wildlife sanctuary’s size stayed||The Madurai Bench of the Madras HC has granted a stay on the Centre’s gazette notification to reduce the size of Kanniyakumari Wildlife Sanctuary. Reduction of the size of the wild life sanctuary would affect the environment, the court observed.
09 December 2020||CHENNAI,||Ex-AIADMK Minister dead||Nokia said on Tuesday that it had started the production of the next generation 5G equipment at its manufactu-ring site in Sriperumbudur, near Chennai. According to an official statement, the company is now producing the cutting-edge Nokia AirScale massive Multiple Input Multiple Output (mMIMO) solution.
09 December 2020||New Delhi,||Nearly 70% beds free as new cases drop in Delhi||Delhi witnessed 3,188 new COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours, taking the total to 5,97,112 on Tuesday. The death toll reached 9,763 with 57 more fatalities reported in a single day. Of the total 18,807 beds available for COVID-19 treatment in the city, 69.5% were vacant as of Tuesday evening.
09 December 2020||new delhi,||Capital’s air quality in ‘very poor’ category||The air quality of Delhi and Gurugram was in the ‘very poor’ category on Tuesday. and Noida’s continued to be in the ‘severe’ category. The national capital’s air quality is expected to stay in the ‘very poor’ category for the next two days. Stubble burning in neighbouring States accounted for 2% of PM2.5 pollution in Delhi.
09 December 2020||MYSURU,||MUDA reclaims sites worth Rs. 15.4 crore||The Mysore Urban Development Authority (MUDA) has reclaimed its properties worth Rs. 15.4 crore that had been allegedly encroached upon and fenced.
09 December 2020||Bengaluru,||Paddy procurement: State to approach Centre||The State government on Tuesday told the Legislative Assembly that it would approach the Centre to seek not only an increase in the procurement period of paddy under Minimum Support Price (MSP) scheme from the present three months, but also to hike the quantum of procurement allowed.
09 December 2020||Bengaluru,||HC questions govt. on midday meal package||The High Court of Karnataka on Tuesday prima facie found the ingredients of the package being provided by the State government to students in lieu of midday meals an unreasonable compensation.
09 December 2020||Coventry,||90-year-old gets U.K.’s first COVID-19 jab||Nurses cheered on Tuesday as a 90-year-old grandmother in Britain became the first person in the Western world to receive an approved vaccine againstCOVID-19, at the start of a marathon campaignhealth officials hope heralds a fight-back against the pandemic. Margaret Keenan , who turns 91 next week, called the jab she received at a hospital in Coventry, central England, “the best early birthday present”.page 11
09 December 2020||New Delhi,||Shah meets 13 farmer leaders||Home Minister Amit Shah met 13 farmer leaders on Tuesday night, at the end of a day of nationwide protest and Bharat Bandh called by farmer organisations. By calling a select group, some divisions appear to have been created among the farmer groups. The meeting came on the eve of the scheduled sixth round of negotiations between Union Ministers and farmer groups. Those talks have been deadlocked over the farmers’ demand to repeal three contentious agricultural reform laws. So far, the official talks have taken place at Vigyan Bhavan, led by Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar on the government side. On the farmers’ side, the delegation includes representatives from all 32 of the Punjab unions, plus a few leaders from other regions and national outfits. The farmers’ alliance have rejected the government’s suggestion to form a smaller group to debate the details of the three laws. However, on Tuesday, Mr. Shah reached out to the farmers groups suggesting an “informal” or “unofficial” meeting with 13-14 representatives at his residence at 7 p.m., some leaders told The Hindu . The Punjab unions selected nine leaders, to be accompanied by Rakesh Tikait of a Bharatiya Kisan Union faction in Uttar Pradesh, Gurnam Singh Chaduni of another BKU faction in Haryana, Shiv Kumar Kakkaji of the Rashtriya Kisan Mahasangh and Hannan Mollah of the All India Kisan Sabha. “It is an unofficial meeting. We understand that the Home Minister will give us the government’s proposal, as promised at the last meeting. We do not intend to have any discussions with Mr. Shah tonight. We will receive the proposal and come back to discuss with all the farmer groups,” said one of the leaders. At the last minute, the venue was shifted to the National Agricultural Science Complex, Pusa, and the meeting began after 8 p.m.. It was still going on at the time of going to print. Some leaders met Mr. Shah at his residence before the meeting began, sources said. Joginder Singh, president of BKU-Ugrahan, who was not included in the meeting, said the unions should not have gone to meet Mr. Shah separately as the move will create “misunderstanding among struggling people”. He said the BKU-U had been in the past approached twice for talks by the government separately, but it refused the offer. “We had always stuck to the demand that all organisations should be invited jointly,” he said.
09 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Successful protest, say farmers||Farm unions under the banner of the Samyukt Kisan Morcha on Tuesday claimed that more than 50 lakh people participated in the Bharat Bandh call at 20,000 locations across the country. At least 25 political parties supported the bandh, along with trade unions, retail and transport associations and many professional bodies. At a press conference on the Singhu border, farmer leaders claimed success in the nationwide protest which saw normal life disrupted across large parts of northern India, especially Punjab, as well as Odisha, and the southern States of Telangana and Andhra Pradesh. “It is very clear today that the struggle is not just restricted to Punjab, and not just restricted to farmers. This has become a struggle across all sections of society in India. The government of India now knows it doesn’t have a way out,” said Gurnam Singh Chaduni, leader of one of the biggest factions of the Bharatiya Kisan Union in Haryana. Pre-emptive arrests Large numbers of protestors and leaders, including several legislators, were detained during the day, both pre-emptively and during the agitation. While representatives of the 32 farmers’ unions from Punjab and leaders of farmers’groups from other States have so far participated in five rounds of meetings with the Centre, on Tuesday, Mr. Shah reached out to the farmers groups suggesting an “unofficial” meeting with 13-14 representatives at his residence at 7 p.m., some leaders told The Hindu . At the last minute, the venue was shifted to the National Agricultural Science Complex, Pusa, and the meeting began after 8 p.m. However, some leaders met Mr. Shah at his residence before the Pusa meeting, according to some sources. One leader, Rudru Singh Mansa was disgruntled by the venue change, and initially headed back to the Singhu border, before being persuaded to attend the meeting. Joginder Singh, president of BKU-Ugrahan, who was not included in the meeting, said the unions should not have met Mr. Shah separately as the move would create “misunderstanding among struggling people.” He added that BKU-Ugrahan had previously been approached twice for separate talks with the government, but had refused the offer. “We had always demanded that all organisations should be invited jointly and we will stick to the demand,” he said.
09 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||SAARC needs a terror-free milieu: PM||SAARC can only be fully effective in the absence of “terror and violence”, Prime Minister Narendra Modi said in a message to the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation on its 36th Charter Day anniversary. In their messages, Pakistan Prime Minister Imran Khan and Nepal Prime Minister K.P. Sharma Oli called for the SAARC summit to be held soon. “The full potential of SAARC can only be realised in an atmosphere free of terror and violence,” Mr. Modi said in a letter released by the SAARC Secretariat in Kathmandu, that indicated India’s concerns over cross-border terrorism from Pakistan remain a primary obstacle in India’s participation in the summit. He also called for SAARC countries to “recommit to defeating the forces that support and nurture terrorism”. In his statement released a few hours later, Mr. Khan said, “It is unfortunate that due to long-standing unresolved disputes amongst the member states, SAARC countries have been unable to take advantage of Pakistan’s potential as a melting pot for positive economic interest and consequently the region has not been able to achieve the desired socio-economic cooperation and prosperity in the region so far.” He also claimed that “artificial obstacles” had been raised against the SAARC process. Nepal is the current chairman of SAARC, a position which moves by rotation through the eight countries of South Asia — Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Bhutan, India, the Maldives, Nepal, Pakistan and Sri Lanka. It held the last SAARC summit in 2014. In 2016, Pakistan was due to hold the next summit, but it had to be put off after India refused to attend the event in Islamabad, and Nepal continues to hold the chair. In his message, Mr. Oli too said the “stalled SAARC process” should not be delayed further. “SAARC is not a choice, but a necessity for meaningful regional cooperation in South Asia… The longer we delay, the more will be the opportunity cost,” wrote Mr. Oli in his message on SAARC Charter Day. “Giving fresh impetus to the stalled SAARC process including through the early convening of the summit can rekindle hope among our people and provide ground to move forward,” he added. In an interview to The Hindu last week, External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar had said Pakistan, not India, was holding up the SAARC process. In their SAARC day messages on Tuesday, other heads of state conveyed their commitment to SAARC, and commended the SAARC COVID-19 emergency fund proposed by India in March this year when Mr. Modi had convened a virtual conference. India had pledged US $10 million to start the fund, the others, including Pakistan, committed about $9.8 million together, and the SAARC Secretariat committed $5 million. India has sent medical equipment worth $1 million to Nepal, Bhutan, Bangladesh and the Maldives.
09 December 2020||HYDERABAD,||Revert to old system of property registration: HC to Telangana govt.||Telangana High Court on Tuesday suggested to State government to revive registration of non-agricultural properties by continuing the old procedures. A division bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy mooted this idea while hearing a batch of PIL and writ petitions relating to Dharani portal. However, no specific instruction was passed and the petitions were posted to Thursday for next hearing. The suggestion came from the bench with Advocate General B.S. Prasad, during presentation of arguments, observing that the bench’s order staying registration of non-agricultural properties was causing inconvenience to many people. Responding to the remark, the Chief Justice observed that “nothing stopped the government from beginning the registration of non-agricultural properties”. The government was at liberty to begin the registration of properties by adhering to old procedures, the CJ remarked. Since the adjudication of the petitions linked to Dharani portal was likely to take long time, the government can think of reverting to old system of registration of properties, Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy said. Once the court delivers the verdict, further course of action can be decided, he suggested. Referring to the idea of reviving registration of properties, the CJ said “nobody is doubting the bonafides of government over introducing Dharani portal in registration, mutation and updating of property records”. The court only wanted to ensure sufficient security precautions were put in place to safeguard the crucial data of citizens to be uploaded on Dharani portal, the CJ said. Former Advocate General and senior counsel D. Prakash Reddy, appearing for one of the petitioners, informed the bench that it was the State government which stopped registration of properties from this September 7. “The court only stayed collection of crucial details like Aadhar card, caste and family members of the citizens being sought for uploading onto Dharani portal,” he said. The bench said the government can re-start the registration of properties subject to the court’s final judgment. Citizens, who get properties registered in the interregnum period, can be asked to present details of their properties eventually depending on the court verdict, the bench said. However, the AG sought time to file counter affidavit over the legal grounds like the Dharani portal not being backed by law raised by the petitioners. He said he had to secure instructions from the government over the court’s suggestion. The court posted the pleas to Thursday for next hearing while extending the earlier order staying collection of Aadhar, caste and other details of family members for registration of non-agricultural properties.
09 December 2020||New Delhi,||AAP claims Kejriwal was kept under ‘house arrest’||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Tuesday said that the party chief and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal was being kept “almost under house arrest” by the Central government’s Delhi Police. The party said that it would march to the party chief’s residence in Civil Lines and get him out. The Delhi Police is under the “ambit of the Central government” and not the Delhi government. “After the Chief Minister met farmers at Singhu border, the Central government’s Delhi Police, on directions of the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA), has barricaded the house of the Chief Minister of Delhi from four sides and kept him almost under house arrest. No one can meet him and he cannot come out,” AAP chief spokesperson Saurabh Bharadwaj. He claimed that when party MLAs went to meet the Chief Minister, Delhi Police beat them up. “Officers told us that there has been orders from the MHA to keep the Chief Minister at his house till the farmers’ protest goes on. All our volunteers will go from ITO to Arvind Kejriwal’s house,” Mr. Bharadwaj said. But the Delhi Police denied the claims made by AAP. “This claim of CM Delhi being put on house arrest is incorrect. He exercises his right to free movement within the law of the land. A picture of the house entrance says it all,” Deputy Commissioner of Police (north), said in a tweet.
09 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Congress presses for special session||The government should convene a special session of Parliament to repeal the farm laws and discuss agricultural reforms afresh, the Congress said on Tuesday. Former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi will be part of the Opposition delegation that will meet President Ram Nath Kovind on Wednesday to seek his intervention in directing the government to repeal the laws. Other leaders in the delegation would include Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) president Sharad Pawar, Sitaram Yechury (CPI-M), D. Raja (CPI) and T.K.S. Elangovan (DMK) — all the parties that had jointly backed the call for Tuesday’s ‘Bharat bandh’ by farmers’ unions. Addressing a press conference at the party headquarters, former Haryana Chief Minister Bhupinder Singh Hooda said the Congress was not against agricultural reforms but changes to the agricultural sector should be made only after consulting all stakeholders. He alleged that the government pushed through current laws without any consultation with the farmers amidst the COVID-19 pandemic and they did not reflect the reforms that the sector needed. MSP mechanism Justifying the call given by the farmers, Mr. Hooda said the Minimum Support Price (MSP) mechanism needed to be incorporated in the law to protect the interests of farmers. “We are not against reforms but the current laws must be repealed and a fresh reform process initiated after discussion and consultations with all stakeholders,” he added. Mr. Hooda, who had chaired a working group of Chief Ministers during the Congress-led United Progressive Alliance regime, questioned why the government did not agree to the Opposition demand of bringing another law to punish those buying farm produce below the MSP. Mr. Hooda charged the BJP with ‘misrepresenting’ facts and said the UPA had initiated the process of consulting stakeholders.
09 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||We won’t order any step that will hobble economy: SC||The Supreme Court on Tuesday orally said it would not pass any order that would risk the economy going “haywire” after the Union government revealed that a blanket waiver of interest on debts incurred by all classes and categories of borrowers for the moratorium period would mean forgoing an estimated over Rs. 6 lakh crore. “If the banks were to bear this burden, it would necessarily wipe out a substantial and a major part of their net worth, rendering most of the banks unviable and raising a very serious question mark over their very survival,” Solicitor-General Tushar Mehta, for the Centre, submitted before a Bench led by Justice Ashok Bhushan. Reserve Bank of India (RBI) counsel V. Giri said the discretion to frame a resolution plan should be with the bank and not the borrower. The Supreme Court is hearing the government’s response to separate pleas made by industry, real estate and power sectors and others for debt relief, including waiver of interest, during the moratorium. Crippling effect Mr. Mehta said a possible crippling of the banking sector was one of the main reasons for “not even contemplating waiver interest” and restricting relief to “deferment of payment of instalments”. He explained that for every loan account, there were about 8.5 deposit accounts in the Indian banking system. “As mentioned on oath by the Indian Banks Association, the State Bank of India has stated that interest amount from borrowers during six months moratorium works out to be Rs. 88,078 crore [approx.], whereas the interest payable to the depositors during the said period works out to be Rs. 75,157 crore [approx.],” he submitted. It was necessary for the Centre to “rationalise any kind of financial relief”. The government cannot do anything which would topple the economic scenario. The health sector required huge expenditure and it was necessary to ensure that the common man got his livelihood at the earliest. Proactive actions “The Ministry of Finance, under the Disaster Management Act, and the RBI have acted proactively. The overriding objective was to prevent financial markets from freezing up; ensure normal functioning of financial intermediaries; ease the stress faced by households and businesses; and keep the life blood of finance flowing,” Mr. Mehta said. The government had sanctioned over Rs. 90,800-crore liquidity injection for the power distribution companies. This would enable them to pay their outstanding dues to power producers and transmission companies. In the real estate sector, the Centre said a government advisory was issued allowing the extension of registration and completion dates of projects under Real Estate Regulatory Authorities by treating COVID-19 as an event of force-majeure. Mr. Mehta said the government spelt relief for Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) sector by launching an emergency credit line of up to Rs. 3 lakh crore, backed by 100% government guarantee to enable the MSMEs to get back to regular operations. A sum of Rs. 1.87 lakh crore had been sanctioned. The resolution framework announced by the RBI took care of the apprehensions raised about the possible downgrading of loan accounts from standard to non-performing asset (NPA) and consequent impact on ratings. “The resolution framework provides that loan accounts which slip into NPA between invocation and implementation may be upgraded as standard on the date of implementation itself,” Mr. Mehta said. The Securities and Exchange Board of India had issued circulars to relax the “recognition” of defaults committed during moratorium. “The Kamath Committee set up by the RBI has recommended financial parameters for debt restructuring of 26 sectors affected by COVID-19,” Mr. Mehta noted. The court will continue the hearing on December 9.  If the banks were to bear this burden, it would necessarily wipe out a substantial and a major part of their net worth... Tushar MehtaSolicitor-General
09 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Tata Sons contests NCLAT order on reinstating Cyrus||Tata Sons Private Ltd. submitted in the Supreme Court on Tuesday that the decision of the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal (NCLAT) on December 18, 2019, to reinstate Cyrus Mistry as the company’s chairman effectively amounted to vesting the control of the Tata companies with a minority shareholder. “What NCLAT has done now is vest the control of the company with minority. Minority with 18% holding has been effectively given power to rule over all the Tata Companies,” senior advocate Harish Salve for Tata Sons submitted before a Bench led by Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde on the first day of the hearing. The hearing will continue on December 9. Mr. Salve said the major shareholder of Tata Sons is Tata Trusts, which holds a 68% stake. “The trustees controlled Tata Sons and nominated people to the Board of Tata Sons. It was a matter of prestige to be nominated to the Board of Tata Sons,” he stated. The NCLAT decision had served a blow to corporate democracy and rights of the board of directors, Tata Sons argued in its appeal. It said the tribunal crossed its jurisdiction by terming the appointment of current incumbent N. Chandrasekaran illegal while restoring Mr. Mistry as chairman. Mr. Mistry’s tenure as chairman and director of Tata Sons expired in March 2017. The NCLAT decision to restore him to his “original position” for the “rest of his tenure” was contrary to company law, a recipe for disaster and a dangerous precedent in law. Besides, Mr. Mistry had never sought his reinstatement. The NCLAT had gone beyond its jurisdiction, Tata Sons said in the appeal filed through Karanjawala & Co. A majority of Board of Directors at Tata Sons voted for Mr. Mistry’s replacement as chairman on October 24, 2016, after losing confidence in him. He was again removed as the director of Tata Sons on February 6, 2017, following the procedure that applied to corporate appointments. Mr. Salve submitted that the NCLAT’s conclusions were based on an error that Tata Sons continued to be a public company. The areas of the Tribunal’s enquiries were beyond its realm. Mr. Mistry belongs to the Shapoorji Pallonji Group.
09 December 2020||CHENNAI,||‘COVID-19 won’t delay Rafale delivery’||French Ambassador to India Emmanuel Lenain on Tuesday said France would deliver all 36 Rafale fighter aircraft to India by 2022 despite the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic and the subsequent lockdown on French defence industry. Mr. Lenain, who visited the offices of The Hindu during his two-day visit to Chennai, said, “Although France also had a lockdown in the spring 2020 and factories closed for a while, our defence industries have doubled efforts; they have worked extra shifts and overnight or weekends to be able to deliver and to supply the Rafale jets on time.” Asked if the delivery schedule of the fighter jets would be shifted due to the pandemic, Mr. Lenain said, “According to the contract, they are delivered in France, in Mérignac, where they are produced. Then it is up to India to decide on how long they keep the jets in Mérignac, where they can train the pilots and the technicians.” Mr . Lenain was on a visit to Chennai during which he held wide-ranging talks with Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on French investment and engagement in industry, R&D and renewable energy in the State .  Asked about the impact of Brexit and the U.S.-China trade war on French investment strategy in the changing global business climate, Mr. Lenain said, “One of the lessons that all governments drew from the COVID crisis is that the need for strategic autonomy on certain essential production capacity... It is true for certain medical products.” However, he added that this did not mean autarky. “We are not going to bring back every supply chain from other places to Europe. That is not realistic. And companies are going to localise in friendly and reliable countries. India is at the top of the list. When you are making an investment for 10, 20 or 30 years, you want to make sure of the partner you choose.”
09 December 2020||HYDERABAD,||Rs. 1 k cr. more for immediate needs||The State government raised another Rs. 1,000 crore as State Development Loan (SDL) on Tuesday continuing its efforts to mobilise resources for meeting immediate commitments like Rythu Bandhu. The government has exercised the green shoe option allowing it to take more amount than it has notified under the auction conducted by the Reserve Bank of India. The government had initially notified auction of securities for loan worth Rs. 750 crore with a tenure of 20 years and cut off yield of 6.71%, but accepted Rs. 1,000 crore. Faced with a precarious financial situation in the aftermath of the COVID pandemic, the government had announced on Monday that the next instalment of Rythu Bandhu would be credited to farmers’ accounts from December 27. Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has directed the Finance department to release Rs. 7,300 crore for crediting the assured amounts into the accounts of 59.3 lakh farmers. The State government had opted the green shoe option more than once in the past few weeks. It had notified amounts of Rs. 750 crore each during the auctions conducted on November 3 and 10 and December 1, but accepted additional amounts of Rs. 250 crore each on the three occasions. During the auction process conducted on November 24, the government notified auction of securities worth Rs. 1,072.8 crore, but accepted an additional Rs. 500 crore. “The green shoe option enables the government to take more amount than that is put to auction. This indicates that investors are showing interest in these securities,” a senior official of the Comptroller and Auditor General of India’s office said. After accepting Option-1 offered by the Central government under the Atmanirbhar Abhiyan package, the State government is expected to get Rs. 2,380 crore, which would be raised through special window and passed on to the State. In addition, the government could raise another Rs. 5,017 crore additional borrowing as announced by the Centre.
09 December 2020||Srinagar,||‘Illegally detained, house locked up’||Former Chief Minister and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) president Mehbooba Mufti on Tuesday said she was locked up inside her Srinagar residence and disallowed to visit the “evicted families” at Budgam in central Kashmir. “Illegal detention has become the GOI’s [Government of India’s] favourite go to method for muzzling any form of opposition. I’ve been detained once again because I wanted to visit Budgam where hundreds of families were evicted from their homes,” she tweeted. Video shared online In a video posted online, she pointed at the locked gates of her residence. “Why am I not being allowed to go out? Later, the Lt. Governor will say ‘she is not under house arrest’. What is this? Why am I being detained illegally? Where are the papers under which I am stopped?” she said. She accused the government of continuing with “inflicting oppression on the people of J&K without any questions asked”. A PDP spokesman said Ms. Mufti was scheduled to visit Budgam area “to meet people who are being illegally evicted from their lands and homes”. Ms. Mufti’s daughter Iltija Mufti also questioned the administration’s move. “On one hand, BJP politicians are given full security cover and other facilities to undertake journey of their choice and on the other, Mehbooba ji has been caged at her home,” she said.
09 December 2020||December 09 2020 00:00 IST,||No joint commemorative stamps with India, says China||China’s State Post Bureau on Tuesday said it had decided to cancel its plan to jointly launch commemorative stamps with India. The announcement was reported by China’s official English-language State broadcaster, China Global Television Network, which added that “no reason was given for the decision.” India and China had planned a series of events to mark the 70th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations this year, plans which have been disrupted both by the COVID-19 pandemic and the worst crisis on the border in decades, sparked by China’s multiple transgressions across the Line of Actual Control (LAC) starting in May. Last week, External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar told The Hindu in an interview that talks on the LAC could continue much longer, drawing a parallel to a similar military stand-off in Arunachal Pradesh’s Sumdorong Chu in 1986 that took nearly nine years to resolve. Mr. Jaishankar said for India, the bottom line was that China had violated past agreements by amassing troops at the border and that if “peace and tranquillity” at the border was disturbed, the rest of the India-China relationship was affected. “Complicated issues will take time and I will go for what is my interest and my bottom line. I mean, I will not be stampeded into accepting something which is less,” he said, adding that India had undertaken an “enormous military response” in reaction to the Chinese deployment.  No reason was given for the decision China Global Television Network
09 December 2020||Hyderabad,||It’ll be a long battle, TRS warns Centre||Telangana Rashtra Samithi working president K.T. Rama Rao has warned the Central government of a long agitation against the three farm laws. His party, he said, would reach out to every farmer to explain how the Centre was compromising farmers’ interests to favour the corporates. He was speaking at a rasta roko at Burugula, near Shadnagar, in support of the Bharat Bandh called by the farmers’ organisations against the new farm Bills. Why was the Central government shying away from guaranteeing the MSP in the Bill itself, which the farmers want, he asked. When 85% of the farmers in the country were small and marginal, their only guard against exploitation was the MSP, which the government was not willing to consider. He reminded the Centre that it was not only the farmers’ loss but also of the middle class, as the prices of essential commodities were bound to spiral in the absence of government control. “Corporates will buy, stock, create artificial shortages and then make people pay the price they want,” he said. Bandh total, peaceful A total and peaceful bandh was observed across Telangana on Tuesday in response to a call given by several farmers’ organisations demanding repeal of the farm laws. All TRS Ministers, MPs, MLAs, MLCs, Zilla Parishad Chairpersons and other elected representatives, along with party workers, held demonstrations on highways and other important locations. Similarly, leaders of the Congress and Left parties, trade unions and employee associations participated in road blockades at several places. Commercial establishments remained closed in the morning, and RTC buses remained in depots following a call given by the ruling TRS to not commence operations till afternoon. RTC buses came onto the road only towards evening. Commercial establishments began operations early in the afternoon.
09 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Women entry curbs off the portal now||The restrictions mentioned on the portal for virtual queue booking for entry and darshan for women below 50 years at the Ayyappa temple at Sabarimala during the Mandalam-Makaravilakku season have been taken off. The restrictions on women and other genders (transgenders) below 50 and above 65 years appeared on the portal maintained by the Kerala police when the advance booking for 1,000 additional pilgrims on weekends and weekdays began on December 2. The ‘government’s change in stance’ on women’s entry amidst electioneering to the three-phase polls to local bodies in the State has come in for flak even from the ruling party. The police department, which has maintained the portal since 2010 and has the domain, has now all of a sudden withdrawn the restrictions. In place of the removed section that stated a ban on women below 50 years of age, the guideline now says devotees between the age of 60 and 65 should carry medical certificates while coming for darshan. When the temple was opened for the ongoing pilgrimage season on November 16, the government had announced that children below 10 years and people above 65 years would not be permitted to the temple in view of the COVID-19 situation. It was during the second leg of virtual queue booking that the curbs were announced on the portal, inviting criticism and surprising even the Travancore Devaswom Board. TDB president N. Vasu had stated that no instructions were issued by the board for any restrictions on entry of women at the temple and that the entry of women below 50 years was a non-issue now.
09 December 2020||CHENNAI,||Supply of life-saving medicines affected by ‘Make in India’ policy||The Ministry of Railways has written to the Department for Promotion of Industry & Internal Trade (DPIIT), Ministry of Commerce and Industry, seeking exemption for procuring certain medical items manufactured outside India, particularly medicines used in the treatment of COVID-19, cancer, etc. The issue was first flagged in August 2020 by Northern Railway, which formally wrote to the Railway Board, expressing difficulty in procuring drugs and surgical items in the light of the latest ‘Make in India’ policy. It said that certain drugs used in cancer treatment were manufactured outside India but available in the Indian market through agents or dealers. “The uninterrupted supply chain of these medicines and medical items are essential in the human life saving category and providing satisfactory health care to all railway employees and their family members. In the existing ‘Make in India’ policy, there is no window available to procure such items from the suppliers who may not meet the Local Content Criteria required for Class-I and Class-II Local Supplier category. It is therefore proposed to seek exemption to procure such medicines and medical items from Indian Market from ‘non-local suppliers’…,” the letter said. Going by the Department for Promotion of Industry and Internal Trade’s (DPIIT) norms, Class-I is a local supplier or service provider whose goods, services or works offered for procurement have local content equal to or more than 50%, while Class-II is a supplier or service provider whose goods, services or works offered for procurement have local content of more than 20% but less than 50%. Only these two categories of suppliers shall be eligible to bid in the procurement of all goods, services or works and with estimated value of purchases of less than Rs. 200 crore. On December 3, 2020, the Ministry of Railways communicated to the Principal Chief Materials Manager heading Purchases that the DPIIT had informed the issue had been forwarded to the Department of Pharmaceuticals and Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, being the nodal agencies for Pharmaceuticals, Medical Devices and Equipment.  The DPIIT also said that the Secretary (Coordination), Cabinet Secretariat, in a meeting held on November 10, 2020, had directed that the purpose of seeking relaxation was to achieve indigenisation of the items that were presently not being manufactured in the country. “It is felt that the above objective is defeated in case the subject relaxation is granted,” the DPIIT noted. However, the Ministry of Railways was advised to exercise the powers conferred under Para 14 of the ‘Make in India’ policy guidelines with the approval of the Minister in-charge to seek relaxation in any particular procurement, if required.
09 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||72.67% turnout in first phase of Kerala local body elections||The first phase of the local body elections held in Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha and Idukki districts on Tuesday witnessed a voter turnout of 72.67%, a relatively higher polling percentage than expected, given the COVID-19 scare. Nonetheless, the turnout was low compared to 2015 when the five districts had averaged 75.74%. The figures are based on data available at 8.15 p.m. on Tuesday. There could be minor variations in the final figures, the State Election Commission (SEC) said. The encouraging turnout in the first phase, notwithstanding the COVID-19 factor, reflected the public's faith in democracy and elections, V. Bhaskaran, State Election Commissioner, said. Among the five districts, Alappuzha recorded the highest turnout with 77.23%, followed by Idukki 74.56%, Kollam 73.41%, Thiruvananthapuram 69.76% and Pathanamthitta 69.70%. In the 2015 polls, Thiruvananthapuram district had recorded a turnout of 71.9%, Kollam 74.9%, Pathanamthitta 72.5%, Alappuzha 79.7% and Idukki 79.7%, according to data furnished by the commission. Meanwhile, the polling percentage in the Thiruvananthapuram Corporation, the scene of a stiff electoral battle between the CPI(M)-led LDF and the BJP, fell to 59.73% this time from 62.9% in 2015. The turnout in the Kollam Corporation also fell from 69.9% in 2015 to 66.06% in 2020. Polling started at a brisk pace at 7 a.m. and half the voters had exercised their franchise by 1.30 p.m. Many electors who had tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 or prescribed quarantine after 3 p.m. on Monday cast their votes directly at the polling booths wearing protective gear after other voters had left the premises. Polling officials also received them wearing protective equipment. The final figures in this regard are expected on Wednesday. Oppn. alleges bias Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala called for urgent intervention of the SEC alleging political bias on the part of certain special polling officers (SPO) deputed to deliver the special postal ballot papers. This was evident in districts, including Thrissur, Mr. Chennithala said. Such officers should urgently be removed from election-related duties. No steps had been taken on complaints lodged with the election officials, he said.
09 December 2020||December 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Bharat bandh total in Telangana with support of ruling party||All Ministers, MPs, MLAs, MLCs, Zilla Parishad Chairpersons, other elected representatives and party functionaries along with party workers held demonstrations on highways and other important locations. Similarly, leaders of Congress and Left parties, trade unions and employees associations participated in road blockades at several places. All private and commercial establishments remained closed and RTC buses remained in depots following a call given by the ruling TRS for not commencing their operations till afternoon. Accordingly, the RTC buses came onto the road only towards the evening, although the commercial establishment commenced operations early in the afternoon. Participating in the blockage of Bengaluru highway at Burgula Gate near Shadnagar , TRS working president and Minister for IT and Industries K.T. Rama Rao said his party was ready to wage a long battle for farmers’ interests. He said the farming community was asking for an assurance on MSP and nothing more. Stating that the new farm laws were beneficial to corporate companies and traders and not small and marginal farmers, who comprise 85% of the farming community, KTR wanted the Centre to explain farmers in Telangana why it was not allowing bonus payment for paddy. Speaking after participating in the bandh, State Congress president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy said it was Congress that had opposed farm bills in Parliament. He criticised the TRS government for not implementing loan waiver and crop insurance and non-payment of bonus to paddy.  ‘Pass resolutions’ Minister T. Harish Rao, who participated in the road blockade near Toopran along with MP. K. Prabhakar Reddy, urged mandal and zilla parishads and rythu bandhu samithis to pass resolutions demanding repeal of the anti-farmer laws.
09 December 2020||JAIPUR,||Shops closed, buses off roads in Rajasthan||The Bharat Bandh called by farmers’ groups made widespread impact in Rajasthan on Tuesday, with all the 247 Krishi Upaj Mandis in the State as well as shops and commercial establishments in major cities remaining closed. Roadways buses, trucks and mini buses remained off the roads, as the bandh was supported by the ruling Congress. The All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC) took out a march from Shaheed Smarak to markets in the Walled City and appealed to the shopkeepers to pull down their shutters. Members of the Left-leaning organisations, taking part in the march, expressed solidarity with the farmers protesting on the outskirts of Delhi. Transport Minister Pratap Singh Khachariawas, along with party workers, visited several areas in Jaipur city on a tractor in support of the bandh. The rally, led by Mr. Khachariawas, passed through several markets, including Mirza Ismail Road, Sodala and in the Walled City area. Some shops in the markets of cities such as Jodhpur, Bikaner, Ajmer, Alwar, Sikar, Kota and Udaipur opened in the morning but were later shut. Jaipur’s Muhana Mandi president Rahul Tanvar said there were no business transactions in the mandi and the small vegetable mandis in the city were also closed. Farmers in Kota and Bundi districts observed a day’s fast. Hadoti Kisan Union general secretary Dashrath Kumar said there was overwhelming response to the call to observe fast. Workers of the Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha and the National Students’ Union of India clashed outside the BJP State headquarters here. NSUI spokesperson Ramesh Bhati said the clash started when BJYM members hit some of the protesters “without any provocation”.
09 December 2020||Mumbai,||‘Conduct workshop for prison authorities’||Referring to civil rights campaigner Gautam Navlakha being denied his spectacles at Taloja Central Jail, the Bombay High Court on Tuesday said, “Humanity is most important. This is high time to conduct a workshop for prison authorities.” A Division Bench of Justices S.S. Shinde and M.S. Karnik said,“Humanity is most important. Everything else will follow. Today we learnt about Gautam Navlakha’s spectacles.” On Monday, The Hindu reported that Mr. Navlakha’s partner Sahba Husain had alleged his spectacles were stolen on November 27 and he was not allowed to inform his family about this till November 30. He is nearing 70 years old and is almost blind without the spectacles as his power is more than 6.5, Ms. Husain had said. She said she had sent a pair of spectacles to the prison on December 3. However, they were returned on December 6. To which the Bench said, “Can you deny all these small items? These are all humane considerations.” The court, however, was hearing a criminal application filed by Mr. Navlakha’s co-accused Ramesh Gaichor and Sagar Gorkhe in the Bhima Koregaon case, challenging their arrest by the NIA. Senior advocate Mihir Desai, representing the duo, who are members of the Kabir Kala Manch, a Pune-based group of artists, said they were being coerced by the NIA to give statements against other accused. Mr. Desai argued that they were arrested only because they had refused to make statements before a magistrate against the other accused in the case.  Humanity is most important. Everything else will follow... It is high time to conduct a workshop Bombay High Court
09 December 2020||MYSURU,||CFTRI to sequence SARS-CoV-2 genome||As part of various initiatives towards mitigating COVID-19, CSIR-Central Food Technological Research Institute (CFTRI) signed a memorandum of understanding with Clevergene, a Bengaluru-based company, for sequencing the SARS-CoV-2 genome. It is expected that the study would provide insights into the virus’s genome changes (mutations), evolution, epidemiology, and provide an understanding of the spatial and temporal information on infection dynamics of the SARS-CoV-2. Under the MoU, the development of novel diagnostics and vaccines for COVID-19 are envisaged, according to the institute. CSIR-CFTRI has established a COVID-19 Testing Centre in Mysuru and an average of 1,000 samples are tested daily. CFTRI is also working on the development of novel dipstick and aptamer-based diagnostics in collaboration with private parties. Clevergene is a technology company offering genomics services for contract research and genetic diagnostics, a release said here. The MoU was exchanged between B. Manohar, Chief Scientist and Adviser (M and A), and Tony Jose, Co-Founder, and CEO, Clevergene.
09 December 2020||December 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Peaceful protests mark Bharat Bandh||In western Uttar Pradesh, there was a rural-urban divide, with village mandis staying shut, even while city markets functioned. At Aligarh, hundreds of farmers blocked the road leading to the Yamuna Expressway using tractors and trolleys. Farmers also jammed the Eastern Peripheral Highway at Greater Noida, and the NH9 at Ghaziabad. U.P. Police put many local political leaders under house arrest, citing Section 144 and the Epidemic Act, including the Bahujan Samaj Party Lok Sabha MP Haji Fazlurehman and Bhim Army Chief Chandrashekhar Azad. CPI(M) Rajya Sabha MP K.K. Ragesh was detained along with about a hundred workers, while protesting at the Bilaspur Chowk in Gurugram off NH-48. In Delhi, the Aam Aadmi Party said Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal was “almost under house arrest”, a claim denied by the Delhi Police. AAP workers were also detained during a protest at ITO. Although there were agitations at the capital’s borders, most markets and public transport continued to function normally within the city. In Andhra Pradesh, the ruling YSRCP decided to support the bandh at the last minute, so offices were shut till 1 p.m., and public transport, shops and businesses remained closed. In Telangana as well, the bandh was complete, with all political parties, including the ruling TRS supporting the farmers’ cause. In the Cauvery Delta region of central Tamil Nadu, there were at least eight road roko protests. More than 400 workers of the DMK and the Left parties were detained in Tiruchi district. There was a total response to the bandh call in Odisha, with roads deserted and government offices remaining closed, although the ruling BJD has not officially backed the protest. At Mastercanteen Square, a central Bhubaneswar location, hundreds of farmers and members of political parties such as Congress, CPI (M), CPI and Samajwadi Party raised slogans against the NDA government and the new farm laws. Left supporters blocked railways and roads in West Bengal, leading to 26 trains being cancelled in the Sealdah section.
09 December 2020||December 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Revert to old system, says HC||The court only wanted to ensure sufficient security precautions were put in place to safeguard the crucial data of citizens to be uploaded on Dharani portal, the CJ said. Former Advocate General and senior counsel D. Prakash Reddy, appearing for one of the petitioners, informed the bench that it was the State government which stopped registration of properties from this September 7. “The court only stayed collection of crucial details like Aadhar card, caste and family members of the citizens being sought for uploading onto Dharani portal,” he said. The bench said the government can re-start the registration of properties subject to the court’s final judgment. Citizens, who get properties registered in the interregnum period, can be asked to present details of their properties eventually depending on the court verdict, the bench said. The court posted the pleas to Thursday for next hearing while extending the earlier order staying collection of Aadhar, caste and other details of family members for registration of non-agricultural properties.
09 December 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Govt. employees join protests in Punjab||Normal life was disrupted in Punjab on Tuesday due to the nationwide Bharat bandh called by several farmer unions. Shops and commercial establishments were completely or partially closed in many parts of the State. In the capital Chandigarh, however, shops were open in many markets. The vehicular traffic was also close to normal in the city. In other parts of the State, as several group of farmers, members of government employee associations and trade bodies held peaceful sit-ins on key roads, including national and State highways, and even on railway tracks at a few places, vehicular and rail traffic movement was severely disrupted on the Chandigarh-Delhi, Amritsar-Delhi highways. Roads were also blocked in Patiala, Moga, Ferozepur, Fazilka, Barnala, Faridkot, Muktsar, Mansa, and Bathinda among other districts. Public transport including buses and taxis were few and far between. Punjab Civil Secretariat Staff Association president Sukhchain Khaira claimed that nearly 50,000 government employees across in the State had taken casual leave to express their support. Several thousand people, including the elderly, women and youth joined the dharnas and  shouted slogans against the BJP-led government at the Centre, accusing it of implementing “anti-farmer” policies, and called for the demands of the farmers to be met.
09 December 2020||New Delhi,||‘Response to bandh call shows people’s support’||Five Left parties, in a joint statement, congratulated farmers’ organisation for the day-long ‘Bharat bandh’ on Tuesday, saying the spontaneous response to the call showed the extent of people’s support to farmers’ cause. The statement is signed by CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury and his CPI, CPI(ML), AIFB and RSP counterparts D. Raja, Dipankar Bhattacharya, Debabrata Biswas and Manoj Bhattacharya respectively. “The historic Bharat Bandh called by the united platform of kisan organisations has received an unprecedented response all over India in the face of the refusal of the Central Government to withdraw the anti-India, anti-farmer Agri-Laws. The spontaneous response it received shows the extent of people’s support to the struggle of the kisans of India,” the statement read. The Left parties urged the Central government to accept the legitimate demands of farmers. Mr. Yechury said, “Our MPs are there [at protests sites], as parliamentarians, to show solidarity.”
09 December 2020||HYDERABAD,||No instructions for field survey, say officials||Barely a day after the announcement that a field survey was on in the city to identify the flood relief beneficiaries, GHMC officials have performed an about-turn and claimed that no instructions have been issued by the government to conduct such survey. There are no instructions nor any direction for the field survey to be undertaken to identify the flood victims for the disbursement of flood relief amount, a top functionary in GHMC informed the media. Government orders specifying modalities for such survey are awaited, he said on Tuesday. On Monday, when people started gathering in huge numbers at the Mee Seva centres, a statement came in the name of GHMC Commissioner D.S.Lokesh Kumar asking the flood victims not to come to the Mee Seva Centres for the relief amount. GHMC teams are collecting the details from the field and once they along with Aadhaar numbers are verified, the amount will be directly remitted into respective accounts, the statement sought to assure. The relief amount of Rs. 10,000 was announced by the government for households affected by the devastating October floods.  Reports of swindling The amount was initially disbursed in cash by the GHMC and Revenue officials who went from door-to-door distributing the relief. However, the initiative ended in a fiasco, as several genuine victims complained non-receipt of the relief, and allegations abounded about swindling of the funds by officials and politicians, and disbursement to families unaffected by the floods. Stung by the criticism, government has shifted the distribution to online through Mee Seva Centres, which continued even after notification for GHMC elections. The relief was deposited directly into the accounts of the persons who approached the centre, upon verification of Aadhaar ids and ration cards. Even there, the distribution was not fair, as no attempt was made to check the genuineness of the claims. The distribution was put paid to temporarily, after the State Election Commission issued orders terming it violation of model code of conduct. During his poll campaign, Chief Minister K.Chandrasekhar Rao had assured people that the relief distribution would continue immediately after the elections, believing which scores of people thronged Mee Seva centres in various localities of the city on Monday. They were a disappointed lot, as government issued orders shutting the centres for the day, and GHMC Commissioner issued the statement about field survey.
09 December 2020||December 09 2020 00:00 IST,||SC clears land acquisition for Chennai-Salem NH||The highway intends to cut travel time between Chennai and Salem by half. “By its very nomenclature, a national highway is to link the entire country and provide access to all in every remote corner of the country for interaction and to promote commerce and trade, employment and education, including health related services. This approach enhances and furthers the federal structure. The existence of a national highway in the neighbourhood paves the way for the fulfilment of aspirations of the locals and their empowerment,” a three-judge Bench, led by Justice A.M. Khanwilkar, observed in a 140-page judgment. The project faced opposition from locals, including farmers, over fears of losing their land, besides environmentalists, who were against felling of trees. The project runs through reserve forest and water bodies. But the court said the highway project is “dedicated for the ordinary and reasonable user of the road as a national highway from one designated town [Chennai] up to another town [Salem]”. It would be open for affected persons to approach the appropriate forum on the correctness or validity of the environment clearances, the judgment said. Justice Khanwilkar, who authored the judgment, said the Madras High Court had been wrong to quash the acquisition proceedings on the ground that no prior environmental clearance was taken. The top court said it was too premature to have got such clearances. The government was not required by law to get them as it had, at the time, only expressed an “intention” to acquire certain land under Section 3A of the National Highway Act. It had also merely notified a certain stretch or a section of area to be a ‘national highway’ under Section 2(2) of the Act. No land had been vested with the NHAI. “Prior environmental clearance under the Environment [Protection] Act and Rules of 1986 is required to be taken before commencement of the “actual construction or building work” of the national highway by the executing agency [NHAI]. That will happen only after the acquisition proceedings are taken to its logical end until the land finally vests in the NHAI or is entrusted to it by the Central government for building/management of the national highway,” the Supreme Court held. It asked how it was possible to get environmental clearance before even identifying the exact site for the highway. However, the court agreed with the High Court that neither the government nor the NHAI had any business altering the mutation entries of specified lands in their favour, that too, even before they had come into possession of these properties. The court upheld the High Court decision to restore the earlier entries in the revenue records. Justice Khanwilkar rejected arguments made by petitioners that the Centre and the NHAI do not have the power to pick green areas in a State and acquire them for a highway. According to the petitioners, the Centre’s power was limited to designating an existing road as a ‘national highway’. But Justice Khanwilkar said the petitioners’ contentions raised a piquant situation. What if a State government flounders or is in some way unable to construct a road in a remote area within its jurisdiction? Would the locals have to suffer perpetually? Justice Khanwilkar said it would be for the Centre to step in and construct a national highway to connect the local people to the rest of the country.
09 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Haryana farmer producer bodies back farm laws||Some farmer producer organisations from Haryana, claiming to represent 1.2 lakh farmers in the State, have come out in support of the three agricultural marketing reform laws. In a letter to Agriculture Minister Narendra Singh Tomar, they also sought the government’s suggested amendments and a reassurance that minimum support prices will continue. A delegation of about 20 farmers, representatives of three different groups, met Mr. Tomar late on Monday, and expressed their support for the laws. “These Bills should be continued along with the modifications suggested by the farmer organisations. We are in favour of the continuation of MSPs and the mandi system as suggested by farmers’ groups. But we request you to continue these laws with the suggested amendments,” said the letter. The letter was signed by representatives from Har Kisan, a federation of 116 farmer producer organisations with 70,000 members and two progressive farmer associations with a membership of 50,000.
09 December 2020||KOCHI,||If Collector can’t, take over church: Kerala HC to CRPF||The Kerala High Court on Tuesday directed the Deputy Inspector General of Police, Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF), Group Centre, Thiruvananthapuram, to take over the Kothamangalam Marthoman Church and its movables if the High Court order directing the Ernakulam District Collector to take over the church was not complied with by January 8, 2021. Justice P.B. Suresh Kumar issued the directive on a contempt of court petition filed by the vicar of the Orthodox faction against the Collector for not complying with the directive. The court ordered that it deemed appropriate that if the directives of the court were not complied with on or before January 8, 2021, "the Deputy Inspector General of Police, Group Centre, CRPF, Pallipuram, shall take over the church, its precincts and all its movable properties after removing all persons squatting inside the church premises and its compound and hold the same under his control until further orders.” Sought time When the petition came up last time for hearing, State Attorney K.V. Sohan, appearing for the State government and the Collector, had sought three months to amicably settle the dispute. The court observed that the reason for not giving effect to the directive of the court was that a mediation talk had been initiated at the instance of the Chief Minister and that the defeated parties, the Patriarch faction, had made all arrangements to obstruct the implementation of the directive. T rue, the material on record indicated that the Chief Minister had initiated a mediation process for an amicable settlement of the dispute between the two factions and that the process was on. However, the minutes of the meetings did not reveal that there was any understanding between the parties that the order of the court need not be implemented pending the talks. Earnest efforts There was absolutely no difficulty in understanding the earnest efforts taken by the State government in arriving at an amicable solution. But, such proceedings could not automatically operate as an impediment to continuing the pending judicial proceedings, unless the parties to the proceedings agree to such a course. The conduct of the Collector in not implementing the directive could be viewed only as wilful. Besides, there was absolutely no assurance that the directive would be given effect if further time was granted. “Needless to say, the court has to work out alternatives for giving effect to the order of the court and to maintain the rule of law,” the court added.
09 December 2020||December 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Some COVID-19 vaccines may get nod in few weeks||“This provides that under specific special situations mentioned in the rule, relaxation, abbreviation, omission, or deferment of data, including local clinical trial data, may be considered for approval. Similarly, other countries also have laws. The timeline for issuing licence is under the national regulator’s domain,” Mr. Bhushan added. Three companies — Bharat Biotech, Serum Institute of India and Pfizer — have so far sought emergency use authorisation for their vaccines. Mr. Bhushan said once a green signal was obtained from scientists, the Centre “will launch massive production of the vaccine”. “The Central government has made elaborate preparations and drawn an outline to ramp up production of vaccines to make it available to each and every person in the shortest possible time. We will be running parallel vaccination programmes for several priority groups,” Mr. Bhushan said. The Ministry said at present, there are around 2.39 lakh vaccinators (auxiliary nurse midwife or ANM) across the country, but only 1.54 lakh ANMs will be used for COVID-19 vaccination to ensure that the drive has minimal impact on routine health services, including routine immunisation. Prioritised groups It added that the National Expert Group on Vaccine Administration for COVID-19 has made recommendations on prioritised population groups, including healthcare providers, personnel from State and Central police, armed forces, home guards, civil defence and disaster management volunteers, municipal workers, and persons above 50 years of age. Mr. Bhushan added that the process of collecting databases of health workers has started across all States/UTs and Central Ministries. “This data is being uploaded on CO-WIN software which will be used for the vaccination process. CO-WIN platform is a mobile application, which can be downloaded for free by all, for vaccination delivery. The mobile app will record vaccine data and will be used for remote real-time monitoring,” he added. Giving details of the current cold chain system, the Ministry said it consisted of 85,634 equipment for storage of vaccines at about 28,947 cold chain points across the country. “Current cold chain is capable of storing additional quantities of COVID-19 vaccine required for first 3 crore health care and frontline workers. Additional supplies would be available to States/UTs beginning 10th December 2020,” the Ministry stated. Asking the people to have faith in vaccines cleared by Indian regulators, V.K. Paul, member (Health), NITI Aayog, said: “This is a scientific, technical body with vast experience. Don’t succumb to contrary opinion, have faith in these institutions. Take into consideration only accountable transparent information from the government, otherwise we will not find ourselves standing strong against the pandemic. We are chasing the virus and we need to make sure that the virus doesn’t chase us.” He added that besides the three vaccine candidates that are before the regulator seeking permission for emergency use, other vaccines may also arrive. Replying to a question on the data being relied upon for possible issue of emergency use approval, Indian Council of Medical Research head Balram Bhargava added that the regulator probably has to be satisfied with risk-benefit ratio in this emergency situation.
09 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Diplomats to visit biotech companies||More than 60 Heads of Missions based in India will be travelling to Hyderabad to visit leading biotech companies on Wednesday. This round of visit comes a month after the Ministry of External Affairs briefed a large number of heads of diplomatic missions about India’s preparedness to beat the COVID-19 pandemic. “This is the first such visit and it will be followed by visits to facilities in other cities... There is a lot of interest in India’s vaccine development efforts,” a source said, adding that Bharat Biotech and Biological E are on the list of facilities to be visited. On November 6, Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla briefed the heads of diplomatic Missions in Delhi about India’s preparation in the field of vaccine research.
09 December 2020||December 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Highway halt||
09 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||CAs can help farmers grasp laws’ benefits||Union Minister for Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution Piyush Goyal on Tuesday sought the help of the chartered accountants’ fraternity to make farmers understand the benefits of the legislative reforms undertaken by the Centre. He was speaking at an event hosted by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of India. Mr. Goyal, who is also the Minister for Railways, Commerce and Industry, said the government was ready to address the fears expressed by some sections of farmers. “I would urge you to help farmers understand the great benefits that we are trying to provide to farmers across the length and breadth of the country,” Mr. Goyal told the CAs in attendance, stressing that the new laws were made to support farmers.
09 December 2020||Srinagar,||Justice Bindal is new Chief Justice of J&K||Justice Rajesh Bindal was announced as the new Chief Justice of the High Court of J&K and Ladakh on Tuesday. He will take up duties on December 9, following the retirement of Justice Gita Mittal, a Law Ministry notification said.
09 December 2020||Srinagar,||J&K team takes part in Dubai summit||In a bid to promote horticulture produce from Jammu and Kashmir overseas, a delegation of farmers, businesspersons and government officials is participating in the UAE-India Food Security Summit 2020 in Dubai, concluding on December 10.
09 December 2020||PUDUCHERRY,||Resolution against farm laws will be passed in Assembly: CM||Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy on Tuesday said the next session of the Assembly would pass a resolution urging the Centre to withdraw thecontentious farm legislation. Speaking to reporters after participating in a demonstration in supportof the Bharat Bandhcalled by the protesting farmers, the Chief Minister said a resolution could not be passed in the budget session due to time constraints. “The last session was very short due to the novel coronavirus threat. In the next session, a resolution would be passed to press for the withdrawal of the farm laws,” he said. The Chief Minister said he had already written to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, expressing his anguish at the passing of the farm legislation. The new legislation were passed without any deliberations in Parliament, he wrote. The new rules would destroy the livelihoods of farmers, he said. He joined the agitation by Congress, CPI, CPI (M), VCK and CPI (ML) workers expressing solidarity with the protesting farmers in the national capital.
09 December 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Cong. MLA sends legal notice to Sambit Patra on bribery remark||A Congress legislator in Odisha has sent a legal notice to BJP national spokesperson Sambit Patra, asking him to tender an unconditional apology for his alleged bribery remark. Mr. Patra was reportedly quoted as saying that Congress members kept quiet upon taking money from the ruling Biju Janata Dal in the matter of murder of five-year-old girl, Pari. The murder triggered a huge political controversy, which disrupted the winter session of the Assembly.
09 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Army Chief for UAE, Saudi Arabia||Chief of the Army Saff Gen. Manoj Naravane on Tuesday left on a four-day visit to the United Arab Emirates (UAE) and Saudi Arabia. The visit to Saudi Arabia is the first by an Indian Army Chief, symbolising the deepening military cooperation between the two countries. “The Army Chief is visiting the UAE from December 09 and 10, 2020. He is scheduled to call on senior military officials where he will discuss avenues for enhancing India-UAE defence relations,” the Army said.
09 December 2020||New Delhi,||SC stays contempt proceedings against Koshiyari in HC||The Supreme Court on Tuesday stayed the contempt proceedings initiated against Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshiyari in the Uttarakhand High Court in connection with the non-payment of rent for a government bungalow allotted to former chief ministers. A Bench led by Justice Rohinton F. Nariman issued notice to the State government.
09 December 2020||Kolkata,||Row over TMC MP’s remarks on media||The Kolkata Press Club on Tuesday issued a condemnation of Trinamool Congress MP Mahua Moitra’s pejorative remarks on the media while the party leadership expressed disapproval of her comments. A video of Ms. Moitra referring to media persons as “ dui poeshar press (2 paisa press)” at a party meeting at Gayeshpur has gone viral, stoking outrage. “The comments are unwarranted and insulting”, it said. According to reports, the Nadia event on Sunday was an internal party meeting where the media was not invited. However, media persons managed to enter the venue and began recording a clash between two groups of party workers. At this, the 45-year-old Krishnanagar MP was heard saying, “Why do you call these ‘ dui poeshar press here? Remove them.” On Tuesday even as the MP struck to her guns the Trinamool Congress leadership was defensive. Some journalists have also threatened to boycott the MP.
09 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Private agency to collect waste in Sholinganallur from tomorrow||The Greater Chennai Corporation will launch private conservancy operations in the Sholinganallur zone on December 10. The private operator, Urbaser Sumeet, has been asked to complete the hiring of staff for garbage clearance in the zone. The operator has hired at least 7,000 workers for various zones. The number of conservancy workers required for the Teynampet, Kodambakkam, Adyar, Sholinganallur, Perungudi, Alandur and Valasaravakkam zones has been put at 11,000. Corporation Chief Engineer N. Mahesan said the Corporation had directed the private operator to ensure door-to-door collection in a systematic manner in Sholinganallur.  443 sweepers for nine wards The operator has hired 443 sweepers for nine wards of the zone. Previously, 900 conservancy workers under the National Urban Livelihoods Mission and 300 permanent workers of the Corporation and 145 additional workers were deployed in the zone. All the 300 permanent workers of the Corporation were transferred on Tuesday from Sholinganallur to Tondiarpet, Royapuram, Thiru Vi Ka Nagar and Anna Nagar after the conservancy operations were privatised in Sholinganallur. The 145 additional workers have also been shifted from Sholinganallur. The civic body has increased the bins and improved the mechanisation of garbage clearance in Sholinganallur. “We have placed 717 bins. Earlier, there were just 500 bins. As many as 192 battery-operated vehicles have been deployed. We will get segregated garbage from residents. We request residents to help the conservancy workers in waste segregation,” said an official. The Corporation has been receiving complaints for a month from residents about inadequate sweeping of roads in zones like Teynampet. Another challenge to the conservancy operations in the privatised zones is the reluctance of workers manning battery-operated vehicles to cooperate with residents’ associations in waste segregation. Residents have said Urbaser Sumeet has recruited many autorickshaw drivers to run the battery-operated vehicles, and these drivers are likely to quit after the lockdown is relaxed further and schools are reopened next year. Hence, they have requested the Corporation to hire additional drivers to prevent any disruption in services.
09 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Fresh COVID-19 cases drop below 1,300 in State||Chennai, along with five other districts, accounted for more than 50% of the 1,236 fresh COVID-19 cases reported in Tamil Nadu on Tuesday. Among the remaining districts, Perambalur recorded nil cases for the fourth day in a row, while seven others clocked fresh cases in single digits. The State’s total number of cases has reached 7,92,788. In Chennai, 333 persons tested positive, taking its overall tally to 2,18,198. Coimbatore reported 122 cases, while Tiruppur and Chengalpattu recorded 73 and 70 cases respectively. There were 64 cases in Salem and 60 cases in Tiruvallur. The seven districts with less than 10 cases each were Ariyalur (3), Kallakurichi (7), Ramanathapuram (3), Ranipet (6), Tenkasi (6), Theni (7) and Tirupathur (8). A total of 10,588 persons were under treatment. These included 3,252 in Chennai and 876 in Coimbatore. Another 1,330 persons were discharged, taking the total number of persons discharged so far to 7,70,378. With 13 more fatalities, the toll stood at 11,822. Chennai recorded three deaths and Vellore two. Chengalpattu, Coimbatore, Kallakurichi, Kancheepuram, Krishnagiri, Madurai, Salem and Tiruvarur recorded one death each. A 42-year-old man from Krishnagiri, with coronary artery disease, was admitted to the Government Headquarters Hospital there with complaints of fever for four days. He died on November 5 owing to COVID-19 pneumonia. In the last 24 hours, 65,186 samples were tested in the State. With this, 1,26,05,289 samples have been tested in Tamil Nadu so far.
09 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rainfall set to recede gradually in State||Rainfall is gradually set to recede over the State from Wednesday. With the cyclonic circulation over the Gulf of Mannar weakening, only isolated rain is possible over the State for the next three or four days. However, convergence of the moist easterly winds with the dry northerly winds, and the moisture available in the atmosphere, may bring thunderstorms in a few places in the State on Wednesday. Coastal areas such as Chennai received intermittent rain due to wind convergence. This may gradually decrease from December 10, Meteorological Department officials said. On Tuesday, the weather stations in Nungambakkam and Meenambakkam recorded light rain of 1 cm and 3 cm respectively, till 5.30 p.m. No systems S. Balachandran, Deputy Director General of Meteorology, Chennai, said there were no other significant weather systems over the Bay of Bengal that could impact the Tamil Nadu coast over the next few days. The cyclonic circulation over the equatorial Indian ocean, too, was far away. “We notice a tendency of a dip in rainfall activity till December 12. We are monitoring the weather models for the next rain spell, as the season is yet to end,” he added. Cyclone Burevi, that was downgraded and remained stalled over the Gulf of Mannar, had helped wipe out Tamil Nadu’s rainfall deficit for the northeast monsoon period. The State’s seasonal rains since October 1 was now 42 cm, 8% more than what it normally receives during the season. Moreover, the number of rain-deficit districts had also reduced. Seasonal rainfall in districts, including Kanniyakumari, Tiruchi, Erode and Namakkal, had fallen short by close to 30%. Chennai is among the top districts that received bountiful rainfall with nearly 102 cm, which was 48% excess than the season’s average of nearly 69 cm, since October 1. The Meteorological Department said light rain may occur in some parts of Chennai till Thursday and the maximum temperature would be around 30 degree Celsius.
09 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Doctors remove 75 cm iron rod from man’s axilla||A team of doctors at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH) removed a 75 cm-long iron rod that had pierced through the axilla of a 28-year-old man on Monday. After ensuring that the rod had not damaged any critical structures, including the heart or lungs, the doctors removed the rod within 30 minutes of the patient reporting at the TAEI (Tamil Nadu Accident and Emergency Care Initiative) unit. The patient, a resident of Mangadu and a construction worker, was brought to the hospital in trauma to the left shoulder and axilla. The iron rod had entered through the left axilla and exited through the left shoulder joint, according to E. Theranirajan, dean of RGGGH. He was referred from the Government Kilpauk Medical College Hospital at about 1 p.m. The patient fell from the first floor at a construction site while doing centering work. In the fall, an iron rod pierced through the axilla and came out through the shoulder. “Doctors took a CT scan and found that the rod had not pierced the pleura, lungs and heart. On ensuring that none of the critical structures were involved, they rushed him to the operation theatre and removed the rod. His condition is stable. He is conscious and is under observation,” Dr. Theranirajan said. The team of doctors comprising R. Kannan, director, Institute of General Surgery; B. Mariappan, director in-charge, Institute of Cardiothoracic Surgery; and assistant professors M. Harish and K. Anandan performed the procedure. A CT scan after the surgery showed that none of the internal structures suffered any damage. The rod was 75 cm long with a thickness of 5 mm. “At TAEI, we have all emergency facilities under a single roof. We were able to remove the rod within 30 minutes of his arrival,” he said. Health Secretary J. Radhakrishan met the patient and the team of doctors on Tuesday.
09 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||L&T gets first contract for Chennai Metro phase II||In a big step before starting construction for the phase II project, Chennai Metro Rail Ltd. (CMRL) has issued the first major contract for building of stations from Power House till Porur. Larsen and Toubro bagged the contract for this work after emerging as the lowest bidder, quoting Rs. 1,035 crore for building nine stations and the viaduct, sources said. The 8 km Power House-Porur stretch will have nine stations that include Power House, Saligramam, Avichi School, Alwarthirunagar, Valasaravakkam, Karambakkam, Alapapakkam Junction and Porur Junction. According to CMRL officials, the letter of acceptance will be issued in a week or two, after which the contractor will be expected to commence construction sometime next year. The contractor will have to finish building this section within three years, officials said. Traffic congestion It will be a major challenge to build an elevated stretch along this line as severe traffic congestion persists here on a daily basis. “The police should make traffic diversions and take spaces in such a way so as to cause as much less inconvenience as they can. Otherwise, commuting through this stretch will become even more tough,” an official said. Sources said the tender for construction of the elevated stretch from Poonamallee to Porur Junction, a distance of nearly 4 km, will be awarded this week. This whole 12 km stretch will be the first one to get operational in the phase II project, whose entire length is 118.9 km with two other corridors — Madhavaram to Shollinganallur and Madhavaram to SIPCOT as well. The Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank will be extending a loan for building the 12 km Light House to Poonamallee corridor that runs from Poonamallee to Power House. While this will be an elevated section, the remaining portions of the corridor will be underground, officials said. Tenders for construction work from Light House till Power House will be taken up soon. It is to be noted that L&T had carried out a lot of constructions in the phase I Chennai Metro Rail project too.
09 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Transport dept. asked to provide details about customised buses||The Tamil Nadu Information Commission has directed the State Transport Department to provide details of buses that have been customised to meet the travelling requirements of persons with disabilities and elderly passengers. After receiving no reply to his petition seeking details about public transport buses in the State for persons with disabilities and elderly passengers, L. Muruganantham of Dharapuram in Tirupur district, a person suffering from a disability (muscular dystrophy), moved the Commission. The petitioner wrote to the State Transport authorities, seeking information on the number of buses that were accessible as per the December 2017 directions of the Supreme Court. He requested a copy of the compliance report submitted by the State in March 2018 that 10% of the government-owned public transport carriers were made fully accessible. Mr. Muruganantham also wanted to know whether conductors and drivers were taught to promote values of inclusion and given training on disability rights, tolerance, empathy and respect for diversity of passengers. If such training was provided, he wanted to access the course materials. The Public Information Officer (PIO), State Transport Department, transferred the petition to the PIOs of Metropolitan Transport Corporation, Chennai, the State Express Transport Corporation, Chennai, and the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporations located at Villupuram, Coimbatore, Salem, Tirunelveli, Madurai and Kumbakonam. Not satisfied with the response of the PIO and the First Appellate Authority, he filed an appeal before the Commission. After hearing both sides over the phone, in view of the COVID-19 safety protocol, State Information Commissioner S.T. Tamil Kumar directed the PIO/Under Secretary, Transport Department, Chennai, to provide complete information sought by the petitioner and warned that action under Section 20 (1) of the Right to Information (RTI) Act would be initiated if the order was not complied with. Early in 2019, the government had informed the Madras High Court that a new seating arrangement in buses with special facilities for physically challenged passengers was being provided in the State. It was also informed that State Transport Undertakings were told to provide route maps and bus schedules in Braille at bus stops.
09 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Post-Brexit, many firms from T.N. are going to look at France’||Ambassador of France to India Emmanuel Lenain was in Chennai on Monday and Tuesday, when he called on Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami and held talks aimed at contributing to the State’s development goals in the areas of industry, R&D and renewable energy. Mr. Lenain also visited The Hindu office on Tuesday, where he interacted with journalists of the newspaper. In an interview, he elaborates on his visit to Tamil Nadu, and his perspectives on the impact of COVID-19 and its geopolitical implications.  What are the goals of your current visit to Tamil Nadu? It is my second visit to Tamil Nadu because cooperation with Tamil Nadu is very important for France. We have a rich history with Puducherry and with Tamil Nadu, going back centuries. We have a strong respect for the Tamil culture. We have significant business interests in Tamil Nadu. It is a top hub for French industrial investment in India. My goal here is to develop this partnership, move forward faster and to make things easier, to have more business going between Tamil Nadu and France, to have more human exchanges also and more students from Tamil Nadu coming to French universities and colleges. They are very welcome. Pre-COVID-19, we had a record of 10,000 students from India coming to France in 2019. I am confident that as of next year, we will recover that level. We are going to do everything it takes. I hope that a significant part of the students will come from Tamil Nadu because I knew that the universities and the colleges here are very excellent. What is the situation of French economic presence in Tamil Nadu and are there new French business initiatives planned in this region? The French companies established in Tamil Nadu are enjoying a great business environment. I visited a company — Air Liquide — a world leader that has chosen Tamil Nadu to establish an advanced medical systems facility. I am confident that we are going to have some new French investment in Chennai either in production or R&D. A total number of 140 French companies have investment or a production facility in T.N. What makes France an attractive destination for Tamil Nadu investors? I think they could do very well. They are very welcome! Indeed, another purpose of my visit was to introduce the reforms that are being carried out in France. In France right now, you have the most pro-business government in years. Last year, France was the number one destination in continental Europe for attracting investments. I am sure that in the post-Brexit context, many companies from India and from Tamil Nadu are going to look at France, given the state of the economy, given the quality of education and the geography. It is the best platform you can have to access the European market and even the market in Africa, which is very important to India. COVID-19, as in India, has had a deep effect on the economy. But France has launched a massive stimulus plan to support the economy, which amounts to 10% of the GDP, and it will help a lot. I am confident, and we are well organised to support Indian investors... The pandemic has re-focused attention on important questions regarding health and the environment — do you think cooperative efforts between France and Tamil Nadu can help answer some of these? Firstly, I must say that there has been a massive help from India to France and from France to India. We are very grateful. When we had our first COVID-19 peak in France, Indian authorities authorised the export of medical drugs that were direly needed for French hospitals. President Macron then decided to reciprocate and to send ventilators, testing kits and protection masks and medical doctors from the Army service. They arrived in July to assist India when it was the first big peak in India. So, country-to-country solidarity has been intensely active. Regarding Tamil Nadu and private companies, the French companies in Tamil Nadu were exemplary. Internally, they retained their workforce. They did not cut their salaries. Some of them re-organised their production to be able to produce equipment for Indian hospitals. Yesterday I went to see Air Liquide Medical Systems. On-site, they manufactured ventilators... They ramped up their efforts and produced more than 1,000 ventilators. That is one good example. Another good example is Renault, the car producer. They switched the assembly lines to be able to produce ventilators. Many of the companies were impressive and showed solidarity. (For the full interview, visit https://bit.ly/Lenaininterview)  We have significant business interests in Tamil Nadu. It is a top hub for French industrial investment in India
09 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Digital payment catching on with LPG customers||Digital payment for liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) refill cylinders is catching up with customers. “It has gone up to 18% of our total transactions, which is an encouraging sign since it means less cash exchanges,” said an official source in Indian Oil Corporation Ltd (IOCL), which has over 1.3 crore customers in the State. During the same time last year, the figure stood at 5%. “We recently introduced many options, including e-wallets like Paytm and Amazon, which customers find convenient. With these modes, the payment is routed directly to the company and during delivery of the refills the customers would get a bill showing zero amount due,” he said.  Among all digital transactions, the online payment mode seems to be the most popular and customers make the payment as soon as the booking is done. Customers have also been provided digital options to pay during delivery of the refills. They are going for scanning the QR code provided at the back of the delivery person’s ID card. A distributor said that after the introduction of the new IVRS number for booking, certain customers who had changed their mobile numbers faced problems. Linked customer IDs “They would have used and discarded a number say two years ago and are using another number for the past year or so. When this customer books using the present number, the booking details go to the previous number since it remains linked to the customer ID,” he said. As far as retail fuel sale is concerned, dealers said they had seen a gradual increase in the use of credit/debit cards and e-wallets. “Over 60% of transactions are happening through these modes, which is an advantage since we do not have to ensure safety of large amounts of cash,” said a dealer.  We recently introduced many options, including Paytm and Amazon, which customers find convenient. The payment is routed directly to the company Official source Indian Oil Corporation Limited
09 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Doctors stage State-wide protests against ‘mixopathy’||Members of the Indian Medical Association (IMA), Tamil Nadu State Branch, on Tuesday staged demonstrations across the State against “mixopathy”. This was part of the nationwide protest called by the IMA. They were demanding withdrawal of a notification issued by the Central Council of Indian Medicine approving an MS (General Surgery) for Ayurveda graduates to perform 58 types of surgeries. Several doctors of the government and private sectors, besides members of the Tamil Nadu Government Doctors Association, took part in the protest. In Chennai, a demonstration was staged at the Government Stanley Medical College Hospital, where IMA members were joined by those of the Federation of Government Doctors Association. C.N. Raja, president of IMA, Tamil Nadu, said the demonstrations were held in compliance with physical distancing norms across the State, including in Coimbatore, Salem, Erode and Tiruchi. “To oppose mixopathy, we have called for withdrawal of all non-essential medical services at private hospitals on December 11,” he said. Hundreds of doctors affiliated to the IMA staged demonstrations in front of the district headquarters hospitals in southern districts. In Madurai, Dindigul, Virudhunagar, Thoothukudi and Ramanathapuram, the doctors said the idea would create confusion among patients and the public. At a time, when many developed nations looked at India’s healthcare system as a model, the Central Council of Indian Medicine’s notification was misleading. The Centre should withdraw the notification in the larger public interest and dismantle the committees formed in the NITI Aayog, they said. “We are protesting against mixopathy not because we fear that allopathy doctors would be affected. But eventually mixopathy will affect specialisation in AYUSH. Ayurveda has been a big attraction of medical tourism in Kerala,” said IMA Madurai president V.N. Alagavenkatesan. Members of the IMA, Tiruchi branch, staged a silent protest at three places — in front of the Collectorate, the IMA Hall on Salai Road and Chathiram bus-stand. Though outpatient services were not affected, the protesting doctors avoided treating patients for about three hours between 11 a.m. and 2 p.m. in the city and its suburbs. “How could Ayurvedic doctors perform surgeries without anaesthetists? They cannot don the mantle of anaesthetists,” said M.S. Ashraf, former national vice- president, IMA. S. Sethuraman, former president, IMA, Tiruchi, said the decision was ill-conceived and would have adverse ramifications for India’s health sector. Moreover, it would allow quacks to thrive. In Erode, doctors said there was neither anaesthesia nor antibiotics in Ayurveda and questioned how Ayurvedic doctors could perform surgeries in the absence of anaesthesia and antibiotics for post-operative care. IMA State secretary A.K. Ravikumar, who took part in the demonstration in Coimbatore, said, “We are not opposing any system of medicine. We want purity of system.”
09 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Nokia starts production of 5G equipment in Chennai||Nokia said on Tuesday that it had started the production of the next generation 5G equipment at its manufacturing site in Sriperumbudur near Chennai. According to an official statement, the company is now producing the cutting-edge Nokia AirScale massive Multiple Input Multiple Output (mMIMO) solution. Massive MIMO is a key element of 5G technology that delivers high capacity, especially in densely-populated locations. It brings together antennas at the transmitter and receiver to ensure improved speed and spectrum efficiency, it added. Nokia said it was the first to manufacture the 5G New Radio (NR) in India, and it is now producing the mMIMO solution. The equipment is already being exported to many countries in advanced stages of 5G deployment, it added. “Our Chennai factory has emerged as a benchmark of India’s manufacturing capabilities, bringing an entire range of telecom technology to operators in India and the rest of the world,” Sanjay Malik, senior vice-president and head of India market at Nokia, said. “From being the first to manufacture 5G NR in India to producing mMIMO, it demonstrates our innovative manufacturing capabilities and our belief in India’s skill and talent to produce the best-in-class equipment. This will enable us to support Indian operators as they prepare to launch 5G,” he added. Since it was established in 2008, Nokia said it had invested over Rs. 600 crore in developing a best-in-class manufacturing facility, which is spread over 140,000 sq m. This factory has manufactured more than 5 million telecom network equipment units over the years. The factory was the first to deploy India’s first ‘real-world’ application of Industry 4.0 including AR/VR, automation and analytics to enhance operational efficiency and productivity, it added. The Chennai facility is one of the largest telecom manufacturing units in India, catering to both domestic and the international markets and shipping to over 100 countries. The plant is a significant contributor to the Centre’s ‘Make in India’ programme to promote domestic manufacturing, Nokia said.  It demonstrates our innovative manufacturing capabilities and our belief in India’s skill and talent to produce the best-in-class equipment
09 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State should write to Centre to scrap Salem-Chennai green corridor: Anbumani||PMK youth wing leader Anbumani Ramadoss on Tuesday said that Supreme Court judgment allowing Centre to move forward with acquisition of land to implement Salem-Chennai 8-lane green corridor project was disappointing and urged the Centre and State governments to scrap the project. In a statement, he said that the PMK's stand was that there were already two highways connecting Salem and Chennai and one more highway — the Salem-Chennai green corridor — was unnecessary. He said that the PMK opposed it because the project would require 7,000 acres of land to be acquired affecting 10,000 farmers. The Supreme Court has provided a consolation when it said that the State government's decision to transfer the lands in the farmers' names to the government would not be valid while the case was still pending in the apex court. "Though it is a Central government project, it is the State government that has to acquire lands. Now, a new notification has to be given to acquire lands again after listening to the farmers," he said. Dr. Anbumani said that Highway 179A — from Vaniyambadi via Thirupathur, Uthangarai, Aroor, Manjavadi to Salem — is being converted into a 4-way lane at a cost of Rs. 521 crore. "Once this project is complete, there would be no need for the Salem-Chennai 8-way green corridor highway. The State government should write to Central government to scrap this project," he said.
09 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tenders called for Bengaluru-Chennai Expressway||Tenders have been invited for the construction of three sections of the greenfield access-controlled Bengaluru-Chennai Expressway from Kancheepuram in Tamil Nadu to Gudipula in Andhra Pradesh, for a total distance of 74 km. The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI), which is implementing the 262 km-long road project, has invited bids in three packages, costing Rs. 2,497 crore in total. “We hope that by March 2021, we would have signed the agreement with the concessionaire. Construction is likely to commence by September next year,” an official source at the NHAI said. The road, which will allow speeds of up to 120 kmph, would be constructed under the hybrid annuity mode, where a portion of the costs is borne by the Central government and the contractor is paid an annuity. Around 70% of the 2,295 hectares of land required for constructing the four-lane expressway, which would cut travel time between the two metro cities, is in the possession of the NHAI. The environmental clearance for the project is under progress and tenders for one section of the road in Karnataka were called for some time ago. The project, upon completion, would have nine major bridges, 144 minor bridges, 143 culverts, 53 pedestrian underpasses and 41 vehicular underpasses. It is projected to have traffic of 3,09,116 passenger car units by 2024, and 4,40,755 passenger car units by 2029.
09 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||French Ambassador calls on Prince of Arcot||The Ambassador of France to India, Emmanuel Lenain, called on the Prince of Arcot, Nawab Mohammed Abdul Ali, at his ancestral home Amir Mahal in Chennai on Monday during his visit to the city. The Prince, who thanked the Ambassador for his kindness in having visited him, said that “the world is better, if we are united together, and we should respect the sentiments of all faiths and live in peace and harmony." The Ambassador, who expressed his happiness for having met the Prince of Arcot and his heir-apparent and Dewan, Nawabzada Mohammed Asif Ali, said he tremendously enjoyed their insightful explanations about the family's history and the values of tolerance they uphold. Mr. Lenain was accompanied by the Consul General of France in Puducherry and Chennai Lise Talbot Barre. Bruno Plasse, Director, Alliance Francaise, Chennai, was also present during the meeting, said a press release here.
09 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Governor accords assent to amendment Bill on PSTM reservation||Days after the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court questioned the delay, Tamil Nadu Governor Banwarilal Purohit has accorded his assent to the Bill to amend the Tamil Nadu Appointment on Preferential Basis in the Services under the State of Persons Studied in Tamil Medium Act, 2010. The amendment says only candidates who have studied in Tamil medium up to the qualifying exam could benefit from the ‘Persons Studied in Tamil Medium’ (PSTM) quota in the Tamil Nadu Public Service Commission (TNPSC) recruitment. The amendment Bill was passed in the State Legislative Assembly in March this year. An extraordinary issue of the State government gazette notification dated December 7 has been was issued in this regard. A Division Bench of Justices N. Kirubakaran and B. Pugalendhi suo motu impleaded the Secretary to the Governor as one of the respondents in the public interest litigation (PIL) petition filed by advocate G. Sakthi Rao in Madurai. A decision was pending for more than eight months, the court observed. DMK president M.K. Stalin, too, had issued a statement urging Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami to personally call on Governor Banwarilal Purohit and persuade him to give his assent to the Bill. According to the amendment, a “person studied in Tamil medium” meant a person who has studied in Tamil as the medium of instruction up to the educational qualification prescribed for direct recruitment in the rules or regulations applicable to any appointment in the services under the State. In cases where SSLC is prescribed as the educational qualification, the candidate should have studied up to SSLC using Tamil as a medium of instruction. In cases where a Higher Secondary Course is prescribed as the educational qualification, the candidate should have studied SSLC and the Higher Secondary Course using Tamil as a medium of instruction. In cases where a diploma is prescribed as the educational qualification, he/she should have studied SSLC and the diploma in Tamil as a medium of instruction. If the diploma is obtained after completion of the Higher Secondary Course, then one should have studied SSLC, Higher Secondary Course and the diploma in Tamil. “In cases where a degree is prescribed as the educational qualification, one shall have studied SSLC, Higher Secondary Course and the degree through Tamil medium of instruction and in cases where a post-graduate degree is prescribed as the educational qualification, one shall have studied SSLC, Higher Secondary Course, degree and the post-graduate degree through Tamil medium of instruction,” stated the amendment.
09 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Sarathkumar tests positive for COVID-19||Samathuva Makkal Katchi president and actor R. Sarathkumar has reportedly tested positive for COVID-19, the actor’s wife Radikaa Sarathkumar said on Tuesday. “Today Sarath tested positive for Coronavirus in Hyderabad. He’s asymptomatic and in the hands of extremely good doctors! I will keep you updated about his health in the days to come,” she said on social media. Mr. Sarathkumar’s daughter, Varalaxmi Sarathkumar, said that the actor was recovering and was in good hands.
09 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||The importance of sruthi in classical music||Singing in key or minding your s ruthi is one of the first things that you learn as a singer. Sruthi is after all considered Maatha (mother) to classical music and at one point of time getting a tambura as a prize from The Music Academy and the Tamil Isai Sangam was considered very prestigious. Historian V. Sriram said the first musicians to get the Tambura prize at The Music Academy were S. Rajam and Bhavani Swaminathan. “They instituted it from the 1930s itself and many sabhas followed suit. Recently, an elderly woman came to the Academy and presented us back the Tambura she had won as prize. She said it had given her a new lease of life as a music teacher and did not want it to be disused after her passing,” he said. Vocalist Madurai Mani Iyer used to tell vocalists to carry their tamburas visibly since only then they would be identified as vidwans. Composer Harikeshanallur Muthiah Bhagavathar had four tamburas that he had named as Rama, Lakshmana, Bharathan and Shathrugnan. M.S. Subbulakshmi’s tamburas were known as Lakshmi and Saraswati, said Mr. Sriram, who is also the Secretary of the Academy. However, after the advent of the electronic sruthi box and more recently mobile apps, not many musicians prefer to use the tambura . They do not know to tune it or even play it, lamented a musician. When participants to The Hindu Margazhi Music Competition send in their videos tothmargazhi@ thehindu.co.in, they must ensure that they maintain sruthi . Those interested may send in 5-minute video entries on or before December 12. For details:www.thehindu.com /news/national/tamil-nadu /the-hindu-announces- margazhi-competition-for- young-indian-classical- musicians/ article33231111.ece/amp/
09 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Ex-AIADMK Minister dead||S. R. Radha, former Minister and one of the founding members of the ruling AIADMK, died at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital on Tuesday after a brief illness. He was 86. He is survived by two sons and two daughters. Born in Kumbakonam of Thanjavur district in August 1934, Radha was associated with the Sourashtra Sabha and several weavers’ organisations. At a young age, he was drawn to the Dravidian movement led by E.V. Ramasami and later joined the DMK and subsequently AIADMK. He was described by his admirers “Pakutharivu Sudar” (Light of Rationalism). Radha, who was first elected to the Assembly from Kumbakonam in the 1980 election, later became a member of the Legislative Council. When M. G. Ramachandran was Chief Minister, he was made, in July 1983, initially Fisheries Minister and later, given Housing portfolio. He was the first member of Saurashtrians, a minority community in the State, to be inducted into the State Cabinet. In March 1985, Mr. Radha was appointed a deputy general secretary of the AIADMK. After winning from the Madurai (East) Assembly constituency as a candidate of the unified AIADMK in March 1989, he became the Leader of Opposition in the Assembly later that year in the wake of resignation of Jayalalithaa from the post. Four years later, Mr. Radha was expelled from the AIADMK. In January 1998, he returned to the DMK briefly before going back to the AIADMK.
09 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK meet on Dec. 14||The ruling AIADMK has called a meeting of zonal point persons, Ministers and secretaries of district units on December 14 at the party headquarters here. The invitees for the meeting have been asked to provide details regarding the follow up to the advice that was given during the previous meeting held on November 20, according to a release.
09 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Gambling den raided||The Mambalam police on Tuesday raided a gambling den, arrested 19 persons and seized Rs. 1.36 lakh from them. According to the police, they raided a lodge on Sarojini Street, T. Nagar, and nabbed the men playing cards.
09 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||3,200 ducks found dead in a farm||Around 3,200 ducks belonging to a farmer were found dead in Minjur on Monday. Veterinary doctors have collected samples and will be testing them to ascertain the cause of death. According to the police, Dhanapal of Neithavoyal village in Minjur is into the business of rearing ducks. On Monday morning, he informed the police that all the ducks in his farm were dead. Veterinary doctors from Minjur came to the spot and collected samples to find out why the birds died. The carcasses were buried.
09 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||PIL to protect juveniles in conflict with the law||Bachpan Bachao Andolan, an NGO founded by Nobel laureate Kailash Satyarthi, has moved the Madras High Court seeking a direction to the Tamil Nadu government to put in place comprehensive measures aimed at protecting and rehabilitating juveniles in conflict with law. A Bench of Justices M. Sathyanarayanan and R. Hemalatha on Tuesday ordered notice to the government on the PIL petition and directed the HC Registry to tag it with a suo motu PIL to implement a host of SC directives on the issue. The NGO, too, sought a specific direction to the government to implement the SC directions in the Sampurna Behura versus Union of India case on February 9, 2018, and to draft comprehensive rehabilitation guidelines, defining the role and responsibility of every stakeholder involved in rehabilitating juveniles.
09 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Man arrested for GST fraud||The GST and Central Excise Department, Chennai North, has arrested a 31-year-old man for GST credit fraud. The accused, along with two others, allegedly made GST registration for more than 100 business entities using the identity documents of other individuals. The main accused was plotting to commit GST fraud by forming fictitious companies. These firms issued tax invoices to various business entities without doing any transaction to facilitate claim of GST credit, and took commission. The GST on such bogus invoices was paid using input tax credit based on tax invoices received from fictitious companies. The GST officials conducted searches to gather evidence and produced the arrested in front of the additional chief metropolitan magistrate and remanded him to judicial custody till December 18. The department is on the look out for his accomplices and all others who were either involved or benefited from the fraud.
09 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Two drown in Chennai||Two persons, including a student of Class 6, died in the city on Tuesday. J. Dinakaran, 12, drowned while playing with his friends in the Jambukeswarar temple tank in Korattur. He was a Class 6 student of a private school. The children were playing in the tank, which had filled up after the recent rain. When he went missing, his friends informed his parents, who alerted the Korattur police. Fire and Rescue Services personnel from Ambattur Estate took out the body and sent it to the Kilpauk Medical College Hospital for post-mortem examination. Siva, 42, a mechanic, drowned in the Kandasamy temple tank in Otteri on Tuesday. He was bathing in the tank around 9 a.m. when he slipped and fell into the water. The Otteri police removed his body and sent it to the Government Stanley Hospital for post-mortem examination. Body found The body of an 82-year-old man, who went missing two days ago, was found in a pond at Ambattur on Tuesday. The body was identified as that of Kanniappan, of TNEB Colony in Menambedu.
09 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Pregnant woman killed in accident||A 28-year-old pregnant woman was killed after she was hit by a car in Villivakkam on Tuesday. It is suspected she was hit by a central government vehicle. According to the police, Ghousarbi, 28, wife of Azharuddin, was sitting in the verandah near a tea shop at Rangadas Colony, when a car hit her. Passersby rushed her to the hospital, where she died. The police have registered a case. “A board, with Income Tax written on it, was placed in the wind shield. We are investigating if it was a central government vehicle,” said a police officer.
09 December 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||‘AIADMK will not allow Stalin to enter Coimbatore’||The AIADMK will not allow DMK president M.K. Stalin to enter Coimbatore if he continues to level corruption charges against former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa and Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, warned former MLA and AIADMK spokesperson Kovai K. Selvaraj on Tuesday. He convened a press meet to condemn the Nilgiris MP and DMK leader A. Raja for his alleged defamatory remarks against former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa. Mr. Selvaraj alleged that the DMK did not have the merit to accuse the AIADMK leaders of being corrupt. Levelling charges of corruption against Mr. Raja and other DMK leaders including M.K. Kanimozhi and Dayanidhi Maran, he claimed that many leaders from the DMK would be jailed for corruption soon. Mr. Selvaraj demanded Mr. Raja to furnish proof for the statements which the latter claimed that the Supreme Court made against Jayalalithaa in its verdict on the disproportionate assets case. Accusing Mr. Raja of lacking in “political civility,” Mr. Selvaraj asserted that he was ready to have a debate with the MP. For the upcoming Assembly elections, the AIADMK would form an alliance with those parties that intend to oppose the DMK, he said.
09 December 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||DVAC seizes unaccounted cash||Sleuths from the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) seized unaccounted cash to the tune of Rs. 2 lakh during a surprise check at Karumathampatti Town Panchayat office on Tuesday. DVAC sources said that based on a tip-off, a team led by Deputy Superintendent of Police T.H. Ganesh began the surprise check at the office at 2 p.m. which lasted till Tuesday night. Following the seizure, the DVAC booked Executive Officer Selvaraj under sections of the Prevention of Corruption Act. Man held for murder  The Sulur police on Tuesday arrested a man on charges of murdering his wife at their residence in Pappampatti. The police said Arumugam (52) assaulted his wife Padmavathi (45) in an inebriated state using a glass bottle, causing her death due to excessive loss of blood. The accused was remanded in judicial custody. House burgled Miscreants broke into a residence and stole gold jewellery weighing 25 sovereigns and cash worth Rs. 42,000 at Chinnavedampatti in the early hours of Tuesday. The police said Saravanan (41) returned to his house at around 3 a.m. and found that the jewellery and cash were missing. The front door was damaged, according to the police. Efforts to nab the accused are under way.  Youth stabs girl A youth attempted to murder a 15-year-old girl by stabbing her and also attempted to die by suicide in Rathinapuri on Monday. According to the police, the 27-year-old youth and the victim were allegedly in a relationship and the victim avoided meeting him after being reprimanded by her mother. On Monday, he visited her residence and allegedly attempted to stab her, but she escaped with minor injuries. Following this, the accused consumed poisonous substance and was hospitalised, the police said. The Rathinapuri police registered a case against the accused.  Man hangs self A man hanged himself from a mobile phone tower at Rathinapuri here on Tuesday. According to police sources, Vijayakumar (38) hanged himself at around 6.30 p.m. at the mobile phone tower located near a rail overbridge in Rathinapuri. The reason behind the suicide was not clear. The Rathinapuri police were investigating, the sources said. ( Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.)
09 December 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Certificate verification begins in TNAU||Tamil Nadu Agricultural University has begun the certificate verification process for candidates it had admitted under the general quota. A release said it began the process on Monday and would continue till December 12. The University had planned to verify 600 students a day, the release said quoting Dean and Chairman, Admissions, M. Kalyanasundaram. On the first day on Monday, Vice-Chancellor N. Kumar handed over provisional admission letters to the following top rankers: T.V. Girivasan for B.Sc. (Hons.) Agriculture, R. Swathi for B.Sc. (Hons.) Agriculture, A. Darshini for B.Sc. (Hons.) Agriculture, S. Redhanya B.Tech. Biotechnology, A. Poovarasu for B.Sc. Forestry and M. Sneka for B.Sc. Horticulture. Registrar A.S. Krishnamoorthy was also present.
09 December 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Certification course||Coimbatore Productivity Council will conduct a 20-hour certification course on ‘Occupational Health and Safety’ from December 19. According to a release, the course will be held online on weekends for two hours a day. The last date for registration is December 16. The course will cover topics such as principles of safety, accident prevention, control measures, safety at workplace, and occupational health. For details, contact: 9952404302 or 8220000371.   Siruthuli and Perur Chettipalayam panchayat will develop ‘SPB Vanam’ by planting 74 trees in memory of singer SP Balasubramaniam. The project at Officers Colony Park at Pachapalayam will be launched by Minister SP Velumani on December 10.    The Coimbatore Corporation on Monday imposed Rs. 55,000 as fine on a private establishment for dumping waste on road. A release said the civic body levied the fine after Commissioner P. Kumaravel Pandian found waste dumped on the road, near the establishment, in Race Course.
09 December 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||power shutdown||There will be no power supply in the following areas under Somayampalayam sub-station from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. on December 10 : Yamuna Nagar, Kalappanaikenpalayam, GCT Nagar, KTN Palayam, Marutham Nagar, Navavoor Pirivu, Bharathiar University, Somayampalayam, Vasantham Nagar, IOB Colony, Maruthamalai, Agarwal Road, Kanuvai, KNG Pudur and Thadagam Road.
09 December 2020||CUDDALORE/Chennai,TAMIL NADU||CM distributes relief material in rain-hit Cuddalore district||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Tuesday distributed relief material to people affected by heavy rain in Cuddalore district. Speaking to presspersons at Vallampadugai in Chidambaram taluk, one among the worst-affected areas, he said the damage caused by Cyclones Nivar and Burevi was extensive in Cuddalore district. The damage was mainly due to heavy rain and storm conditions during the cyclones. The Centre has been apprised of the need to depute another team to assess the damage caused by Cyclone Burevi, he said. Crops have also suffered damage due to inundation, the Chief Minister added. The Chief Minister said financial assistance would be provided to all affected persons after the district administration submitted a report. He also handed over a cheque of Rs. 4 lakh to the family of a person who died in the heavy rain at Bhuvanagiri in Chidambaram taluk and disbursed financial assistance to those whose houses were damaged in the rain. Relief materials were also distributed to people at the relief camps. Before attending the function, Mr. Palaniswami paid a visit to the inundated paddy fields and took stock of the damage. Debriefing session Meanwhile, the inter-ministerial Central team, which undertook an on the spot assessment of the areas affected by Cyclone Nivar in the northern districts of Tamil Nadu and Puducherry, held a debriefing session with the Chief Minister in the Secretariat. During their visit, the team divided themselves into two units and visited the affected sites in Chennai, Tiruvallur, Kancheepuram, Vellore, Ranipet, Villupuram, Cuddalore and other areas, besides Puducherry. Fisheries Minister D. Jayakumar, Minister for Disaster Management R.B. Udhayakumar, Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam and other senior officials were present during the interaction.
09 December 2020||Dharmapuri,TAMIL NADU||DMK MP ‘raids’ house of a bootlegger||Dharmapuri MP Senthil Kumar “raided” a house in Gettupatty village here in Nallampalli in a dramatic intervention on receipt of a petition form an aggrieved local, causing the seizure of over 177 liquor bottles on Tuesday. Liquor bottles stacked in every nook and corner of the house were exposed after the DMK MP raided a house following complaints from the village. Speaking to The Hindu , Dr.Senthil Kumar said, he had received a call from a village local asking for meeting to hand over a petition. “When I enquired, I was told bootlegging was happening in the house, petitions were sent to the CM cell, local police, and the Collector, but no concrete action was taken.” On Tuesday, he toured through the area along with his photographer and videographer, and pulled off the “raid” in the house. “The house was headed by a widow. When we went, there was only the daughter, and I had asked the daughter not to come into the frame.” According to the locals, little boys were taking to drinking because there was easy access to liquor right inside the village. Police had booked petty cases but not acted decisively, the MP alleged. Once inside the house, liquor bottles were found stacked inside vessels, under the cot and every other corner of the house, yielding over 177 bottles. Dr.Senthil Kumar believed Gettupatty would send out a message to other villages, where bootlegging was happening openly. “Public is free to contact me, wherever there is no action taken.” The woman Soundariya(40) was arrested and remanded by Thoppur police.
09 December 2020||Dharmapuri/Salem,TAMIL NADU||Farmers seek scrapping of green corridor project||The Supreme Court verdict upholding the land acquisition notification for the Salem-Chennai eight-lane expressway project and dismissal of petitions challenging its necessity has disappointed farmers in the region. In Salem district, the farmers demanded scrapping of the project. Chandra Mohan, State co-ordinator of the All-India Kisan Sabha, actively engaged in the litigation, said the Supreme Court while upholding the acquisition notification had not categorically referred to compulsory EIA, leaving everything open to the whim of the government. The Supreme Court, however, upheld a part of the Madras High Court’s order that directed the government to reverse the mutation of the revenue records. “This is an indictment of the government. The State government had gone beyond its role and acted like police state forcing survey through coercion and threat,” he said. The Madras High Court, while quashing the acquisition notification, also censured the mutation of revenue records, which effectively meant breaking of the patta ownership from the affected farmers’ name, said a researcher with the Movement against Eightlane. Palaniappan, a farmer from Kombur village in Paapireddypatty, said, “There is not a semblance of relief for farmers. We will continue to fight this project through coordinated efforts.” A part of his 10-acre land will come under acquisition. For now, farmers are pinning their hopes on the upcoming Assembly elections for a turnaround. S. Narayanan, one of the affected farmers from Ayothiyapattinam said, “The governments should drop all measures to take the project forward. The Supreme Court has permitted the Centre to resume land acquisition. We will oppose any move to take over our lands and we are not ready to part with our lands.” The farmers said they were not against development. The government should expand existing roads instead of constructing new ones. R. Mohanasundaram, another farmer, said the Chief Minister had only been making false claims about the project’s necessity. “There are three roads at the moment connecting Salem and Chennai besides air and rail transportation facilities. The Chief Minister is only making false claims about the project. Even under a fresh notification, it is our lands that would probably get affected again and we oppose the project at any cost. Governments should withdraw the project,” he said. The farmers said they would go ahead with their protests until the project was scrapped.
09 December 2020||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Nine students get admission in MBBS, BDS courses||Nine students from government schools, including a SC, in this district got admission in government and self-financing medical colleges to study MBBS and BDS courses under 7.5 % reservation system. The students assured the Collector M Vijayalakshmi that they would bring laurels to the district and serve the needy people. According to the Collector, the students got admission in KAPV Medical College Tiruchi, Government Medical Colleges at Sivaganga, Karur and Kanniyakumari and at SRM Medical College, Tiruchi, and Dhanalakshmi Srinivasan Medical College at Perambalur, RVS Dental College Coimbatore, Vivekananda Dental College at Namakkal and at KSR Institute of Dental Sciences Namakkal. There are 26 medical colleges and two dental colleges run by the government, 15 self-financing medical colleges and 18 private dental colleges in Tamil Nadu.
09 December 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Mixed reactions to Bharat Bandh in Erode district||The Bharat Bandh call given by farmers’ organisations and opposition parties evoked mixed reaction in the district where most of the shops and commercial establishments in the city and its outskirts functioned as usual on Tuesday. But, several traders downed their shutters at Perundurai, Gobichettipalayam, Bhavani and Sathyamangalam in support of the bandh. The bandh was called to protest the recently enacted farm laws. Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC), private buses, autorickshaws and cabs were operated as usual as there is no disruption in public movement. Shops at the Nethaji Vegetable Daily Market were closed for the day while shops at the E.K.M. Abdul Gani Textile Market (Gani Market) functioned as usual. Members of various trade unions, farmers’ organisations, cadres of opposition political parties staged road roko at 31 places in the district and raised slogans urging the Central government to repeal the three laws. The police removed 793 persons, including 187 women, and lodged them at various marriage halls and released them in the evening.  Salem Staff Reporter adds:  Except for the protests, it was business as usual in Salem and Namakkal. Shops, buses operated as usual on Tuesday. Members of various organisations, including organisations such as LPF, CITU, INTUC, DYFI staged a road blockade in front of the Salem Collectorate. Close to 1,000 police personnel were deployed for security purposes across the city. At Collectorate, close to 600 members of various organisations, including Makkal Needhi Maiyam gathered for the protests. According to police, over 450 persons, including women were arrested from various places in Salem. Protests were also held at Ayodhiyapattinam and near Kondalampatti here. Markets functioned as usual on the day. In Namakkal, protesters attempted to stage a rail roko near Pallipalayam here and they were arrested and removed. The State Lorry Owners’ Federation expressed solidarity with the protests and according to office bearers, majority of lorries kept off roads. Members of Communist parties and Congress staged a protest in front of Anna statue in Thiruchengode and raised slogans demanding repeal of the laws.  Special Correspondent from Krishnagiri adds  In Krishnagiri, the CPI(M) cadres staged protest demonstration near the new bus stand. The DMK men staged protest demonstration in support of the farmers’ calling for a repeal of the farm laws that is seen as a threat to farmers and enabling corporatisation of agriculture. DMK cadres led by the The Ashok Leyland Employees Union (Unit II) stood in solidarity with the farmers and staged a protest demonstration outside the Ashok Leyland unit.
09 December 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Bunker cots to help police personnel take rest after duty hours||To enable police personnel to take rest after their duty hours and relax, the district police had installed bunker cots in all the police stations here. Though a room is available at the stations to take rest, cot system is not available as personnel had to depend on chairs. Hence, Superintendent of Police P. Thangadurai had proposed the idea of installing bunker cots in each station to help the personnel to fight their fatigue. Cots were installed in 21 stations in the district and the process is on to install cots in other stations. Mr. Thangadurai said that personnel work round-the-clock and after their duty hours, a little rest for them will energise them after which they can leave home. He said police personnel with headache or tiredness during duty hours can take rest for sometime after obtaining permission from their inspector.
09 December 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Applications invited for teachers’ post in tribal schools||The district administration has invited applications from persons belonging to Adi Dravidar and tribal community to fill up the existing vacancies in the Government Tribal Welfare Residential Schools (GTRs) in the district on a temporary basis. In a press release, Collector C. Kathiravan said that applications are invited from persons to fill up the vacancies for the year 2020-21 for secondary grade teachers, graduate teachers and post graduate teachers on contract basis to work in the schools run by the department. Applications can be obtained from the Adi Dravidar and Tribal Welfare Department functioning at the fifth floor on the Collectorate premises. Fill-in applications should be submitted by December 24 to the office concerned. Date for the written test will be informed later.
09 December 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Toor dal to be procured at two regulated markets||Under the Price Support Scheme (PSS), toor dal will be procured from farmers at Rs. 60 a kg at the two regulated markets functioning at Anthiyur and Boothapadi from December 15 to March 14, 2021. Collector C. Kathiravan in a press release said that the toor dal is cultivated in the Kharif season in the district and the harvested dal will be procured at the two regulated market committees functioning under the Erode Market Committee. He said that the dal will be procured at Rs. 60 a kg at the quality fixed by the government and the payment will be made to the farmer’s bank account directly. Interested farmers should submit copies of their Aadhaar card, bank pass book, chitta adangal and other necessary documents to the two regulated markets and get benefitted.
09 December 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||power shutdown||Due to replacement of electric lines on Chennimalai Road line from Kasipalayam sub-station, power supply will be disrupted from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. on December 9 at Chennimalai Road, Periya Thottam, Perumal Kadu, Manalmedu, Karimedu, Stoney Bridge, EVN Road, EMM Road, Gandhiji Road, Jeevanandam Road, Kallukadaimedu, EVR Street, Thangaperumal Street, Kalyana Sundaram Street, Eswaran Pillai Street and Old Railway Station Road.
09 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Bharat Bandh evokes mixed response in Madurai||Normal life was not affected by the Bharat Bandh called for by trade unions in support of farmers protesting in Delhi against amendments to Farm Laws, on Tuesday. While buses and autorickshaws plied on the road as usual, a section of shops remained closed in the district. This was more pronounced in rural areas of Madurai where 50% of shops were closed, according to Communist Party of India (Marxist) rural district secretary, C. Ramakrishnan. “We were able to see the anger among the common man in support of the farmers’ issue. The bandh was successful,” he said. Over 1,000 protesters from various opposition parties like the Communist Party of India (Marxist), Communist Party of India, Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, Congress and Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi took part in the road rook in the rural areas. An attempt by the protesters to stage rail blockade at Sholavandan railway station was stopped by the police. With incessant drizzle and intermittent showers reported in the district on Tuesday, autorickshaws were busy ferrying people. With TNSTC employees union having called for only demonstration, buses set out on time from all depots. Stir by advocates A section of advocates practising in the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court staged a demonstration outside the High Court premises, expressing solidarity with the farmers who have been agitating across the country against the three new farm laws that were passed recently. The group of advocates that included senior and women advocates urged the Centre to withdraw the Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020, the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act. Apart from the three new farm laws, the advocates have also urged the Centre to drop the proposed Electricity Amendment Bill. The farmers across the nation have raised their concerns and expressed their displeasure over the proposed amendment. A similar demonstration was held by advocates in Madurai district court.
09 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||IMA members protest ‘mixopathy’||Members of Indian Medical Association staged a dharna here on Tuesday against the Centre’s proposal for mixopathy that allowed Ayurveda doctors to perform surgeries based on modern scientific medicine. The protesters, including women, carried placards and shouted slogans against mixopathy. The agitation was led by its Madurai branch president V.N. Alagavenkatesan. “As per the National Medical Commission regulations, training on allopathy medicine cannot be given to any unqualified person and unregistered member. This means, people who have not undergone MBBS course cannot be taught on surgeries based on allopathy medicine,” he said. “We are protesting against mixopathy not because we fear that allopathy doctors would be affected. But, eventually mixopathy will affect specialisation in Ayush. Ayurveda has been a big attraction of medical tourism in Kerala,” said IMA (Madurai) president V.N. Alagavenkatesan. He also clarified that IMA was not against Ayurveda doctors performing surgeries. “But, they should not do surgeries in hospitals following allopathy medicine and using allopathy drugs, but at hospitals following Ayurveda medicine,” he said. He said that eventually untrained doctors would perform surgeries on gullible people who could not distinguish between a qualified and unqualified surgeon, he said adding that it would prove dear for the poor. On further course of action, he added 2,400 private clinics and hospitals in Madurai would not take up non-emergency outpatient treatment and elective surgeries on December 11.
09 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Steep rise in number of land grabbing incidents, says High Court||Taking a serious note of the fact that a 90-year-old litigant had to move court seeking relief due to the menace of land grabbing, the Madurai Bench of Madras High Court observed that there was a steep increase in the number of such land grabbing incidents. A Division Bench of Justices N. Kirubakaran and B. Pugalendhi observed that many land grabbers with the help of disgruntled elements in the police force and politicians were using muscle power and encroaching upon the properties of innocent people. The judges pointed out that the High Court had earlier suggested to the State government to bring out a legislation on the lines of Andhra Pradesh Land Grabbing (Prohibition) Act, 1982. However, five years since the suggestion, nothing has materialised. The court said that it took judicial notice of the fact that office-bearers of many political parties and communal organisations, along with blacksheeps in the police force as well as in the administration, were indulging in land grabbing. It is very unfortunate that some people claiming to be advocates act like paid hooligans to grab the properties with the connivance of land grabbers. The police are also not registering cases fearing that there will be agitation by advocates, the judges said. The court also took into account that fabrication of documents was taking place. The court was hearing the public interest litigation petition filed by C. Muthiah of Tiruchi who sought a direction to the State government to bring out a special enactment to tackle the menace of land grabbing and protect the innocent public. The High Court Division Bench sought a response from the State government in this regard and adjourned the next hearing till December 16.
09 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Notification on reduction of wildlife sanctuary’s size stayed||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has granted a stay on the Centre’s gazette notification to reduce the size of the Kanniyakumari Wildlife Sanctuary. Reduction of the size of the wild life sanctuary would definitely affect the environment, the court observed. A Division Bench of Justices N. Kirubakaran and B. Pugalendhi observed that the universe was not meant only for humans. Birds, animals and other creatures also have every right to live in the world. This is an issue affecting the environment and will be dealt with seriously. The court also took into account the fact that the draft notification issued in February this year was not made available in Tamil. Taking a serious view of this, the judges observed that the Central government cannot expect people to know English and Hindi alone in all the States. The court expects the Central government to issue all notifications in vernacular languages.It was said that with the reduction in the size of the wildlife sanctuary, the mining operations around the sanctuary that were closed had resumed their operations. It is disheartening to note that the natural resources are being looted by adopting illegal means, the judges said. The court was hearing the public interest litigation petition filed by M. Satheesh from Kanniyakumari. The court sought details on the number of newly established mining operations in the area and adjourned the hearing in the case till December 14.
09 December 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Two festival special trains announced||Southern Railway will run Rameswaram-Okha-Rameswaram weekly festival special train and Nagercoil-Chhatrapati Sivaji Maharaj Terminus-Nagercoil bi-weekly festival special train. Train number 06733 (Rameswaram-Okha) will leave Rameswaram at 10.10 p.m. on Fridays and reach Okha at 10.20 a.m. on Mondays from December 11 to 25 (three trips). It will stop at Mandapam, Ramanathapuram, Paramakudi, Manamadurai, Madurai, Dindigul, Karur, Namakkal, Salem, Jolarpettai and Katpadi (in Tamil Nadu). In the return direction, the train (No. 06734) would leave Okha at 7.15 p.m. on Tuesdays and reach Rameswaram at 8.40 a.m. on Fridays from December 15 to 29 (three trips). Train No. 06352 (Nagercoil-Chhatrapati Sivaji Maharaj Terminus) will leave Nagercoil at 6 a.m. on Thursdays and Sundays and reach Chhatrapati Sivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT) at 7.15 p.m. on Fridays and Mondays from December 13 to 31 (six trips). In the return direction, the train (No. 06351) will leave CSMT at 8.35 p.m. on Fridays and Mondays and reach Nagercoil at 7.30 a.m. on Sundays and Wednesdays. It will stop at Valliyur, Tirunelveli, Kovilpatti, Sattur, Virudhunagar, Madurai, Dindigul, Tiruchi, Srirangam, Ariyalur, Vridhachalam, Villupuram, Tindivanam, Melmaruvathur, Chengalpattu, Kanchipuram, Arakkonam and Tiruttani (in T.N.). Fare The fare for the festival special trains will be 1.3 times the normal fare, said a press release.
09 December 2020||NAGAPATTINAM,TAMIL NADU||Post-cyclone, deep sea fishing permitted with some restrictions||With the intensity of cyclone-induced rainfall subsiding, fishers in Nagapattinam district have started venturing into the sea after a gap of nearly a fortnight, albeit with adherence to distancing restrictions imposed by the Fisheries Department. Those into deep sea fishing with mechanised boats have received instructions to return to the shore within three days, and to maintain daily contact either with the department or family members. “Mechanised boats left the fishing harbours on Sunday and are expected to touch shores on Wednesday. The fishermen have been instructed to remain well within the range of the VHF sets supplied to them. The mechanised boat operators have been instructed not to venture beyond 35 nautical miles from the shore this entire month,” Joint Director of Fisheries Amal Raj Xavier said. As for fishermen with fibre boats, the spells of heavy rainfall will help them to net shrimps in large quantities. Measures are in place for smooth resumption of fish trade after the two consequent cyclones, he said. However, resumption of dry fish manufacturing will take at least 10 more days, Mr. Amal Raj Xavier said. Fishermen in the district net mostly dry sardines that have a huge market in Kerala. Though resumption of fishing activities has brought in huge relief, fishermen welfare organisations say the community is badly in need of government support to overcome loss of revenue for the days they have had to remain confined to the shores. For more than 10 days, the fishermen had no other source of income. Most of the residents in low-lying fishing hamlets were evacuated to various flood relief centres where they were provided with food and shelter. Representatives of fishermen welfare organisations are understood to have submitted petitions to State Ministers, who are in the district to oversee flood relief operations, to sanction funds and mitigate their hardship caused by economic distress.
09 December 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Bandh hits normal life in Puducherry||The 12-hour nationwide bandh, called by farmers’ unions against the new farm laws, on Tuesday hit normal life in Puducherry with business establishments remaining shut and public transport services staying off the roads. The ruling Congress, the DMK, the CPI, the CPI (M), the CPI (ML) and the VCK in the Union Territory extended support to the farmers, who have launched an agitation in the border areas of the national capital demanding withdrawal of the new farm legislation. Trade unions of all parties and the Confederation of Government Employees Association extended solidarity to the protesting farmers. Barring a handful of tea shops, all business establishments remained closed through the major part of the day. Buses, autorickshaws and share autorickshaws did not operate. Government and private educational institutions were closed. Markets wind down All major markets wore a deserted look due to the bandh. More than 500 party workers, including D. Ravikumar, MP belonging to the VCK, courted arrest while staging a demonstration near the New Bus Stand. Bandh supporters organised protests at seven places in Puducherry.
09 December 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Union Territory reports 42 new cases, no deaths in last 24 hours||Puducherry recorded 42 new COVID-19 cases and 45 recoveries on Tuesday while no deaths were reported in the last 24 hours. The new cases were detected from 2,883 tests pointing to a positivity rate of 1.45%. The fatality rate was 1.65% and the recovery rate was 97.31%. Mahe once again outstripped Puducherry in terms of the highest case burden, with 26 newly infected persons against 11 cases in the capital city. Karaikal reported two new cases and Yanam one. The toll in the U.T. stands at 615 deaths. After one case was transferred to Tamil Nadu, the number of active cases stood at 388. Of these, 209 patients were in hospitals and 179 in home isolation. The total case load went up to 37,311 while 36,308 patients have recovered to date. Of the 4.22 lakh samples tested so far, 3.81 lakh were negative. Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi said Mahe was gradually being put back on track with the Special Secretary (Relief and Rehabilitation) camping there to oversee COVID-19 management. With deployment of medical expertise and close supervision, the cases were expected to stabilise in the next few days, Ms. Bedi said after a review meeting held at the Raj Nivas. “Mahe is now a hotspot. Hence, all visitors to the place and outbound persons need to take due precautions,” she said. An advisory related to officials and people returning from Mahe will be issued shortly. The ICMR team will also hold a virtual meeting with the Mahe health team to review SOPs and suggest improvements if any. Testing numbers will be ramped up from 200 to 500 and bed strength raised to 300. “Hotspots have been identified and drilled down to the street level. Mobile teams will carry out testing in these areas,” Ms. Bedi said. While authorities of the Mahe Municipality will ensure mask compliance in markets and public places, revenue officials have been directed to book violators under the Disaster Management Act provisions.
09 December 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Artists stage plays at online drama festival||More than 300 artists of 27 theatre groups from across the region staged plays at the recently-concluded “Online Drama Festival 2020” to mobilise financial assistance to the fraternity, left struggling during the COVID-19 pandemic. The effort was jointly hosted by The School and Department of Performing Arts of Pondicherry University, Department of Art & Culture, Government of Puducherry and South Zone Cultural Centre, Thanjavur, Ministry of Culture. All the 27 plays would be showcased on social media platforms. The Department of Art and Culture had initiated a five-day drama production workshop that explored various social themes and led to performances at the Studio Theatre, Department of Performing Arts. Inaugurating the online festival, P. Ragini, Director, Department of Art & Culture, said the department was prepared to collaborate with the School of Performing Arts in future endeavours and collaborate with the faculty, scholars and students of the Department of Performing Arts of Pondicherry University. P. Sridharan, Dean, who presided over the inaugural, highlighted the need and importance of protecting art and artists and protecting various traditional art forms to raise awareness in society. K.R.Raja Ravi Varma, head of department, explained the activities of the department. P. Murugavel and Samanaraja from the department were joined by others for a rendition of a song of theatre thespian Sri Sankaradas Swamigal to set the stage for the festival.
09 December 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Follow safety norms during protests: Bedi||Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi has expressed concern over the violation of COVID-19 safety protocols during the nationwide bandh on Tuesday. Ms. Bedi said in the wake of protest groups proposing to further intensify their agitation, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) had directed the States/Union Territories to ensure that there was strict adherence to COVID-19 guidelines in addition to the vigil against any untoward incident and to maintain law and order. “Medical and enforcement agencies will need to be prepared for this,” Ms. Bedi said. The Lt. Governor has directed the Director General of Police, Secretary (Relief and Rehabilitation) and the District Collector to ensure law and order, compliance with COVID-19 safety norms and adherence with MHA regulations are maintained.
09 December 2020||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Kudimaramathu’ works have helped increase groundwater table: Collector||The groundwater table in Pudukottai district has risen due to widespread rain and completion of kudimaramathu works taken up to rejuvenate water bodies, Collector P. Uma Maheswari said on Tuesday. Speaking to reporters after inspecting water bodies in Lembalakudi and Peraiyur villages in Thirumayam union, she said dredging works at a cost of Rs. 45.5 crore had been completed in tanks through the Public Works Department and the Rural Development Department. The groundwater table in the district rose by 1.35 metres due to completion of kudimaramathu works and it continued to rise due to widespread rain. Out of the 43 tanks where dredging works were carried out through the Public Works Department, eight tanks had attained full capacity. The scheme had come as a boon to farmers and the general public. The dredging works under the scheme were completed well ahead of the monsoon season, she added.
09 December 2020||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Police detain AIADMK, DMK cadres and avert clash between them||The police detained cadre of the DMK and the AIADMK here on Tuesday in order to avert a direct clash between them and posted pickets. The issue of which party is more corrupt reached a flashpoint when Virudhunagar district secretary of the AIADMK and Minister Rajendhira Bhalaji accused the DMK of corruption to the core after reported war of words between leaders of both parties during the last few days. Senior DMK functionaries including former ministers KKSSR Ramachandran and Thangam Thennarasu warned the minister with dire consequences if he continued to level charges against the party president M. K. Stalin and former Union Minister A. Raja. Even as the issue seemed to be put on the back burner on Tuesday as the call for nationwide bandh in support of farmers and the demonstration by doctors hogged the limelight, a fresh quarrel in Ramanathapuram district kept the police on tenterhooks when they attempted to burn the effigies of rival leaders. Though there were very few workers from both parties, tension mounted when they started pelting stones, chappals and vegetables against each other near Aranmanaivasal. A posse of police personnel led by ASP Arvind, DSP Velladurai and teams rushed to the spot and detained them.
09 December 2020||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Collector inspects PHC||Collector Dinesh Ponraj OIiver on Tuesday appealed to the doctors in primary health care centres to diagnose cases with utmost patience and care in view of the rainy days. Visiting the PHC at Thondi, which was recently upgraded, he went around the facility and interacted with the out-patients. He checked stocks of drugs kept in the pharmacy. He said the pandemic was well under control but the credit should be given to healthcare workers and doctors. He underlined the need to be more vigilant as the rainfall had been causing dengue and fever. Later, he inspected the new building coming up at a school in Thiruvadanai panchayat union at a cost of Rs. 17.70 lakh and the compound wall at a cost of Rs. 6.15 lakh under the MGNREGA scheme. The salesman at a ration shop at Vattanam was told to display stock position of all essentials. The district had an average rainfall of 9.69 mm from 16 gauge stations. Mandapam recorded 23 mm, Rameswaram 17.20, Thangachimadam 11.40, Paramakudi and Pamban 10.60 each, Theerthandathanam recorded 21.50 mm.
09 December 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Centre’s move to allow Ayurveda doctors to perform surgeries will promote fake medical practitioners: IMA||Indian Medical Association doctors staged protests at various places here on Tuesday condemning the move by Centre to let doctors from traditional medical stream to conduct surgeries. The IMA along with doctors under Federation of Government Doctors’ Association staged protests infront of the district Collectorate, near Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital and near a private medical college here. In Namakkal, the protests were held in front of government hospitals in Namakkal, Rasipuram, Thiruchengode and Paramathi Vellur. The Allopathy doctors opposed the ‘mixopathy’ move by the Centre and demanded that different practices should be retained as such and both traditional and modern medicine should not be mixed up. According to release, Central Council of Indian Medicine has recently issued regulation for PG studies of Ayurveda and permit Ayurveda doctors to conduct 58 surgeries. The protesters charged that the move would affect the public and it would lead to promotion of fake medical practitioners. The doctors said that modern medicinal practices are growing and treatment under each department is getting more specific and specialised. The doctors said that they would be attending to only emergency and COVID-19 related services between 6 a.m and 6 p.m. on December 11.  Erode Staff Reporter adds:  In Erode, members of Tamil Nadu Government Doctors’ Association staged a demonstration on the District Headquarters Hospital premises. Led by its district president R. Ravichandraprabu, members said that the gazette notification allows postgraduate Ayurvedic practitioners to receive formal training for general surgery, ENT, ophthalmology and dental procedures which will be a grave threat to the people. They said that the system allows mixing several branches of modern medicine, homeopathy and AYUSH which will have a dangerous effect on the health and wanted the notification to be withdrawn.  Special Correspondent from Krishnagiri adds  In Krishnagiri, government doctors affiliated to the Indian Medical Association, Tamil Nadu chapter, staged a token strike outside the government medical college hospital. According to the protesters, “the move towards one system of medical practice called ‘mixopathy’ would be detrimental to public health and hurt the sanctity of the individual system of medicine.”
09 December 2020||SIVAGANGA,TAMIL NADU||Road Safety meeting held||Most of the road accidents reported in the district in the recent past occurred between 6 p.m. and 9 p.m., said Collector P. Madhusudhan Reddy here on Tuesday. Addressing Road Safety meeting, in which Superintendent of Police Rohithnathan Rajagopal was present, he said heightened surveillance and joint patrolling by Police and Transport Department officials might help reduce the number of accidents. With the involvement of all the stakeholders and better awareness of road safety, accidents could be avoided, he added. The meeting discussed the need to study road conditions and called for immediate repairs. After the rains, many stretches had developed potholes, which caused accidents. Immediate repair works could reduce the number of accidents to an extent, officials said. They also insisted on heightened vigil against drunk driving and said breathalysers would be introduced at the Government Hospitals in Sivaganga and Karaikudi soon. They also planned to educate people against giving vehicles to their minor children, who would cause accidents. Self-discipline by vehicle users would save lives and make Sivaganga an accident-free district, Mr. Reddy said.
09 December 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Fresh bout of rain in Thoothukudi||While the stagnant rainwater at several places in the coastal town is yet to be drained, the rain that lashed the town on Tuesday morning made the life miserable as rainwater entered several houses. While there was no significant rainfall in Tirunelveli, Tenkasi and Kanniyakumari districts since Tuesday morning, Thoothukudi had fresh spell to keep the Corporation personnel on tenterhooks once again. As the water woes worsened with one more round of showers on Tuesday morning, the people staged road roko at 7 places demanding immediate steps to drain the knee-deep stagnant water at several places. When the people blocked vehicular traffic at St. Mary’s Colony, Lourdhammalpuram, State Bank Colony, Selvanayagapuram, Ambedkar Nagar, St. Thomas Higher Secondary School and the Fourth Gate area, the officials had tough time in pacifying the protestors. Even as the already stagnant water was yet to be drained, the fresh round of rain on Tuesday compounded the problems further in Chidambara Nagar, Bryant Nagar, Boltonpuram, Masilamani Nagar, Anna Nagar, Tooveypuram, Lourdhammalpuram, Poobalarayarpuram, St. Mary’s Colony, State Bank Colony, KTC Nagar, Selvanayagapuram, Muthammal Colony, P and T Colony, Teachers’ Colony, Kathirvel Nagar, Rajiv Nagar, Caldwell Colony, Vetrivelpuram, Samuelpuram, Chinnakannupuram, Fatima Nagar, Muthiahpuram, Aththimarappatti and Kurinji Nagar where the rainwater entered in good number of houses in some places. The stagnant water at Government Medical College Hospital, district court complex, judges quarters, Commercial Taxes Office, Thoothukudi South Police Station, old and new corporation buildings gave nightmarish experience to the public coming to these places in large number everyday. The rainwater easily entered the houses since the level of the roads has been increased in several places under the ongoing ‘Smart City’ project work. Besides mobilising its men and material, Thoothukudi Corporation has sourced 154 pumps and 19 tankers from Tiruchi and Nagercoil Corporations, Cumbum, Theni, Bodi, Sattur and Aruppukottai municipalities to intensify its intense fight against stagnant rainwater. “Following good showers, groundwater level in the port town has come up close to the top of the surface of the ground. So, even after the stagnant rainwater is pumped out, the rapid groundwater aquifer makes our job tougher,” said a corporation official. Rainfall recorded in the district till 8 a.m. was (in mm): Ettaiyapuram 25, Kayalpattinam and Soorangudi 13 each, Srivaikundam 8, Kovilpatti 7, Thoothukudi 6, Vaippar 5, Kadalkudi and Kayathar 4 each, Sattankulam 3.60, Vilathikulam 3 and Kazhugumalai 2.
09 December 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||1,000 BJP cadres booked||Tiruchendur police have registered a case against 1,000 persons who participated in the closing ceremony of BJP’s ‘Vetrivel Yatra’ held at Tiruchendur on Monday. When the closing ceremony of the Tiruttani-Tiruchendur yatra was organised at a private marriage hall, senior BJP leaders, along with Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan, participated in the event. While the party office-bearers were accommodated inside the marriage hall, over 1,000 cadres had gathered outside the venue in violation of COVID-19 lockdown restrictions. Subsequently, Tiruchendur police registered a case against 1,000 persons, including Thoothukudi South district party president P.M. Paulraj, under Sections 188 (Disobedience to order duly promulgated by public servant) and 269 (unlawfully or negligently does any act which is, and which he knows or has reason to believe to be, likely to spread the infection of any disease dangerous to life) of the Indian Penal Code. Though senior State party leaders had participated in the meeting, none of their names figured in the first information report.
09 December 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||New technology to dispose of sewage collected through phase two of UGD||Sewage collected through Phase II of the underground drainage scheme (UGD), currently under execution in the city, will be treated using Sequential Batch Reactor (SBR) technology, according to Tiruchi Corporation officials. The civic body is setting up a sewage treatment plant (STP) at Keezha Kalkandarkottai on the outskirts of the city at a cost of Rs. 53.3 crore. It will have a capacity of 37 mill litres of sewage a day (MLD). It is part of Rs. 377 crore phase-II underground drainage scheme. The sewage treatment plant is being constructed on 3.14 acres of poramboke land. Under the plan, the treated water will be let into Uyyakondan canal. According to sources, after removal of large floating particles and inert inorganic matter, the sewage will be subjected to a secondary treatment stage, which is a biological treatment process based on SBR technology. “It is a new technology. It operates on volume-based process cycle to achieve the process conditions necessary for carbonaceous oxidation, nitrification, de-nitrification and biological phosphorus removal” S. Sivasbramanian, Commissioner, Tiruchi Corporation. The treated sewage will be disinfected thorugh the chlorination process for removal of pathogenic microorganisms. The sludge accumulated will thicken in the process and subsequently de-watered mechanically and compacted for further disposal. It may be used as manure since the sludge is biologically rich in nutrients, Mr. Sivasubramanian added. According to City Engineer S. Amuthavalli, the work that began in March has gained momentum. Nearly 25% has been completed. The project will be completed by August 2022.
09 December 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||CM sanctions study on pumping Cauvery water to two dams||In a move that would bring cheer to farmers in the drought-prone Manapparai region in Tiruchi district, Chief Minister Edappadi K.Palaniswami on Tuesday announced the sanction of a feasibility study on pumping surplus waters of the Cauvery to Ponnaniyar and Kannuthu Dams to stabilise irrigation in the ayacut areas fed by them. The Chief Minister sanctioned Rs. 40 lakh for the study for the project, which would also meet the drinking water requirements of the areas around the two small dams. Sources in the Ariyar Division of the Public Works Department said the proposal envisaged laying a pipeline to pump surplus water from the Mayanur Barrage on the Cauvery to a distance about 53 km to Ponnaniyar Dam and another 20 km from there to Kannuthu Dam. “The quantum of water to be pumped and other technical details will be finalised based on the study. The plan will broadly be on the lines of Athikadavu-Avinashi Project,” a senior official of the department said. Set in sylvan surroundings, about 66 km from Tiruchi, Ponnaniyar dam is nestled between Perumal Malai and Semmalai. While the dam and its catchment area are located in Karur district, the ayacut area is spread over Mugavanur panchayat and neighbouring villages in Tiruchi district. The dam was built in 1974 and rain flow from Kadavur region forms its main water source. The catchment area is spread over 33.60 sq miles. The dam has a storage capacity of 120 million cubic feet (mcft) and has an aycut of about 2,100 acres in Mugavanur, Sekkanam and Pazhayakottai villages. Kannuthu Dam, another small dam, is situated at Elamanam village in Manapparai taluk. It has a storage capacity of 56.16 mcft and has an ayacut of 734 acres. Over the past several years, both dams have got poor inflows leaving farmers dependent on them for irrigation high and dry. Farmers have long been clamouring for desilting of Ponnaniyar dam and for its canal. Last year, the Public Works Department forwarded a proposal to the government to remove the silt accumulation from the reservoir at an estimated cost of Rs. 17 crore with World Bank assistance. The proposal is yet to get the nod. A few years ag0, the dam was renovated under the Dam Rehabilitation and Improvement Project (DRIP) funded by World Bank. Various parts of the dam structure were repaired and strengthened at a cost of about Rs. 2.50 crore as part of the rehabilitation and improvement works. The Chief Minister’s announcement came as a pleasant surprise to farmers of the region. Welcoming the announcement, Ayilai Siva Suriyan, district secretary, Tamil Nadu Vivasayigal Sangam, affiliated to the CPI, pointed out the region was drought-prone almost right through the year and was fully dependent on rain. “With the repeated monsoon failure, the area had faced severe scarcity of even drinking water in recent years. The project, if executed will help meet the drinking water and irrigation requirements,” Mr. Ayilai Siva Suriyan added.
09 December 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Surplus water from Amaravathi dam reaches Karur||The surplus water being released from Amaravathi dam reached Karur on Monday. This is the second time within three months that the water from the dam has flowed beyond Karur in the river. According to Public Works Department sources, 15,200 cusecs of water was realised near Amaravathi bridge in the town on Monday. The same quantum of flow continued throughout the day on Tuesday too. The residents of Karur and those living along the upper reach of the Amaravathi river witnessed the flow of water and expressed joy in seeing the full flow. Many of them took selfies. It was said that the entire inflow into the dam was being released after it reached the maximum level of 90 feet. About 6,000 cusecs were released from the dam on Tuesday morning. Moreover, Palaru and a few other branches of the Amaravathi river were in spate and the water was joined in the river at various points. An PWD official said the catchment area of the Amaravathi dam received rain on Tuesday too. Hence, the current inflow in the river would be maintained for at least four days. The water release would benefit paddy raised on about 13,000 acres in Karur district.
09 December 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Absence of bridge course a big loss for freshers||Disruption of academic schedule this year due to pandemic lockdown has meant start of first year classes in colleges without the usual bridge course. Teachers across subject majors acknowledge that absence of bridge course deemed essential particularly for students from rural parts to acclimatise themselves to teaching-learning sessions in English would have an adverse impact. Only a handful of colleges have attempted to integrate bridge courses into online classes, and the experimentation has been partially successful, says G. Balakrishnan, former Vice-Principal of St. Joseph's College, an expert in bridge course. “Bridge course signifies many things: it means bridging school and college environments, rural and urban mindsets, Tamil and English, and most of all, the course is what bridges diffidence and confidence,” Mr. Balakrishnan explained. In the Indian context, the bridge course enables students to get a sense of direction of graded tasks in listening, reading, writing and speaking. “If listening is the foundation for speaking, reading becomes the basis for writing. There is, of course, no alternative to real time trainer-learner interface, but then it becomes important to devise new methods to integrate bridge course into the college studies,” he pointed out. Under the present circumstances, when none know for sure about the start of regular classes for first year students, it is quite a possibility for colleges to conduct bridge courses online for students in batches of 50 or 60 under constant monitoring of teachers, he added. Rural students are missing the utility of the bridge courses, and something needs to be done to remedy the situation, S. Ayyampillai, former Professor of Economics, Bharathidasan University, and presently Coordinator - Student Empowerment, Alagappa University, Karaikudi, said. The bridge courses are not just about English language; students feel motivated when resource persons talk about matters beyond the purview of their subjects. It develops the lateral thinking of students at the very outset and broadens their perspective about the world outside the confines of educational institutions, Mr. Ayyampillai said.
09 December 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||134 new cases in central districts||A total of 134 fresh cases of COVID-19 and the death of one patient were reported in central districts on Tuesday. The maximum number of cases in the region was reported in Tiruvarur district with 29 patients testing positive for the virus followed by 25 each in Tiruchi and Nagappattinam districts. There were 23 new cases in Thanjavur and 17 in Pudukottai. Karur and Ariyalur districts recorded 12 and three cases, respectively. No new case was reported in Perambalur district. A total of 139 patients, who had been receiving treatment at various hospitals in central districts, were discharged on Tuesday. A 48-year-old woman, who was admitted to Tiruvarur Medical College Hospital on November 30, died of COVID pneumonia and acute respiratory distress syndrome. She was under treatment for type-II diabetes mellitus for some time before admission.
09 December 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Man dies as school wall collapses||A 45-year-old man died after a portion of a compound wall of a private school collapsed and fell on his house at Kottapatti in Manapparai police station limits early on Tuesday. Police identified the victim as P. Selvakumar. His wife Rasathi, 40, sustained injury in the leg. Police sources said Selvakumar stayed with his wife and five children in a tiled house situated close to the private middle school. The family was asleep when a portion of the compound wall of the school collapsed apparently due to recent rain and fell on Selvakumar’s house. As a result, the wall of the house collapsed and fell on Selvakumar and his wife. While Selvakumar died on the spot, his wife sustained injury on the right leg and was admitted to Manapparai Government Hospital. Police and firefighters rushed to the spot on receipt of information to carry out rescue operation. The sources said Selvakumar's second son, Mohanvel, later preferred a complaint with Manapparai police seeking action against the school for the incident leading to the death of his father. A section of public led by BJP Manapparai town secretary Kannan staged a road roko at Manapparai seeking action against the school authorities and demanding compensation for the family of the victim. Police and revenue officials held discussions with the protesters who later left the spot.
09 December 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Tiruchi trust launches meal scheme||Nanba Charitable Trust on Tuesday launched an affordably priced noon meal scheme catering to daily wager workers and others near Gandhi Market as part of its social welfare activities. Inaugurated by Minister of Tourism Vellamandi Natarajan at Chamber of Commerce on Madurai Road, the programme had Ravindrakumar of Agasthiyar Annadhanam as chief guest. “Nanba Trust was started by a group of old students of Campion School to feed poor people with breakfast during lockdown. While we are continuing this service daily, reaching out to the homeless, street dwellers and senior citizens in various parts of the city, we have decided to provide freshly cooked noon meals priced at Rs. 10 in Gandhi Market area,” said Mohan Ekambaram, Trust member, said in a press statement. The inaugural event also marked the milestone of the trust’s feeding of 1 lakh people during the lockdown, and the birthday of JJL Gnanraj, president, Tiruchi Chamber of Commerce, he said. The vegetarian meal would be cooked by the trust’s catering team, and served fresh to customers. Take-aways would not be allowed.
09 December 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Poor response to bandh call||Normal life here was not hit on Tuesday by the ‘Bharat Bandh’ called in support of farmers protesting against the Farm Acts in New Dehli as almost all shops remained open even as the public transport was operated as usual. High drama prevailed in front of Reliance Super Market at Vannarpet when Congress cadre, led by party’s Tirunelveli city district president K. Sankarapandian, tried to forcibly close down the shop as part of their protest. Though the police thwarted the attempt, heated argument erupted between the protesters and the law-enforcers, who detained 24 persons. When the Left parties and trade unions of the transport corporation staged demonstration and road roko at Gandhi Statue, Vannarpet and Melapaalyam Corner, the police arrested 159 protesters. In the evening, the Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation personnel staged a demonstration at Thiyagaraja Nagar. Left party cadre staged demonstrations and blocked roads at Cheranmahadevi, Valliyoor, Ambasamudram, Mukkoodal and Radhapuram, where 240 persons, including 65 women, were arrested. Traders of Gandhi Market in Palayamkottai downed shutters of their shops. Most of the shops that transacted business as usual had tied ‘green flags’ in front of their shops marking support to the protesting farmers. The ‘bandh’ did not have any impact on normal life in Tenkasi district as all the shops remained open and buses were operated as usual. As the Left parties organised demonstration in front of Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited office, the police arrested 56 protesters. In the similar agitations conducted at Shencottai, Sankarankovil, Aayikudi, Surandai, Kadayam and Marudhamputhur, the police arrested 412 protesters. The Bharat Bandh did not have much impact on the inter-State transport operations between Kanniyakumari and Kerala. As polling for the civic polls were on in the neighbouring State on Tuesday, the strike call did not enjoy rousing response there. In Kanniyakumari also, the transport corporation workers turned up for duty after staging demonstration in front of all 12 depots on Tuesday morning. “Since the employees had been warned of stringent action if they chose to participate in the strike, all of us worked on Tuesday after staging demonstration in front of the depots,” said the trade union leaders. In Thoothukudi, the Opposition parties organised road rokos at 14 places in which 1,224 persons were arrested. While 87 persons were detained in Thoothukudi city, 230 persons were arrested in Tiruchendur when they, led by MLA Anita R. Radhakrishnan, staged a road roko near the bus stand. In Puthiyamputhoor, Ottapidaram MLA Shanmugaiah was arrested along with 105 others. When the DMK, MDMK and the Left party cadre tried to disrupt rail traffic at Kovilpatti railway station, the police arrested them.
09 December 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Doctors stage demonstration||Scores of members of Indian Medical Association staged a protest here on Tuesday against the move to allow Ayurveda doctors perform select surgeries. The protest, led by Virudhunagar district branch of IMA secretary D. Aram and president M.A. Bose, expressed concern over the quality of training that could be imparted to Ayurveda doctors on surgeries based on modern scientific medicine. “These days not even MBBS doctors perform surgeries, though they have exposure to surgeries. Only those undergo Master of Surgery in general surgery are doing surgeries. Things have gone to such an extent that super-speciality doctors are preferred for surgeries,” Dr. Aram said. “If this is the situation, how can a postgraduate in Ayurveda with mere training on surgeries for a limited period of time can perform a safe surgery?” he wondered. Modern scientific medicine in India is a mixture of best practices of the world medicine. “It has developed so much so that even patients from developed countries prefer treatment in India for its efficiency, accessibility and cost-effectiveness,” he added. Office-bearers of IMA from Sivakasi and Rajapalayam branches Dr. Jawaharlal, Dr. Ganesan, Dr. Shanmugarajan and Dr. Venkatasubramanian took part.
09 December 2020||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Jewellery go missing||Police have started probe into the “mysterious missing” of gold ornaments offered by devotees to two temples in Papanasam. When an audit of gold ornaments offered by devotees to Sivanthiyappar Temple and Papanasa Swami Temple was conducted recently, it was found that Rs. 20 lakh-worth valuables were found to be missing. Based on a complaint from Executive Officer of the temple, Jeganathan, Vickramasingapuram police are investigating
09 December 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Man killed by elephant||A 52-year-old man was killed by a wild elephant near Srimadurai in Gudalur on Tuesday. Forest department officials identified the deceased as Mani, a resident of the area. He had reportedly gone into a small patch of forest with another person to collect firewood, when he accidentally crossed paths with an elephant, which attacked and killed him.
09 December 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM/COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||NMR chartered service raises apprehension over privatisation||Following the circulation of photos of a privately chartered Nilgiri Mountain Railway (NMR) train recently on social media, residents across the Nilgiris and a few Members of Parliament from the State have voiced their disapproval of the “corporatisation” of the train service. However, the Salem Division of the Southern Railway has denied that the NMR services has been privatised. The NMR services were stopped in March due to the COVID-19 lockdown and have not resumed for the public yet. However, on Saturday and Sunday, a restaurant chain, based out of Karamadai in Coimbatore district, operated the NMR train from Mettupalayam to Udhagamandalam as a two-way chartered service, advertising that the ticket fare was Rs. 3,000 for one way. In contrast, the first-class ticket for the regular NMR train services cost Rs. 600 and the second-class ticket cost Rs. 295, according to the revised fare announced by Salem Division that came into effect on March 1 this year. R. Ranjith, a resident of Udhagamandalam town, said the NMR was part of the Nilgiris’ heritage, and that pictures of the train being decked out with the branding of a private entity on the locomotive seemed completely out of place. Founder of the Heritage Steam Chariot Trust, K. Natrajan agrees that the branding on the train was in poor taste. But, he said, he believed that there were no plans to privatise the NMR. “Enthusiasts like myself are in constant touch with the officials from the Southern Railway, all of whom have assured me that there are no such plans,” said Mr. Natrajan.  In a statement on Sunday, Coimbatore MP P.R. Natarajan accused the Southern Railway of handing over the NMR train to a private firm. On Monday, Madurai MP Su. Venkatesan also alleged in a Facebook post that this was part of the privatisation of various train services by Indian Railways. Southern Railway Mazdoor Union Divisional Secretary (Salem Division) M. Govindan on Tuesday questioned as to why the Southern Railway allowed a private firm to operate the train when it can resume the regular services. The Salem Division of the Southern Railway issued a clarification on Sunday that the chartered special trains will not have “any bearing on the regular NMR services” and that the regular NMR services are yet to resume. A Salem Division official from the NMR section told The Hindu on Tuesday that the private firm was charged around Rs. 4.9 lakh a trip as decided by the Southern Railway. The chartered train will have 13 trips from December 5 to January 3, 2021 operating mostly on weekends, out of which two trips have already been completed, he said. Another railway official on conditions of anonymity said that even if the Railway Board authorises resumption of NMR train services in the coming days, the chartered train services may continue. Regarding the high ticket cost, he said that the Southern Railway cannot control the ticket fare in chartered train services. Rubbishing allegations of privatisation, the official said that the private party has only “hired” the NMR train on a “day-to-day basis” as the firm is required to pay in advance before each trip.
09 December 2020||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Vellore records 28 new cases of COVID-19||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 19,641, with 28 new cases reported on Tuesday. While a total of 18,976 persons have recovered, the active cases in the district stood at 330 . The district’s death toll is 335. In Ranipet district, six new cases were reported, taking the total to 15,700. In Tirupathur district, the total number of positive cases stood at 7,320, with eight new cases on Tuesday. In Tiruvannamalai district, 19 new cases were reported, taking the total number of cases to 18,802. Out of this, 18,381 have recovered and the number of active cases stood at 145 .
09 December 2020||December 09 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||IMA stages demonstrations against ‘mixopathy’||Members of Indian Medical Association (IMA) and allied organisations staged demonstrations in Coimbatore, Tiruppur and the Nilgiris districts on Tuesday condemning ‘mixopathy’. State secretary of IMA Tamil Nadu branch A.K. Ravikumar participated in the demonstrations, held between noon and 2 p.m., at seven locations in Coimbatore city, including outside the IMA Coimbatore Branch office on Syrian Church Road, the Head Post Office on Goods Shed Road and a few private medical colleges. Around 100 members participated in each of these demonstrations, Dr. Ravikumar said. These demonstrations were meant to create awareness among the public about the proposal by the NITI Aayog to integrate all systems of medicine such as AYUSH and modern medicine into one system termed ‘mixopathy’. He also demanded that the Central government should withdraw the notification that could allow Ayurveda graduates to perform 58 kinds of surgeries. “We are not opposing any system of medicine. We want purity of system,” Dr. Ravikumar said. Members of Tamil Nadu Government Doctors Association (TNGDA) also staged demonstrations at the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital and ESI Hospital. According to TNGDA State secretary and Coimbatore district president N. Ravishankar, the demonstrations were held only between 12.30 p.m. and 1 p.m. by adhering to the COVID-19 safety protocol. In Tiruppur, the IMA members staged a demonstration outside Tiruppur Railway Station. IMA Tiruppur president A.M. Palanisamy warned that the IMA would go on a 24-hour nationwide strike from 6 a.m. on December 11, suspending all treatments except for COVID-19 and other emergency treatments, if the Centre did not meet their demands regarding withdrawal of ‘mixopathy’. The Nilgiris-based doctors submitted a memorandum to the Collector voicing their opposition to the government’s notification amending the postgraduate Ayurveda education regulations. The memorandum, signed by Dr. Suresh Babu, president of the Indian Medical Association, the Nilgiris, and Dr. V. Balasubramaniam, secretary, stated that the Central Council of Indian Medicine notification would allow ayurveda graduates to perform surgeries, “which includes technically competent procedures.” “All these steps are towards one system of medical practice ‘mixopathy’, which will be detrimental to the public. The sanctity of the individual system of medicine gets diluted and will be lost. In the current state of advances in the medical science… the current policy of ‘mixopathy’ degrades the Indian healthcare system,” the memorandum stated. It also added that the “common public are not scapegoats to do research on them thrusting the ‘mixopathy’ system on them and snatching away their right to choose the system of medicine they want to follow.”
09 December 2020||December 09 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Opposition-led protests, arrests mark bandh||The ‘Bharat Bandh’ called by farmers’ unions and supported by Opposition parties on Tuesday against the three new farm laws witnessed a slew of protests in the form of road rokos and demonstrations by the Left parties, DMK, Congress and farmers’ organisations across the central region. Normal life remained unaffected as shops and business establishments remained opened in Tiruchi. Government and private buses were operated. However, traders in some parts of Ariyalur and Pudukottai districts downed shutters to express solidarity with farmers staging a protest in New Delhi against the new farm laws. In Tiruchi district, road rokos were reported at 16 places, including Uppiliapuram, Thuraiyur, Lalgudi, Tiruverambur, Thuvarankurichi, Manachanallur and Somarasampet, leading to the arrest of over 900 members belonging to the Left parties and the DMK. In Tiruchi city, the road rokos were held at Srirangam and Central Bus Stand. Over 400 members were arrested. The agitation at Central Bus Stand was organised by the DMK, Congress and Left parties. Over 1,200 members belonging to the parties were arrested at 13 places in Pudukottai district including Kothamangalam, Keeramangalam, Ponnamaravathi, Thirumayam and Uranipuram. They included DMK Alangudi MLA Siva Meiyyanathan and DMK Thirumayam MLA S. Regupathy. In Ariyalur district, 119 cadre of the Left parties were arrested at Jayamkondam and Andimadam. Farmers belonging to Vivasaya Sangangalin Kootamaippu staged a demonstration in Ariyalur Town. Police sources said some shops in Jayamkondam, Andimadam and Meensuriti were closed. The road roko at the new bus stand in Perambalur Town led to the arrest of over 100 members of the Left parties and the DMK. A demonstration was organised by Tamil Nadu Vivasaya Thozhilalar Sangam in Kunnam in Perambalur district. About 200 members of Labour Progressive Federation assembled in front of Mayiladuthurai Bus Stand by noon to stage a road roko. Some shops in the area and surroundings in the town were closed as a section of traders feared trouble. However, no trade organisation called for closure of shops, sources said. On their part, advocates supportive of BJP reached out to traders with an appeal to keep the shops open. In Nagapattinam town and surroundings, there was partial response from traders to the bandh call. At five to six places, protests were held on the roadside by members of trade unions affiliated to Communist parties. Road blockade at Sikkal by protesters was cleared immediately, sources said. Thanjavur, Tiruvarur The cadre of Opposition parties were arrested in Tiruvarur and Thanjavur when they attempted to block vehicular traffic in different parts of the districts. All were released in the evening. At Mannargudi, the demonstration was led by DMK treasurer T.R. Baalu. Mannargudi MLA T.R.B. Rajaa and CPI State committee member Selvaraj participated. In Tiruvarur, Tiruvarur MLA Poondi Kalaivanan, V. Sivapunniyam, G. Sundaramoorthy, district secretaries of DMK, CPI and CPI(M), respectively, jointly led the demonstration held on Thanjavur-Nagapattinam Road near New Bus Stand. Similar demonstrations were held at 20 places in the district, including Tiruvarur and Mannargudi, where more than 1,000 persons were arrested on charges of staging demonstrations without permission and thereby causing inconvenience to the public. In Thanjavur, the demonstrations were held at Thanjavur, Madukkur, Orathanadu, Kumbakonam, Budalur, Vallam, Pattukottai and other places. At Thanjavur, the demonstration was led by Thanjavur DMK North district secretary Durai Chandrasekaran. More than 3,000 persons were arrested in Thanjavur district as they staged road rokos at 48 places, police said. While a section of traders and businessmen kept their shops closed during the day in Tiruvarur and Thanjavur districts, it was business as usual for others. Private-operated public transport such as autorickshaws and vans, mofussil and mini-bus services of the Opposition party-affiliated unions remained off the road whereas TNSTC buses continued to ply.
09 December 2020||December 09 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Bharat Bandh: many shops down shutters, political parties stage protests||The Bharat Bandh on Tuesday, called by farmers’ organisations demanding repeal of the three farm laws, saw several commercial establishments in Coimbatore and Tiruppur districts downing shutters in the morning and protests by political parties. However, hotels, industries, and vegetable and flower markets functioned as usual and there was no disruption in bus service. Sources said the support for the Bharat Bandh was almost total in Singanallur and Hope College Junction in Coimbatore, where members of political parties supporting the strike had asked shop owners to down shutters. A Congress leader said the party workers went around Hope College Junction asking shop owners to extend support. In the core business district, the daily vegetable market, T.K. Market, remained opened and so were the wholesale, MGR Market, and retail, Anna Market. About 50 % of the micro industries had stopped production. Several shops had downed shutters in the morning hours and resumed business in the afternoon. Members of the Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) staged a road roko outside the Coimbatore Railway Station. They raised slogans demanding the withdrawal of the three farm laws. Following the road roko, the Race Course police arrested about 71 SDPI members and released them in the evening. The DMK that had planned for a protest did not hold one, said sources. Marumalarchi Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam cadre led by the party’s Coimbatore urban unit secretary R.R. Mohankumar staged a protest in front of the party office on V.K.K. Menon Road. Left party members staged a protest at Hope College. At Annur, Coimbatore MP PR Natarajan led the protest. An official from the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation said bus services were not affected. A total of 463 town buses and 240 mofussil buses were operated in Coimbatore district on Tuesday, he said. President of Coimbatore District Association of All Auto Rickshaw Workers Union P.K. Sukumaran claimed that around 8,000 autorickshaws were off the roads in the city from 6 a.m. in response to the Bandh. However, the drivers gradually resumed the services in the afternoon, he said. According to Coimbatore District Police, around 301 members from various parties and outfits were detained for staging road rokos in the district and were released later. In Periyanaickenpalayam, the police detained four DMK men who were allegedly forcing shop owners to shut their establishments in the area. They were later released. The Tiruppur City Police said that around 65% of the commercial establishments downed shutters in the morning and resumed functioning after 2 p.m. As many as 600 police personnel were deployed within the city police limits, particularly at Central government offices, railway station and other public places, the police said. The city police also conducted inquiries regarding allegations of CPI members forcing a garment company in Angeripalayam to close for the Bandh. The CPI members staged a dharna outside and the garment company agreed to close till the afternoon, according to the police. Parts of Tiruppur district such as Dharapuram and Kangeyam also saw most of the shops and other establishments remaining closed on Tuesday morning. In the Nilgiris, protesters belonging to Opposition parties staged protests at 14 places. Police officials said that protests were held in Udhagamandalam, Coonoor, Kotagiri, Gudalur and Pandalur, with around 200 protesters being arrested. There was no major disruptions caused by the protests which continued throughout the day. Many shops and businesses in Udhagamandalam, Kotagiri and Coonoor remained opened, but there was almost a complete shutdown in Gudalur town, officials said. Most of the shops in the Ooty Municipal Market too remained opened.  (With inputs from Karthik Madhavan, R. Akileish, M. Soundariya Preetha and Rohan Premkumar)
09 December 2020||December 09 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore reports 122 cases||Erode reported 44 new cases, taking the district’s tally to 12,806. While 55 persons were discharged, 378 persons continue to be under treatment. Of the 64 cases reported in Salem, 54 were indigenous including 37 in the Corporation limits. Ten persons returned from Namakkal, Dharmapuri and Erode. An 86-year-old man died of the disease. Namakkal saw 23 cases and two patients returned from Salem and Perambalur. Krishnagiri reported 20 cases and 22 persons were discharged. The total number of active cases stood at 163 and the overall tally 7,540. Dharmapuri reported 10 cases and 11 discharges. The total number of active cases stood at 131 and the overall tally 6,186 cases. Coimbatore district reported one COVID-19 death and 122 cases on Tuesday, taking the overall tally to 49,820. A 60-year-old woman died, taking the district’s toll to 622, the Health Department said. Of the 49,820 cases, 876 were active cases. On Tuesday, 112 patients were discharged. Tiruppur reported 73 fresh cases and the district’s tally stood at 15,924. No deaths were reported on Tuesday. A total of 15,164 persons recovered so far and 549 patients were active cases. Tiruppur district reported 211 deaths so far. As many as 64 patients were discharged. In the Nilgiris, 12 persons tested positive and the total number of confirmed cases stood at 7,605. The toll in the district stood at 42.
09 December 2020||December 09 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Five-year jail term for youth||The Additional Mahila Court, Tiruvarur, has awarded five years of imprisonment to Rajeswaran, 20, of Ubayavedapuram near Nannilam after he was found guilty of sexually assaulting a minor girl in the same area. The accused was alleged to have sexually assaulted a 11-year-old girl in Ubayavedapuram in January last and was subsequently arrested.
09 December 2020||December 09 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||In support of farmers||
09 December 2020||December 09 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||engagements||ERODE   Carmel Matriculation Higher Secondary School: Christmas celebrations, Johnson Valiyakulathil, Vicar Provincial, Preshitha Province, Coimbatore, chief guest, 9 a.m.
09 December 2020||December 09 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Pollachi||Sankara College of Science and Commerce: Orientation programme on “Nutrition for Lifestyle”, Google Hangouts Meet, 10 a.m.  AEPC and Tukatech: Webinar on ‘Cutting Room Engineering in garment Industries’, 11 a.m.   COCOMANS: Talk on Central and State government schemes for coir manufacturers, B. Karthigaivasan, DIC GM, chief guest, Sakthi Hotel, 5.30 p.m.
09 December 2020||Afshan YasmeenBengaluru,KARNATAKA||Karnataka’s MR experience handy for COVID-19 vaccination||Based on its experience during the combined Measles-Rubella (MR) immunisation campaign in 2017 wherein 1.58 crore children were covered in two months, Karnataka is well-placed to implement the COVID-19 vaccination programme, said experts on Tuesday. Participating in a webinar on ‘COVID-19 and Vaccine’ organised by the Press Information Bureau, Lokesh Alahari, Sub Regional Team Leader - Karnataka, WHO India (National Polio Surveillance Project), said Karnataka has good vaccine storage and cold chain facilities with 2,855 cold chain points and 10 walk-in-coolers and four walk-in-freezers. “The State was able to store and utilise nearly 1.8 crore MR vaccine doses supplied by the Centre in two months because of these facilities. Also, during the MR immunisation drive, the injectable vaccine had to be reconstituted with a diluent. And, for this dry storage facilities for diluents and syringes were also scientifically set up. All these will come handy for the COVID-19 vaccination,” said Dr. Lokesh, who is also a member of the State’s COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee (TAC). A majority of the 10,000 vaccinators identified by the State for the vaccination are those who had carried out the MR campaign as they are already trained. Communication strategy The MR campaign was marred by initial hiccups wherein there was a lot of hesitancy from parents to get their children immunised. However, these hurdles were resolved with active involvement of the private sector and medical professional bodies. Similarly, an aggressive communication strategy should be adopted for the COVID-19 vaccination. “Although there will be vaccine eagerness initially, there can be vaccine hesitancy even if there is one serious adverse event (related or unrelated). If such a situation arises, we may have to build confidence among people,” Dr. Lokesh pointed out. Election-booth approach The vaccination process will be based on an election-booth approach. Each booth will have two vaccinators, one assistant for maintaining data and records, one assistant for logistics, and two or three people for crowd management. “People will be registered and vaccinated in the jurisdiction of their residence. Although voter ID cards or Aadhaar cards are not mandatory, people need to have some identity proof, like even a college ID will be fine for MBBS students,” said Dr. Lokesh. Possible adverse events It is likely that vaccination will be associated with mild adverse events like soreness at the injection site, fever, fatigue, and myalgias, said Shashi Bhushan B.L., professor and head of the department of Pulmonary Medicine at Victoria Hospital, Bangalore Medical College and Research Institute. “More serious reactions, such as otherwise unexplained neurological or inflammatory processes, would raise concerns. We will have to watch out for that,” he said. Clinicians should also understand the basics of how different vaccines perform and, if more than one is available, be able to recommend the best for a given patient, he said. “No vaccine will be 100% effective and a vaccine that protects against developing clinical illness may not prevent transmission to others. Also, the duration of naturally occurring immunity to infection with severe SARS-CoV-2 is unknown and may wane with time. Therefore, the likely duration of protection by new COVID-19 vaccines is unknown.” Dr. Bhushan added.  It is likely that the vaccination will be associated with mild adverse events like soreness at the injection site, fever, fatigue, and myalgias. Shashi Bhushan B.L.professor and HOD, Pulmonary Medicine at Victoria Hospital, BMCRI
09 December 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Belagavi LS bypolls: Only a few seekers for Cong. ticket||M.B. Patil, former Home Minister and chairman of the Congress committee to scout a candidate for Belagavi Lok Sabha bypolls, held a meeting of his committee in Belagavi recently and declared that the party had dozens of aspirants. But few believed him. Even his followers and long-time Congress workers were skeptical. Party workers confide that there are fewer seekers of the party ticket, compared to the Bharatiya Janata Party. Sympathy for Suresh C. Angadi, the late Union Minister of State for Railways whose death necessitated the bypoll, and a perceived pro-Modi wave in the district may cripple chances of other party candidates, they say. Siddaramaiah, Leader of Opposition and KPCC chief D.K. Shivakumar held a meeting with senior members and hopefuls in Bengaluru on December 7 to review the situation. They discussed various issues like caste matrix, image of candidates, and chances of victory of various candidates. Congress sources say the KPCC has shortlisted 12 candidates, including Satish Jarkiholi, KPCC working president, and Channaraj Hattiholi, brother of Laxmi Hebbalkar, MLA. “When Mr. Angadi died, the general impression was that the BJP would field his wife or daughter to benefit from the sympathy wave. But when BJP leaders started giving out signals that the family may not get the ticket, then there was some excitement in Congress circles. But that did not translate into a large number of candidates. Now we may be left with only three or four aspirants,” a Congress leader said. Mr. Jarkiholi is said to be desirous of cultivating the image of a pan-India Scheduled Tribes leader. Mr. Hattiholi is hopeful of support from Mr. Shivakumar, who treats his sister as his protege. Anil Lad, Maratha leader and former MP who also has been shortlisted, is banking on the large Maratha vote in the six Assembly seats in the Belagavi Lok Sabha constituency. The names of Prakash Hukkeri, former Minister, Mahantesh Koujalagi, MLA, and V.S. Sadhunavar, KLE society director, may also be considered, say party insiders. The committee headed by Mr. Patil is scheduled to hold another three rounds of meetings.
09 December 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Repealing laws only solution: ex-Minister||Babagouda Patil, former Union Minister, on Tuesday joined the farmers’ protest and addressed the protesters at Rani Channamma Circle. Mr. Patil, who was Minister of State for Rural Development in the Atal Behari Vajpayee government, said there was no need for talks with the Union Ministers as repealing the farm laws was the only solution. “The Union government should repeal the three farm laws. The Karnataka government should also repeal its amendment to the land revenue Act, that allows companies to buy unlimited amount of land. There is no compromise on this. We will continue to protest till these demands are met,” he said. He said all senior leaders from the Centre, including Prime Minister Narendra Modi, have been claiming that these amendments will benefit farmers. “I ask them to explain what they mean by that. I request Mr. Modi and other Ministers to tell how they think that these laws will help us,” he said. “Neither is Mr. Modi is a farmer nor is Home Minister Amit Shah. I am a real farmer and I know their pain. As a child, I have thrown stones at mango trees and not chanted hymns to get mangoes down to the ground,” he said, paraphrasing a Kannada proverb. He said that if the PM was really concerned about the alleged exploitation of farmers in the hands of middlemen, he should have reformed the APMC system by reducing the cess and building storage infrastructure in the public and cooperative sector. “But Mr. Modi is only interested in enriching his few corporate friends who have funded his party,” Mr. Patil said. He demanded making minimum support price andatory even for private buyers. “The Karnataka amendment to allow natural persons and companies to buy unlimited amount of land will affect the country’s food security. Big companies who buy farm land may never use it for cultivation and no one will be able to question them. Land owning farmers will become labourers in their own lands,” he said. He claimed the world was laughing at India for removing food items from the Essential Commodities Act. “In doing so, the government has played a cruel joke on the country’s poor. It has negated the fundamental right to food that the citizens have enjoyed,” he added. He said the Centre introduced the amendments through ordinances, without consulting either farmers or State governments, as its intentions were not honourable.
09 December 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Freedom fighter dead||Maribasamma Shivalingappa Kanthi, freedom fighter and wife of former Chief Minister S.R. Kanthi, died here on Tuesday. She was 103 years old. She was admitted to the KLE hospital for age-related illness, family sources said. She hailed from Ilkal in undivided Bijapur district. Her final rites will be performed in Ilkal.
09 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Bengaluru sees many protests on bandh day||Though the response to Bharat Bandh on Tuesday against the recently passed farm laws was mixed in the State - with life in Bengaluru in particular going on as usual - the day was marked by widespread protests by farmer organisations, a host of civil society organisations and political opposition. Farmers across the State blocked highways at multiple points, stopped public transport in certain districts and cooked on the streets as a mark of protest. There was also considerable anger against the State government over the amendments to Karnataka Land Reforms Act and Karnataka APMC Act. Slogans condemning Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa also rang the air, besides opposition to the Union government and Prime Minister Narendra Modi. The response to the bandh call was more pronounced in northern parts such as Kalyana Karnataka and Mumbai Karnataka districts than in the southern parts. Life was mostly unaffected in the coastal districts and Bengaluru. All Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) yards remained closed across the State. The farm laws allow private players to set up mandis, which is feared to kill APMCs in a few years. Protesting farmers stopped public transport in Kalaburagi, Bidar, Koppal, Gangavathi and several other pockets of Kalyana Karnataka, Belagavi, Hubballi-Dharwad and Haveri among other districts. However, public transport remained unaffected in Mysuru, Bengaluru, Mangaluru and other districts. Taxis, autorickshaws and other modes of transport functioned normally across the State. However, commuters remained thin across the State. Commercial establishments were only partially closed in Kalaburagi, Belagavi, Mysuru and Hubballi, while the bandh call did not have any effect elsewhere. Several people including agriculture economist Prakash Kammaradi, farmer leaders Kuruburu Shantakumar and Badagalpura Nagendra were detained by the police in Bengaluru on Tuesday evening as they staged a flash protest against the Legislative Council passing the Karnataka Land Reforms (Amendment) Act, 2020. “On the one hand, the Prime Minister speaks of doubling farmers’ income and claims he is a farmer’s leader. But on the other hand, they pass anti-farmer laws. The farmers have awakened now,” said G.C. Bayyareddy, State convenor, All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee, at one of the protests. Farmers protested against farm laws also by dumping produce on the streets, for instance in Kolar. M. Ramesh, a serviceman, joined the farmer’s protest in Hubballi, in uniform. Being a farmer’s son he wanted to support the agitation, he told mediapersons. The police detained him. Former Union Minister in Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s Cabinet and former BJP MP Babagouda Patil joined the farmer’s stir in Belagavi. Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president D.K. Shivakumar joined a farmer’s rally by Karnataka Rajya Raita Sangha at Town Hall in Bengaluru. Several leaders from Congress, left parties, trade unions and Dalit organisations joined the protests across the State. Though the JD(S) supported the bandh call, it did not actively take part in the bandh and protests.  Farmers to stage ‘barukolu chalavali’ Karnataka Rajya Raita Sangha and other farmer organisations will stage a rally carrying whips used to guide oxen while ploughing, calling it ‘Barukolu Chalavali’. The rally will start from Krantiveera Sangolli Rayanna Railway Station and attempt to lay siege on Vidhana Soudha. The protest comes in the wake of Legislative Council passing amendments to Karnataka Land Reforms Act, that deregulates buying and selling of agricultural land in the State, on Tuesday. “The whip farmers use is not a weapon, but is an instrument to correct. Given the anti-farmer laws, both Union and State governments have brought in and are adamant of the same despite opposition from farmers, it is high time we use the cane to our governments and correct them,” said Kodihalli Chandrashekhar, president, KRRS. Meanwhile, Karnataka Rakshana Vedike will also hold a rally from Kempegowda statue at Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) and submit a memorandum to the governor of the State, and through him the president of the country to not give their approval for anti-farmer laws.
09 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Property owners vexed by rule on betterment charges, development cess||K. Ramkumar sought permission from the civic body in January 2020 for adding a room to his house in Girinagar, which is built on a 40X60 site. He got approval and paid a fee of Rs. 30,000. However, COVID-19 and the lockdown happened, and he could not go ahead with the plan. On November 11 , he was shocked to receive a notice from the civic body saying that he has to pay betterment fee and development cess, as per a new amendment to the Karnataka Town and Country Planning Act, 1961. The amount comes up to Rs. 2.19 lakh. Having paid Rs. 30,000 earlier this year, he was told to pay the remaining Rs. 1.89 lakh in the next seven days or face legal action. He is not alone. Several property owners who have already paid betterment charges and development cess to redevelop or renovate their properties are being served notices seeking both charges running into several lakhs. “I don’t understand this. We had paid betterment charges earlier when our house was built. Then why is the civic body asking us to pay it again? Paying Rs. 2.19 lakh to add a room to my house is simply unviable,” Mr. Ramkumar said. The confusion stems from the recent notification of the amendment to KTCP Act, 1961 on hiking plan sanction fee, betterment charges and development cess. The way the notification is worded suggests that property owners need to pay betterment charges not just when they are developing the property for the first time, but also when renovating or redeveloping it, say civic officials. Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad has written to the Urban Development Department (UDD) seeking clarity on the issue, a copy of which is available with The Hindu . Even as the UDD is yet to clear the air, BBMP officials on the ground have begun serving notices asking property owners to pay the charges for renovation and redevelopment, leading to anxiety and confusion. As per the new rules, betterment charges are now fixed as a ‘percentage of market value per square metre of the plot’ — 0.5% for residential, 1% for industrial and 1.5% for commercial purposes — and development cess in the range of 0.1 - 0.5% of the market value of the land, unlike before when it was a fixed rate and not linked to the market value of the property. The betterment charges and development cess will likely run into several lakhs of rupees, given it is now a function of the market value of the land. For instance, if a property owner has built on only a small portion of a large plot and seeks to extend the building, he or she may have to pay betterment charges for the entire plot. The notice issued to Mr. Ramkumar calculates the betterment chargers and the cess for the area of the entire plot and not the built-up area he sought to add. It means that even though owners had paid betterment charges and development cess for the plot while developing the property, they may have to pay it all over again if they are renovating or redeveloping it. Property consultant K.R. Ramesh said there is no provision to collect betterment fee and development cess multiple times for the same plot of land. “This is fleecing property owners and can be legally challenged,” he said, adding the notification was so worded that it was leading to retrospective tax, which is bad in law. The BBMP Commissioner said, “We are also of the opinion that betterment charges and development cess can be collected from a particular plot only once and not multiple times. Also for renovation or extension of the building on a large plot, it is unlikely we will be able to collect betterment charges for the entire plot. We have sought clarification from UDD on the issue and a reply is awaited.” He added that the confusion was created by the way the notification was worded, and it would be sorted out soon.
09 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Ingredients of midday meal compensation not reasonable’||The High Court of Karnataka on Tuesday prima facie found the ingredients of the package being provided by the State government to students in lieu of midday meals an unreasonable compensation. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Aravind Kumar made this observation after going through the statement filed by the government that in addition to the specified quantity of rice or wheat, it would also supply iodised salt, edible oil, and toor dal equivalent to the cooking cost devised per student under the midday meal scheme. The government stated that 4 kg of iodised salt, 4 litres of edible oil, and a certain quantity of toor dal would be supplied till March next year in four instalments, with entitlements from August 2020to March 2021 . The government, which had supplied only toor dal along with rice or wheat inNovember for the entitlement of June-July months, had decided to add iodised salt and edible oil based on questions posed by the Bench during an earlier hearing. The Bench on Tuesday questioned the need for 4 kg of salt while orally observing that the government appeared to have chosen a large quantity of salt to reduce the amount of toor dal. The government had, in October, admitted before the court that it was not right on its part to not have supplied foodgrains in lieu of midday meals since June. It commenced supplying the backlog last month.
09 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State to approach Centre seeking increase in paddy procurement under MSP||The State government on Tuesday told the Legislative Assembly that it would approach the Centre to seek not only an increase in the procurement period of paddy under Minimum Support Price (MSP) scheme from the present three months, but also to hike the quantum of procurement allowed. Replying to a debate on fall in prices of farm produce and procurement under MSP scheme, Law Minister J.C. Madhuswamy said the norms did not allow for taking up procurement beyond three months. However, the State would make efforts to extend this. Also, different harvesting seasons in different regions for paddy had made market intervention a complicated exercise, he observed. The government was also open to the idea of having different procurement seasons for different regions, he said. Responding to the concerns expressed by the Opposition members that the upper limit for procurement fixed by the Centre was too meagre, he said the State would also take up the issue with the Centre if there are indications of the actual procurement exceeding the upper limit. But, Mr. Madhuswamy declined the suggestion for providing incentive in addition to MSPs, saying that the difficult financial condition would not allow it this year. However, it could be considered next year, he noted. He said the government would begin procurement early from next year. However, he declined the request by the Opposition members to procure maize under MSP scheme, saying that it was not possible to distribute it through the Public Distribution System. Describing the government’s reply as disappointing, the Opposition Congress members staged a walkout. Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah argued that the government could borrow from financial institutions to provide incentives to farmers. Taking exception to prescribing an upper limit on quantum of procurement, Mr. Siddaramaiah demanded that the State government should procure at least 70% of the total quantum of produce grown. Earlier, Mr. Siddaramaiah expressed concern that the State had been permitted to procure only 2.1 lakh tonnes of paddy though the actual production was estimated to be around 29 lakh tonnes. He urged Karnataka to provide an additional Rs. 500 a quintal to paddy farmers in addition to MSP fixed by the Centre. Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi, who is also chairman of the Cabinet sub-committee that looks into procurement under MSP scheme, said he would soon meet Union Minister Piyush Goyal to request for increasing the quantum of procurement. He maintained that the Centre had fixed the upper ceiling going by the previous procurement levels. Intervening during the discussion, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa said the KMF had been told to procure one lakh tonne of maize by providing MSP of Rs. 1,500 a tonne. But the Opposition members maintained that buying this would not help farmers as the total production had touched 40 lakh tonnes.
09 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BBMP seeks citizens’ inputs on public toilets, footpaths||Despite several initiatives, public urination is rampant across the city while footpaths are hardly pedestrian-friendly. It is these two issues that are being focussed upon in “My City My Budget”, a participatory campaign of Janaagraha, a non-profit organisation. Addressing civil society members and residents’ welfare organisations on Tuesday, Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad called upon citizens to provide inputs to the civic body on these two focus areas. “Funds are not a constraint. We seek inputs from citizens to ensure better utilisation of the same. With no elected body in place, the Administrator is likely to present the next budget,” he said. He said regular maintenance of hygiene and cleanliness were of paramount importance. There are around 200 lakes and 1,200 parks, and over 500 playgrounds under the BBMP. “Citizens visit these places on a daily basis. Apart from these locations, toilets can be built in other places as well,” he said. BBMP’s Special Commissioner (Solid Waste Management) D. Randeep said that there were 418 functioning public toilets, which have been mapped. The 115 e-toilets have also been mapped and will soon be available on Google search. “One just has to search ‘SBM toilets’ to ascertain the location of the nearest toilet,” he said and added that Rs. 80 crore had been allocated for eliminating “yellow spots” (urination points) by constructing new toilets under Shubhra Bengaluru Scheme. With regard to footpaths, Mr. Prasad said wide footpaths were part of roads developed under TenderSURE and taken up for white-topping. “We intend to have wider footpaths on other roads that have not been taken up for white-topping or TenderSURE,” he said. Stating that the civic body was committed to removing encroachments, he said the BBMP had taken up an encroachment removal drive from December 1. “The blanket ban on removing any kind of encroachment by the High Court of Karnataka ended on November 30,” he pointed out. To be part of the ‘My City My Budget’ initiative, citizens can identify issues in their localities, flag them through various channels, fix them with the BBMP and monitor infrastructure work. Citizens may submit inputs to the “Budget Bus” and electric autorickshaws that will go around the city’s neighbourhoods, or to the nodal officers of the ward committees. Citizens can also convene neighbourhood workshops and submit the inputs online on ichangemycity.com.
09 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Five waste-to-energy plants to come up in vicinity of city||After several years of talks, the Bruhat Bangalore Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has initiated the process of establishing five waste-to-energy power plants on the PPP model in and around the city. Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister J.C. Madhuswamy informed the Legislative Assembly on Tuesday that around 5,000 tonnes of waste was generated daily in Bengaluru. Waste-to-energy plants would help in scientific disposal of solid waste. The plants would start generating power after two years, he said. In a reply to N.A. Harris (Congress), the Minister said the foundation stone was laid for the first power plant in Bidadi, Ramanagaram district. The plant would generate 11.5 MW power using 600 MT processed waste daily. This plant was built at a cost of Rs. 260 crore, which was shared by the Karnataka Power Corporation Limited and the BBMP. Satheram Enterprises would set up a 12 MW plant in Kannahalli to process 1,000 tonnes of waste. It would be completed in 24 months. Another private firm, Indium, would set up a 4 MW plant for generating power by processing 300 tonnes of waste daily at Doddabidarakallu. Firmgreen Enterprises would process around 1,000 tonnes of waste daily and produce compressed natural gas. The plant would come up at Mavallipura. NEG would establish an eight MW plant at Mavallipura to process 500 metric tonnes of garbage. The BBMP has proposed to tie up with Nexus Novus to set up two plants at Marenahalli for processing 600 tonnes of waste daily, the Minister said.
09 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Active cases on the rise again in Bengaluru||Active cases in Bengaluru Urban, which saw a decline from October to November, are now on the rise again. After registering a 79% drop in November, cases have again risen by 15%. The number dropped from 55,736 on October 5 to 16,716 on November 5. However, the number again shot up to 17,441 on November 6. In another month, the cases increased to 19,185 on December 5. As on Tuesday, active cases in this district touched 19,468. Munish Moudgil, who heads the State’s COVID-19 war room, said the increase in active cases in Bengaluru is due to the technical reason that discharges are not updated in the system. “Daily cases have in fact come down over the last 20 days and the positivity rate has also not increased,” he said.   Meanwhile, the State on Tuesday reported 1,280 new cases of COVID-19, taking the total number of cases to 8,95,284. With 13 deaths, the toll rose to 11,880. This is apart from 19 deaths of patients due to non-COVID-19 reasons. As many as 1,060 persons were discharged on Tuesday, taking the total number of recoveries to 8,58,370. Of the remaining 25,015 active patients, 275 were being monitored in the ICU. While the positivity rate for the day stood at 1.44 %, the Case Fatality Rate (CFR) touched 1.01%. Bengaluru Urban reported 638 cases, taking its tally to 3,75,163. With seven deaths coming from Bengaluru, the toll in this district rose to 4,197. The daily tests continued to remain lesser than the average one lakh for the second consecutive day with 88,698 tests conducted in the last 24 hours. This includes 70,595 RT-PCR tests. With this, the total tests rose to 1,18,78,413.
09 December 2020||bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Lok Adalat on Dec. 19||The mega Lok Adalat will be organised in all court complexes across the State on December 19. According to an official release, litigants in pre-litigation cases can approach the legal services authorities/ committees concerned prior to the date of the Lok Adalat through videoconference/ mail/ SMS/ WhatsApp / electronic mode, and physically, to resolve their disputes. The litigants who have cases pending in courts may approach the High Court Legal Services Committee, District Legal Services Authorities in the district headquarters, Taluk Legal Services Committees in every taluk, and the permanent Lok Adalats of the State for getting the benefit of quick and inexpensive settlement of their litigation, pre-litigation matters. For any further information, contact Nyaya Samyoga, Legal Assistance Establishment (Multiple Services – single point establishment), Nyaya Degula, I floor, H. Siddaiah Road, Bengaluru – 560027. Call 080-22111730 or visit www.kslsa.kar.nic.in.
09 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BJP, Congress spar over farm laws||The Congress party, that had lent its support to Bharat Bandh on Tuesday, held multiple protests across the State including on the Vidhana Soudha premises. Terming the controversial farm laws by both Union and State governments ‘anti-farmer’, Congress leaders participated in the Assembly session with a black band on their sleeves. While JD(S) supported the bandh call, it remained silent on Tuesday. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa said the bandh was a failure in the State as it did not garner widespread support. Leader of Opposition in the Assembly Siddaramaiah termed the farm laws ‘a death warrant for farmers’, and said both Union and State governments were “throwing farmers at the mercy of capitalists and big corporates.” He also came down heavily on the State government’s Karnataka Land Reforms (Amendment) Act, 2020, which was passed in the Legislative Council on Tuesday. “Anybody with big money will now be able to buy land, which will impact farmers,” he said. KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar said the food market of the country is estimated to be around Rs. 25 lakh crore, on which the big corporates have an eye. “None of the farmer’s unions were consulted before the laws were passed, betraying the authoritarian streak of BJP,” he said. Meanwhile, the CM accused the Opposition of misleading the farmers towards political ends. “Ours is a pro-farmer government and there is no way Prime Minister Narendra Modi can ever take a decision harmful to farmers. Opposition parties have been trying to mislead farmers,” he said. State Agriculture Minister B.C. Patil said that farmers in the villages had not supported the bandh call. Opposition leaders shot back at these allegations. “If the farm laws are really pro-farmer, why is the Modi government not able to convince farmers despite several long drawn meetings?” questioned Mr. Shivakumar.
09 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Farmers to stage ‘barukolu chalavali’ today||Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha and other farmer organisations will stage a rally on Wednesday carrying whips used to guide oxen while ploughing, calling it ‘barukolu chalavali’. The rally will start from Krantiveera Sangolli Rayanna Railway Station and attempt to lay siege on Vidhana Soudha. The protest comes in the wake of Legislative Council passing amendments to Karnataka Land Reforms Act, that deregulates buying and selling of agricultural land in the State, on Tuesday. “The whip farmers use is not a weapon, but is an instrument to correct. Given the anti-farmer laws, both Union and State governments have brought in and are adamant of the same despite opposition from farmers, it is high time we use the cane to our governments and correct them,” said Kodihalli Chandrashekhar, president, KRRS. Meanwhile, Karnataka Rakshana Vedike will also hold a rally from Kempegowda statue at Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) and submit a memorandum to the governor of the State, and through him the president of the country to not give their approval for anti-farmer laws.
09 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Assembly tables Bill to reduce stamp duty on affordable housing||The Karnataka Stamp (Second) Amendment Bill, 2020, was tabled in the Legislative Assembly on Tuesday to reduce the stamp duty on affordable housing. It reduces stamp duty from 5% to 2% on new housing flats costing less than Rs. 20 lakh and from 5% to 3% on housing flats costing less than Rs. 35 lakh. Earlier, the proposal was made in the Karnataka Industrial policy, 2020-25, by the State government to give impetus to growth of industry; and in the State Budget of 2020-21. The Bill replaced the ordinance promulgated by the government. No extra expenditure The Karnataka Parliamentary Secretaries Salary, Allowances, and Miscellaneous Provisions (Repeal) Bill, 2020, was tabled since the Karnataka High court struck down the Karnataka Parliamentary Secretaries Salary, Allowances and Miscellaneous Provisions Act, 1963, based on Supreme Court judgment in Bimolangshu Roy Vs. State of Assam. The Bill repealed the 1963 Act. There was no extra expenditure involved in the proposed legislative measure.
09 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Follow Punjab, Kerala model: Siddaramaiah||Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah on Tuesday urged the government to emulate the Punjab and Kerala model of adopting a Bill to provide legal status to Minimum Support Prices (MSP) and make it a punishable offence to sell or buy any farm produce below MSP. Participating in a debate in the Legislative Assembly, Mr. Siddaramaiah told the government: “If Punjab and Kerala can adopt such Bills and send them to the President for assent, why can you not do it?” Disapproving the present approach to the MSP scheme, Mr. Siddaramaiah maintained that though the Centre had declared MSPs for 17 crops and the State had decided to begin procurement under it, there were several flaws in the system. First of all, the government was entering the market very late as the prices had crashed long ago, he pointed out.
09 December 2020||bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Literary workshop||Karnataka Sahithya Academy (KSA), in association with Kuvempu Prathistana, Kuppali, will organise a three-day workshop titled ‘Kuvempu Sahithya: Parisarayaana’ from December 27 at Kuppalli, Shivamogga district. The KSA, in a release said that those aged between 20 and 40 from cross the State were eligible to submit applications by December 11. For more details, visit http://karnatakasahith- yaacademy.org.
09 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Can senior citizens get their pension without stepping out, asks HC||The High Court of Karnataka has asked the State government to clarify whether those entitled to pension from the government can receive it without going out of their homes. The court also asked the government to submit the procedure followed to extend pension in view of the COVID-19 pandemic as a Government of India advisory had asked senior citizens above the age of 65 with co-morbidities to stay at home except for essential and health purposes. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice S. Vishwajith Shetty issued the direction during the hearing of a PIL petition filed by the Akhila Karnataka Vyyovrudhara Okkoota, an organisation working for the social security, health security, and food security of the elderly in the State. It was stated in the petition that many senior citizens were not getting their pension regularly under the Sandhya Suraksha Yojana and the Indira Gandhi National Old Age Pension Scheme since January. The petitioners also complained about the non-revision of pension for senior citizens.
09 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Rename Mangaluru airport’||Umanath Kotian, BJP member from Moodabdri constituency, on Tuesday urged the State government to recommend to the Centre to name the Mangaluru International Airport at Bajpe as “Veerapurusha Koti-Chennayya” airport in memory of Tulunadu’s legendary heroes. Speaking during the zero hour in the Legislative Assembly, Mr. Kotian said Koti-Chennayya were legendary heroes and were worshipped by a section of the people in the two coastal districts. The government has to respond to the long-pending demand of locals, he said. Koti and Chennayya are twin heroes characterised in the Tulu epic. Law and Parliamentary Affairs Minister J.C. Madhuswamy said the government would consider the proposal in the coming days.
09 December 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Cultural evening with farmers||A cultural interaction with farmers titled ‘Raithara jothe Naavu Neevu’, has been organised on Wednesday from 5 p.m. It features a poets’ meet, songs by Pichchalli Srinivas, M.D. Pallavi and Shilpa Mudabi. Meeting ID: 86588377558 Pass code 152976.
09 December 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Water adalat||Bangalore Water Supply and Sewerage Board (BWSSB) will hold a water adalat on Thursday between 9.30 a.m. and 11 a.m to address grievances related to billing, delay in supply, sanitary connections and other related issues.
09 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Post Forum, Dak Adalat on Dec. 16||The Department of Posts, Bengaluru Region, is organising a regional-level Post Forum cum Dak Adalat to redress grievances of people relating to postal services on December 16 at 3 p.m. It will be held at Megdhoot Auditorium, Bengaluru General Post Office, 5th Floor, Raj Bhavan Road, Bengaluru. According to an official release, members of the public and customers of the Department of Posts in Bengaluru Region may send in grievances, if any, to the Assistant Director-II Postmaster General, Bengaluru HQ Region, Bengaluru. It should reach by December 9. Further, the release said that grievances can also be sent by email to tech.karbg@indiapost.gov.in. The brief and specific details should be furnished along with complete contact details to facilitate a speedy redressal.
09 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Will govt. compensate farmers?’||KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar asked whether the State government, which is keen on banning cow slaughter in totality and bringing in stringent penalty clauses to the existing law, will compensate farmers for the loss of revenue. “Farmers usually sell their cows after they grow old and unproductive. The State government intends to stop this. Will it compensate the farmers for every cow they are unable to sell?” he asked.
09 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BIAL gifts portable cabins to police||As part of its corporate social responsibility initiatives, the operator of the Kempegowda International Airport (KIA) has donated seven portable cabins to Bengaluru City Police. The Bangalore International Airport Limited (BIAL), the operator of KIA, stated that the cabins are equipped with a meeting area, four bunker beds and a washroom. “The cabins are powered with energy-efficient LED lights, have ceiling fans and electric sockets. Provision has also been made for air-conditioning. With a 300-litre capacity overhead water tank, the cabins have kitchen space as well,” the release states. The cabins are placed at various locations in the city. The BIAL said that the initiative was conceptualised by former police commissioner Bhaskar Rao to enable smooth functioning during peak hours and enable easier access to citizens. Earlier, the BIAL, in association with the KSRTC, had provided a ‘Sthree Toilet’ at Majestic bus stand. An old bus was converted into a rest room for women passengers.
09 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Election-booth approach||The process will be based on an election-booth approach. Each booth will have two vaccinators, an assistant to maintain records, an assistant for logistics, and two or three people for crowd management. “People will be registered and vaccinated in the jurisdiction of their residence. Although voter IDs or Aadhaar cards are not mandatory, people need to have some ID proof, like even a college ID will be fine,” said Dr. Lokesh, member, State’s COVID-19 TAC.
09 December 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||‘Boycott GP polls in protest against Kasturirangan report’||The Karnataka Growers’ Federation (KGF) has called upon villagers to be affected by the Kasturirangan Committee’s report on Western Ghats to boycott the gram panchayat elections. H.T. Mohan Kumar, president of the KGF, and K.B. Krishnappa, secretary, in a press release issued here on Tuesday, said the report was unscientific and its implementation would affect several people in the villages surrounding the Western Ghats. The National Green Tribunal has directed the Ministry of Environment and Forests to notify the eco-sensitive zone in the Western Ghats by December 31, 2020. “The committee submitted its report without consulting farmers, labours and other residents of villages to be affected by its recommendations. Hasty implementation of the report is unacceptable. The State government should collect opinion of individuals on the model followed by Kerala government,” the KGF said. The KGF said the villagers and supporters of political parties should boycott gram panchayat elections and put pressure on the State government to move the Supreme Court to seek more time to respond on the recommendations of the report.  The State government should collect opinion of individuals on the model followed by Kerala government.H.T. Mohan KumarPresident of KGF
09 December 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Army man joins protest, whisked away by police||An Army man joined the farmers’ protest in Hubballi on Tuesday only to be whisked away by the police minutes after. Participating in the protest at Kittur Chennamma Circle, the man said that being the son of a farmer he knew their plight and thus extended his support. He wore a green towel on his shoulder and also wielded a ‘barukolu’ (traditional whip) during the protest. He identified himself as Ramesh M. Madalli from Signal Regiment Dimapur, Assam, and said he was on vacation and visiting his native village Baratwad in Kundagol taluk of Dharwad district. As his participation attracted media attention, the police sought details of his identity and whisked him away. After ascertaining his identity and collecting his details, they let him go. Deputy Commissioner of Police R.B. Basaragi clarified to The Hindu that he was not detained. “We only took him away from the protest site to collect details of his identity and he was immediately allowed to go,” he said.
09 December 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Relay hunger strike by teachers enters fourth day||The relay hunger strike by teachers and employees of private educational institutions entered the fourth day on Tuesday with members of the Gadag district unit and the Hubballi rural units of ‘Karnataka Madhyamika Shala Noukarara Sangha’ staging a hunger strike in Dharwad. At the ongoing protest in front of the Deputy Commissioner’s Office in Dharwad, State general secretary of the sangha G.R. Bhat addressed the protesters and expressed dismay over the goverment’s apathy towards the teachers’ demands. Because of the apathy the teachers were forced to take to the streets, he said. Mr. Bhat said that at least now the government should respond to the rightful demands and create an ambience where the teachers could teach effectively and ensure educational progress. Office-bearers of the Gadag district unit Basavaraj Dharwad, S.M. Angadi and others addressed the protesters and demanded immediate fulfilment of their demands. Teachers from Bidar participated in the strike.
09 December 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Mixed response in Bombay Karnataka||The call for Bharat Bandh evoked a mixed response in Bombay Karnataka with a few districts recording good response, while others a saw poor and a mixed response on Tuesday. In Hubballi-Dharwad, there was good response with shops and commercial establishments remaining closed in the central business districts, and public transport was suspended after the congregation of protesters increased. In both places, protesters from various organisations, including political parties, resorted to early morning protests and effigy burning. At few places, a war of words between the police and the protesters were reported.  The Kittur Chennamma Circle in Hubballi and Jubilee Circle in Dharwad saw protests by various organisations. As the day passed more protesters congregated at Kittur Chennamma Circle and consequently the adjoining Old KSRTC bus station was closed as a precautionary measure In Hubballi, Congress leaders led a huge peaceful protest march and members of the women’s wing carried a long green flag symbolically to express solidarity with the farmers. Jubilee Circle in Dharwad witnessed similar protests and demonstrations. At both areas, the farmers brought bullock carts and parked them on the road. Consequently, the police were forced to divert traffic via bypass roads.  In Haveri, farmers organisations accompanied by members of political parties gathered at Hosamani Siddappa Circle and blocked the main road. As many started marching towards the circle, shopkeepers closed their shops voluntarily. However after the protest, normality returned. There wa lukewarm response in Gadag district. Likewise in Vijayapur, Bagalkot and Uttar Kannada districts, there was mixed response.  However in Davangere district, public transport was affected to some extent after the protesters resorted to road blocks. The protestors stopped a Chitradurga-bound bus and made the passengers get off. At few other places the effigies of Prime Minister Narendra Modi were burnt.
09 December 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||State govt. accused of slashing budgetary allocation for minorities||The Muslim Chintakara Chawadi has accused the BJP-led State government of slashing budgetary allocation for minority welfare schemes by 47% compared to the 2019-2020 budget. Mastan Biradar, leader of the forum addressing presspersons on Tuesday, said that the Congress-Janata Dal (Secular) coalition government allocated Rs. 1,897 crore for the Minority Welfare schemes in the 2019-20 budget. This was later reduced to Rs. 1,571 crore by the BJP government and further slashed to Rs. 1,177 crore in the 2020-21 budget. Significantly reduced The government had also significantly reduced fund allocation for the Karnataka Minorities Development Corporation, the Urdu Academy, and the Karnataka State Minorities Commission, he claimed. Minority scholarship awarded for Ph.D and research students was also reduced from Rs. 25,000 to Rs. 8,333, he said. Around 300 minority students in State were deprived of scholarship benefits. Deprived The Minorities Welfare Department received around 12.5 lakh applications for pre-matric and post-atric scholarship in the State during 2019-20, of which nearly 50% of students of students were deprived of scholarship as the State government was holding back the release of scholarships, he claimed. The forum urged the government to continue all the schemes by allocating adequate funds for the Minorities Welfare Department and said that they would launch State-wide protest if the government continued to neglect minorities.
09 December 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Bharath Bandh: Mixed response in Kalyana Karnataka||The Bharat Bandh call given by farmers’ organisations for the repeal of three recently enacted farm legislations received a mixed response in Kalyana Karnataka. Kalaburagi city, however, showed better solidarity with the agitating farmers by effectively observing the bandh. APMC market yards across the region remain closed. Other business establishments partially closed. Public transport was disrupted for a few hours in the morning as the North Eastern Karnataka Road Transport Corporation suspended services in some of the cities to avoid untoward incidents. Autorickshaws and private vehicles plied as usual. Though the government offices were open, they saw little public. The cities and towns across the region, especially Bidar, Kalaburagi, Raichur, Koppal, Ballari, Hospet, and Gangavati, saw widespread protests by different civil society groups representing farmers, Dalits, women, students, workers, and youths. Political parties also actively participated in the agitations. The protesters raised slogans against the Union government and Prime Minister Narendra Modi. In Kalaburagi, a protest rally was taken out from Central bus stand to the supermarket where a public meeting was held on the road. Most of the shops in the central city and supermarket were found closed. Gangavati in Koppal district responded well to the bandh call. Apart from the traders at APMC, the business community in the rest of the town also did not raise shutters, at least for the first half of the day. Lawyers boycotted courts to participate in the agitations that were held at Chennabasava Swamy Circle and Sri Krishnadevaraya Circle. In Koppal, farmers took out protest rallies and demonstrations at multiple locations, including Central bus stand, Ashok Circle, Basaveshwar Circle, and national highway. The protesters burned tyres and conducted a mock funeral of Mr. Modi before burning his effigy. The farmers and activists of different organisations were found appealing to traders to extend their support to the cause by closing their shops. The traders closed their business units for a few hours till the agitations were over. In Ballari, a protest rally was taken out through the main streets and a demonstration was held at Gadagi Chennappa Circle.
09 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||MUDA to develop 160 housing sites on 20 acres at Kunjathbail||The Mangaluru Urban Development Authority (MUDA) has proposed to develop a housing layout on 20 acres at Kunjathbail in the city. It will have about 160 sites, according to chairman of the authority Ravishankar Mijar. He told The Hindu that the proposal which is before the Department of Urban Development is expected to get the approval in a week. The design of the layout is ready. Once the government approves the proposal the MUDA will invite bids to develop the layout with required infrastructural facilities on the land. Once developed it will be the new layout of the MUDA which is very closer to the city. The authority is already developing a layout near Mudipu on the outskirts of the city where another 160 sites on about 21 acres are coming up, he said, adding that the layout is expected to be ready in February, 2021. The works on this project commenced more than a year ago. The chairman said that the MUDA’s pending move of developing another housing layout near Chelyar has taken a leap with the government two months ago approving a proposal to develop a housing layout on 45 acres. In addition, the authority has proposed to add another 30 acres to this layout at Chelyar. The government is yet to allot additional 30 acres. When about 75 acres are fully sanctioned, about 650 housing sites could be developed. Hence, in all the three projects the development of about 1,000 housing sites is in the offing to take care of the housing sites needs of people in the city. New market Mr. Mijar said talks were held with the Mangaluru City Corporation authorities last month to hand over the new Urwa Market building constructed by the MUDA for the corporation at an estimated cost of about Rs. 11 crores. The meeting on November 27 discussed the aspects related to completing the financial transaction and recovery of investment made on the market building by MUDA. The authority will have to complete some pending works at the building. All the issues will be settled and the building will be handed over the city corporation soon, he said. The chairman said that the fencing on the Netravathi bridge at Jeppinamogaru is on the verge of completing. Once it is done the MUDA will fix CCTV cameras on the bridge and its monitoring will be handed over to the Kankanady police.
09 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Muted response to farmers’ agitation in coastal districts||The response to the call for a Bharat Bandh, given by various farmers’ associations, received a muted response in Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts on Tuesday. Life remained unaffected in these districts while a few organisations held demonstrations in support of the farmers’ demands. A federation of workers and Dalit movements held a demonstration at the busy Nanthoor Junction at the intersection of NH 75 and NH 66 in the forenoon. Blocking traffic for some time, the protesters raised slogans against the anti-farmer policies of the Narendra Modi government. In his address, Hasiru Sene leader Oswald Fernandes said farmers had to come to streets to fight for their rights as thick skinned politicians failed to understand their grievances. The Union government brought anti-farmer legislations taking advantage of the COVID-19 lockdown, he alleged.   Meanwhile, members of Bandaru Shramikara Sangha and CITU held a demonstration supporting farmers at Karmikara Katte near Mangaluru Old Port.  Activists of the Centre for Indian Trade Union held protest demonstration in Udupi. Public service vehicles as well as private vehicles operated as usual. Government offices, commercial establishments etc., functioned routinely. There were no untoward incidents in both the districts.
09 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Travel time between Mangaluru and Bengaluru has got extended with reintroduction of trains||The train journey between Mangaluru and Bengaluru has got only extended with the reintroduction of the cancelled service via Kunigal four days a week and revision of timings of the via Mysuru service three days a week by 25 minutes and 1.25 hours respectively. The via Kunigal service used to leave Bengaluru at 7.15 p.m. to reach Mangaluru Central at 5.55 a.m. (10.40 hours) before it was cancelled during the COVID-19 lockdown. It used to leave Mangaluru Central at 8.55 p.m. to reach Bengaluru at 7.20 a.m. (10.25 hours). The travel time got reduced by about 35 minutes when it was reintroduced last week, when the train was to leave Bengaluru at 10.30 p.m. to reach Mangaluru at 8.35 a.m. (10.05 hours). However, in the return trip, the train will leave Mangaluru at 8.10 p.m. to reach Bengaluru at 7 a.m. (10.50 hours). Rail users in fact had been urging South Western Railway (SWR) to speed up the service as the journey could be completed within nine hours via Kunigal, touted to be the shortest route between Bengaluru and Mangaluru. Instead, SWR only increased travel time, regretted Anil Hegde, convener of Paschima Karavali Rail Yatri Abhivriddhi Samiti. The samiti had wanted the train to leave Bengaluru at 8.30 p.m. to reach Mangaluru at 5.55 a.m., the earlier arrival time. In the return trip, it had asked SWR to arrange the train’s departure from Mangaluru at the usual 8.55 p.m. to reach Bengaluru early, at 5.10 a.m. There was much slack time en-route and SWR could have eliminated it to speed up the service. However, now the journey hours only got extended, he rued. There is no change in the running time of the Bengaluru-Mangaluru Central service via Mysuru. It leaves Bengaluru at 8.30 p.m. to reach Mangaluru at 8.35 a.m. In the return direction however, the train would leave Mangaluru at 8.10 p.m. instead of 8.55 p.m. to reach Bengaluru at 8.40 a.m. instead of 8 a.m. The journey would take 12.30 hours instead of the earlier 11.05 hours. This change too is shocking, Mr. Hegde said as the samiti had sought speeding up of Mangaluru-Bengaluru service by about an hour. Railways has resorted to cancelling existing services if the patronage was poor. Railways itself appears to reduce patronage by unreasonable extension of journey hours, Mr. Hegde quipped.
09 December 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Lakshadeepotsava celebrations in Dharmasthala from tomorrow||The five-day Lakshadeepotsava celebrations in Dharmasthala will commence from December 10. The COVD-19 restrictions have forced the organisers not to hold the annual exhibition on the occasion of Lakshadeepotsava which used to attract thousands of people this year. The Lalithakala Gosti will be held on December 12 at 7 p.m. There will be light music by Sadhwini Koppa and party. It will be followed by nrita roopaka titled “Rama Katha” by Sathyanarayana Raju and party from Bengaluru. According to D. Veerendra Heggade, Pattadhikari of Dharmasthala, the 88th sarva dharma and sahitya sammelanas, organized on the occasion, will be held on December 13 and December 14, respectively. Minister for Housing V. Somanna will inaugurate the sarva dharma sammelana on Sunday at 5.30 p.m. Keshava Malagi, teacher and story writer, will deliver a lecture at the sammelana. Bhuvanakeerthi Bhattaraka, the seer of Jain Mutt, Kanakagiri and Chethan Lobo, Public Relations Officer, Bishop’s House will participate. It will be followed a saxophone recital by R. Manjunath and party from Bengaluru. Scholar S. Ranganath from Bengaluru will inaugurate the sahitya sammelana on Monday. Writers Narahalli Balasubrahmanya, Pundikai Ganapathi Bhat and Jyothi Shankar will speak. Later there will be a nritya roopaka titled ‘Narasimha’ by the artistes of Nritya Nitekana Kodavoor, Udupi. The Hosakatte utsava will be held on Thursday. There will be Kerekatte utsava on Friday. It will be followed by Lalitodyana utsava on Saturday and Kachimarukatte utsava on Sunday. The Lakshadeepotsava celebrations will end with Gourimarukatte utsava on Monday. The Samavasarana pooja of Lord Chandranatha Swamy will be performed on December 15. The celebrations can be viewed live through social media like in YouTube and Facebook, according to a release.
09 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||CAMPCO launches two eclair products||The Central Arecanut and Cocoa Marketing and Processing Cooperative Ltd (CAMPCO) launched its two new eclair products on Tuesday. President of the cooperative S. R. Satishchandra launched the cardamom-flavoured eclair and honey-flavoured creamy eclair in the cooperative’s chocolate factory at Puttur. Mr. Satishchandra told The Hindu that the cooperative will initially produce 200 tonnes of the two new products. The production will be scaled up depending on the market demand.
09 December 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Brindavan to be dedicated on December 17||The brindavan built in memory of former seer of Udupi Pejawar Mutt, the late Vishwesha Tirtha, will be dedicated at Poornaprajna Vidyapeetha in Bengaluru on his ‘aradanotsava’ on December 17. The 89-year-old seer passed away following age-related illness at a hospital in Manipal on December 29, 2019. The brindavan has been built where the mortal remains of the former seer are at Vidyapeetha. It has been fully constructed in granite. Red laterite stone from Ilkal, Bijapur; black stone from Nellikaru, Dakshina Kannada, and buddu stone from Karkala, Udupi have been used to construct it. It features deities carved on its exterior. The mutt sources said that tradition has it that a physical structure is constructed over the place where seers are buried, within a year of them having left their mortal remains. As per the late seer’s wishes, a mruthika brindavan of Vidyamanya Tirtha, the then seer of Bhandarakeri and Palimaru mutts, who was his mentor, is coming up close to the granite brindavan constructed for the late Vishwesha Tirtha. The height of both brindavans is around four feet and the mruthika brindavan of Vidyamanya Tirtha is an inch taller than that of Vishwesha Tirtha.
09 December 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Two deaths, 38 new cases in DK, Udupi||Dakshina Kannada reported two COVID-19 deaths and 27 new cases on Tuesday. The death toll owing to COVID-19 in the district touched 722. With 47 patients being discharged after treatment the active cases in the district stood at 477. Udupi district had 11 new cases on the day and the active cases in the district was 127. The DK district administration has so far collected Rs. 17.02 lakh as fine for not wearing masks.
09 December 2020||mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Official to visit||The Secretary of the Department of Petroleum and Natural Gas Tarun Kapoor will visit Mangalore Refinery and Petrochemicals Ltd on December 11.
09 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Porter service introduced at Mangaluru airport||Mangaluru international airport introduced a porter service on Tuesday. A tweet from Mangaluru airport said: “With the launch of the porter service, we hope to make your journey through the # Gateway To Goodness even more comfortable. To book the service, contact 2955222 Ext 572 or mailinfodesk.ixe@adani.com”. “Let your baggage rest with us. Porter service launched for your convenience,” it said.
09 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Briefly||Some areas on the outskirts of the city will have no power supply on December 9 from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m. The areas are Deralakatte, Natekal, Talapady, K. C. Road, Paneer, Kuriya, Manjanady, Kinya, Vaidyanath Nagara, Montepadavu, Bagambila and Kondana. It is for maintenance works.       Karnataka Tulu Sahitya Academy has invited applications for its honorary and book awards for 2020. Apply by December 31. The honorary award will be presented to those who have rendered yeomen service in literature, research and folk sectors. The book award will be presented to such works related to Tulu, including translation from Tulu to other languages. Call 9901016962.
09 December 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||99,000 bottles of ink for GP polls||Mysore Paints and Varnish Ltd. (MPVL), a State government undertaking, will supply 99,000 bottles — of 5 ml each — of indelible ink for the forthcoming local body elections. Company chairman N.V. Phaneesh said on Tuesday that the State Election Commission has placed the order for ink bottles for the gram panchayat elections, to be held later this month. Mr. Phaneesh, who only recently took charge as chairman, said the company would also supply 6,580 packets of sealing wax for the elections, and the total turnover based on the current orders was Rs. 1.15 crore. MPVL is the only company engaged in the manufacture of indelible ink used in elections in India. It has also supplied the same to other countries for elections. During 2019-20, MPVL exported indelible ink to the tune of Rs. 2.17 crore. Established in 1937 by the Wadiyars of Mysore, it was taken over by the government in 1947 and became a public sector unit. “We had set a turnover target of Rs. 20 crore for the financial year 2020-21. The company has achieved Rs. 12.25 crore as of November,” said Mr. Phaneesh. MPVL had a turnover of Rs. 21.52 crore in the previous financial year (2019-20), out of which Rs. 16.93 crore came through sale of indelible ink alone. The profit before tax was Rs. 4.7 crore. MPVL also produced indelible ink and ballot-marking pens for the recently concluded Bihar Assembly elections and the Lok Sabha and Assembly byelections in different States. It was also mandated to supply indelible ink and ballot-marking pens for the Legislative Council elections (teachers and graduates constituencies) of Karnataka, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Bihar, Telangana, Uttar Pradesh, and Madhya Pradesh. Plans for future Speaking of the future, Mr. Phaneesh said MPVL has plans to establish a new plant and explore business from other Union government organisations and public sector units such as the Railways, BHEL, and BEML, besides establishing an in-house research and development centre. MPVL has declared 25% dividend for its shareholders for 2019-20, and the profit share of the State government, amounting to Rs. 23.68 lakh, will be handed over to the Chief Minister shortly.
09 December 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||MGP, AAP want ‘Spandana’ to resume in public interest||Amidst the controversy surrounding the ‘Spandana’ programme organised by the district administration for addressing the grievances of the public, the Mysuru Grahakara Parishat (MGP) and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) have criticised the cancellation of the government initiative after some MLAs took exception to the Deputy Commissioner holding the event in their absence. Taking strong exception to the cancellation of event by Minister for Revenue R. Ashok after some legislators questioned Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri’s step, the MGP said ‘Spandana’ or ‘Janaspandana’ was not new and it had been conducted in the past by the Deputy Commissioners at district levels and tahsildars at taluk levels to hear public complaints and redress them as part of their official duties of administration. At the same time, the MLAs also have similar duties in their constituencies and both cannot be combined as each has his/her own way of disposal. But the ‘Spandana’ by the Deputy Commissioner, cancelled recently by the Minister, was surprising and incorrect, it argued. “The MGP, as an NGO striving for the cause of the aggrieved citizens, is not happy with the decision. In a democratic set-up, bureaucrats and elected representatives should be allowed to work in parallel and should not be allowed to clash with each other. Each has his/her own duty to perform in solving public grievances as per government instructions,” the parishat said, in a release here. With the sole aim of addressing public grievances, the MGP urged the government to permit the DC to resume ‘Spandana’ without any political interference.  Meanwhile, the AAP has also sought resumption of the programme. Serving the public should be of primary concern and of utmost priority for both government officers as well as elected representatives. Issues and grievances of the common people always go unheard. Many of the government officers and elected representatives have failed to conduct grievance redressal hearings/meetings on a regular basis at the district as well as at the taluk level, an AAP press release said. “When the Deputy Commissioner is trying to do her job to address the grievances of the public, the elected representatives should not disrupt it. Nothing stops the elected representatives from either joining such meetings or conducting such events on their own. Being people’s representatives, they are the ones who should have been the voice of the public and to hold regular meetings in their constituencies,” argued AAP’s Mysuru unit president Malavika Gubbivani. Whatever the issues between the Deputy Commissioner and a section of the elected representatives, it should have been sorted out amicably, said the AAP.  The MGP is not happy with the decision. In a democratic set-up, bureaucrats and elected representatives should be allowed to work in parallel and should not be allowed to clash with each other.Mysuru Grahakara Parishat   When the DC is trying to do her job to address grievances of the public, the elected representatives should not disrupt it. Nothing stops them from either joining such meetings or conducting such events on their own.Aam Aadmi Party
09 December 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Only locals to be allowed to witness Panchalinga Darshana till 3 p.m.||The meeting chaired by Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri on Tuesday resolved that the locals will be allowed to witness Panchalinga Darshana at Talakad only till 3 p.m. and thereafter nobody will get access to the temples as a precaution in view of COVID-19 pandemic. There will be no entry to outsiders as there are about 35,000 locals, including those from villages in Talakad, B. Shettihalli and Holesaalu Gram Panchayats, who will be allowed to participate, the meeting said. Mysuru Superintendent of Police C.B. Rhyshanth said it was difficult to deploy more number of police personnel for security for the event in view of elections to the gram panchayats. The policemen will be deployed in two shifts. RT-PCR test As per the COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee recommendations, only 1,000 people will be allowed on all days except December 14 and 1,500 will be permitted to witness the Darshana on December 14. Whoever wants to visit, it is mandatory for them to get the RT-PCR test, he said, adding that nine check-posts will function. DHO Amarnath said 10 medical teams will be stationed at Talakad and steps had been taken to carry out COVID-19 tests outside the five temples in and around Talakad during the event.
09 December 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||MUDA reclaims sites worth Rs. 15.4 cr.||The Mysore Urban Development Authority (MUDA) has reclaimed its properties worth Rs. 15.4 crore that had been allegedly encroached upon and fenced. In an operation for clearing the encroachments on Tuesday, the MUDA authorities reclaimed two 40x60 sq feet sites, including a corner property, each valued about Rs. 1.7 crore in T.K. Layout and four 50x80 sq ft sites in Dattagalli each estimated to cost around Rs. 4 crore and put up boards on the reclaimed sites warning against encroachment.
09 December 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Gram panchayat polls: Excise control room set up||An excise control room has come up in Mysuru for curbing illegal sale of liquor ahead of the gram panchayat elections later this month. Deputy Commissioner of Excise B. Madesh said his department will strictly monitor illegal production, storage, transportation and sale of liquor and the control room had been established to curb illegal activities. Mr. Madesh said the excise teams will work round the clock in different shifts to conduct raids and curb illegal liquor from being distributed. The department will act on the complaints from the public and take steps in curbing illegal sale of liquor. Contact details The public can contact the excise control room on 0821-2541863/9449597178. The Deputy Commissioner of Excise can also be contacted on 0821-2524060/9449597182. Mr. Madesh said the department will keep the names of those giving information on illegal liquor sale confidential.
09 December 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Building expo to be held virtually||MYBUILD-20, an annual event held by the Builders Association of India’s Mysuru Centre to showcase various products and services related to the construction industry, will be held virtually this year from December 9 to 14. “For the first time in the history of MYBUILD, we will be hosting the event virtually,” said BAI’s Mysuru Centre Chairman P. Puttaswamy. The exhibition can viewed at www.mybuildvirtual.com.
09 December 2020||MYSURU/Hassan,KARNATAKA||Mixed response to bandh call||Shops and business establishments in Central Business District (CBD) in Mysuru as well as the Agricultural Produce Marketing Committee yard in Bandipalya on the outskirts were closed on Tuesday in view of the nationwide bandh call given by farmers’ organisations against farm Bills recently passed by the Centre. Life remained unaffected in most other parts of the city, including residential localities, where shops remained open. City buses and autorickshaws too plied normally, but the operation of inter-district buses from the suburban bus stand was disrupted for some time in the morning after farmers’ organisations staged a protest. Demonstrations and processions were held by the farmers’ organisations in different parts, including in front of Dufferin Clock tower with the activists shouting slogans against Prime Minister Narendra Modi and the Union government for its “anti-farmer” policies. A group of farmers also went inside Devaraja Market and forced the shops to close. Supporters of the Congress gathered on Nanjangud highway and burnt tyres. Traffic movement on the highway was disrupted for some time. However, no untoward incident was reported in any part of the city. The police had made elaborate security arrangements by deploying additional force as a precautionary measure. Members of different progressive organisations too joined the protesters. While farmer leader Hoskote Basavaraj and progressive activist P. Mallesh were part of the rally taken by the farmers on Ashoka Road and D. Devaraj Urs Road, littérateur Devanur Mahadeva attended the demonstration of farmers held in front of the Deputy Commissioner’s office. Speaking to reporters, Mr. Mahadeva lashed out at the BJP government at the Centre for snatching the powers of the State governments and bringing in the “anti-farmer” laws. In Mandya The response to the bandh call was mixed. However, farmers’ organisations staged ‘urulu seve’ and took out rallies in the town against the Centre’s “anti-farmer” policies. The response was good in most taluk headquarters with a near total bandh in Maddur. In Malnad region The bandh call received a mixed response in Malnad region. Progressive organisations and pro-farmer forums hit the streets extending support to farmers opposing the recent amendments passed by the Union Government. However, business activities remained unaffected. Activists of Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha and Hasiru Sene staged protests in Shivamogga, Shikaripura, Sagar and taluk centres. They also stopped movement of vehicles at some places as part of the protest. Many intellectuals, writers and activists gathered under the banner of Federation of Progressive Forums in Shivamogga to register their support to the farmers. Similarly, in Hassan members of KRRS and Karnataka Prantha Raitha Sangha took out a protest march from Hemavati Statue Circle to the Deputy Commissioner’s office. The JD(S) had also extended support to the bandh call. However, business activities and movement of vehicles were normal in Hassan district on the day. In Chikkamagaluru, members of Raitha Sangha, CPIML and other farmer organisations staged a protest at Hanumanthappa Circle. They raised slogans against the Centre and demanded the withdrawal of controversial legislations.
09 December 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Bandh was peaceful in Raichur, Yadgir||The Bharat Bandh called by farmers’ organizations evoked a mixed response in Yagdir and Raichur districts on Tuesday. Business establishments, shopping complexes, vegetable markets, and APMC yards were closed. But, there was no disruption in public and private transport services. Sale of essential commodities continued normally. According to officials of NEKRTC at Yadgir and Raichur, buses of their respective depots operated normally except a few incidents of them being stopped. Ishwar Hosmani, DTO of Raichur, told The Hindu that buses returning from Telangana and Andhra Pradesh were stopped. The bandh was completely peaceful and no untoward incidents occurred, Prakash Nikam Superintendent of Police, Raichur, and Rishikesh Sonawane, Superintendent of Police, Yadgir.
09 December 2020||December 09 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Big spike in LSD seizures this year||The State government on Tuesday informed the Legislative Assembly that the police have booked 3,852 cases till November, 2020, under the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act and seized 5,049 strips of lysergic acid diethylamide (LSD), which is a far higher quantity compared to previous years. During the Question Hour, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai said the police seized 5,049 strips compared to a mere 150 last year. Status of cases Listing the number of cases, he said the police had booked 3,852 cases till November this year under the NDPS Act, as against the 1,126 cases in 2017, 1,031 in 2018, and 1,661 in 2019. Of the 3,852 cases booked, charge sheets had been submitted in 2,285 cases, while others are under investigation. Replying to Eshwar Khandre (Congress), Mr. Bommai said the government cracked down on 21 dark websites where LSD strips among other drugs were being sold. On the issue of delay in filing charge sheets owing to outdated technology in the forensic science laboratory (FSL), the Minister said in some cases there had been delay and to overcome this, a new technology had been introduced at FSL. Earlier, FSL used to conduct one sample at a time but now with modern technology, it can test 51 samples at one time, he said. A separate narcotics section had been opened at FSL and this would help the police in filing charge sheets, he said. To crackdown on drug peddlers, the government has proposed to bring in new rules under the NDPS Act to enable enforcing agencies to conduct more raids and seizures. The amended rules would be out soon, he said. Recreation clubs Priyank Kharge (Congress) spoke about the rise in the number of recreation clubs in the border districts, particularly in Kalaburagi. Abbayya Prasad (Congress) spoke about students and young people using whiteners in Hubballi-Dharwad. Noting that the government was aware of the ganja business taking place in slums, Mr. Bommai sought the support of urban local bodies in regulating the opening of hookah bars. Recreation clubs obtain orders from the High Court to get a licence, he said.
09 December 2020||December 09 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Police appeal for peace in Shivamogga city||Shivamogga district administration has sought the cooperation of all sections of society to maintain peace and harmony in the city. Deputy Commissioner K.B. Shivakumar and Superintendent of Police K.M. Shantharaj held a peace committee meeting in Shivamogga on Tuesday in the wake of recent clashes in the city. Mr. Shivakumar said economic activities had suffered a jolt in the city due to clashes reported on Thursday. The district administration had to clamp prohibitory orders to maintain law and order. “We are taking all measures necessary to ensure peace in the city. Everyone should cooperate with us in our efforts,” he said. In recent days, there have been reports of youths getting into fights under the influence of banned drugs. Many people had brought such incidents to the notice of the administration. “We will take stern measures to avoid such incidents in future. The police have taken action against those involved in the gang rape of a minor girl as well,” he said. Mr. Shantharaj said the situation had been returning to normalcy in the city. The police would conduct a few more meetings with local people to ensure peace and harmony. “If there were any complaints, the public should contact the police directly,” he suggested. The people, who attended the meeting, told the officers that many small time businessmen and shopkeepers were suffering because of no business. The officers should allow the public to do their business between 6 a.m. and 6 p.m., they requested. Following the clashes on Thursday, the administration has clamped prohibitory orders till Wednesday evening. Business establishments have not been allowed to function in sensitive areas.
09 December 2020||December 09 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||BJP digs out Siddaramaiah’s old letter||A letter written by Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah(in picture)to the Co-operation Secretary when he was the Chief Minister, stressing the need for removing perishable produce from the ambit of APMCs, was raised by the BJP in the Legislative Assembly as an indication of the party’s “double standards” on AMPC reforms. Law Minister J.C. Madhuswamy read the letter in the House and maintained that the views of Mr. Siddaramaiah were in line with the APMC reforms brought in by the Centre now. Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai described this as “double standards” by the Congress leaders. Mr. Siddaramaiah clarified that his letter was confined to only perishable produce and also made it clear that the context in which he had written the letter was completely different. Asking the BJP to desist from “misusing” his letter, he said it was foolish to think that anybody can mislead farmers. “They will not go by political leaders or officials,” he asserted.
09 December 2020||December 09 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||We welcome law to stop cow slaughter, ‘love jihad’: Muslim forum||The Muslim Muttahida Mahaz of Shivamogga has said Muslims would welcome a law to stop cow slaughter and ‘love jihad’. In a press conference in Shivamogga on Tuesday, Muneer Ahmed, a senior leader of Muslim Muttahida Mahaz, said Muslims would not oppose a law on cow slaughter. “Similarly, love jihad is not acceptable in Muslim religion. We welcome any law that prohibits the unacceptable practice,” he said. Condemning the assault on Bajrang Dal activist Nagesh, Mr. Ahmed said in the clashes that followed innocent people suffered. “Common people are suffering because of the prohibitory orders and curfew in some areas of the city,” he said. Reacting to RDPR Minister K.S. Eshwarappa’s statement appealing to Muslim leaders to reprimand the miscreants in the community, Mr. Ahmed said the Minister had power and with the law, he could punish the miscreants if any.
09 December 2020||December 09 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Artificial garden city||
09 December 2020||December 09 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Sudden showers||
09 December 2020||December 09 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||‘Don’t import cheap pepper indiscriminately’||Krishna Byregowda, former Agriculture Minister and Congress MLA, on Tuesday demanded that the State take a delegation of MPs to the Centre to convince it of the need to prevent “indiscriminate” import of cheap pepper. Participating in a debate in the Assembly on fall in prices of farm produce and procurement under MSP scheme on Tuesday, Mr. Byregowda expressed concern that the price of black pepper, which had touched Rs. 694 a kg in 2016-17, had crashed to of Rs. 250-300 a kg. This was mainly due to the import of large quantum of cheaper and inferior quality pepper from Vietnam through Sri Lanka, he alleged. ‘Import from Vietnam’ He expressed concern that though the origin of the imports was being shown as Sri Lanka, it was Vietnam produce in large quantities that was being routed through Sri Lanka. This kind of dumping, Mr. Byregowda said, is at the cost of the survival of farmers from Malnad.
09 December 2020||December 09 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||‘Vested interests misleading farmers’||Shivamogga Lok Sabha member B.Y. Raghavendra criticised the nationwide bandh observed by farmer organisations on Tuesday. In a press conference in Shivamogga on Tuesday, he said the Union government brought in amendments based on recommendations of agriculture experts and representatives of all political parties. “Some vested interests are misleading the farmers by stating that MSP would be removed. The Union government has clarified that it will continue to fix the MSP for agriculture produces,” he said. He alleged that the Congress and Left parties had been supporting the protest for political reasons. “The Congress in its manifesto in both Parliament elections promised reforms similar to what has been done by the Centre. The CPM holding power in Kerala is not in favour of APMCs in its State,” he said. If there were any differences, he said, about the amendments, the organisations could resolve them through talks. “The farmers should not heed to Opposition parties’ effort to tarnish the image of the Prime Minister. During the BJP rule, the production in agriculture fields has increased significantly,” he said.
09 December 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Ill health prevents veteran leaders from casting vote||While people turned up in large numbers to cast their votes in the local body elections in the district on Tuesday, two veteran voters were conspicuous by their absence. Former Chief Minister V.S. Achuthanandan and former Communist leader K.R. Gouri did not exercise their franchise this time around. Mr. Achuthanandan, who is currently the Chairman of the Administrative Reforms Commission, was a voter of the polling booth in BUDS School, Paravur, in Ward 8 of the Punnapra North grama panchayat. The former Chief Minister, who is in Thiruvananthapuram, however, did not make the journey to Alappuzha due to health issues. Although he had applied for a postal vote, the State Election Commission rejected it citing that postal vote is allowed only for COVID-19 patients, people in quarantine and polling officials. The veteran leader, who turned 97 in October, reportedly exercised his franchise in every election since the 1951 Lok Sabha polls. In the previous elections, Mr. Achuthanandan cast his vote at a booth in Government Higher Secondary School, Paravur. His son Arun Kumar, along with his wife, cast their votes in BUDS School. Recuperating Ms. Gouri, who turned 101 in July, is recuperating from a fall-related injury and is in reverse quarantine at her residence at Chathanad. She was to exercise her franchise at a booth in JBS Polabhagom in the Mannath ward of the Alappuzha municipality. “She is undergoing physiotherapy after sustaining a hip injury following a fall. Besides, there is also the threat of COVID-19, she decided not cast her vote in the local body polls,” said Ratheesh V.D., personal secretary to Ms. Gouri. Congress Working Committee member and former Chief Minister A.K. Antony on Tuesday did not make his usual high-profile televised walk from his home on the Easwara Vilaswom road to the polling station at the nearby Jagathy school. Post-COVID problems Mr. Antony on Monday pleaded inability to participate in the local body polls. He told newspersons over phone from New Delhi that post-COVID-19 complications had hobbled his planned trip to Thiruvananthapuram. Mr. Antony expressed sadness at his inability to exercise his franchise. He said it was for the first time that he missed an opportunity to vote.  (Wi th input from Thiruvananthapuram bureau )
09 December 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||77.3% voter turnout in Alappuzha||The district witnessed a high voter turnout in the local body polls on Tuesday. 77.3% of 17. 82 lakh voters exercised their franchise when polling closed at 6 p.m. The polling percentage is likely to go up slightly as the State Election Commission is yet to release the final figures. In 2015 local body polls, the district recorded 80.49% voter turnout. The polling was peaceful and largely incident-free, barring minor technical snags in the Electronic Voting Machines (EVMs) at a few polling booths. The machines that developed glitches were promptly replaced and voting continued unabated. Brisk start The polling started at 7 a.m. on a brisk note with 15% voter turnout registered by 9 a.m. Despite the COVID-19 pandemic threat, voters turned out in large numbers and formed serpentine queues outside polling booths in different parts of the district as the day progressed. By 12.30 p.m. 44.8% of the electorate had cast their vote. All voters who reached the polling station by 6 p.m. were allowed to exercise their franchise. Those voters who tested positive for COVID-19 after 3 p.m. on December 7 and those in quarantine too were allowed to cast their ballots in accordance with COVID-19 protocols. A 62-year-old man who came to cast his vote at a booth in SNDP Higher Secondary School, Mahadevikadu collapsed and died. The deceased was identified as Balan. A polling agent of an Independent candidate at CMS LP School in Palace ward of Alappuzha municipality was ousted after he tried to canvass votes. Around 125 voters of Manaladi- Madathiparambil Colony in Ramankary boycotted the elections in protest against the lack of a motorable road to their colony. Ministers cast vote Public Works Minister G. Sudhakaran, Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac, Food and Civil Supplies Minister P. Thilothaman, Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala and A.M. Ariff, MP, cast votes at their respective booths. As many as 5,462 candidates are in the fray in the district. These include 82 candidates for district panchayat, 789 for six municipalities, 508 for 12 block panchayats and 4,083 for 72 grama panchayats. The counting of votes will take place on December 16.
09 December 2020||Idukki,KERALA||Idukki turnout put at 74.5%||Idukki witnessed a voter turnout of 74.5% in the local body elections on Tuesday. In the last local body elections, the district had recorded a voter turnout of 78.33%. The Kattappana and Thodupuzha municipalities recorded a turnout of 74.57% and 82.11% respectively in this election. The block panchayat-wise voting percentage is as follows: Nedumkandam 77.06, Elamdesam 79.26, Idukki 73.26, Adimali 73.81, Thodupuzha 77.79, Azhutha 69.92, Kattappana 74.17, and Devikulam 69.01. The Thodupuzha municipality witnessed 83.45% and Kattappana municipality 78.03% in the last elections. The block panchayat-wise voting percentage in 2015 was Thodupuzha 76.42, Elamdesam 82.83, Kattappana 77.70, Adimali 78, Nedumkandam 78.17, Azhutha 77.67, Idukki 78.66, and Thodupuzha 81.31. The plantation areas of Peerumade witnessed a relatively lower voter turnout. A large number of voters had shifted from the closed tea estates to their native places and only a few remained there. Electricity Minister M.M. Mani cast his vote at booth one of Irupathekkar Lower Primary School.  Edamalakkudy Polling officials will return from Edamalakkudy with election material only on Wednesday. This is in view of the threat posed by wild animals while moving on the rough terrain from Societykudy to Pettimudy, a distance of 18 km through forests.  Third polls This is the third local body elections in Edamalakkudy, which was carved out of a ward in Munnar grama panchayat in 2010. The grama panchayat was created exclusively for the Muthuvan tribespeople. Devikulam Subcollector S. Prem Krishnan said polling officials would leave Edamalakkudy only on Wednesday. This was due to the chances of wild animals prowling in the area by evening. There were 1,909 voters this year.
09 December 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Where officials wait for voters||Pachakanam polling station, the remotest booth in Idukki, recorded the lowest voter turnout in the first phase of the local body polls on Tuesday. This is also the booth with the lowest number of voters in the State. Of the 32 voters, only nine cast their votes. As voters elsewhere waited in queue for their turn to vote, polling officials at Pachakanam waited for voters to turn up at the booth. The polling station at Pachakanam is at an anganwadi building inside a cardamom plantation, under Ward 11 (Thekkady ward) of the Kumily grama panchayat, and located inside the Periyar Tiger Reserve. All the 32 voters are estate workers. The Thekkady ward has also another unique feature of being the largest (in terms of area) ward in the State, consisting mostly of tribespeople of Mannan community, with a total number of 830 voters. The ward extends from Mullaperiyar Lake to the border with Tamil Nadu. To reach the polling station at Pachakanam, one has to travel 35 km through Vandiperiyar braving wild animals. A four-member polling team and two police officers reached there on Monday evening. As there is no mobile network in the area, details of polling will not be immediately available. K. Senkumar, assistant returning officer, Pachakanam, told The Hindu that only three voters turned up till p.m. In earlier elections too only five or six voters exercised their franchise, In the last Lok Sabha elections, only four persons cast their votes. The State Election Commission had ensured that sanitiser, water, and soap are available at the booth for voters for the safe conduct of the polls. The voters at Pachakanam are estate workers of Tamil origin settled there for generations.
09 December 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Elaborate arrangements in place for polls in Wayanad||The month-long campaign for the three-tier local body elections concluded peacefully in the district at 5 p.m. on Tuesday. This time, electioneering did not reach a feverish pitch during the final hours as the district administration had asked the political parties to adhere to the COVID-19 protocol. Hence, the campaigners focused mainly on door-to-door visits. However, small marches were taken out by political parties in different parts of the district. “All arrangements are in place for the local body polls,” said District Collector and District Election Officer Adeela Abdulla. A total of 6,25,455 voters are expected to exercise their franchise in the elections. As many as 1,857 candidates are in the fray in the district and 988 of them are women. While 737 candidates are contesting in the general category 1,120 candidates are in the reservation category. A total of 848 polling booths, including 99 polling stations for 99 divisions of the three municipalities and 749 polling stations for 413 grama panchayat wards, have been set up in the district. As 22% of the voters in Ward 16 of Thavinhal panchayat were Tamil linguistic minorities, the ballot paper would be printed in Tamil language too, said Ms. Abdulla. As many as 1,206 electronic voting machines had been arranged and 5,090 persons deployed on election duty in different parts of the district. District Police Chief G. Poonguzhali said the department had made elaborate security arrangements to ensure hassle-free, free and fair polling in the district. Sensitive booths As many as 152 booths in the district have been identified as vulnerable and sensitive booths. Of them, 132 have been identified as Maoist-affected booths. Armed guards and special police officers under a deputy police superintendent would be deployed in Maoist-affected booths, she said. Webcasting would be held in 83 booths and video recording in 83 booths, added Ms. Poonguzhali.
09 December 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Fronts confident of victory in Wayanad||When the campaign for the civic body elections concluded peacefully in the district on Tuesday, both the fronts are confident in winning more seats in the upcoming polls. While the UDF hopes that the anti-incumbency factor may turn the tide in its favour, the LDF is confident of winning ore seats. The UDF had 16 seats of the 27 in the district panchayat in the 2015 elections and its hopes that it could retain the seats in the coming election. All anti-incumbency factors against the LDF government would reflect in the coming local body polls, N. D. Appachan, convenor, United Democratic Front district committee, said. The major promise of the LDF in the last election was setting up a medical college in the government sector but, it failed to realise it so far owing to the alleged negligence of the government, Mr. Appachan said. Moreover, the farming community in the district was in a spot owing to the sharp decline in the price of produce, including coffee, pepper, ginger, and plantain and low production owing to various diseases. But the government was yet to make any positive effort to support the community, he said. Other promises such as alternative roads to Wayanad and efforts to lift the ban on night traffic on the Kozhikode-Kollegal National Highway 212 were also yet to be materialised, he said. Though the former UDF government had made all efforts to materialise the Nilambur-Nanjangud railway, the LDF government sabotaged it, he said. It had also failed to execute effective steps to mitigate increasing man-animal conflict or provide land to landless tribal families, he said. All the anti-incumbency factors would help the UDF to turn votes in the election, he said. Though the three municipalities including Kalpetta, Sulthan Bathery, and Mananthavady were ruled by the LDF, they would also be regained by the UDF in the upcoming election, he said. ‘Development agenda’ However K.V. Mohanan, chairman, Left Democratic Front district committee, said that the front had approached voters highlighting the development projects being implemented in the State, especially in the hill district of Wayanad, by the LDF government . “We won in 15 of the 23 grama panchayats and three municipalities in the district last time and we were able to complete the tenure without a stain of corruption,” Mr. Mohanan said. Moreover, at the time of two floods and during the pandemic, the government and the civic bodies could do their best for the public, especially the marginalised sections of the people. Hence, the LDF was confident of a historic win in the polls in the district, he said. The recent entry of the LJD and Kerala Congress (M) into the front would help to materialise this hope, Mr. Mohanan said.  Poised for win: BJP The BJP won in 13 grama panchayat wards and one municipal division in the 2015 civic body polls and this time 512 candidates are in the fray. “We have the upper hand in 114 seats and hope that we can easily win in all the seats,” Prasanth Malavayal, district general secretary of the BJP, said.
09 December 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Wayanad farmers stand up for Delhi agitators||A group of farmers under the aegis of the Wayanad Farmers’ Collective and Wayanad Prakruti Samrakshana Samiti, took out a rally and staged a stand-in protest in front of the collectorate here on Tuesday to express solidarity with the ongoing farmers’ agitation in Delhi over farm laws that were passed by the Central government. The agriculture produce marketing laws passed by Parliament were against the interests of the agrarian community, the protesters said. Moreover, the laws were enacted without holding any discussions with farmers, agriculture scientists, or with the public, they said. The laws were passed only to protect the vested interests of big corporates, they said. The entire world was watching the farmers sitting outside the capital in the middle of the night in winter, waiting for the government to listen to them, they said. The laws should be repealed at once, they urged. Rajesh Krishnan, convener of the collective, inaugurated the protest.
09 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Now, it’s the turn of city voters to elect their representatives||After an intensive campaign, which veered around the merits of candidates and division-specific issues rather than political ones, the voters of the Kochi Corporation will choose their civic representatives in 24 hours. Barring a few Congress leaders, no political heavyweights toured the district to pack a punch to the campaign through their personal presence. While the Congress banked on its MP Hibi Eden and MLA T.J. Vinod to take its campaign to voters, the CPI(M) had its home-grown leader P. Rajeev to spearhead its campaign. Fronts confident With a day left for the polling, the battle-hardened local leaders of both the United Democratic Front (UDF) and the Left Democratic Front (LDF) exuded confidence that they would emerge victorious in the election to Kochi Corporation. Even while highlighting the merits of their individual candidates and the possibility of them getting elected to the 74-member corporation council, front leaders were hoping that rebels in their rival camps would swing the electoral fortune to their favour. The UDF, which had posted two successive wins since 2010 and thereby ending the three decade-long innings of the LDF, had 39 members in the previous council, while the BJP had two. The LDF had the support of 30 members with the CPI(M), the major partner in the coalition, winning 25 seats. Three of the LDF rebels had also won the popular mandate last time. This time too, rebels may play an important role in deciding the winners as a few sitting councillors and prominent candidates, who enjoy the trust of voters, are in the fray. Elderly voters While the voter turnout in the first phase of the election held on Tuesday turned out to be a solace for different political camps, apprehensions are also rife over the reported reluctance of elderly voters to come out of their homes to participate in the democratic process. The COVID-19 scare remains live and it may force at least a few elders to stay indoors on December 10, the crucial polling day. Many voters had flagged the issue during the campaign, said a candidate who is in the fray. Last-minute preparations On Wednesday, candidates and their poll managers will be busy with the last-minute preparations for bringing maximum number of voters to polling booths in the corporation.
09 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Campaigning draws to a close in five districts||The second phase of the local body elections for 8,116 wards in 451 local bodies across Kottayam, Ernakulam, Thrissur, Palakkad and Wayanad districts, where campaigning came to a close on Tuesday, will be held on Thursday. The electorate comprises 98,57,208 voters, including 51,28,361 women, 47,28,489 men, 93 transgenders and 265 NRI voters. First-time voters are 57,895. A total of 473 polling booths among the 12,643 booths have been identified as sensitive and equipped with webcast facility. As many as 63,187 officials will be on polling duty. Elections in Ward 37 of the Kalamassery municipality and 47 of the Thrissur Corporation have been postponed following the death of candidates. A communication from the State Election Commission said that voters testing positive for SARS-CoV-2 and those being quarantined for suspected infection between 3 p.m. on December 9 and till the time the polling ends on December 10 may cast their votes at their respective polling booths with a certificate from the designated health officer.  The Kochi and Thrissur Corporations going to the polls on Thursday are keenly watched Statewide as the Left Democratic Front, with an array of young candidates, is seeking to wrest Kochi from the United Democratic Front after a gap of a decade while the National Democratic Alliance, which won six wards in the Thrissur Corporation in 2015, has fielded BJP spokesperson B. Gopalakrishnan as its Mayor candidate hoping to cruise to a win here. Thrissur district stood with the LDF in the 2015 polls, giving it 88 of the 111 local bodies. As the epicentre of the LIFE Mission project controversy, the district witnessed high-voltage campaigning this time around. In Ernakulam, traditionally a UDF stronghold, the Left had managed to clinch over a half of the 82 grama panchayats and eight of the 13 municipalities in 2015. The district panchayat and most block panchayats, however, went with the UDF. Both alliances are trying to better their show while the BJP faces rebel menace in quite a few places. Hot on the heels of a major shake-up in the UDF and the LDF following a split in the Kerala Congress (M), the fronts were on a full throttled offensive against each other till the last minute of electioneering in Kottayam district. While the UDF and the NDA brought in a range of issues, including gold smuggling case, the LDF sought to counter this with the development initiatives undertaken by the State government. The Left also accused the UDF and the BJP of striking a secret pact for vote-trading. In the Palakkad municipality, the BJP is fighting hard for a second term in power, even as the UDF is trying to retain the four municipalities held by it, while the Left is hoping to better its standing from just two municipalities. Among the districts going to polls on Thursday, Wayanad has the least number of voters with 6,25,455.
09 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||KMRL must reduce fare: Sreedharan||Metroman E. Sreedharan has suggested that Kochi Metro Rail Limited (KMRL) reduce metro’s fare and also venture into consultancy to rein in the metro’s loss which has escalated to Rs. 310 crore in 2019-20 from the Rs. 285-crore loss in 2018-19. Reduction of ticket fare will definitely help, including in the long run, since it will help attract more passengers to the system of mass rapid transport, even as revenue will not be affected, he said, while speaking to The Hindu . ‘A foolish act’ Consultancy is a field which brings in revenue and high profits. For example, Delhi Metro Rail Corporation Ltd. (DMRC) earns Rs. 100 crore a year from consultancy for metro rail systems within India and even outside. The Dhaka Metro too relied on DMRC for consultancy, considering the reputation it enjoyed. On its part, KMRL did a foolish thing by relying on outside consultants for Kochi metro’s Pettah-Thripunithura extension, spending substantial money for the purpose. In the process, it also lost reputation. It can even now strive to get consultancy contracts of metro rail system mooted for Thiruvananthapuram, for which it ought to have acquired expertise over the years. Metro agencies can also provide consultancy for planning and execution of railway and bridge construction works, Mr. Sreedharan, who is Principal Advisor of DMRC, said. “KMRL must also aggressively push for commercial exploitation of surplus land in its possession and also prime space attached to metro stations. They also provide much scope for advertisements,” he said. On mounting losses Speaking about KMRL’s recently published annual report citing Rs. 310-crore loss that the metro suffered in 2019-20, the Metroman said the annual report only shows profit and loss, as per rules. “One must not rely on book figures alone, since aspects like interest on loan will be shown as liability. Such gap between revenue and expenditure occur to all metro rail systems in the initial years since launch, until revenue earnings picks up steam,” he said. Mr. Sreedharan termed as incorrect critics comparing KMRL with perennially loss-making KSRTC. “It is like comparing eggs and oranges. The KSRTC is incurring substantial loss, although its responsibility ends with operating its fleet of buses. It does not have to spend for upkeep of roads, street lights and allied infrastructure, all of which is done by government departments concerned. Metro agencies have to ensure upkeep of all infrastructure, including the viaduct. They have to earmark around 80% of funds for such infrastructure alone, while operating trains needs only the balance 20% of expenses. Metro agencies also have to pay 12% GST, unlike most RTCs,” he said.
09 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Poll officials live up to ‘new normal’||The ‘things to remember’ list of polling officials has an interesting mix of personal care requirements this time in view of the pandemic situation. Unlike normal circumstances in which families staying near the booths had extended a helping hand to officials on the eve of polling, the COVID-19 crisis has upset all such plans as both officials and families remain hesitant to receive or offer such assistance that included food, water and the permission to use bathrooms. Key requirements With the ‘new normal’ in force, a few polling officials had prepared a reminder list through WhatsApp and it was widely shared among various groups.The need to have additional masks and sanitisers figured top among key requirements. “It is required even though masks and sanitisers will be distributed along with polling materials on Wednesday morning. We have to be extra cautious this time on account of the pandemic crisis,” said a presiding officer in-charge of a booth at Ayyampuzha. Polling officials will stock additional drinking water in view of risks associated with having it from nearby water sources or procuring it from shops close to polling booths. “Have at least two litres of water ready as you would be dehydrated by afternoon on the polling day,” said a message shared in the groups. Officials have also reminded each other to carry mobile phone chargers, power banks, and to ensure adequate internet data for two days. Mosquito repellents are a must as they would have to spent the night before the polling at the respective booths. Other supporting tools include torches, matchbox, newspaper sheets to sleep on and lunch packets for Wednesday. It is expected that food will be distributed by the authorities on the polling day and on the night before. A special message going the rounds is to ensure adequate medicine for fever and cold along with the need to keep regular medicines being used by polling officials.
09 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||CMFRI opens counter for sale of live fish||In a move to create a market avenue for fish farmers, the Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute (CMFRI) has opened a live fish counter on its campus in the city that offers a great opportunity for fish lovers. The counter sells varieties such as sea bass, red snapper, pearlspot and tilapia live on all working days. The facility is meant for the cage fish farmers who use the technical support of CMFRI’s Agricultural Technology Information Centre and Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Ernakulam. Fish farmers find it hard to sell their produce as the market has been disrupted by COVID-19 restrictions. By depending on middlemen, fish farmers’ earnings is slashed by around 35 per cent. They cannot survive in the field further unless the farmers are able to sell the yield immediately after the harvest, said Vipinkumar V.P., principal scientist and manager of ATIC.
09 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||‘Agencies must become financially sustainable’||In the long run, metro agencies must become financially sustainable. They must not always depend on the government to subsidise their operations. Generally, revenue increases when the metro network increases to a larger area. This would bring in operational surplus, Metroman E. Sreedharan said. On concerns about the possibility of Kochi metro’s operational expenses increasing due to expiry of defect-liability period for its components, Mr. Sreedharan said it need not be a cause of worry since the type of equipment used and DMRC’s adherence to high quality standards would not necessitate replacement of equipment for quite some time. Responding to the possibility of KMRL having to set apart funds if contracting firms opt for arbitration by citing cost escalation, he said this was unlikely since two of the prominent civil construction firms which built the metro viaduct had submitted to DMRC in writing that they would not take the arbitration route.
09 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Online LSD deals on the rise||Last month, the Ernakulam Rural police picked up three youngsters, in their late teens and early 20s, found loitering in Perumbavoor town in suspicious circumstances in the early morning hours. It emerged that they had been out to sell 45 LSD stamps found in their possession, which the student of a premier engineering college in the city amongst them had bought in the name of the other two. “The student, who is from a well-off family, had bought it over the darknet, paid off using bitcoins, and got the stuff delivered in the address of the other two. They then reached out to their potential clients through a dedicated Instagram account using coded language. With no mobile phone interactions or transactions that could be traced back to bank accounts, it is tough to crack such cases without specific tip-offs as received by the District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural) in this case,” said Rural police sources. Ordering drugs online and getting them delivered as couriers was already in vogue and the lockdown only seems to have accentuated it. LSD, a premium synthetic drug mainly associated with partying, has emerged as the most transacted in this manner, thanks to its compactness, measuring just about one-fourth the size of a folded normal stamp, and the lucrative price it attracts. “California 9, also known as three doted stamps, containing 360 micrograms of Lysergic acid on each stamp is the most soughtafter variant among LSD. Youngsters also get introduced to it from user groups who link them up to potential suppliers who on payment over mobile wallets deliver it hidden in couriers in books. The stuff will be stuck using adhesive tape to a certain page of the book that will be conveyed to the recipient on social media,” said an excise enforcement officer. Parents’ complaint Since after the lifting of the lockdown, a few parents complained to excise officials about their teenage wards receiving suspicious parcels following which the excise directed courier companies to be alert and report any suspicious and frequent delivery of parcels to youngsters. “Often the parcels are not delivered at doorsteps but the delivery boy is contacted in advance and met along the way. “The enforcement in such a highly tech-driven environment is tricky. We are planning to infiltrate the Darknet and sweep it in the guise of potential buyers,” said a senior excise official. Though MDMA, another premium drug, is also suspected to be smuggled in this fashion, enforcement officials feel that since it is more susceptible to detection, such deals may not be as widespread as LSD. Goa and Bengaluru are supposed to be the origins of such shady drug dealings.
09 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Clash of prestige in Ernakulam||Major fronts are keeping their fingers crossed as the open campaign for the election to the 13 municipalities and the Ernakulam district panchayat ended at 6 p.m. on Tuesday. Poll managers were busy making last-minute calculations amidst mixed hopes about voter turnout on Thursday. Candidates will be actively engaged in silent campaign on the poll eve on Wednesday. The high-decibel conclusion to the open campaign was absent this time in view of the pandemic situation. However, vehicle announcements and cluster meetings marked the end of the public campaign in the 13 municipalities and 27 divisions under the Ernakulam district panchayat. The Left Democratic Front (LDF) and the United Democratic Front (UDF) claimed that they would reach the finishing line first though several factors are at work in the civic body elections. Despite the general view that local issues would be the key in the civic body elections, both the fronts admitted that the overall political situation and the changing equations may be reflected in the final outcome. Termed as the ‘semi-final’ before the Assembly elections, the Bharatiya Janata Party-led National Democratic Alliance (NDA) was confident of making dents and improving its vote share, especially in some of the municipalities. Consecutive victories The battle for the municipalities seems evenly poised going by the outcome of the 2015 elections. Political slugfest and rebel menace had shifted the fortunes of both the key fronts in municipalities like Koothattukulam, Thrikkakara and Maradu. The Congress-led UDF has high hopes on retaining its traditional strongholds both in the municipalities and the Ernakulam district panchayat. It is riding high on the consecutive victories in the district panchayat since 2010. Anti-incumbency But the Left front seems to be banking on the anti-incumbency factor and rebel menace haunting the UDF in certain divisions for making a return. The tussle for the 82 grama panchayats in the district also seems evenly poised between the two key fronts amidst expectations that the BJP and formations like the Twenty20 would pose trouble in some of the wards. Of the 1,338 wards in 82 grama panchayats, the UDF had won 608 while the LDF bagged 602 wards last time. The BJP had won 49 wards.
09 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Try to extend deadline for MBBS NRI seats: HC||The Kerala High Court has directed the State government to consider extending the time for applying for MBBS courses in the NRI quota to enable those candidates who could not apply for the seats. The court has also ordered that the government consider extending the time before the third allotment, in view of the availability of unfilled seats. The court issued the order on Tuesday while disposing of a petition filed by Jerin Thomas Panicker of Kollam. According to him, he was unable to produce the documents within the specified time because of the prevailing pandemic situation. He pointed out that more than 50% of the NRI quota seats was remaining vacant because most of the MBBS aspirants could not submit all documents as directed by the competent authority. The court observed that several cases had come before it in which the candidates were unable to submit the documents within the specified time. At present, the first allotment was complete and the process for the second allotment was on.  As per the judgment of the Supreme Court, part of the amount received from the candidates under the NRI quota should be utilised for the purpose of subsidising the fee for weaker sections of society. Under such circumstances, it was incumbent that the entire NRI quota seats were filled.
09 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||HC denies Sivasankar’s role in IT cell postings||The Kerala High Court on Tuesday denied reports that M. Sivasankar, former Principal Secretary to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, had interfered in the appointment of its IT experts. Originally, the proposal was to have a permanent IT cadre for the High Court. After a series of deliberations with the government and the High Court, a meeting convened by the then Chief Secretary on May 9, 2018 decided to appoint five IT experts on contract basis as they found that the proposal to create an IT cadre would not serve the purpose, judicial sources said. Apart from Mr. Sivasankar, the deliberations were attended by a few officials, including Subrotho Biswas, Additional Chief Secretary (Home); Manoj Joshi, Secretary, Finance; G. Kamala Vardhana Rao, former Principal Secretary; and a representative of the National Informatics Centre. Qualifications The qualifications for the IT experts were prescribed by the then IT secretary to the Registrar General of the Kerala High Court. The qualifications were reviewed and approved by the Computerisation Committee of the High Court which had judges as its members. Around 100 candidates applied for the posts, from which five were picked up. The selection was carried out by a three-member panel headed by a High Court judge, who was also an engineering graduate, and Mr. Sivasankar had no role in the process, the sources said. Govt. decision Though the NIC was the solution provider for the Kerala High Court, the decision to go for IT experts was taken at the government level as the authorities felt that they “cannot expect the NIC to address the HR issues to meet the desired objectives as it warrants fundamental changes in the HR practices of the NIC,” the judicial sources pointed out. Any investigation into the various departments of the High Court would be possible only with the prior permission of the Chief Justice of the High Court. Till date, no agency has approached the court for any investigation, the sources said.  Any investigation into the various departments of the High Court will be possible only with the permission of the Chief Justice.
09 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Artists condemn demolition of heritage buildings||Sunday’s demolition of a row of three heritage buildings along the Fort Kochi beachfront to make way for a Water Metro terminal there has invited the wrath of, among others, members of the art fraternity who are also heritage enthusiasts. Each of these buildings that are said to date back over 250 years had a tale of their own, having served mariners who sailed past Kochi during the era when steam ships dominated the seas. The buildings’ photograph taken in 2012 stands out from the crowd. It depicts a painting done jointly by Dinesh R. Shenoy and his son Achutha Shenoy, street artists. A resident of Mattancherry, Dinesh founded Centre for Heritage Monument Studies, to exhibit and promote his paintings on monuments and other traditional architectural structures, over a decade ago. His son — a 12th standard student of St. Sebastian School, Thoppumpady, has taken after him and the two are often seen painting in Fort Kochi and Mattancherry with a canvas, painting heritage buildings, unmindful of tourists and others walk past. The first building that was pulled down on Sunday housed the then port office, another a gear shed where ships’ accessories were stored and the third a coal shed (hence called ‘Karippura’), used to store coal meant to power ships that sailed from the Suez Canal to South East Asia. ‘Only painting left’ Expressing dismay at the demolition, Dinesh, who has captured 480 heritage buildings on his canvas — of which 200 are from Fort Kochi — said that the three buildings were different from other monuments in the area. “They stood out by their simplicity and elegance, despite having only the ground floor, unlike most other heritage structures which are two storeyed. The thick slanting pillars that provided robust support to the structures too were strikingly attractive. The painting was done over a span of eight days, from a busy spot which provided a vantage view of two sides of the structures. Now only the painting is left to keep alive their fond memories,” he said. During the past 15 years, Dinesh spent substantial time documenting heritage buildings. Just like in Fort Kochi, many heritage buildings — including those whose walls were four-feet thick, at the famed Bazar Street in Mattancherry too are making way for shoddily-renovated structures or what is commonly portrayed as ‘modern constructions.’ Chipping off their lime covering and replacing it with concrete is the easiest way to destroy a heritage building, he says. ‘Scratch on face’ President of Kochi Biennale Foundation Bose Krishnamachary said that the demolition was almost like a scratch on one’s face — Kochi’s face. “It erased history and aesthetics of the place. Sad to see the rubble that is left. I am sure these people (KMRL which is spearheading the Water Metro project) are not aware of the aesthetics of the building and the locale. They will slowly erase the Chinese fishing nets as well — it is predictable. Someone should stop it,” he said.
09 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Police prove a good sport in Munambam||Abandoned playgrounds and shrubby vacant plots are springing back to life in the coastal hamlet of Munambam, thanks to a community police initiative of the Munambam Janamaithri police. The police have donned the role of a facilitator to channel youthful zest and exuberance to sporting activities, thus diverting them away from damaging habits such as smoking and drinking and by extension, from the world of crime. A youngster was found murdered near the Kuzhipilly beach a couple of months ago and the accused were also found to be of the same age group with some predilection for drug use. The incident, in a way, triggered the idea of engaging youngsters in meaningful activities physically and mentally. “During our patrolling, we used to find youngsters either idling away fixated on their mobile phones or smoking or drinking and some of them could get strayed to criminal activities in due course. The response to the campaign from the youngsters has been overwhelming, though we have just started it. We plan to help them access the playgrounds and vacant plots by directly interacting with the owners. Since the police are involved, the owners are willing to cooperate since they have the guarantee that their property will not be alienated and will get it back when they need it,” said A.K. Sudheer, Station House Officer, Munambam. The excited youngsters are already busy preparing a cricket pitch along the Munambam beach while a fairly large vacant plot near Kuzhipilly beach is being cleaned. Youngsters are free to choose the sports item and police facilitate sponsorships to get the equipment needed to play it. The police are actively using the social media to reach out to youngsters to further the campaign. “We have our own Janamaithri police group and groups of volunteers helping the police and Rapid Response Teams created to fight the pandemic. All these groups are effectively used for communicating the messages related to the campaign,” said Mr. Sudheer. Only, in their excitement, youngsters seem to be getting way too demanding, and the police seem willing to indulge them as long as they can afford it.
09 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Rural police begin deployment at booths||The Ernakulam Rural police have started deployment of personnel across 2,356 polling stations and 19 counting stations within its limits on Tuesday. Patrol ahead of the polling has also been launched. District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural) K. Karthik said that additional force would be deployed at vulnerable booths. He visited the polling booths on Tuesday. Mr. Karthik said that polling booths would be out of bounds for everyone except voters and those with relevant passes issued by the authorities concerned. Crowding should be avoided at camps set up near polling booths by political parties and candidates.
09 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||10,491 campaign materials removed for code violation||As many as 10,491 campaign materials, which violated the poll code, have so far been removed from the district by defacement squads led by tahsildars. The material include posters, flex boards, banners, flags, and graffiti. Most violations (2,341) were found within the jurisdiction of the Kanayannur taluk office. There were 1,915 illegally placed posters, 14 flex boards and banners, 272 boards and 142 flags. Kochi taluk had 1,459 violations followed by Aluva (1,287), and Kunnathunad (1,499). A total of 2,082 illegal campaign materials were seized from Muvattupuzha while 1,508 were removed from Kothamangalam and 315 from Paravur taluk.
09 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Guruvayur entry: HC disposes of suo motu case||The Kerala High Court on Monday asked the Guruvaryur Devaswom to check the veracity of reports that Devaswom Minister Kadakampally Surendran’s wife and her retinue had entered the Nalambalam of the Guruvayur Sreekrishna temple violating the COVID-19 restrictions. It also asked the Devaswom to take appropriate action if the case was true. The directive was passed by the Bench comprising Justice C.T. Ravikumar and Justice K. Haripal while disposing of a suo motu case initiated by the court based on news reports on the Minister’s wife entry into the shrine According to reports, the Devaswom chairman along with the wife of the Minister and two other VVIPs had entered the Nalambalam on the day of Guruvayur Ekadasi and the next day despite a ban.
09 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||528 test positive in district||Five health workers were among the 528 people who tested positive for SARS-CoV2 in Ernakulam on Tuesday while 403 patients recovered. A total of 104 of the new patients had unknown sources of infection. Thrikkakara with 22 new cases topped in the incidence of COVID-19 in the district while Kalamassery (16), Amballur (15), Sreemoolanagaram (14), and Kothamangalam, Palluruthy, and Thrippunithura (13 each) also recorded new cases. Newly brought on the disease surveillance radar were 1,211 people, taking the total to 25,518. New admissions to FLTCs/hospitals were 103.
09 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Five more held in abduction case||The C-Branch of the Ernakulam rural police arrested five more persons accused of abducting, assaulting, and robbing a plywood merchant from Perumbavoor. The arrested were identified as Ambadan Shamshad, 44, of Rayonpuram, his relatives Shiyas, 43, and Siyad, 35, and his friends Siddique, 33, of Allappra, and Anoop, 32, of Thuruthelil. Earlier, four others had been arrested in this connection. Jameer of Mudikkal was abducted allegedly by the accused last month.
09 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Joseph group candidates not Independents, says High Court||The Kerala High Court on Monday directed the State Election Commission (SEC) to allow candidates of the P.J. Joseph faction of the Kerala Congress (M) to contest the local body elections as candidates fielded by the group under its symbol ‘chenda’. Justice A. Muhamed Mustaque issued the order on a petition filed by Mr. Joseph. According to him, the Election Commission had allowed the symbol of chenda to contest as Kerala Congress Joseph group. However, the SEC was trying to treat all candidates belonging to his group as Independent candidates. In fact, the Joseph group was part of the UDF and if it they were treated as Independent candidates it would ultimately lead to disqualification of such elected candidates on the ground that Independent candidates had switched over to the coalition. In view of these submission, the court issued the directive.
09 December 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||73% turn up to vote in Kollam district||With the district reporting no major dip in the voter turnout due to the pandemic, all the fronts seem quite optimistic about the electoral outcome. The final polling percentage in the district has been recorded as 73.43 which includes 73.11% male votes and 73.7 % female votes. The percentage of transpersons who cast their votes is 15.79. While Kollam Corporation registered a voter turnout of 66%, the percentage in the four municipalities are Paravur (73), Punalur (73), Karunagapplly (79) and Kottarakra (68). Among the block panchayats Oachira recorded the highest polling percentage of 78 while the same in other blocks are as follows: Kottarakara (73), Chittumala (74), Chavara (76), Cahdayamangalam (73), Ithikkara (73), Mukhathala (73), Sasthamcotta (77), Pathanapuram (72), Vettikavala (73), and Anchal (72). The LDF leadership in the district is confident about retaining their dominance, especially in Kollam Corporation and the district panchayat. “We have fielded a total of 1,598 candidates and the poll victory in 2015 local body elections and 2016 Assembly elections will be repeated. We are certain that there will be an improvement in vote share too. In 2015 we had lost four out of the total 26 seats in district panchayat and this time we will reclaim Chavara, Thevalakkara, Kalayapuram, and Vettikavala seats. In the last local body polls the voters had elected LDF in 77 out of the total 85 local bodies,” said S.Sudevan, CPI(M) district secretary. According to DCC president Bindu Krishna, the UDF will win all the local bodies in the district with a thumping majority. “Disgruntled over the corrupt LDF governance during the last four-and-a-half years, the people of Kollam turned out in big numbers to cast their votes in favour of the UDF,” she said. She added that the front could make a significant headway in Kollam Corporation, the district panchayat, block panchayats and all grama panchayts. “The people in the district have cast their votes to dislodge the ruling front and the verdict will be an answer to LDF government’s attempts to hide massive corruption,” she said. The NDA camp is equally hopeful and the leaders say the front will wrest power in several seats. “For the first time BJP will rule Kollam Corporation and we will emerge as a strong Opposition in many parts. As per the post-polling reports, we are all set to make history,” said BJP district president B.B. Gopakumar.
09 December 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Pandemic protocol for polls in Kottayam||In view of a surge in COVID-19 cases in Kottayam, the district administration has put in place elaborate arrangements to ensure the pandemic prevention protocol during the time of polling to the local body elections in the district on December 10. As part of it, District Collector M. Anjana has directed the officers concerned to disinfect the polling stations on Wednesday, the day before polling. Water and soap will be provided outside the booth and sanitiser will be given inside the booth. Protective gear Polling assistants have been assigned to provide sanitiser while entering and exiting the polling booth. Polling officials must wear face shields, masks, sanitisers and hand gloves. Masks and gloves used at polling stations will be collected in separate carry bags, which will be taken to government hospitals and COVID first-line treatment centres (CFLTCs) in the respective areas to dispose them of scientifically. Special marking For physical distancing during polling, special marking will be made at a fixed distance in front of the booths for the voters to wait for their turn. Voters must wear mask and should avoid interacting with or shaking hands with others. Voters should make sure the mask is worn properly while standing in the queue and entering the polling booth. The mask can be removed only to identify the voter, if needed. There will be separate queues for women and men. People with disabilities, the sick and those over the age of 70 can vote without standing in queue. Only three voters will be allowed inside the booth at a time. Identification documents should be shown when entering the booth and signature and fingerprint should be affixed in the register. A polling station will have four polling officials, one polling assistant, and one police officer.
09 December 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||695 test positive in Kottayam||The number of new COVID-19 cases in Kottayam touched a new high on Tuesday with 695 persons testing positive for SARS-CoV-2. Of the new cases, all but one contracted the virus through local contact. The cases also included 70 children and 107 persons aged above 60 years. With 42 cases, Kottayam municipality led the tally, followed by Thrikkodithanam with 30 cases. Changanassery and Kanjirappilly reported 29 and 22 cases respectively. With 460 recoveries during the day, the district has 4,805 active cases. Kollam reported 317 new cases of COVID-19, one death, and 269 recoveries on Tuesday. Among the patients are 315 contact cases, one NRI, and one person with no known source. The Health Department also confirmed that the death of a 70-year-old Karungappally resident is due to COVID-19. The district has 14,350 people under observation and the total number of samples collected is 4,93,742. While 1,441 people completed home quarantine on Tuesday.The number of active cases at present is 3,699. As many as 238 persons tested positive in Pathanamthitta on Tuesday. Of the new cases, 204 contracted the virus through local contact. Among the local bodies, Adoor reported 21 cases, followed by Thiruvalla with 17 cases. Meanwhile, two more deaths in the district were attributed to COVID-19 with a 79-year-old Enathu native and a 29-year-old woman from Nedumbram testing positive after death. With this, the total number of deaths related to COVID-19 in Pathanamthitta rose to 133. ith 186 recoveries during the day, the district has 2,288 active cases. Alappuzha district logged 241 COVID-19 cases on Tuesday. It also recorded two deaths. Of the total cases, 226 patients contracted the virus through local transmission, while the source of infection of another 15 people remains unknown. Meanwhile, 361 people undergoing treatment for the disease in the district tested negative. The active COVID-19 caseload in the district stands at 4,096. (With inputs from Kollam, Pathanamthittta, and Alappuzha bureaus)
09 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Tourism dept. finds it tough to implement COVID-19 protocol||With most tourist centres in the district thrown open to public post the lockdown, the Tourism Department is having a hard time ensuring that the COVID-19 protocol is being adhered to. Despite several warnings from the Health Department and the District Tourism Promotion Council (DTPC), visitors tend to neglect some of the restrictions. “People come to these places with children. They realise their lapse only when we point it out and send them back. How can they ignore such an important aspect?,” said DTPC Secretary C.P. Beena. Visitors to most tourist centres are regulated by entry passes and, hence, ensuring physical distancing is not a challenge in such places. However, the open beaches pose a huge risk. Other than the Kappad beach, all other beaches in the district are open to all. “We have designated the duty of controlling public in these beaches to other departments, like Ports, as we are unable to handle the situation alone,” said Ms. Beena, adding that people were flocking to the tourism centres with families. “Their tendency to bring food and eat together at these places is another problem,” she added. Guidelines issued Meanwhile, the Health Department has issued a fresh set of guidelines for tourists. Apart from maintaining physical distancing and wearing masks, they have been advised against discarding used masks carelessly. The public has been advised against visiting tourist centres if they showed any symptoms such as fever.
09 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||‘UDF will initiate probe into corrupt deals’||An investigation based on the report of the Comptroller and Auditor General (CAG) regarding the discrepancies in various projects of the Kozhikode Corporation will be one of the first tasks to be undertaken if the United Democratic Front (UDF) comes to power in the civic body, M.K. Muneer, MLA, has said. Releasing the “charge sheet of corruption” by the outgoing Left Democratic Front-led Corporation Council here on Monday, he said the report was submitted to the Corporation in September, but was kept a secret by the officials. The UDF has alleged large-scale corruption in connection with several projects of the Corporation, including the Centrally-sponsored Amrut project, the septage project and the waste-to-energy plant at Njeliyanparamba. ‘Rules violated’ “Ram Biologicals, a firm with no experience in the field, was entrusted with a detailed project report (DPR) for the sewage treatment plant project. The PWD manual was violated and pre-qualification tender was neglected to hire this firm,” said Mr. Muneer, citing the CAG report. The controversy associated with Mahila Mall and the lack of a monitoring system for the drinking water project under Amrut, which has been handed over to the Kerala Water Authority, were also highlighted. No DPR has been prepared for the sewerage project yet. The septage project and the urban transport project too have been abandoned midway, said Mr. Muneer. KPCC vice president T. Siddique, general secretary P.M. Niyas, IUML State vice president M.C. Mayin Haji and other leaders were present.
09 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Substantiate allegation against Speaker, BJP leader told||A. Vijayaraghavan, State secretary of the Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] has asked BJP State president K. Surendran to come out with the source of his information that Speaker P. Sreeramakrishnan and other Ministers had helped the accused in the gold smuggling case. At a meet-the-leader programme organised by the Calicut Press Club here on Tuesday, Mr. Vijayaraghavan wondered how Mr. Surendran secured the details of the statement of an accused given to an investigation agency. “The BJP president has to provide the source of information on an ongoing probe. His statement was a deliberate attempt to malign the Speaker when the State went on polls,” he said. Mr. Vijayaraghavan said that Central agencies were being employed for political gains and that the statements of the accused were also used for political purposes. The agencies were fulfilling the political requirements of the Centre, the CPI(M) leader alleged. He said that the Central agencies probing the gold smuggling case from July were yet to bring to light the source of the consignment and its beneficiaries. “Perhaps, they may have their own objectives but the allegations based on the purported statements of the accused would not affect the party,” Mr. Vijayaraghavan said. Replying to a question, he said that it was up to the Speaker to respond to the allegations and initiate any legal procedures against the BJP president. He said the United Democratic Front (UDF) had been reduced to two parties of the Congress and the Indian Union Muslim League. That was why the combine had forged an alliance with the Jamaat Islami Hind-backed Welfare Party of India, which had extremist views. He said that both the Congress and the parties were facing a serious political crisis. The disintegration of the Congress would take place after the three-tier local body polls, he said.
09 December 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Private registration yet to begin in Calicut varsity||Private registration for postgraduate and undergraduate courses has not begun in Calicut University even as the University Grants Commission (UGC) is delaying its permission to resume the distance education programme. It was on November 25 that the Syndicate decided to resume private registration in the wake of the delay in getting the UGC nod. The authorities are planning to shift privately registered students to the distance education programme soon after getting the national panel’s permission. The university sent an application for permission after the newly launched Sree Narayana Guru Open University failed to get recognition. It is learnt that the application is yet to be taken up by the UGC. The delay assumes significance as Calicut University has a large number of students opting for courses in the distance education mode. In the 2019-20 academic year, 44,804 had enrolled for undergraduate courses and 8,727 for postgraduate courses, says the university website. There are 14 UG courses and 12 PG courses under the stream. Meanwhile, sources in the Vice-Chancellor’s office said that an order had been issued for starting private registration and a notification was expected by the weekend. The government was earlier planning to stop all the distance education programmes under the University of Kerala, Mahatma Gandhi University, Calicut University, and Kannur University, and bring them all under the open university. However, the Kerala High Court intervened in the issue in view of a petition filed by parallel colleges and students. It was claimed that the new university had not got recognition from the UGC, which put the future of one lakh students at stake. Following this, the court asked the government to produce the approval under UGC regulations. It was reported that the State government had given an unofficial directive to the authorities to send the application to the UGC. Though October 15 was the earlier deadline, it was extended to October 31 later.
09 December 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||IMA stages protest against Central move||The Kozhikode branch of the Indian Medical Association (IMA) on Tuesday staged a protest outside the district collectorate against the Centre’s permission to Ayurveda doctors to perform surgeries. In a release, IMA functionaries said that any attempt to mix incompatible branches of medicine should be opposed. The protest was opened by Ajith Bhaskar, IMA north zone joint secretary.
09 December 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Test positivity falls to 7% in Kozhikode||The daily test positivity rate (TPR) slumped to 7% in Kozhikode district on Tuesday, after going high for consecutive weeks. Meanwhile, District Medical Officer V. Jayasree has urged the people not to lower their guard during the ongoing campaigning for the local body polls. According to the DMO, 451 samples tested positive for the virus and 6,436 samples were sent for lab tests. Of the fresh cases, 415 are locally acquired infections and the source was unknown in 28 cases. There were 421 recoveries and the active case load from the district stands at 6,367. Kozhikode Corporation had the highest number of cases of local transmission at 128, followed by Peruvayal (28), Payyoli (15), and Olavanna and Madavoor (14). Two deaths each were reported at the Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode, on Monday and Tuesday. The DMO said that those who are part of the election process should take precautions against transmission of the infection. The face masks should be changed every six hours and hands should be cleaned using either a hand sanitizer or soap and water. Food should not be consumed as a group. In Wayanad Wayanad district saw the biggest spike ever in COVID-19 infection on Tuesday with 284 positive cases. District Medical Officer R. Renuka said that 280 of them contracted the infection through local contacts. Dr. Renuka urged people to step up vigil in the face of a continuous increase in the number of COVID-19 cases in the district. The district also recorded 125 recoveries on Tuesday. As many as 1,927 infected persons are currently under treatment in the district.
09 December 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||COVID norms deprive campaign finale of noise||Active campaigning for the local body elections ended on Tuesday evening in Palakkad district without the usual fanfare and noisy demonstrations. Major fronts took out tiny rallies in municipalities and panchayats ballyhooing the culmination of their campaign. Candidates and their supporters can conduct silent electioneering on Wednesday. However, the Election Commission has proscribed more than five persons going in groups during the silent campaign. Apart from the district panchayat, 88 grama panchayats, 13 block panchayats, and seven municipalities in Palakkad will go to polls on Thursday. There are 23.35 lakh voters in Palakkad district. When 12.15 lakh of them are women, 11.20 lakh are men. There are 14 transgender voters too in Palakkad. There are 126 candidates contesting the 30 district panchayat divisions. As many as 636 candidates are there for 183 divisions of 13 block panchayats. There are 5,016 candidates for 1,490 wards of 88 grama panchayats. And 809 candidates are in the fray for 234 wards of seven municipalities. As many as 3,000 polling stations have been arranged across the district. When 2,707 of them are in grama panchayats, 293 are in municipalities. As many as 18,000 employees have been deployed for election duty in Palakkad. Among them are 3,000 presiding officers, 9,000 polling officers and 3,000 assistant polling officers. There will be 3,000 officers in reserve. Webcasting has been arranged in 90 booths. Twenty-four of them have been declared to have the Maoist presence and 66 declared to be trouble-prone. Videography facility has been arranged in 300 booths. The candidates can request for webcasting if they are willing to bear the cost. As many as 5,796 police personnel will be on duty for the election in Palakkad. Among them will be 12 DySPs, 60 inspectors and 401 sub-inspectors. Armed policemen will be posted in sensitive booths.
09 December 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||UDF and BJP spreading falsehood, says Balan||Minister for Welfare of SC, ST and OBC A.K. Balan has accused the United Democratic Front (UDF) and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) of resorting to a “shadow campaign rooted in falsehood” against the Left Democratic Front (LDF) in the State. Addressing the media here on Tuesday, Mr. Balan said that the UDF and the BJP were spreading a false message that the LDF would try to allow women in Sabarimala Temple if it came back to power in the State. He also said that the UDF was spreading falsehoods with the help of the Jamaat-e-Islami to misguide the minorities about reservation for the economically backward among the forward communities. “This dangerous shadow campaign is going to be detrimental for the UDF in Kerala,” he warned, alleging that the UDF had made an unholy alliance with the Jamaat-e-Islami and was trying to help the BJP gain control in several civic bodies. “There has been a clear conspiracy between them at all levels with the sole objective of reducing the LDF votes. The Congress is showing no qualms in helping the BJP. The way they helped the BJP in Nemom, they are trying to do it in Thiruvananthapuram Corporation too,” the Minister said. Mr. Balan accused the UDF of trying to scuttle the development projects worth Rs. 3,210 crore being implemented in Palakkad district under the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB). By trying to portray KIIFB schemes as unconstitutional, the UDF is trying to destroy the development projects, he said. He said only the BJP was privy to the statements made by some people before the Central investigation agencies. According to him, making comments on the basis of the statements recorded by the investigating agencies was against propriety and norms.  False message being spread that LDF would allow women in Sabarimala temple if it came back to power
09 December 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||328 test positive in Palakkad||As many as 328 people tested positive for COVID-19 in Palakkad district on Tuesday. However, there were 382 recoveries. When 160 of the new cases had contracted the virus through direct contact with infected persons, there were as many cases without an identifiable source of infection. Among the new cases were two health workers and six persons who came from across the borders. The number of active cases currently under treatment in Palakkad reduced to 4,363. Apart from them, 176 people from Palakkad were being treated in other districts in Kerala. Eighty of them were in Malappuram, 39 in Ernakulam, 33 in Thrissur, 12 in Kozhikode, two each in Kollam and Thiruvananthapuram, and one each in Alappuzha, Pathanamthitta and Kasargod.
09 December 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Excise squad seizes 36 kg of ganja, 1 kg of hashish oil||An Excise special squad seized 36 kg ganja and one kilogram hashish oil from a youngster after an adventurous road chase here on Tuesday. Suhail, 26, from Puthanathani near Kottakkal, was arrested and his car seized. The Excise team led by Inspector K.S. Prasobh was checking the vehicles at Walayar toll plaza as part of the enhanced security for the elections, when Suhail sped away his car in a dangerous manner. The Excise team gave him a chase and caught him at Kuzhalmannam near here with the help of Excise range inspector Santhosh Kumar. The ganja and hashish oil were found hidden in a compartment under the car seat. Suhail reportedly brought them from Visakhapatnam for distribution in Kottakkal and Puthanathani areas of Malappuram district. The ganja and hashish oil were worth Rs. 35 lakh.
09 December 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Rival fronts cautiously optimistic in Pathanamthitta||Though the enthusiastic crowd at many polling booths across Pathanamthitta on Tuesday initially gave out an impression of a higher turnout on Tuesday than the local body elections in 2015, the numbers tell a different story. As per preliminary estimates, the overall polling percentage in Pathanamthitta is 69.74% as against 72.8% recorded in 2015. But with COVID-19 upending campaign traditions and its impact still being felt, the turnout decline was much lesser than expected for the three major fronts. They, however, appeared cautiously optimistic as to what effect it would have on the final outcome. Among the eight blocks, the highest voting percentage was reported in Konni at 71.24%, followed by Pandalam with 70.46%. The turnout recorded by these blocks during the previous election were 73.72% and 74.47% respectively. “That the people have turned up in huge numbers braving the fear of the pandemic is a signal that it will a landslide for the United Democratic Front,” said Babu George, president, Pathanamthitta District Congress Committee. Expected lines He said the voter turnout was largely along expected lines while it was specifically in favour of the UDF in the municipalities. The Left Democratic Front, on the other hand, maintained that the voter turnout was particularly low in areas where COVID-19 cases were higher. “The pattern of voting, however, did not reflect any anti-government tendencies despite the best attempts by the UDF and the NDA to tarnish its image. The actual turnout was indeed much higher when NRIs and deceased persons who feature in the voters’ list are taken into account,” said K. Ananthagopan, CPI(M) State committee member. The National Democratic Alliance (NDA), meanwhile, said the polling percentage was indeed a few points lesser than anticipated. “We were expecting up to 78% but given the COVID-19 situation, it is still a relatively better figure,” said Ashokan Kulanada, BJP district president.
09 December 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Pathanamthitta posts 69.74% polling||The local body polls in Pathanamthitta, which witnessed a multi-cornered contest led by the three major political fronts, witnessed a moderate turnout on Tuesday. As per initial estimates of the district election authority, the overall voter turnout in the district was 69.74% . The final figure will be released by the State Election Commission later. In the 2015 polls, the voter turnout in the district was 72.8%. On a day blessed by weather gods, polling began on a brisk note with the first three hours recording a polling percentage of 22.89. Although it witnessed a lull around midday, the momentum picked up again in the afternoon. Barring the death of a voter, who collapsed soon after voting at a polling station at Idamuri, near Ranni, no major untoward incident was reported during polling on the day. The deceased was identified as Mathai, 90. Instances of voting machines developing snags were reported from a couple of locations, but they were rectified soon. Of the 5.75 lakh female voters in the district, 68.83% exercised their franchise while 70.78% of the 5.02 lakh male voters also cast their votes. Among municipalities, Pandalam reported the highest polling of 75.42%, followed by 71.49% recorded by Pathanamthitta. Adoor reported 68.42% while the voter turnout in Thiruvalla was 64.68%.
09 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Gold smuggling case dominates the poll day narrative||New episodes of scandalmongering and finger-pointing associated with the sensational UAE gold smuggling case appeared to dominate the political narrative during the first phase of the local body elections in Kerala on Tuesday. Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) State president K. Surendran seemed to set the stage for the election day drama by claiming in Kochi that Speaker P. Sreeramakrishnan and two Ministers had helped gold smugglers. He also alleged that the Speaker’s foreign trips were suspect. The impact of Mr. Surendran’s averments on voters was debatable. However, the Congress and the BJP further endeavoured to make political capital out of two other developments later in the day. C.M. Raveendran, additional private secretary to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, got admitted to the Government Medical College Hospital here citing ill health. Opposition parties alleged that Mr. Raveendran had attempted to buck the Enforcement Directorate’s summons to appear before it in Kochi on Thursday. The date of his summons fell on a polling day. The Left Democratic Front allegedly feared the news optics of Mr. Raveendran’s arrival for questioning at the ED’s office would not augur well for the public image of the ruling coalition on a crucial day. The agency had summoned Mr. Raveendran for the third time. Swapna’s statement The Congress and the BJP also sought to highlight gold case suspect Swapna Suresh’s statement in a court in Kochi. She had claimed that a set of persons, possibly police and jail officials, had warned her against cooperating with the Customs Department or incriminating those in power. Swapna, a COFEPOSA detainee, said that she felt threatened in prison and feared for her family outside. Opposition parties spotlighted the developments as moves to prevent the investigation from reaching higher-ups in the government. CPI(M) reaction Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] acting State secretary A. Vijayaraghavan said in Kozhikode that politically partisan officials in central agencies had repeatedly enabled Opposition fronts to cast the government under a cloud of suspicion during the election period by passing on trumped-up stories aimed at slurring the integrity of persons who held high-office.The muckraking against the Speaker and other attempts at spreading disinformation about the government would have no bearing on the outcome of the polls. Citizens had empirical evidence about the government’s social security and development plan, he said.
09 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Ayinkamam cries out for water, roads||Crossing the border into Tamil Nadu at Kaliyikkavila and moving a short distance along the highway, one can spot the arch for the Ambadi Sreekrishnaswamy temple. A right turn there and some distance ahead is located Government Lower Primary School, Ayinkamam. The school is much like many such institutions with its partitioned classrooms, but it has the unique distinction of hosting the first booth of Kerala State for the local body elections. Ayinkamam, Ward 17 of the Parassala grama panchayat, but in what perhaps can be called a quirk of fate or something else, it can be reached only from Tamil Nadu. Though not too bothered by their location on the map, the lockdown a few months ago brought home to Ayinkamam its downside when the residents found themselves unable to reach Parassala town when the Kaliyikkavila check-post was closed, says Soman, an optical representative and a Bharatiya Janata Party supporter. “We cannot go to Parassala, which we depend on for most of our needs, be it the panchayat, bank, or hospital, without touching Tamil Nadu. This ward is akin to an island, hemmed in by Tamil Nadu. During the lockdown, we became isolated and suffered for long,” recalls Mr. Soman. But that was then. On polling day, road and drinking water are some of the issues that are on top of the mind of the voters. It is over an hour and a half since polling began, and the turnout has been anything but sluggish. In booth number one, of the total 1,160 voters, 89 had exercised their franchise by 8 a.m., a percentage of 7.67, says presiding offier Raja Singh. The school’s other booth is the second booth of Kerala. The BJP had won the ward last time. This time, Sushila G. of the BJP is in fray along with Panchami N.L. of the LDF, and Mahilakumari of the Congress. Panchami, a young candidate who is doing B.Com., says roads further inside the ward are in a worse condition than that in front of the school. The drinking water scheme has stalled, people are awaiting houses, and pension benefits are yet to reach many. There is lots more development that needs to be happen here, especially for the poor, she says. Mr. Soman, though, is quick to point out that ward member P. Suresh did what he could, but the local MLA and the MP also need to do their jobs. Funds for the roads, he says, have been sanctioned, and works would get under way after the elections. Congress citadel This ward though is a Congress citadel, and many see the party wresting it back this time.
09 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Fall in polling percentage in the district||The capital district on Tuesday recorded a significant fall in polling percentage for local body polls compared to the previous ones held in 2015. The district had then registered 71.9% that was incidentally the lowest in the State during the 2015 local body elections. The State average was then 77.76%. 69.72% recorded This time, the percentage, according to official statistics issued by the district administration at 8.30 p.m., was lower at 69.72% for Thiruvananthapuram. As many as 19,78,730 people cast their votes across the district. Garnering a total of 4,79,415 votes, the Thiruvananthapuram Corporation also recorded a poll percentage of 59.72%, also significantly lower than the turnout of 62.9% that had been witnessed last time. Mulloor (74.44%), Punchakkari (72.76%) and Harbour (71.26%) registered the highest poll percentages among the 100 wards of the Corporation. The average polling percentage for the four municipalities in the district also fell considerably from 76.47% to 72.04%. The highest percentage of 74.69% was recorded in Neyyattinkara municipality with 48,157 voters exercising their franchise. The corresponding figures in the other Municipalities were: Nedumangad 72.88% (40,818), Varkala 71.23% (23,498) and Attingal 69.36% (22,652).  Block panchayats The block panchayats recorded polling percentages as follows: Vellanad 74.54% (1,50,910), Nedumangad 71.54% (1,13,171), Vamanapuram 71.34% (1,38,501), Parassala 74.74% (1,25,055), Chirayinkeezhu 72.89% (95,047), Varkala 72.3% (98,411), Kilimanoor 74.39% (1,34,018), Perunkadavila 77.06% (1,37,222), Athiyannoor 76.11% (95,021), Nemom 73.82% (1,73,171) and Pothencode 72.46% (1,03,572). Among the 73 grama panchayats, the highest poll percentages were recorded in Perunkadavila (81.5%), Kottukal (78.47%), Kulathoor (78.15%), Kallikadu (77.7%) and Kunnathukal (77.47%). Peaceful The elections passed off largely peacefully in the district, barring some isolated incidents of altercations. Activists of the Left Democratic Front (LDF) and United Democratic Front (UDF) were engaged in a minor clash in the Government Lower Primary School, Thumba, following allegations of vote canvassing. The incident prompted the police to adopt forceful methods to disperse the activists from the polling station. One person, identified as Mustafa, was arrested following complaints of bogus voting in the Palayam ward of Thiruvananthapuram Corporation. He was arrested on the basis of the complaint submitted by the agent of the UDF candidate in the ward. An Independent candidate, who contested from the Kottukalkonam ward in Balaramapuram grama panchayat, succumbed to COVID-19 in a hospital by around 4 p.m., the police said.
09 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Urban booths see long queues||At 7 a.m on Tuesday, when polling began for the local body elections, long queues, of the young and the old, were witnessed across most of the urban booths in the Thiruvananthapuram Corporation. By the first hour, as much as 6.04% of votes were polled. That early surge in votes, despite the prevailing COVID-19 situation, raised hopes of an improved polling percentage this year, compared to 2015, when only 62.9 % votes were polled. Though the pace of polling remained so for the next two hours, a lull set in soon, after which there was no late surge to salvage the numbers. By the time the figures from the State Election Commission came in at 9 p.m, only 59.73% of the voters in the city Corporation had cast their votes, despite it being a more keenly contested, much hyped three-cornered battle compared to 2015 Long line At the polling booth at St.Mary’s Higher Secondary School in Pattom, a long line of voters wearing masks and holding small sanitiser bottles in their pockets were visible even as the mock polling was progressing inside. The police personnel and other officials posted here were seen taking extra effort to make the voters maintain physical distancing. However, in some booths, physical distancing norms went for a toss as voters queued up close together as they used to do in past elections. “I came in early expecting there to be less rush at this time. But, it seems many others also thought the same,” said Bhaskaran, a voter. Compared to the urban wards, the polling was slow to pick up in the coastal wards. At St.Peter’s LP School in Kannanthura, only a small queue of voters was visible around 8 a.m. But, an hour later, a long queue was witnessed at St.Antony’s Public School in Valiyathura, also on the coast. In the afternoon, the numbers were steady without any major surge. Towards the fag end of the day, a few voters, who had tested COVID-19 positive or were in quarantine, turned up wearing PPE kits to cast their votes. Confusing signals The not so encouraging polling numbers have given confusing signals to the three major fronts, but all of their leaders expressed confidence that it is a favourable sign for them.
09 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Special voters seize the opportunity||Perhaps the most enduring image from the first phase of the local body elections held on Tuesday was that of ‘special voters’ marching to polling booths wearing personal protective equipment (PPE) kits to cast their votes. While the data on the turnout of COVID-19 positive and quarantined voters are still awaited, the response has been much better than expected, State Election Commissioner V. Bhaskaran said. “We were not sure whether any of the special voters would come to vote, given the fear surrounding COVID-19. But the response has been generally good. We had made all the arrangements,” Mr. Bhaskaran said. The commission is planning to replicate the system introduced for special voters in the first phase in the second and third phases of the polls also, he said. Teams led by Special Polling Officers are delivering the special postal ballots by hand in other districts. The ballot papers would be sent by post, as was done in Phase 1, if delays are encountered, he said. Electors who had tested positive or prescribed quarantine within 10 days of the elections were issued special postal ballot papers. Those who tested positive or were quarantined after 3 p.m. on December 7 were allowed to visit the booths to vote after all other voters had exercised their franchise. COVID-19 protocol The commission has directed the District Collectors to ensure that the COVID-19 protocol is strictly observed in the December 10 second phase polling too.
09 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Classical dance festival begins||The Indian Classical Dance Festival 2020 in memory of the late Kapila Vatsyayan, Padma Vibhushan awardee, got under way here on Tuesday. Minister for Culture A.K. Balan inaugurated the festival, being organised by the Department of Culture, Kerala State Youth Commission, and the Malayalam Mission, with Bharat Bhavan providing the venue. Dancers V.P. and Shantha Dhananjayan, Padma Subrahmanyam, and Narthaki Natraj; dance historian Sunil Kothari; playwright and poet Omchery N.N. Pillai; Koodiyattom exponent G. Venu; and former Minister for Culture M.A. Baby spoke about Kapila Vatsyayan at the function. This was followed by transgender artiste Narthaki Natraj’s Bharatanayam performance, RLV Ramakrishnan’s Mohiniyattom, Shijith and Parvathi’s Bharatanatyam, and Aishwarya Warrier’s Mohiniyattom performance.
09 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Enforcing physical distancing a tall order in the coastal belt||Enforcing COVID-19 norms along the district’s coastal belt proved to be tall order as polling officials struggled to streamline crowds that arrived to cast their votes on Tuesday. The paucity of space in many polling booths prompted many to cite impracticalities in implementing the protocol. Nevertheless, most voters turned up with masks and frequently sanitised their hands as the electorate warmed up to the post-pandemic new normal of elections. Effective steps were also adopted by the police to prevent crowding outside polling stations. Voters jostled against each other as they made a beeline for the polling booths in various places including Murukkumpuzha, Puthenthope, Anjuthengu, Kochuveli and Vettucaud. The police also had to resort to forceful measures to disperse a crowd that had congregated outside a polling station in St. Joseph’s Lower Primary School, Anjuthengu. A poll officer, who oversaw the proceedings in a booth in Vettucaud, claimed difficulties in enforcing social distancing norms. “We have numerous polling booths that have been set up in panchayat-run public libraries, government offices and school that lack adequate space. To prevent long queues from blocking roads, we had to instruct voters to stand close to those ahead of them,” he said. Sent back The officials who were deputed for election duty in Pallithura Higher Secondary School turned back some voters who arrived to vote without their masks. Thumba Assistant Sub-Inspector Saju Kumar said they were directed to return with masks. Some people volunteered to distribute masks for the benefit of such people. In certain places, political parties joined hands to distribute hand sanitisers and arrange other facilities to meet the COVID-19 precautionary requirements in polling stations. Freemus Francis, an Independent candidate who contested from the seventh ward (Valiyapally) in the Anjuthengu grama panchayat, said the electoral rivals chipped in to arrange a portable water tank at the polling station in Matsya Bhavan in Anjuthengu to enable voters to wash their hands before casting their votes.
09 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||A long-sought bridge to end people’s woes||“I don’t mind even if I end up losing this work. I pray that the bridge is built soon, and the people’s woes come to an end,” says Saju, the sole boatman at Kumbichal Kadavu in the Amboori grama panchayat. It is just after noon on Tuesday, and Saju says he has made countless trips ferrying voters and other people across the Neyyar. One among them is a couple from Balaramapuram who first plan to drop into their house across the river at Thodumala and then head towards the Puravimala school to cast their votes. Besides the Puravimala school, voters of Thodumala ward are voting at another booth – the Jagratha Samithi office or what they prefer to call the community hall, just a quick climb from the small ghat. Woken up at night Saju lives at Thodumala and says he still gets woken up at night to take people across in cases of emergency. Even if not a polling day, there is good movement of people across the river for there is no other way across, he says. The other way is to reach here by road - through Tamil Nadu. Parts of a structure of a bridge that had been promised years ago are covered by wild growth now. There was talk of Forest Department approval for the bridge and the work starting a couple of months ago, but voters feel it was all an election ploy, and nothing more. “We have to go to Amboori for everything, but the bridge remains a dream. There is no dearth of promises one election after another, but to no avail though we have held many protests. ” Lives, including that of children, have been lost in the water, says Vijaya Uthami, a former Tribal Department promoter. Children often do not complete their education. They can study up to class five at the Puravimala school, and then have to study at Amboori or in hostels. Returning from Kattakada or Thiruvananthapuram that are further away means it is dark by the time they reach home, that too in dangerous conditions. “Mothers here just give birth to their children; they cannot keep their children with them and love them like others of our ilk. We are forced to send the children away when still young so that they can study.” The bridge, though, is not their sole worry. Poor roads, lack of sturdy houses, animal attacks and loss of crops, and lack of drinking water are some of their other concerns. There are 12 to 13 tribal settlements in Thodumala, the biggest ward of Amboori, and many trek km to cast their votes or catch the boat from Kumbichal Kadavu. For the three candidates here - Remya Babu of the Congress, Molly Mathew of the LDF, and Soumya Suresh of the BJP – this election is an opportunity to make a lasting difference here. The first step being the bridge across the Neyyar.
09 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State logs 5,032 cases, positivity rate at 8.31%||Kerala’s cumulative case burden of COVID-19 reached 6,44,696 on Tuesday with the reporting of 5,032 new cases when 60,521 samples were tested in 24 hours. Test positivity rate is still relatively high at 8.31%, as the epidemic curve remains on the plateau it hit over a month ago. On Tuesday, 4,735 recoveries were also reported. The active case pool, which has been on a slow decline, touched 59,732 on the day. Till date, the State has reported 5,82,351 recoveries from COVID-19. 31 deaths The addition of 31 more deaths to the official COVID death list has now put the State’s official cumulative COVID toll till date at 2,472 deaths. Kottayam and Thrissur accounted for six deaths each, Ernakulam five, Kozhikode and Thiruvananthapuram four each, Alappuzha two, while Wayanad, Kasaragod, Idukki and Kollam reported one death each. Of the 5,032 new cases reported in Tuesday, 4,934 are considered to be locally acquired infections, while in the case of 98 persons, a history of travel outside the State has been reported. Among the locally acquired infections, the source of infection could not be pinpointed in the case of 517 infections, while health workers who contracted the infection numbered 37. Among districts, Kottayam reported 695 cases, Malappuram 694, Thrissur 625, Ernakulam 528, Kozhikode 451, Palakkad 328, Kollam 317, Wayanad 284, Thiruvananthapuram 272, Alappuzha 241, Pathanamthitta 238, Kannur 207, Kasaragod 79 and Idukki 73 cases.
09 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||It’s a different test for this candidate||While most candidates in the local body polls had a tense day, looking at the polling percentages and calculating which we it would sway, Surya Heman had to deal with the twin pressures of polling and an all important examination. The Left Democratic Front (LDF) candidate in the Cheruvakkal ward of the city Corporation was on Wednesday writing her online examination in MA Journalism from Amity University inside the counter set up by the party workers near one of the booths. Open book exam “It was one of my final year examinations on polling day. Since it was an open book examination, I could attend it from near the polling booth. The college has been very supportive all through my campaigning. They allowed extensions on assignment deadlines. But the examinations have to be taken on the scheduled day. I have an examination on the counting day too,” she says. As part of the exam, she had to download the questions posted online, write her answers, scan and send it back. Balancing campaigning commitments and studies has not been much of a challenge, she says, although her daily schedule over the past one month can appear daunting to most. “The campaign work used to start early in the morning. I also used to distribute newspapers in a colony here. After finishing all the campaigning work, I would reach home by 11 p.m and study till 2 p.m. The next day, the routine would start at 6 a.m again,” she says. A rank holder in BA journalism from the Mahatma Gandhi University, she has been freelancing with online publications for the past few years.
09 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||272 new cases in capital||The district recorded 272 COVID-19 cases and 350 recoveries on Tuesday as the number of active cases dipped slightly to 3,819. The death toll rose to 576 with four more deaths being attributed to the disease. The deceased included a 51-year old man who hailed from Pangode, a 53-year old man who hailed from Karakkonam, a 70-year old man who hailed from Marayamuttom, and a 47-year-old woman who hailed from Venjaramoodu. Six health workers are among those who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 during the last 24 hours, sources said. The district administration placed 1,689 people under quarantine on the day, taking the number of people being monitored for COVID-19 symptoms to 31,435 in houses and 110 in various institutions.
09 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Meena’s name missing from voters’ list||Chief Electoral Officer Teeka Ram Meena could not cast his vote on Tuesday as his name was not on the electoral rolls updated by the State Election Commission for the local body polls. The State Election Commission (SEC) had used the list prepared in 2015 as the basis for updating the electoral rolls for the local body polls and not the one updated by the Election Commission of India (ECI) in 2019. Mr. Meena said he had become aware of the matter only on Monday. On cross-checking with the district election authorities, they also informed him that his name was not listed. Roll update Mr. Meena said he had no plans to file a complaint officially but would nonetheless take up the matter of electoral roll update with the SEC. Mr. Meena had not voted in the 2019 Lok Sabha elections, but the ECI rolls which were subsequently updated in the same year carried his name.
09 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Brisk voting at Karipalam||At the Karipalam kindergarten, a polling booth in the Peppara ward of the Vithura grama panchayat, people continue to arrive in ones or twos in the afternoon. Of the total 509 voters here, 67% had exercised their franchise by 2 p.m. Outside the booth, Ashokan, a resident, says Anil Kumar of the LDF who had won from here in the 2015 elections could not bring much development here. Surendran T.R., a KSRTC employee who lives a few hundred metres away, concurs. “Though the LDF ruled here and in the panchayat, there has not been any development. It’s time for a change now.” Roads and houses for the tribespeople, he says, are the most pressing demands. A couple of kilometres away, at Government Tribal High School, Meenankal, the voting percentage at 1 p.m. was 59.58. The total number of voters here is 673.
09 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||‘No effect on Assembly results’||The local body election results in Kerala are not likely to influence the outcome of the general Assembly elections next year, according to G. Gopakumar, former Vice Chancellor of the Central University of Kerala, and Adviser, Centre for Public Policy Research (CPPR). Speaking at a Facebook live event “Decoding the Polls'' hosted by CPPR, he said people tended to give more importance to regional issues than political factors in elections to local bodies. D Dhanuraj, Chairman, CPPR, said that State politics and even national issues like Citizenship Amendment Act and National Register of Citizens would not find much traction among voters in this election. He said Keralites wanted to give opportunities to new faces rather than the existing ones, which might prove advantageous for the NDA. The discussion was curated by Goutham K.A., Project Associate, CPPR.
09 December 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||All 3 fronts are confident in Thrissur||All the three fronts are in a neck-and-neck fight as Thrissur prepares for the local body elections on December 10. As the epicentre of the LIFE Mission Project controversy, the district witnessed high voltage campaigns marked by aggressive blitzkrieg between the the LDF, UDF and NDA. While the LDF, which won majority of the local bodies in the 2015 elections, says it will improve the seat share, the UDF is confident of wresting back many of their bastions. While the BJP, which claims winning possibility in Thrissur Corporation, left no stone unturned to make the contest triangular. LIFE Mission project Apart from controversial LIFE Mission Project; Mannuthy-Wadakkanchery six-lane highway, which has not been completed even after 10 years; Kuthiran twin tunnel project, Paliyekkara Toll Plaza, which has been place of protests; Puthur Zoological Park, Kole development project, Amruth drinking water project, Thrissur-Kanjani-Vadanappilly Road, land acquisition issues for the Kodungallur highway, Divanji Corner overbridge and Kottappuram Jankar service are some of the issues which were actively discussed during the campaign. Drinking water projects, distribution of COVID-19 packages, welfare pensions, and irregularities in their distributions too were issues discussed by the people. The district stood with the LDF in the 2015 local body elections. The LDF won 88 of the total 111 local body institutions. It ruled the Corporation and the district panchayat. Six of the seven municipalities and 67 of the 86 gram panchayats stood with the LDF. When the LDF is confident of continuing the 2015 performance, the UDF claims that the wind is in their favour this time. The NDA, which had six councillors in the last council, has even fielded their State spokesman B. Gopalakrishnan as the mayor candidate. Vote share The impressive vote share that cine actor Suresh Gopi won in many divisions in the Corporation in the last Lok Sabha election is the basis of their confidence. In all, 26.91 lakh voters will cast their votes in the district on Thursday. Of them 18,089 are new voters. As many as 7,101 candidates are contesting from 2,060 wards in the district. Election for the Pullazhi division in Thrissur Corporation has been postponed following the death of LDF candidate.
09 December 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Stiff battle in the offing||As campaign for the local body elections concluded on Tuesday, Agriculture Minister V.S. Sunil Kumar and T.N. Prathapan, MP, reiterated their confidence in winning an absolute majority in the district. At a ‘Meet the Press’ programme organised by the Thrissur Press Club here on Tuesday, Mr. Sunil Kumar was quite sure about the victory of the LDF and said the result would be a repetition of the 2015 polls. In the 2015 polls, the LDF won the city Corporation and the district panchayat. Six of the seven municipalities and 67 of the 86 grama panchayats too were loyal to the left. Mr. Prathapan presented a list of local bodies which the UDF is expecting a victory this time. Claiming that the political climate in the State was in favour of the UDF, he said 58 of the 86 grama panchayats and six of the seven municipalities would stand with the front in the coming election. He claimed that the UDF would win 46 seats in the Corporation and 20 seats in the district panchayat.  LDF confident The LDF is facing the election with full confidence. Development was the key discussion of the campaign. The LDF government, which functioned with will power, implemented policies for the common people. It took them into confidence at each stage. The people have not taken the Life Mission controversy seriously. The LDF will sweep the district in this election, he said. “The UDF is trying to intimidate the LDF government in the name of the Enforcement Directorate and Customs. Let the investigation complete,” he said. He said there is a hidden link between the UDF and the Welfare Party. The Welfare Party is contesting at Chavakkad with the support of the UDF. There is no difference between the the Welfare Party, the RSS and the NDF. He asked why the UDF dropped the slogan ‘A Vote against corruption’? Four factors — contemporary politics, development, vote share in Lok Sabha election and merit of the candidate — are key factors that would determine the result of the election, Mr. Prathapan said. The LDF is facing its biggest challenge in its history. Their top leader will soon be under the custody of ED and Customs. The diversion of funds of local bodies had destabilised the three-tier Panchayati Raj system. The district is facing stunted growth. When the ED starts investigation on the Uralungal Society, many projects in Guruvayur Devaswom and Thrissur Corporation will be under scanner, Mr. Prathapan said. The Congress would benefit from its shift into a semi-cadre system, the MP said. The Congress had won a clear majority in 12 Assembly constituencies in the last Lok Sabha election, he said. He said the BJP would be reduced to zero this time in the district. The UDF will snatch back the Avinissery grama panchayat that was won by the BJP last time. He alleged a LDF-BJP undercurrent to defeat the UDF in many places.
09 December 2020||THrissur,KERALA||Irregularities in special votes: DCC president||Thrissur DCC President M.P. Vincent has alleged irregularities in the process of special votes for COVID-19 patients and people in quarantine. “Guidelines insist that candidates or people employed by them should be present while the voters cast special votes. But pro-LDF officials are not maintaining this rule. Special votes are marked in plain white papers without any official seal. We have received many complaints from centres in the district. The CPI(M), which is scared of defeat, are trying to sabotage the poll process using the officials, Mr. Vincent alleged. “We have complained to the election commission citing the irregularities,” he said.
09 December 2020||December 09 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||‘LDF facing poll without worries’||CPI National Control Commission chairman Pannyan Raveendran has said that the Left Democratic Front is facing the local body elections without any worries. Mr. Raveendran said that despite the COVID-19 pandemic, Nipah virus, and floods, the people of Kerala were enjoying the fruits of development and welfare benefits, and they would support the Left Front. Speaking to the media here on Tuesday, he said both the UDF and the NDA were facing crises. Many of those who were with them had left them. The LJD and the Kerala Congress (M), which were with the UDF in the last elections, were now part of the LDF. Thousands of people who had come to realise the good deeds of the Left Front would support the LDF. Farmers’ stir “In our country, where the slogan ‘Jai Jawan Jai Kisan’ was chanted, today we see guns being pointed at the farmers who provide food,” he said. The country was being ruled by hard-hearted rulers, he said. The BJP was dividing the people in the name of religion and plundering the country. The strongest defence against it was the Left, Mr. Pannyan said.
09 December 2020||December 09 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||625 new cases, 700 people recover in Thrissur district||There are 625 COVID-19 cases in Thrissur district on Tuesday while 700 people recovered from the disease. There are 6,262 active cases in the district and 110 people from Thrissur are undergoing treatment in hospitals in various other districts. So far 63,483 COVID-19 cases have been reported in the district and 56,750 people recovered from the disease. According to official statistics, 592 people, including seven health workers, contracted the disease through local contact on Tuesday. Of them, 99 patients are above the age of 60 and 36 children are below the age of 10. In all 4,032 patients are under home observation, 132 people were admitted to hospitals for treatment of COVID-19, and 6,736 samples were collected for the test on Tuesday.
09 December 2020||December 09 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Refusing to remain silent||
09 December 2020||December 09 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Right not to be left behind||
09 December 2020||December 09 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Loud protest||
09 December 2020||December 09 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Vignettes of a poll||
09 December 2020||December 09 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Democratic exercise||
09 December 2020||December 09 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Seperate finish||
09 December 2020||December 09 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Burning ire||
09 December 2020||December 09 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Voicing their protest||
09 December 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Dulhan’ scheme to be revived from April, says Deputy CM||The State government will relaunch the ‘Dulhan’ scheme from April 2021 by doubling the grant amount from Rs. 50,000 to Rs. 1 lakh, Deputy Chief Minister and Minority Welfare Minister Amzath Basha Shaik Bepari said at a press conference here on Tuesday. The scheme was launched by the TDP government in 2015 to provide financial assistance to poor Muslim girls for their marriage. “The Dulhan scheme was discontinued by the TDP government eight months prior to the 2019 elections, and the money meant for the scheme was diverted to ‘Pasupu Kumkuma’,” the Deputy Chief Minister alleged, adding that the scheme would now be relaunched under a new name. Regarding the alleged ‘gang rape’ and murder of a 19-year-old Muslim girl hailing from Chapiri village in Kalyandurg mandal in the district, Mr. Amzath Basha said that the police were investigating the issue and the culprits would be brought to book. Farm laws Mr. Amzath Basha said there was no duality in their stand over the Farm Laws and stated that in Parliament, they had given only conditional support with a rider that Minimum Support Price must become part of the law for protecting the interests of the farmers.
09 December 2020||DENDULURU (WEST GODAVRI DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||NIN team collects food samples for testing||Officials of the National Institute of Nutrition (NIN), Hyderabad, have collected food samples from the houses of the affected patients and sent them to laboratory for examination. “Lead and nickel might have got mixed in food, milk or water. We collected food, vegetables from the patients’ houses, shops in the locality and the main market,” said an expert from NIN. Officials of the Medical and Health Department, ward secretariat and paramedical staff were asking the people to consume boiled water and take fresh food items only. They were conducting door-to-door survey and were monitoring the situation in Eluru and the neighbouring villages. More than 20 cases were reported from Denduluru and other areas, doctors treating the patients at GGH said. “We collected fish samples from the market and nearby tanks and sent it to State Institute of Fisheries Technology (SIFT), Kakinada, for testing,” said West Godavari district Joint Collector Himanshu Shukla. Deputy Chief Minister and Health Minister Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas visited Toorpu Veedhi, Vangayagudem, Kobbari Thota, Kothapeta, Sanivarapupeta and other areas and interacted with the affected people and their family members. According to officials, the State and Central governments were taking steps to contain the disease. Teams from ICMR, NIV, AIIMS, Mangalagiri and New Delhi, NIN, WHO, IICT and other institutes visited the affected areas and recorded the statements of the patients. They confirmed that the neurotoxin symptoms were due to the presence of nickel and lead elements, the officials said. The Deputy Chief Minister directed the district officials to take up sanitation drive for a week and chlorination of water in Eluru and the nearby colonies. Mr. Srinivas held discussions with the expert teams that arrived from different places across the country on Tuesday. “The Cerebral Spinal Fluid (CSF) culture test for bacteria and virus was found negative. However, pesticide presence was found in water and lead and nickel elements were found in blood samples. A few results from CCMB, IICT and AIIMS are awaited,” the Minister said. Meanwhile, medical camps were continuing in the affected colonies for the fourth day on Tuesday. Ambulances and medical teams have been kept ready in the affected areas, said District Medical and Health Officer Sunanda.
09 December 2020||ELURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||Governor speaks to Jagan||Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan spoke to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Tuesday, and asked to take the assistance of the Centre in containing the mysterious disease in Eluru and surrounding areas. Mr. Reddy explained that necessary medical care was being given to the affected persons. Mr. Harichandan asked the Chief Minister to utilise the services of specialist doctors and expert medical professionals as the Centre had assured of all necessary cooperation to mitigate the situation. “Patients are collapsing suddenly with epilepsy and frothing. They are complaining of headache and dizziness. Over 72 fresh cases were reported in the last 12 hours,” said a doctor. The Chief Minister enquired with the officials about the situation and the treatment being extended to the patients in the GGH. Collector R. Mutyala Raju explained that the patients were responding to treatment and the recovery percentage was good. The disease was spreading to other colonies in Eluru town and the neighbouring areas. More than 100 samples of water and milk samples collected from different places were sent to laboratories, the officials said. “On the first three days, cases were reported from Dakshina Veedhi, Arundathi Peta, Ashok Nagar, Toorpu Veedhi, Kothapeta and other areas. But on Tuesday, a few cases were reported from Denduluru village,” said Lakshman, who shifted a patient to GGH. Meanwhile, leaders of various political parties blamed the State government for the situation. They criticised the government for the poor hygiene, desilted drainages, and uncleared garbage bins in several colonies in the town.
09 December 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Property registration at village, ward secretariats soon||The State government will roll out a scheme which will make it possible for people to register properties at the village/ward secretariats under “YSR Jagananna Sasvatha Bhoo Hakku — Bhoo Raksha Pathakam”. During a review at his Camp Office, Chief Minister Y.S Jagan Mohan Reddy said that after completion of the land survey and digitised mapping, facilities would be provided at the village/ward secretariats to register properties/titles. Mr. Jagan said his government had initiated revolutionary changes in the land survey, by initiating a comprehensive survey covering 1.26 lakh sq km and 17, 460 villages. During the first phase, 5,000 villages would be covered, 6,500 villages would be covered in second phase and 5,500 in third phase. In cities, 3,345.93 sq km would be covered, which would cover 10 lakh plots, 40 lakh assignment lands. The survey would also cover 2.26 crore acres and 90 lakh pattadar lands.  QR code Soon after completion of the survey, land titling card, unique identification number and property measurements would be printed on a card which would have a QR code. Later digitised cadastral card would be made. In the maps, details of every village would be included. A digitised property register, title register would be placed at every village/ward secretariat. Training programme would be held by Survey of India. A team comprising trained personnel in usage of drones, data processing team, re-survey team would be placed at every mandal. Refuting allegations made by the Opposition over the survey, Mr. Jagan said that accurate information should be given over the survey. A new college would be established at Tirupati which would offer specialised courses in survey. Deputy Chief Minister Dharmana Krishna Das, Chief Secretary Neelam Sawhney, CCLA Neerabh Kumar Prasad and Principal Adviser Ajeya Kallam were present on the occasion.
09 December 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Guntur making moves with eye on ‘swachh’ tag||After missing the bus in getting the swachh rankings in its previous efforts, the Guntur Municipal Corporation is now making a strong pitch to find a place in the list of top ten cleanest cities across the country. Vijayawada (4th rank) and Visakhapatnam (9th rank) were among the top 10 cleanest cities in the country in the Swachh Survekshan survey in 2020, while Indore bagged the top rank in the survey. The GMC has already started making concerted efforts. With solid waste management and open defecation-free initiatives, one of the key benchmarks, the municipal authorities have begun pushing for two bin waste collection and disposal. A series of awareness campaigns have been taken up with partnership with ITC. “We are determined to make Guntur one of the cleanest cities in the country. We are near to open defecation free and moving towards an efficient solid waste management system. We have also begun playing recorded audio messages fitted to the dumper bins, and are pushing for a two bin waste collection system,” said Municipal Commissioner C. Anuradha. Member of Parliament Alla Ayodhya Rami Reddy, in his recent visit to parts of the city, asked the municipal authorities to provide efficient services to people. Remarking that sanitation has improved significantly, the MP said that the GMC should strive to achieve greater service level benchmarks in future. Awareness drive On Monday, District Collector I. Samuel Ananda Kumar, along with the MP, took part in a sanitation awareness rally. The Collector announced a 15-day campaign to improve sanitation in all municipalities. Involvement of all stakeholders, including residents, traders and officials, will help Guntur, which has a history of 150 years, to break into league of cleaner cities in the country.
09 December 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naidu spreading falsehoods, says Minister||Backward Classes Welfare Minister Chelluboyina Venugopala Krishna accused the TDP leaders of levelling false allegations in connection with the visit of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to Eluru. “The Chief Minister went to console the victims of the mysterious illness. The government is taking the issue seriously. World Health Organisation (WHO) teams have also been roped in to investigate the cause of the illness and the Chief Minister has been monitoring the situation continuously. However, the TDP leaders have been sidestepping the issue and trying to project the non-issues,” the Minister told the media here on Tuesday. The Minister alleged that TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu, with the help of his friendly media houses, spreading falsehood that the Chief Minister visited Eluru only to attend a wedding and that consoling victims was a publicity stunt. He accused the opposition leaders of trying to manipulate the issue for political gain. Referring to the crop loss in the rain caused by Cyclone Nivar, the Minister said that the government had been compensating the farmers with input subsidy for the crops in the same season. He also flayed Jana Sena Party president Pawan Kalyan saying that the latter had never worked for the people, and lost his credibility with his multiple stands in successive polls.
09 December 2020||Harish Gilai,ANDHRA PRADESH||Youth being trained to make them future-ready, says APSSDC Chairman||Andhra Pradesh State Skill Development Corporation (APSSDC) Chairman Ch. Madhusudhan Reddy is committed to training and placement of the youth. He said that keeping in view the future industry needs, the corporation is tying up with multinational companies and designing several programmes for the youth to increase their employability. Mr. Madhusudhan Reddy said the association with MNCs has helped the APSSDC to perfectly utilise the COVID-19 pandemic period by conducting virtual training programmes/conferences. He said that in the last seven to eight months, the corporation had conducted various online training programmes in which 1.73 lakh youth were benefited. Apart from it, faculty development training programmes were also held for nearly 26,000 persons to further hone their skills in advanced technology, he added. Mr. Madhusudhan Reddy said that the government has also introduced number of advanced new programmes, including Data Sciences, Cyber Security, Blockchain, Artificial Intelligence, Aerodynamics, Aerospace 3D modelling and Business Information Modelling, for a period of 30 to 45 days. “Apart from regular courses, programmes like air-conditioner repairing, electrical works and a few others were also held,” he said. Criticising that the former TDP government had neglected the corporation, he said that corporation has got the attention under the YSRCP rule. “We started to revamp things after assuming charge. The APSSDC has scrutinised a number of training partners and selected the best based on quality,” he said. He expressed hoped that the ‘Parisrama Samagra Survey’ being conducted by the State government will be helpful. He said that data related to present status, requirement of jobs/vacancies, eligibility, types of posts, chances of expansion and a few others will be gathered among others in the survey. Keeping that in view, more courses and training programmes would be designed for the youngsters, he said. Skill colleges He also said that the government's promise of 75% jobs to locals will be achieved with the skill colleges. He said that Visakhapatnam will have three skill colleges at Gajuwaka, Anakapalle and Araku. He said that the Youth Training Centres in Visakhapatnam agency are functioning well by imparting training in various courses.
09 December 2020||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||RGIA getting ready to handle COVID-19 vaccine shipments||GMR Hyderabad Air Cargo (GHAC) of the Rajiv Gandhi International Airport (RGIA) is in the process of expanding specific landside and airside facilities to handle the anticipated spurt in pharma and vaccine shipments to combat COVID-19 pandemic. Plans are in place to increase the storage capacity for various vaccine types, related accessories and supplies. It is also upgrading the current capacity of cold container storage to handle the anticipated surge in supplies, informed airport sources on Tuesday. With world-wide trials of vaccines to fight the continuing pandemic on full throttle and India producing about 60% of the world’s vaccines, Hyderabad as the pharma and vaccine hub will be an integral part of the Covid-19 solution with capacity to manufacture millions of doses, said airport sources on Tuesday. “COVID-19 vaccines require specialised handling, hence we are developing procedures in coordination with manufacturers and supply-chain players to mitigate any risk during transportation from production facility to the final destination,” the sources explained. GHAC’s pharma zone is a WHO-GSDP (World Health Organisation – good storage and distribution practices) certified facility providing end-to-end unbroken cool-chain for pharmaceutical and vaccine shipments. “We have the experience of handling pharma from the last 12 years of operations and have a large fleet of modern temp-controlled cool containers plus the recently launched cool dolly — a mobile refrigeration unit for airside transportation of temperature sensitive pharma and vaccine shipments,” they said. Cool zones/containers have temperature data loggers and humidity with alarm alerts and CCTV surveillance sensors to ensure better monitoring and control. RGIA is expecting material from Europe and other regions while exports could be towards Africa, Latin America and Asian destinations once various human trials are done. Discussions are being held with various stakeholders to meet specific requirements of export and import of vaccines, including the challenge of having multiple ranges of cold and ultra-cold minus temperatures. Dock levellers are being put in place at the truck dock area for multiple vehicle compatibility for quick mechanised handling of vaccine boxes. The expansion is to help quicken processing time and enhance operational efficiencies, they added.
09 December 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||NGT panels begin probe into ONGC, GAIL activities||A joint committee constituted by the National Green Tribunal (Southern Zone-Chennai) on Tuesday began a probe into the activities of the Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) and the Gas Authority of India Limited (GAIL) in the Godavari basin to prepare a report on the alleged air, water and groundwater pollution in East and West Godavari districts. On September 8, the NGT heard the case filed by the petitioner, Yenumula Venkatapathi Raju from East Godavari district, and constituted the committee to study the ground reality. “On Tuesday, a joint committee appointed by the NGT has begun the field-level inquiry into the case in which the ONGC and the GAIL are the respondents. The district officials drawn from various departments are also part of the committee,” East Godavari Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy told The Hindu . Three-day visit “The NGT committees will inquiry into the four issues in East Godavari district between December 8 and 10, ONGC-GAIL marine pollution case, aquaculture ponds in the Coastal Regulatory Zone violation case (Razole area), sand reaches case and the Department of Ports land case,” he said. The committees would also inquiry into the cases of Kakinada housing site and destruction of Kumbabhisekham mudflat by the GMR group on the Kakinada coast. “The district officials are part of all the NGT committees,” said Mr. Muralidhar Reddy. The officials from the AP Pollution Control Board and Forest Department have been included in the field inquiry.
09 December 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rallies mark bandh in East Godavari||With the active participation of the public, the Bharat Bandh observed on Tuesday was successful in East Godavari district. Leaders and activists of Left parties and trade unions took out rallies in major towns of the district protesting against the farm laws introduced by the Modi government at Centre. CPI district secretary Thatipaka Madhu and CPI district secretary K. Srinivas, members of CPI(ML), AITUC and farmers participated in a rally taken out in Kakinada city. Mr. Srinivas observed that the three farm laws would not guarantee Minimum Support Price for the farm produce, facilitating the corporate sector to dictate terms in the agriculture sector. Mr. Madhu asked the Central government to repeal the three laws as they were against the interests of farmers. Offices remain closed Government offices remained closed for half a day and the road transportation authorities did not operate bus services till afternoon.
09 December 2020||KURNOOL/ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Normal life partially hit in Kurnool, Anantapur||Normal life got partially affected with the Left parties organising massive rallies in Kurnool and Anantapur districts and stopping all vehicular traffic for a brief period on the National Highway on Tuesday morning. Shop owners voluntarily downed their shutters in the morning, but everything returned to normalcy by noon. With the State government supporting the call for Bharat Bandh, all government offices were closed and APSRTC buses did not come out of the garages. Some people were seen waiting for the buses in Anantapur district, but autorickshaws and private vehicles plied normally with none stopping them anywhere. Some autorickshaws stopped service for a couple of hours in the morning, but the lorry movement on the NH-44 was normal. The Communist Party of India (ML) activists staged dharna at the Gandhi Chowk in Kurnool and Communist Party of India (Marxist) central committee member M.A. Gafoor and Rythu Sangham leader Jagannatham joined a road blockade in front of the Kurnool new bus station in the morning. At Nandyal, Left Parties organised a rally and vehicular traffic got affected for some time and shops remained closed till noon Anantapur CPI(M) District Secretary V. Rambhupal led a rally of 400 activists in the city opposing the three farm laws and seeking immediate repeal and the traffic was blocked on the Subhash Road for an hour. Some of the activists forcibly closed the hotels and banks that were open near Tower Clock. In Hindupur, the bandh was total with no shop opening, but in other towns it was partial in Anantapur district with emergency services and essentials like milk, vegetables and kirana shops opening in the morning.
09 December 2020||KURNOOL/ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kurnool, Anantapur record lowest daily count in months||Kurnool district, which saw a maximum of above 2,000 COVID cases during August and September, recorded the lowest number of new cases on Tuesday. In Kurnool out of 4,738 samples tested under Rt-PCR, only two samples turned positive and out of 1,000 tests done through Rapid Antigen in slide method, only one sample turned positive, District Kurnool Medical and Health Officer Y. Narasimhulu told The Hindu . Kurnool had the dubious distinction of being the first district in Andhra Pradesh to reach 100 cases, 500 cases, 1,000 cases and 5,000 cases, but it slowed down after August-September, and by the time 10,000 cases were recorded, COVID began spreading very fast in East Godavari. Anantapur district too recorded its lowest on Tuesday with only 8 cases recorded from 2,752 samples tested with about 500 of them done in Rapid Antigen kits and the remaining with Rt-PCR. Anantapur DMHO Y. Kameswara Prasad said from Wednesday the number of Rapid Antigen tests would be enhanced to 1,000. Meanwhile, the district administration has written to the State government to sanction two more Rt-PCR testing machines to be established at the Government Medical College laboratory. Active cases Currently, there are 79 active cases in Kurnool district and 187 in Anantapur.
09 December 2020||T. Appala NaiduMAREDUMILLI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Part of grassland on Gudisa hill gutted||The Valmiki and Konda Reddy tribal families living in hamlets surrounding the State’s only grassland tourist destination of Gudisa in Rampa Agency in East Godavari district are up in arms against tourists for allegedly setting fire to a portion of the grassland during their “illegal” night stay in the reserve forest. Gudisa is nearly 40 km from Maredumill town. On December 6 night, a portion of the grassland caught fire reportedly when the tourists lit a camp fire on the Gudisa hill. Some of them reportedly ventured into the nearby fields to collect firewood. “In a drunken state, some tourists entered our fields near the grassland and stole banana, custard apple and destroyed pineapple plantation in Gundrathi, Pala Maamidi and Peedamarri villages. Our families are scared of untoward incidents if tourists in an inebriated condition venture into our habitations during night,” said Andala Mangi Reddy, former sarpanch of Pullangi panchayat. “The tourists are throwing liquor bottles into the streams down the Gudisa hill. The streams are our source for drinking water and fishing,” Mr. Mangi Reddy said. Up in arms On Tuesday, at least two dozen of women and men from the tribal habitations lodged a complaint with the Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA-Rampachodavaram) Project Officer Praveen Adithya, seeking action to prevent the allege illegal activities and ban on the night stay on the hill. A group of environmental activists working on the conservation of the Gudisa grassland said the unregulated night stay on the Gudisa hill in the reserve forest was a cause of concern. There were ample possibilities that poachers would have a field day as they could venture into deep forest and the safety of the tribal women would be in question in the isolated tribal pocket, they said. Action plan East Godavari District Forest Officer (Territorial) B. Sunil Kumar Reddy said they had received a complaint from the tribal families regarding the disturbance to their life. “We will chalk out a plan for a friendly tourism activity and restrict the movement of the tourists. The litter and plastic dumped by the tourists on the hill is yet to be collected. At least 18 dustbins will be arranged on the hill,”: he said. In November, the Forest Department set up a check-post at Pullangi village for the entry into the grassland but regulation of the illegal activities remains a uphill task. This winter, Gudisa is seeing a huge number of tourists from A.P. and Telangana after the film Pushpa , starring Allu Arjun, was shot in the forest recently.
09 December 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Moderate response to Bharat Bandh call||The ‘Bharat Bandh’ given by farmers’ organisations received moderate response in the temple city of Tirupati on Tuesday. The sentiment was scarcely felt in the predominantly-urban localities, though political parties left no stone unturned to ensure its success. With the State government extending tacit support till lunch hour, many government offices remained closed till 1 p.m. Most of the APSRTC buses were also confined to bus stations, and one or two that ventured out was stopped by party activists. Congress leaders led by State General Secretary D. Rambhupal Reddy and All India Congress Committee(AICC) member Penubala Chandrasekhar squatted in front of buses to prevent them from plying on the roads. Members of All India Student Federation(AISF) and All India Youth Federation(AIYF) blocked the Chennai-Bangalore highway at Tanapalle cross on the city outskirts. The major junction witnessed traffic jam for a while before the traffic police took charge of the situation. The CPI activists roamed around the city in the forenoon to make the bandh a success. Though they tried to close the commercial outlets, there was lukewarm response from the public. In a separate protest, Congress Working Committee(CWC) member Chinta Mohan flayed Prime Minister Narendra Modi as ‘anti-farmer’ and accused the YSCRP and TDP of being hand-in-glove with the Centre in supporting the farm bills. TDP team submitted a representation to the Collector Bharat N. Gupta, urging him to take pro-farmer measures. “Farmers shedding tears will not augur well for any State”, they said in unison
09 December 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three missing persons found dead||The three persons who were washed away in a local stream near Gajulamandyam on Monday night were found dead by Tuesday morning. The body of Yasodha (35) was retrieved late on Monday night from Cheemalavanka stream in Vadamalapet mandal, when relief measures were monitored by the Superintendent of Police Avula Ramesh Reddy. The bodies of the other two victims, Gangaiah (55) and Sujatha (40), were retrieved by NDRF teams on Tuesday morning. The three belonged to Kallur village in Chittoor district. They were returning home after attending a funeral in Gajulamandyam Harijanawada when the mishap occurred.
09 December 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Girl injured after falling into hulling machine||A 12-year-old girl was grievously injured after accidentally falling into a paddy hulling machine at Goduguvaripalle in Chittoor district on Tuesday. The girl, daughter of a farmer, was watching the hulling machine, when her hair was accidentally sucked into the machine along with paddy straws.  She was rushed to Madanapalle government hospital, but as her condition worsened, she was shifted to Tirupati for better treatment.
09 December 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD rest houses can be booked from December 15||The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) has decided to begin allotment of its rest houses in the town to pilgrims from December 15. The TTD’s major pilgrim accommodation complexes such as Srinivasam, Vishnu Nivasam and Madhavam served as COVID care centres after they were handed over to the district administration during the pandemic. Allotment remained suspended during that period. The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams got back control of the complexes after the COVID cases came down. The online quota booking for accommodation will be enabled on December 10 at www.tirupatibalaji.ap.gov.in.
09 December 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Woman injured in explosion||A mysterious explosion on the railway track between Tirupati and Renigunta stations on Tuesday caused injuries to a woman. Sasikala (35), a cattle grazer, was moving on the track when she stumbled upon a box containing a residue of methyl ethyl keto peroxide. When she tried to move the empty box, it exploded all of a sudden. She sustained an injury.
09 December 2020||V. RaghavendraVIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. prepares to acquire assigned lands for solar power project||As its ambitious 10,000-MW solar power project requires huge tracts of land, the government has made certain amendments to the A.P. Assigned Lands (Prohibition of Transfers) Act, 1977 to acquire assigned lands and duly compensate the assignees for parting with their small holdings. This is because every land parcel has a mix of government land, assigned land and D-form lands. The government proposed to give possession of such lands to the AP Green Energy Corporation Limited (APGECL) to facilitate leasing of the lands to the project developers. The Legislative Assembly passed AP Assigned Lands (Prohibition of Transfers) (Amendment) Bill, 2020 in its just-concluded winter session. Basically, the lands are assigned to landless poor for cultivation and they are not supposed to transfer such lands and no person can acquire any assigned land either through purchase, gift, lease, mortgage, exchange of otherwise under Section.3 of AP Assigned Lands (Prohibition of Transfers) Act, 1977. Having felt the need to acquire land for the mega solar power project, which is intended to supply power free of cost to the agriculture sector, the government got the 1977 Act amended. The land will now be acquired by the AP Industrial Infrastructure Corporation and handed over to the APGECL (a subsidiary of AP-Genco) after the assignees are paid ex gratia/ compensation as per the government's land policy. An office-bearer of APSEB Executive Engineers' Association told The Hindu that at least four acres would be required to install solar panels and other infrastructure to generate 1 MW. The whole project, therefore, needs lands on a massive scale. The main problem is assigned lands forming a part of every land parcel. The amendments to 1977 Act would solve that problem.
09 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||A journey in the showbiz world for decades||“The show must go on,” insists Grandhi Viswanath, the man who gave film buffs in the city the joy of watching movies sitting in the cosy confines of a multiplex for the first time. Referring to the crisis in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic, Mr. Viswanath is confident that the magic of the big screen will not vanish. “People will return to cinema theatres because nothing can be a substitute for the joy a cinema theatre gives,” emphasises the Managing Director of the Poorna Pictures Pvt. Ltd. Poorna Pictures owns Urvasi Theatres, which is gearing up for golden jubilee celebrations on Thursday (December 10). Started on December 10 in 1970 by his grandfather G.K. Mangaraju who produced the first Teugu film and was also the first to start a film distribution system in the composite Andhra Pradesh, the Urvasi Theatres has weathered the vagaries of the trade, he says. Matinee idol, the late N.T. Rama Rao, inaugurated it and the action-packed Hollywood film Mackenna's Gold was the first show in the theatre. His grandfather Mangaraju constructed a cinema theatre in 1930 in Visakhapatnam and named it Krishna Cinema, later it was changed to Poorna Theatre. To spread the joy of this mode of entertainment, he constructed more of them at Vizianagaram, Parvathipuram and Chodavaram among a few other places. Mr. Mangaraju produced the first Telugu talkie film ‘ Bhakta Prahlada’ along with veteran director of the times C. Pullayya. Sati Savithri in 1933 in Calcutta and Dasavatharalu in Pune were his other films produced under the banner of ‘Quality Pictures’ primarily because there was no organised system for distribution in Andhra Pradesh then. The distribution office was shifted to Vijayawada in 1940 and its name was changed to ‘The Poorna Pictures Private Limited’. In 1945, his son G. Kamaraj (Mr. Viswanath's father) took over the business. “During a particular period, over 100 films crossed 100 days of viewership in our theatres. They include Pandinti Kapuram, Nippulanti Manishi, Ladies Tailor, Aswini, Matru Devo Bhava, Hindi films like Bobby, Tezam and Khuda Gawah and English film Tatanic ,” recalls Mr. Viswanath. Multiplexes Thinking ahead of times, Mr. Viswanath sensed that conventional single-screen cinemas may lose the race to multiplexes and he razed down Urvasi, Menaka and Ramba theatres making way for the state-of-the-art Inox multiplex, a treat to the film buffs who ravenously devoured their favourite flicks here. Speaking about challenging times, he says in the late 80s, the taxation of notional income imposed on theatres by the NTR government gave tough time to the sector. “Heavy taxes forced many theatre owners to reduce the seating capacity of their halls,” he says, adding: “The much-needed relief came in 2005 when Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy realised our plight and scrapped the tax.” It has been a roller-coaster journey, says he walking down the memory lane. He points to an adjacent room full of a collection of shields and trophies that capture the golden era of the Telugu cinema, and says “On this important occasion, the only wish is to add to this memorabilia.”
09 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||IMA opposes surgeries by Ayurveda doctors||Members of the Indian Medical Association (IMA), Vijayawada Chapter, staged a protest on the IMA office premises on Eluru Road opposing the Centre’s decision permitting Ayurveda practitioners to perform surgeries. They also announced that they would observe bandh on December 11 in protest against the Centre's decision. All the private hospitals associated with IMA would suspend outpatient services from 6 a.m. to 6 p.m. However, COVID-related cases would be considered. Protest staged The protests led by IMA city president P.V. Madhusudhan Sharma, general secretary Tummala Karthik and others saw the participation of several doctors from the district. Speaking on the occasion Dr. Sharma said IMA condemned the decision of the Centre and would continue its fight till it was withdrawn. Former IMA national president G. Samaram said the decision to allow Ayurveda doctors to perform surgery was unreasonable. He said that decision would put patients as well as the profession in risk.
09 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State reports four deaths in 24 hours||The State reported four more COVID deaths and 551 new infections in the 24 hours ending Tuesday morning taking the toll to  7,042 and the tally to 8,72,839. The death rate remains at 0.81% and the recovery rate slightly increased to 98.57%. The number of recoveries crossed 8.6 lakh and reached 8,60,368 as 744 patients have recovered in the past day. There are  5,429  active cases in the state as of Tuesday morning. The number of samples tested in the past day slightly increased to 56,187 and their positivity rate was 0.98%. The overall positivity rate of 1.050 crore samples tested was 8.30%. The tests per million ration increased to 1.96 lakh. Each of the four new deaths were reported in Krishna, Guntur, Nellore and West Godavari districts while the remaining saw no deaths in the past day. Krishna has also reported the highest single-day tally at 108 among the districts and was the only district to see more than 100 cases. It was followed by Guntur (89), Chittoor (76), West Godavari (58), East Godavari (57), Visakhpatnam (36), Nellore (35), Srikakulam (34), Kadapa (18), Prakasam (18), Vizianagaram (11), Anantapur (8) and Kurnool (3). District tallies The district infection tallies are as follows: East Godavari (1,22,742), West Godavari (93,019), Chittoor (84,374), Guntur (73,573), Anantapur (66,879), Nellore (61,670), Prakasam (61,656), Kurnool (60,302), Visakhapatnam (58,486), Kadapa (54,563), Krishna (46,265), Srikakulam (45,617) and Vizianagaram (40,798).
09 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Join hands to fight crime, women told||Andhra Pradesh Mahila Commission Chairperson Vasireddy Padma has called upon women working in various government and private organisations to join hands to control crime against women in the State. The Mahila Commission, in association with Women Development and Child Welfare department and NGOs Child Rights Advocacy Foundation (CRAF) and World Vision India, organised ‘Mahila March @ 100 Days’ here on Tuesday. The programme was aimed at enlightening the women on various Apps introduced by the government for women protection and the welfare schemes being implemented for women in the State, the chairperson said. Employees of WD&CW, District Child Protection Unit (DCPU), Mahila Samrakshana Karyadarshulu, ward secretaries and volunteers, members of CRAF and World Vision India, various women organisations and other NGOs participated in a bike rally. MLA Malladi Vishnu, Collector A.Md. Imtiaz, Joint Collector K. Madhavi Latha, Commission Chairperson R. Suez, Joint Collector L. Shiva Shankar, Vijayawada Sub-Collector H.M. Dhyanchandra flagged off the rally at PWD Grounds. Later, they formed a human chain at Police Control Room. Ms. Padma said as part of the 100-day programme, the Commission would organise rallies, debates, felicitations, and hold campaigns on Disha App, One Stop Centre and AP Police Seva App. CRAF State Programme Director P. Francis Thambi said the members would participate in the awareness programmes on literacy, child marriages, trafficking, cyber crime, domestic violence and others schemes, along with the Mahila Commission and other government departments. More than 2,000 women, carrying placards, participated in the bike rally and raised slogans on preventing crime against women. Mr. Imtiaz said that government was implementing many welfare schemes for women and asked them to make use of them.
09 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bharat Bandh evokes good response in morning hours||The Bharat Bandh on Tuesday evoked good response here from 6 a.m. to 10 a.m. and there was no untoward incident. Till about 10 a.m. various Left parties and trade unions staged dharnas and rasta roko at various key junctions in the city such as Maddilapalem, Jagadamaba, Police Barracks, NAD Kotha Road and Gajuwaka. The bandh was called by Opposition and Left parties in support of the farmers and farmers associations, who have been demanding withdrawal of the three farm laws and power sector reforms. Since in the last minute, the State government had decided to support the bandh, APSRTC buses did not ply in the early hours and auto-rickshaws were fewer on the roads. However, overnight long distance and route buses were allowed and to avoid traffic jams and key junctions, police were seen diverting the traffic. In view of the bandh, the State government had declared closure of schools. But shops and establishments were seen opening up after 11 a.m. There were also no arrests in the city. CPI (M) State Secretariat Member Ch. Narasinga Rao said that the Union government was trying to suppress the agitation by using force on the farmers. He said that the three farm laws would spell doom for the small and marginal farmers while benefiting the corporate companies. He said that the small farmers who are safeguarded by the original Essential Commodities Act, will now become vulnerable to corporate sector, as the Act will lose its relevance. CPI State assistant secretary J.V. Satyanarayana Murthy said that the new farm laws will remove the old concept of market yards or ‘mandis’ and this will impact small and medium farmers who have land holdings from 1 to 5 acres. “If the market yard concept is removed, the small farmers will not get a lucrative price, as the price will be dictated by the corporates,” he said. “We demand the scrapping of all the three farm laws,” said Mr. Satyanarayana Murthy. Ch. Lokanathan of CPI (M) said that farmers will lose their independence and small farmers will become tenant farmers on their own land. Staging a rasta roko near Police Barracks, Members of Visakha Road Transport Owners Welfare Federation, demanded that the Union government address the issue of rise in fuel prices. They pointed out that in the last two weeks, petrol and diesel prices have gone up by Rs. 20. Members of the NSTL Civilian Employees Union staged a protest on the road near NSTL. The protest was led by union president Ch.V.S.N. Murthy. Its vice president Ch. Chandrasekhara Rao, general secretary Hemant Bais and joint secretary V. Durga Rao were among those who participated. Medical and sales representatives, owing allegiance to AP Medical and Sales Representatives' Union (APMSRU), staged a rasta roko at Jagadamba Junction in support of the farmers, on the call given by FMRAI. APMSRU district secretary D. Sravanth, national leaders K.V.P. Chandramouli, K. Rajeswara Rao, K. Santosh Kumar and district leaders K.K. Choudhary and Chandrasekhar participated.
09 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Foster entrepreneurship, says Venkaiah||Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu has underlined the need for universities to establish linkages with industries to foster student entrepreneurship through innovative programmes and novel business ideas. Addressing the TiE Global Summit-2020 through video conferencing from the city on Tuesday, the Vice-President asked the universities to set up incubation centres to nurture entrepreneurial talent among the youngsters. He also appealed to the corporate sector to fund and promote entrepreneurial ecosystem on university campuses. The IndUS Entrepreneurs (TiE) is a Silicon Valley-based non-profit organisation supporting start-ups through networking and its summit would be showcasing opportunities to get mega investments to India. Saying that 65% of India’s population was youth, Mr. Venkaiah Naidu said that their mindset should be changed from being job-seekers to job creators. He advocated a special drive for promoting entrepreneurship among women. He expressed satisfaction that the TiE had impacted 50,000 aspiring women entrepreneurs through mentoring. Technology start-ups Describing India as home to world’s third largest start-up ecosystem, he quoted a recent NASSCOM study that about 50% of the technology start-ups were confident of reaching the pre-COVID revenue level. He explained that entrepreneurship was not just about making profits but also about making people’s lives better. Referring to the challenges thrown up by the pandemic, the Vice-President said that this was the time to turn adversities into opportunities. He called upon the youngsters to come up with innovative ideas to meet the emerging challenges. Stating that entrepreneurship plays a crucial role in economic growth and employment generation, he appreciated the Central government for creating an enabling environment through ‘Start-up India’. He called upon entrepreneurs and chambers of commerce, associations such as TiE to mentor the next generation.
09 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||IMA protests against amendment to CCIM Act||Condemning the notification on amendment to the Central Council of Indian Medicine (CCIM) Act, doctors owing allegiance to the Indian Medical Association (IMA), AP Government Doctors’ Association (APGDA) and medical students staged a protest, demanding its immediate withdrawal. The participants, wearing black badges, raised slogans and carried banners denouncing the move, which they described as a ‘step to legitimise mixopathy’, at the entrance of the administration block of the King George Hospital (KGH) here on Tuesday. N. Subrahmanyam, State president, IMA, Vijayasekhar, CWC member, IMA, AP, P.A. Ramani, president IMA, Visakhapatnam, B. Ramesh and Y.G.S. Raju of APGDA participated. Dr. Subrahmanyam and Dr. Ramani said that the recent change in policy and the medical pluralism advocated by the National Education Policy, 2020, and the four committees of NITI Aayog for officially integrating the different systems of medicine in medical education, practice, public health and research would ring the death knell for the modern medicine system as a whole. The notification of the amendment to the CCIM Act allows Ayurveda doctors to do 58 types of surgeries, including various abdominal operations, various ENT and eye operations. The IMA wondered as to how Ayurvedic doctors can perform surgeries in the absence of anaesthesia and antibiotics in Ayurveda. Dr. Viajayasekhar wondered whether the politicians and officials would get their family members be operated by such doctors or allow their children to study such integrated medical courses. He sought involvement of professional bodies before taking such policy decisions.
09 December 2020||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||GVMC chief inspects municipal sewage farm||GVMC Commissioner G. Srijana, along with GVMC Chief Engineer M. Venkateswara Rao, on Tuesday visited the municipal sewage farm (MSF) in zone three to inspect the land for setting up the Dry Resource Centre(DRC). She asked the officials to send proposals for the dry waste resource centre construction. She also held discussions with the mechanical engineering staff of MSF-3 with regard to cameras and weighing bridge. The GVMC Commissioner later inspected underground drainage at Indira Gandhi Municipal Stadium. She also reviewed the functioning of 6,000 kg high pressure jetting machine and hydraulic operator grab buckets which were deployed on a pilot basis. The GVMC procured these machines as part of its efforts to convert manholes as machine holes so that manual intervention of clearing drainage blocks will be done away with. GVMC Superintending Engineer Samson Raju, Chief Medical Officer K.S.L.G. Sastry, Deputy Engineer Mahesh, mechanical and water supply engineering officials were present.
09 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Woman ‘attacked’ by father-in-law||A pregnant woman was reportedly attacked by her father-in-law on Tuesday. The Dwaraka Police booked an FIR against the father-in-law, her husband, sister-in-law and her husband. K. Sirisha (32), was married to one Venugopal. The couple had a son and Sirisha is now six months pregnant. There were disputes between the couple for sometime and Sirisha had lodged a complaint with the M.R. Peta and Disha Police Stations in the past and the couple were counselled several times in the past. The police suggested that the couple live in a separate house. Sirisha was sent to her parent’s house as her father-in-law was affected by COVID-19. On Monday, Sirisha went to the house of her parents-in-law but she was reportedly denied entry, according to the complaint lodged by her. Investigation is on.
09 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||AU alumni meet to be held tomorrow||The Andhra University Annual Alumni Meet (WAVES-2020) under the aegis of Andhra University Alumni Association (AAA), is scheduled to be held at 3 p.m. on December 10, commemorating the birth anniversary of Cattamanchi Ramalinga Reddy, the founding Vice-Chancellor of Andhra University. This year, due to the pandemic, WAVES-2020 is being organised in virtual mode. Prakash Javadekar, Minister for Environment, Forest, Climate Change and Minster for Information and Broadcasting, will deliver the keynote address. Education Minister Adimulapu Suresh and K. Hemachandra Reddy, Chairman, AP State Council for Higher Education, will participate. Dr. G.M. Rao, founder Chairman of AAA, P.V.G.D. Prasad Reddy, Vice-Chancellor and Chief Patron of AAA, Beela Satyanarayana, Chairman, AAA and former Vice-Chancellor, AU, will be present.An alumni interaction session is scheduled between 3 p.m. and 4 p.m followed by the main event. Handful number of illustrious alumni from various fields would share their experiences on the occasion. To register for WAVES-2020, visit AAA website:www.andhrauniversialumni .com
09 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Develop Araku, Collector urged||Araku MP G. Madhavi and MLA Chetti Phalguna apprised District Collector V. Vinay Chand on the need to develop Araku to attract international tourists. The MP and MLA met the Collector here on Tuesday and submitted a memorandum to him that widening of roads would provide faster access to the international airport. The development works should be done while considering the limitations in scheduled areas. They said that five mandals in Anantagiri were placed in non-scheduled areas and hence, they were not getting the benefits of ITDA schemes. They sought the inclusion of the five mandals in scheduled area. The Collector agreed to write to the government in this regard. They also sought issue of SC and BC certificates by MROs in tribal areas.
09 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Delicate surgery performed||A cytoreductive surgery with HIPEC (hyperthermic intra peritoneal chemotherapy) was successfully done on a 39-year-old woman by Harish Dara (surgical oncologist) and Bhaskar Bhuvan, at the HCG Cancer Centre at Health City, here, recently. K. Mounika had undergone surgery for a complex ovarian tumour six months ago. She underwent oopherectomy and diversion sigmoid colostomy at some other hospital. Her post operative histopathology turned out to be adenocarcinoma. After extensive evaluation at HCG, she was diagnosed with rectosigmoid, which was metastasized to the left ovary, according to a statement by Shailesh Guntu, regional director and Dr. Aditya Kaura, COO, of HCG.
09 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||One million fake Euro notes seized, four held||The city police arrested four persons who were allegedly trying to exchange one million fake Euro currency notes for Indian money at a hotel in Visakhapatnam on Tuesday. Assistant Commissioner of Police (East Division) Ch. Harshita said four persons hailing from East and West Godavari districts struck a deal with a person to exchange the fake currency for Indian money at a hotel close to Diamond Park under the Fourth Town police limits. The accused told their prospective buyer that the currency was valued at Rs. 8.4 crore but they wanted only Rs. 1 crore. Authenticity certificate They also reportedly produced certificate of authenticity to convince the person. On information, the crime police team headed by Simhadri Naidu and Fourth Town police raided the hotel and took the accused into custody.
09 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District records 36 new COVID cases||The district recorded 36 new COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours, taking the total count to 58,998. According to the district COVID bulletin, there was no death during the same period, keeping the count to 514. A total of 75 persons, who were undergoing treatment at various COVID hospitals and home isolation, have recovered, taking the total count of recoveries to 58,194. According to District COVID Special Officer and Principal of Andhra Medical College P.V. Sudhakar, the active cases have further dropped to 290.
09 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Save the livelihood of fishermen, forum appeals to Vice-president||The Forum for Development of North Andhra (FDNA) has appealed to Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu to save the livelihood of fishermen. In a memorandum submitted to the Vice-President, FDNA general secretary A. Aja Sarma said that north Andhra has a 353-km-long coastline. The coastal waters were being polluted by industries, depriving the fisherfolk of their livelihood. The Central government was acquiring lands in the name of industrial corridor. This would further deprive the fishermen.
09 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Dak Adalat on December 28||The 101st Dak Adalat of Visakhapatnam Region will be held on December 28 at the Office of the Post Master General, Visakhapatnam Region, near MVP Bus Station, MVP Colony. Complaints/grievances from Srikakulam, Vizianagaram, Visakhapatnam and East Godavari districts may be sent to P. Ananda Rao, Assistant Director, office of the PMG, Visakhapatnam region, Visakhapatnam-17 to reach on or before December 17. The letters and envelopes should be superscribed with the words “101 Dak Adalat”.
09 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Physical aids, and assistive devices distributed||Rashtriya Ispat Nigam Limited (RINL), the corporate entity of Visakhapatnam Steel Plant, extended a financial support of Rs. 10 lakh under Corporate Environment Responsibility (CER) initiative for distribution of physical aids and assistive devices to 110 beneficiaries with disabilities at VMRDA Children’s Arena, Visakhapatnam, on Tuesday. The project is executed by the Artificial Limbs Manufacturing Corporation of India (ALIMCO).
09 December 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Over 250 screened at medical camp||Medical camps being organised in villages are now quite helpful to the poor and elderly as they hesitate to go to hospitals in the wake of COVID-19 threat, according to Nehru Yuva Kendra coordinator Vikramaditya. Mr. Vikramaditya on Tuesday inaugurated a medical camp organised by Aadhar Housing Finance Limited at Lakkidam village in Gantyada mandal of Vizianagaram district. He said that youngsters and members of NYK were playing a key role in holding medical camps in association with various companies. Medicines distributed Doctors examined patients and distributed medicines necessary after tests. Over 250 persons were given medicines.
09 December 2020||VIZIANAGARAM/SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bharat Bandh total, peaceful||The call for Bharat Bandh evoked good response both in Vizianagaram and Srikakulam districts on Tuesday with active participation of almost all trade unions such as AITUC, INTUC, CITU, and IFTU. The bandh has an impact on normal life due to non-availability of the transport services, including APSRTC buses. The bandh was by and large peaceful in both districts, thanks to the eleventh hour support from the YSRCP government. Though the ruling party extended its support to the agriculture reforms, the party decided to support the bandh apparently keeping in view the bypoll in Tirupati, according to sources. INTUC-Vizianagaram district president Modili Srinivasa Rao alleged that the agriculture reforms were initiated to benefit the corporate sector. AITUC leader Bugata Ashok, CITU Vizianagaram district general secretary T.V. Ramana thanked the people for extending their wholehearted support to the bandh while saying that the common people would be the ultimate victims with the agriculture reforms. In Srikakulam, the bandh was total and peaceful. Parties and trade unions like CPI, CPI(M), CPI(ML) New Democracy, and CITU organised rallies and protests. CITU leader D. Govinda Rao said the bandh was aimed at protecting the interests of farmers as well as traders. The bandh has an impact on the production of all industries including pharmaceutical companies of Pydibhimavaram industrial zone. Although the bandh was proposed only for four hours, the companies felt the heat from early morning with little attendance of workers. The employees’ buses which are operated from Visakhapatnam and Vizianagaram to industrial zone of Pydibhimavaram in Srikakulam district were stopped from the early morning. AP Lorry Owners’ Association president M. Janakiram Reddy said that the transport sector was also the victim of the policies of the Narendra Modi government at Centre. He said the skyrocketing prices of petroleum products and agriculture reforms would have a cascading effect on the prices of essential commodities. Leaders of YSR Congress Party and Congress Party separately condemned the polices of the Union government. YSR Congress Party Srikakulam district president Killi Kruparani said the party was in forefront in protection of the interests of farmers. Srikakulam district Congress president Boddepalli Satyavati said that all sections of society were happy only during the Congress regime. The Srikakulam Granite and Trailer Lorry Owners’ Welfare Association suspended the movement of vehicles on the National Highway near Tekkali of Srikakulam district in support of the bandh. Association president Chinnala Venkata Satyanarayana urged the Union government to come with an exclusive policy to protect the transport sector stating that it was the major victim following rise in oil prices, bad road conditions and hefty penalties imposed by transport authorities.
09 December 2020||December 09 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Winged beauties||
09 December 2020||December 09 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Festive fervour||
09 December 2020||December 09 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Simple beauty||
09 December 2020||December 09 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pick your choice||
09 December 2020||December 09 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||At a standstill||
09 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Bandh cripples normal life for a few hours||The Bharat Bandh called by farmers, and a clutch of political organisations, had its impact on the city for a few hours when public transport, with the exception of metro rail, did not function. While the fuel stations operated throughout the day, malls and big shopping establishments stayed shut till 1 p.m. after which they started opening up. Traffic was thin till the afternoon. Traffic police restricted vehicular movement in HiTec City area where two protest took place in the morning. While tech workers staged a protest near the Raidurgam Metro station, a few farmers and Telangana Rasthra Samithi (TRS) workers staged a noisy protest near the HiTec City junction, blocking traffic. As a large number of infotech companies are still in the work-from-home mode, commuters were inconvenienced in a limited way. Government offices, including Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation, functioned normally. “We want the shop to open. Already we have lost so much business due to lockdown and COVID-19. Every day affects us,” said an official at a multi-national clothing store waiting to open his store. By 1 p.m., the TRS cadre withdrew from the HiTec City junction and traffic flow was restored. The success or failure of the bandh became the subject of debate on social media as viral videos of protests by commuters and shopkeepers did the rounds. One video that became viral was that of a commuter who spoke against the shutdown and was later pushed away by TRS party workers. The sight of ruling TRS cadre armed with pink flags, clumps of paddy stalks and riding vehicles to shout slogans against the farm laws tickled netizens on social media. The bike protest led by Minister of Cinematography Talasani Srinivas Yadav showing the leader without mask and helmet triggered calls for penalising him.
09 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Get ready for long battle, KTR warns Central govt.||TRS working president K.T. Rama Rao has threatened the Central government with a long agitation against the three farm laws stating that they would reach out to every farmer to explain how the Central government was compromising farmers’ interests to favour the corporates. Accusing the BJP government of being undemocratic, he said on Tuesday that it was not willing to listen to the farmers and blindly toeing the line of corporates. He was speaking at a rasta roko at Burugula near Shadnagar in support of the Bharat Bandh called by the farmers’ organisations against the new farm bills. “The Central government passed the Bills using its brute majority without discussing with the Opposition parties and farmers’ organisations and in Rajya Sabha it did not even agree for voting despite lacking majority. The BJP lacks the democratic spirit,” he claimed. Continuing his virulent attack on the new laws, he asked why the Central government was shying away from guaranteeing the MSP in the Bill itself, which the farmers want. When 85% of farmers in the country are small and marginal, their only guard against exploitation is the MSP, which the government is not willing to consider, he said. “Whom do they want to convince that the laws are good for farmers,” he asked. He reminded that it was not just farmers’ loss but also the middle class as the prices of essential commodities are bound to spiral in the absence of government control. “Corporates will buy stock, create artificial shortage and then make people pay the price they want,” he said. On buying the fine variety paddy in Telangana, he alleged that the Food Corporation of India (FCI) was threatening the Telangana government with stopping procurement if the government announced a bonus to farmers. Mr. KTR said it was not a big issue to spend Rs. 1,000 crore to support farmers who have grown fine variety paddy but it was worried about the procurement which the FCI has threatened to stop if the bonus was announced in addition to the MSP. Meanwhile, Panchayat Raj Minister Errabelli Dayakar Rao with some MLAs staged a rasta roko near Kazipet on the Hyderabad-Warangal highway while Bhupalpally MLA Gandra Venkatraramana Reddy sat on a dharna at Bhupalpally bus depot. In Nizamabad, MLC Kavitha along with MLA Gampa Goverdhan staged a rasto roko.
09 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TRS’s ‘Sarkari Bandh’ a failure, says BJP chief||Telangana Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) president Bandi Sanjay Kumar said that the ‘Sarkari Bandh’ called by the TRS government was a ‘total failure’ as none of the farmers of the State had participated in the agitation. “The government bandh has been marshalled by the police under officials’ supervision. I thank farmers for not falling prey to the political machinations of the ruling TRS and other parties,” he said at a press conference on Tuesday. The party chief particularly took umbrage to the shutting down of TSRTC services. “Is it a loss when others agitate and not when TRS wants to sponsor a bandh? How will a loss making organisation recover if the government itself forces the services to be shut down?” he questioned. Mr. Sanjay once again took strong objection to the active role sought to be played by the government employee union leaders in supporting the bandh. “Why are the union leaders acting remotes to the TRS party, which has not fulfilled a single promise of pay revision commission or enhancing the retirement age? Why are they acting like a political party? I challenge them to have direct elections to the State leadership,” he said. The BJP leader said that his party would soon take up a state-wide agitation in support of the payment of bonus to farmers growing fine rice variety, for employees’ demands and for seeking Rythu Bandu scheme for tenant farmers also.
09 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Modi, KCR two sides of the same coin: Congress||Telangana Congress leaders lashed out at Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao terming him an ally of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and said he was not sincere in his opposition to the farm bills but was forced to support the Bharat Bandh fearing backlash from farmers. The Congress leaders participated in protests at several places in the State. TPCC working president A. Revanth Reddy sat on a dharna at Shadnagar, CLP leader Bhatti Vikramarka was at Shamirpet, MLA T. Jayaprakash Reddy blocked a road at Sangareddy and TPCC working president Ponnam Prabhakar participated in protests at Karimnagar. Mr. Revanth Reddy and Ponnam Prabhakar said the participation of TRS in the Bharat Bandh was nothing but a joke as every democratic protest including by the farmers in Telangana was crushed with brute force. Mr. Revanth Reddy said KCR’s credibility was in question on the new laws when he did not pass a resolution in the Assembly despite the Congress party demanding it several times. “Ministers and his party workers are now forced to come onto the roads due to the continuous protests by the Congress against the new laws,” he said demanding KCR to convene a special session of the Assembly to oppose and negate the laws as done by several Congress governments. He said the TRS government came to power with promises like farm loan waiver and never honoured it. “Then he forced ‘regulated farming’ but that turned out to be a ‘dictator farming’”, the Congress MP said, adding that the farmers are now cheated with the government refusing to buy the fine variety of paddy after forcing the farmers to cultivate it. There was a brief tension at Karimangar when Congress workers objected to TRS participating in the bandh. Mr. Ponnam said TRS was shedding crocodile tears after harassing farmers for the last six years and ‘cheating’ them with false promises adding Congress party had served the farmers selflessly. It was time people saw the dubious intentions of TRS joining the farmers protests. Mr. Bhatti Vikramarka at Shamirpet targeted the PM saying he failed the country and was working with the sole intention of helping the corporates. He said Congress was the only party that waived off farm loans at one go and always sided with the farmers. He reminded it was the Congress that built huge irrigation projects like Nagarjuna Sagar and Srishailam for farmers’s benefit. Modi has only cheated all sections to benefit two or three corporates close to him. Withdraw laws: Uttam Later, addressing a press conference, TPCC president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy demanded that the BJP government immediately withdraw the contentious new farm laws to protect the interest of farmers. He also urged the CM to convene a special session of Legislative Assembly to negate the new laws. Mr. Reddy said that the ‘Bharat Bandh’ was successful in Telangana as Congress cadre participated in protests across the State. He alleged that the Modi government was trying to sabotage the farmers’ agitation using false propaganda. He said that the Congress has fought inside and outside parliament against the laws. The TPCC chief said that the reluctance being shown by the BJP hovernment in not giving Constitutional protection to Minimum Support (MSP) clearly shows that it was giving more preference to corporates than farmers. He alleged that KCR was an equal partner with PM Modi in ‘committing crimes’ against the farmers reminding how it implicated chilli farmers of Khammam in false cases, arrested, hand-cuffed and chained only for holding protests demanding better price for their produce. Forcing the regulated cropping system, KCR has ruined the lives of lakhs of farmers who cultivated superfine varieties of paddy, instead of regular varieties, he charged. AICC Secretary Madhu Yashki Goud was also present.
09 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Venkaiah calls for incubation centres in universities||Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu underscored on Tuesday the significance of fostering student-entrepreneurship and the need for universities to establish linkage with industry to mentor and handhold students with novel business ideas. Inaugurating the three-day TiE Global Summit-2020, being organised on an online platform, Mr. Naidu, through video conferencing from Visakhapatnam, urged the universities to set up incubation centres to tap and nurture entrepreneurial talent among youngsters. He also appealed to the corporate sector to come forward to fund and promote entrepreneurial ecosystem on university campuses. Mr.Naidu said such initiatives would help change the mindset of the youth from that of job-seekers to job creators. He wanted a special drive to be launched for promoting entrepreneurship among women. Entrepreneurship is not only about profits, it is also about making people’s lives better through education, health care and basic human rights, he added. Observing that starting a business is a daunting task, the Vice-President said, “We must connect entrepreneurs with mentors who can guide them.” He expressed happiness that in this TiE Global event more than 300 mentors are available to show the ropes to young entrepreneurs across the globe, a release said. Telangana Industries and IT Minister K.T. Rama Rao said he was happy to note that TiE is going to set up its global headquarters in Hyderabad. He also spoke on the initiatives the State government had taken to foster entrepreneurship. Union Minister of MSME Nitin Gadkari addressed the summit.
09 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Banking operations hit in semi-urban, rural areas||Banking operations in several parts of Telangana, especially functioning of public sector bank (PSB) branches in semi-urban and rural areas, were impacted following the Bharat bandh on Tuesday. Branches in some places could not be opened, sources among bank unions as well as officials of PSBs confirmed. A few unions representing bank employees and officers, including the Bank Employees’ Federation of India (BEFI), had extended support to the bandh. The impact on banking operations, however, was more on account of others participating in the bandh, in many areas, insisting on the branches as well as commercial establishments remaining closed, sources said. Mahboobnagar, Khammam, Nalgonda and even in some parts of Hyderabad, bank branches were closed, BEFI Telangana unit general secretary P.Venkataramaiah said. State Bank of India branches in Hyderabad were open. At a branch, an officer said the bank unions had instructed members not to transact business. Sources in Punjab National Bank said though there was not much effect of the bandh on the functioning of branches in the twin cities, facilities in other parts of Telangana remained closed. LPG supplies There, however, was no significant impact on the functioning of petrol bunks and supply of LPG refills in Hyderabad. Barring some delay on account of traffic jams, there were no reports of cooking gas refill supplies getting impact, sources among LPG distributors said.
09 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Sandra Venkata Veeraiah’s plea dismissed by HC||Justice Shameem Akther of Telangana High Court on Tuesday dismissed the plea of TDP MLA Sandra Venkata Veeraiah to get him discharged from the cash-for-vote case. The legislator, who was made the fifth accused in the sensational cash-for-vote case, filed a criminal revision case before the HC challenging ACB Special Court’s order dismissing his discharge petition. In 2015, ACB officials arrested the then TDP MLA A. Revanth Reddy (presently Malkajgiri MP from Congress party) and others on charge of offering Rs. 50 lakh to nominated MLA Elvis Stephenson to cast vote in favour of TDP nominee for Telangana Legislative Council. Subsequently, the investigators made Mr. Veeraiah as the fifth accused in the case and filed a supplementary charge-sheet. Mr. Veeraiah’s petition requesting for his discharge from the case was dismissed by the ACB special court following which he moved the HC. The ACB special court had already directed all the accused in the cash-for-vote case to appear before it on this December 15. The trial of the case is likely to begin. Dismissing his criminal revision case, the High Court judge stated that the special court’s order was sustainable as it found that there was prima facie case against Mr. Veeraiah. The MLA’s petition was devoid of merit and hence dismissed, the order said.
09 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Workers of open shop abused, threatened||A group of persons, alleged to be supporters of the Telangana Rashtra Samithi, on Tuesday threatened workers of a shop in Ramnagar and used unparliamentary language after they did not immediately down their shutters in support of the Bharat Bandh called by protesting farmers. A video clip of the incident was widely shared on social media in which the workers of the shop, which sells cosmetics, are purportedly seen as saying that the men used foul language and inquired about the owner. They also alleged that they were assaulted. According Musheerabad police, who are investigating the case, the incident took place around 11 a.m. when a group of men told the workers to close the shop for the day. Case booked “We have booked a case against one Hari Babu Yadav and others under Section 448, 427, 323 and 506 of the IPC. So far we have not taken anybody into custody. We are investigating the case,” said Musheerabad inspector T Murali Krishna. In another case, similar in nature, a shop owner in Professors Colony in Malakpet here approached the Malakpet police with a petition alleging that he was manhandled by a group of persons who insisted that he close the shop. So far no case has been booked.
09 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Shutdown slams brakes on TSRTC services||Buses of the Telangana State Road Transport Corporation (TSRTC) on Tuesday stayed off the roads for several hours on account of the Bharat Bandh. According to TSRTC officials, several services — city buses, intra-State, and inter-State — were cancelled. The Mahatma Gandhi Bus Station (MGBS) in Imlibun and the Jubilee Bus Station, which primarily cater to inter-State travellers, wore a deserted look in the morning with hardly any passenger movement seen. Bus bays at these stations were empty. There were a handful of people at the MGBS who were caught unawares by the bandh call. Stray movement of passengers was seen at city bus stops. Touching upon the resumption of services later in the day, an official, who did not wish to be identified, said around 50% of services were cancelled. “We had to cancel several services because of the bandh. No city buses were at the depots. Around 12.30-1 p.m., we started to have them back on the roads. But we could either not operate, or faced some difficulty on routes where they were protest rallies. With respect to inter-State buses, while some services were cancelled, most of the trips were post-afternoon,” an official said. Others pointed out the bandh call resulted in poor occupancy in city buses as the footfall at bus stops following resumption of services was near-negligible. Some buses were seen carrying just about two or three passengers.
09 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Medical services unaffected||Medical services continued as usual in government and private hospitals despite the Bharat Bandh on Tuesday. Heads of major government hospitals said that they continued to offer out-patient (OP) and in-patient (IP) services as usual although they had expected fewer patients to turn up at hospitals. Private and corporate hospitals managements, too, offered the services uninterrupted. At Gandhi Hospital, 684 people consulted doctors on OP basis and around 330 got admitted as in-patients on Monday. On Tuesday, there were more than 700 OP registrations and over 350 IP patients got admitted. The patient turn-out was more compared to Monday. The hospital also received more emergency cases. And at Osmania General Hospital, around 1130 people consulted on OP basis on Tuesday. The hospital’s administrative officials said that the numbers did not get affected and services were offered without break.
09 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Marginal rise in COVID-19 cases||A marginal increase in COVID-19 cases was recorded in Telangana on Monday. Out of the 55645 samples which were examined, 682 have tested positive for coronavirus. Results of 812 were awaited. From December 1, this is the highest number of cases in a day. On other days of the month, the daily count did not cross 640. Officials from the State Health department earlier requested political leaders and cadre who participated in GHMC elections campaigning and polls to isolate themselves for seven days as it could take a week for symptoms of the infectious disease to show. The elections were held on December 1. If anyone contracted COVID-19 and were to show symptoms, they should develop the symptoms from Tuesday. The new 682 cases include 119 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), 64 from Medchal Malkajgiri, 47 from Rangareddy, 41 from Warangal Urban. The lowest of one case was detected in Jogulamba Gadwal, and five in Narayanpet. From March 2 to December 7, a total of 5868233 samples were put to test and 274540 were detected with coronavirus. Out of the total cases, 7696 were active cases, 265367 have recovered, and 1477 have died.
09 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Techie caught with 55 LSD blots||A 22-year-old software employee was allegedly caught with 55 LSD blots at Mehdipatnam on Monday night. Telangana Prohibition and Excise department’s Enforcement wing (Hyderabad) officials said that the accused, Mohd Shoaib Khan, used to order the contraband online using Bitcoins. “He purchased 100 LSD blots of 350 micrograms strength. Each blot was bought at Rs. 850 and sold each at Rs. 1700 to Rs. 2000. He was initially addicted to ganja, and gradually tried all forms of drugs at psychedelic parties. Since purchasing in market has become tough and costly, he started orders through internet,” Assistant Excise Superintendent of Hyderabad Enforcement wing N. Anji Reddy said. The accused allegedly sold 45 blots to customers within a few days. Cases against buyers The customers will be charged under Section 27 of Narcotics Drugs and Psychotropic Substances (NDPS) Act for consumption of the contraband, the Excise official said. In the past two months, the officials caught at least 12 people who consume drugs and have turned into peddlers.  Ganja seized In a separate case, a 29-year-old former software employee was caught with one kg of ganja during a route watch in Bowenpally on Monday night. Upon questioning the accused, R. Sandeep Reddy, the officials got to know that the ganja was supplied by two people and two more kgs of ganja was seized from them.
09 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||LVPEI wins Greenberg Prize||L V Prasad Eye Institute (LVPEI) is one among the a few recipients of ‘The Greenberg Prize – End Blindness 2020’. Founder-Chair of the institute Gullapalli N. Rao will be presented with this award in the ‘Outstanding Achievement Prize’ category. The winners were chosen based on the strength of their contributions to eliminate blindness. The institute shares the award with one more organization in India. The ‘End Blindness’ movement was found by Dr. Sanford Greenberg — who had lost his eyes at the age of 19 years — and his wife Susan. “I feel humbled and honoured to accept this prestigious award on behalf of over the 3000 strong family of L V Prasad Eye Institute and its numerous supporters all over the globe. Eliminating avoidable blindness by the year 2020 has been an aspiration of the global eye care community for over two decades,” said Dr. Gullapalli.
09 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||No OP services in private hospitals on Friday||Out-Patient services at hospitals might be shut down from 6 a.m. to 6 p.m. on Friday. Members of the Indian Medical Association (IMA)-Telangana chapter gave a call for the protest against provision allowing Post Graduate Ayurveda students to practice general surgery, ENT, dental and opthalmology procedures. The association’s State vice president Sanjeev Singh Yadav clarified that emergency services and COVID-19 services will not be closed. While the OP services might be hit at private hospitals, heads of the government hospitals did not respond to the protest call yet. The allopathy medical fraternity is against the gazette notification issued by Central Council of Indian Medicine (CCIM) on November third week. The notification is titled Indian Medicine Central Council (Post Graduate Ayurveda Education) Amendment Regulations, 2020. Provisions condemned IMA-Telangana chapter’s president D. D. Lava Kumar Reddy said: “We are against encroachment of Ayurveda into allopathy disciplines of General Surgery, Opthalmology, ENT, Orthopaedics.” From the past a few weeks, doctors took to social media condemning the provision. On November 22, Ministry of AYUSH clarified that the notification specifies that a total of 58 surgical procedures that PG scholars of Shalya and Shalakya streams need to be practically trained in so as to enable them to independently perform the said activities after completion of their PG course. They have also clarified that it does not allow Shalya and Shalakya Post Graduates to take up any other types of surgery. The Ministry further stated this notification is a clarification of the relevant provisions in the previously existing regulations of 2016. Since beginning, Shalya and Shalakya are independent Departments in Ayurveda colleges, performing such surgical procedures.
09 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Draft electoral rolls published for MLC poll||GHMC has through a press statement informed that the draft electoral rolls for the Mahabubnagar-Rangareddy-Hyderabad Graduates Constituency of Telangana Legislative Council have been displayed for inspection at the office of the Electoral Registration Officer and Additional Commissioner (Elections), GHMC and at the office of the Assistant Electoral Registration Officer and revenue divisional officers in the respective districts. The draft rolls can also be found on the Chief Electoral Officer’s website, ‘www.ceotelangana.nic.in’, the statement said.  De novo rolls The rolls have been prepared de novo upon orders from the Election Commission of India, and as per the revised schedule, the draft rolls have been published on December 8 at all the GHMC and RDO offices in the nine districts — Mahabubnagar, Wanaparthy, Nagarkurnool, Narayanpet, Jogulamba Gadwal, Rangareddy, Vikarabad, Hyderabad and Medchal-Malkajgiri. All the eligible graduates may verify their names in the electoral rolls and submit their claims and objections if any before January 8, the statement said.
09 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Sanitation staff’s monthly salary goes up by Rs. 3,000||Following the government orders enhancing the wages of the sanitation staff in GHMC, Commissioner D.S.Lokesh Kumar has, on Tuesday, issued orders for the implementation of the same, along with the code of discipline to be followed by the workers. As per the orders, the monthly salary of the categories of sanitation workers, entomology field workers, entomology superior field workers, transport workers, and veterinary workers has been enhanced to Rs. 17,000 from the existing Rs. 14,000. Salary of the sanitation field assistant, and entomology field assistant has been enhanced to Rs. 17,500 from Rs. 14,500. Additional expenditure on the enhancement of wages shall be met from the GHMC budget only, the orders said.  ‘Code of conduct’ The concomitant conditions along with the order stipulate that the “workers shall desist from resorting to any kind of strikes against the spirit of Swachh Hyderabad campaign.” Other conditions include manual and biometric attendance of the workers, maintenance of proper timings, and installation of GPS to the garbage lifting vehicles. Apart from taking biometric attendance of the workers, the sanitation field assistants and entomology field assistants should upload the photographs of the workers and work done in the corresponding area every day.
09 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Inter-State mobile theft gang busted||The Miyapur Police on Tuesday announced the apprehension of an inter-State gang of alleged burglars, accused of stealing 119 mobile phones from a Reliance Digital store in Miyapur. According to police, the accused are — 38-year-old Mohammed Tabrez Dawud Shaik, 29-year-old Rasheed Mohd Rafeeq Shaik, 24-year-old Mohd Sufian Shaik alias Subrathodas, 49-year-old Raju Pandurang Ambekar, all residents of Mumbai, and 33-year-old Mumtaz Shaik, a resident of Navi Mumbai. The accused allegedly broke into the store on November 14 around 4.30 a.m. and decamped with the mobile phones. Police said that the accused met in jail when they were remanded to judicial custody. They allegedly decided to commit the offence in Hyderabad given the fact that their criminal history was known to the Mumbai police. The allegedly hired a four wheeler and came to the city and proceeded to commit the offence. Police said that they confessed to committing six other offences in the recent past.
09 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||National Lok Adalat to be held on Saturday||City Civil Court’s Legal Services Authority is holding National Lok Adalat on Saturday. City Civil Court Chief Judge-cum-Legal Services Authority chairperson C. Sumalatha appealed to people to resolve their pending cases relating to motor accident claims, insurance claims, family and property disputes along with debt litigation cases. Even pre-litigation matters can also be resolved in National Lok Adalat which would be organised at City Civil Court in Puranapul of Old City and Secunderabad court complex. In the backdrop of COVID-19 pandemic, both physical and virtual sessions of the Adalat would be held, the Chief Judge said. For this, six benches each at City Civil Court and Secunderabad court complex were being convened. LSA secretary and senior civil judge K. Murali Mohan said if the disputes are resolved the court fee paid by the plaintiffs would be returned. He appealed to lawyers and clients to make use of the Adalat and find an amicable solution in their cases. Those who cannot come to Adalat physically due to the pandemic can use the video conference facility, the secretary said.
09 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||SCR Hyd division carries more freight this year||SCR’s freight loading in Hyderabad division has shown considerable improvement during the current financial year by loading 1.06 MTs which is 58% more than the freight loading during the same period of the previous financial year. New traffic started this year includes iron ore and quartz chips from Veldurti station, maize from Nizamabad station and boiled rice from Kaukuntla. Turmeric has been loaded from Nizamabad to beyond the borders, Bangladesh, for first time. About 0.847 MTs of foodgrains were transported this year, almost double than the previous year same period of 0.435 MTs. A new private freight terminal has been made operational at Kaukuntla and rice was transported exclusively to other southern States. The division has facilitated freight customers for loading in mini rakes — 20 wagons instead of full rake of 40 wagons has helped in enhanced loading in transportation of maize, besides loading of iron ore and stone chips to major destinations like Macheri Road, Kharagpur and JSW Steel, Hubli, a press release said.
09 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||House burglar arrested||Narsingi police on Tuesday apprehended an alleged house burglary offender, seized gold ornaments weighing 1,040 grams, Rs. 40,000 in cash, four two wheelers and house breaking equipment which they valued at Rs. 52 lakh. According to police, the accused is 28-year-old Mir Kazam Ali Khan, a resident of Paramount Colony in Toli Chowki. The accused works as a maintenance worker in a function hall with his father. He is reported to have been involved in house burglaries since 2008. Police said that the accused is involved in 70 cases and was arrested in the past. He allegedly committed as many as 16 cases in Cyberabad and Rachakonda police commissionerates limits since August this year. The accused allegedly commits the offence between 10 a.m. and 4 p.m. and usually targets locked houses which are inhabited by those from affluent backgrounds.
09 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Man drowns in lake while fishing||A 33-year-old man died in the Hakimpet lake on Tuesday, Jawahar Nagar police said. According to Jawahar Nagar inspector Bhikshapathi Rao, the victim has been identified as Thanda Chandrakanth, a resident of Indiramma Nagar in Rasoolpura. He works in the flexi making industry. On Tuesday, the victim went fishing to the lake with his friend, identified as Nandulal. While fishing, he is said to have slipped and fallen into the lake where he drowned. His friend tried to rescue him but was unsuccessful. Police have booked a case and investigation is underway.
09 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Promotions/transfers in forest dept.||The State government has issued orders promoting seven IFS officers to the rank of Conservator of Forests on Tuesday. Accordingly, DFO, Warangal (Urban & Jangaon) G. Ramalingam, DFO, Rajanna Sircilla & Karimnagar S.J. Asha, Additional Director, Office of the Director, Telangana State Forest Academy S. Ramesh, DFO, Ranga Reddy, D. Bheema,, Curator, Nehru Zoological Park N. Kshitija, and Special Commissioner, Office of the Commissioner, Rural Development, B. Saidulu have been promoted as Conservators of Forests duly upgrading their respective posts equivalent to the rank. DFO, Adilabad B. Prabhakar has been transferred upon promotion as CF and his services are placed at the disposal of the Municipal Administration & Urban Development department for appointment as Director (Urban Forestry), Hyderabad Metropolitan Development Authority, the order mentioned.
09 December 2020||KHAMMA,TELANGANA||Normal life hit hard||Novel protests by student activists in Khammam and Praja Natya Mandali artistes in Bhadrachalam highlighting the anguish of farmers against the Centre’s new farm laws besides road blockades by demonstrators marked the Bharat Bandh called by the farmers’ front in the former composite Khammam district on Tuesday. Normal life was hit in the district, considered as the traditional stronghold of Left parties, as TSRTC buses remained off roads and shopkeepers downed their shutters in most parts of the district during the day. All parties’ support Except for the BJP, almost all political parties, including the ruling TRS, main Opposition Congress, CPI (M), CPI and CPI (ML-ND), participated in the bandh. Several children clad in farming attire staged a novel demonstration carrying a small plough under the aegis of the PDSU near the bus stand in Khammam. The student activists enacted a scene in a symbolic protest against the alleged attempts by the BJP dispensation at the Centre to ‘hand over’ the farm sector to big corporate entities and the strong resistance from farmers to the move. The demonstration drew the attention of passers-by. Transport Minister P. Ajay Kumar along with Khammam MP Nama Nageswara Rao and others participated in a dharna at the Telangana Thalli statue along NH 365 BB in Khammam. ‘Dictatorial manner’ Addressing the demonstration, Mr. Nageswara Rao alleged that the Centre passed the farm laws in a dictatorial manner, unmindful of the widespread opposition from farmers. Conveying the TRS’s steadfast support to the agitation by farmers braving the bone chilling cold near Delhi border, he demanded that the Centre repeal the new farm laws forthwith. In Bhadradri-Kothagudem district, activists of the CPI (M), the CPI and the CPI (ML-ND) staged a huge protest rally. CPI (M) senior leader and former MP Midiam Babu Rao, party town committee secretary G. Swamy and others took part in the rally.Praja Natya Mandali artistes performed a skit exposing the ‘vulnerability’ of farmers to the ‘exploitative corporate forces’. Activists of the CITU, the AITUC and other trade unions staged protest rallies in Kothagudem and elsewhere in the district against the farm laws. There were reports of minor disruption to coal dispatches at some mines of the Singareni Collieries Company Limited (SCCL) owing to ‘non-operation’ of private trucks due to Bharat Bandh. However, the SCCL sources said the coal mining activities continued normally on Tuesday as the trade unions have not given any strike call but only extended their support to the bandh.
09 December 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Meet in support of farmers||Comrade Rayala Subash Chandra Bose (Ravanna) memorial trust will hold a ‘Rythanga Sadassu’ to mobilise public support for the ongoing agitation by farmers near Delhi against the newly enacted farm laws here on December 10, according to a press release. The former Agriculture Minister in combined Andhra Pradesh Vadde Sobhanadreeswar Rao, Telangana Jana Samithi president M. Kodandaram, the CPI ML-New Democracy State assistant secretary Potu Ranga Rao and others will address the convention. The convention will be held at Bhakta Ramadasu Kalakshetram in the town at 11 a.m. on Thursday.
09 December 2020||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Vehicular movement comes to a halt as highways turn protest venues||Vehicular traffic on State and national highways in undivided Nalgonda came to a grinding halt for about two hours on Tuesday, as leaders of several parties chose the shiny blacktops as protest venues and made statements ‘for Bharat bandh’. Starting from Hayathnagar in Hyderabad, at the entrance to NH-65 (Hyderabad-Vijayawada), and up to Suryapet, there were several instances of traffic jam. Leaders of at least five political parties and their farmer organisations led the blockades, raised slogans and spoke to mediapersons. Some of the major sites of traffic congestion on the highway were Choutuppal and the toll plaza at Pantangi, Nakrekal junction and Kethepally, where prominent leaders along with their supporters, staged sit-in. At Choutuppal, between 11 a.m. and 12.30 p.m., vehicles were stranded, and with the availability of service roads, medium and small vehicles were diverted. Chityal also witnessed vehicle stranding for about half an hour, from the junction till the railway gate. As a preventive step, the Chityal police detained some 20 TRS activists, 16 of the Congress and 15 others for about an hour, and ensured continuous traffic flow. Minor halting and queues of traffic was also found at Narketpally. But Nakrekal and Kethepally, two other major points, witnessed maximum traffic with TRS, CPI(M) and Congress leaders participating in large numbers. And for leaders from Nalgonda and Miryalaguda, State highways such as the Narketpally-Addanki and Nagarjunasagar highway were the hotspots. Return journey passengers, towards Hyderabad, had to wait at toll plaza. With all the traffic released around the same time, at Nakrekal, Narketpally and Chityal, another hour of vehicular congestion was reported at the Panthangi toll plaza. Toll officials soon declared all the nine gates as Fastag-cum-cash, and deployed additional staff with handheld machines to expedite traffic flow. Police officials along the national and State highways said there were no untoward incidents reported, and the bandh passed off smoothly. At Sangareddy, traffic came to a standstill. All the three highways — Nanded -Akola, Mumbai Highway and Nagapur Highway — were blocked for more than five hours. Slogans were raised against the Union government. Even in the presence of police, the TRS workers parked tractors on the highways at all places.  At Sangareddy, Zaheerabad and Patancheru the traffic was stopped by TRS and other party activists. Similar was the condition at Andol through which the 161 Highway passes.  Vehicle drivers and passengers were forced to wait for hours together. They have suffered due to non availability of drinking water and food.  At Toopran the agitation was led by Finance Minister T. Harish Rao.
09 December 2020||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Centre and State breaking back of farmers: Komatireddy||Bhongir MP Komatireddy Venkat Reddy on Tuesday said that the Centre’s farm laws would break the back of farmers, by cutting off their access to minimum support price (MSP), among various failed assurances through the three Acts. In Telangana too, he said, Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao “like a dictator ordered farmers to grow maximum fine variety paddy, but when it came to its procurement he failed them,” he said. Mr. Venkat Reddy, taking part in Bharat Bandh, with hundreds of Congress activists, staged a blockade on NH-65 (Hyderabad-Vijayawada) near Kethepally, and raised slogans against the Centre and State policies. He said Congress’ five-year plans and infrastructure development such as the Nagarjunasagar and Bhakra-Nangal dams made India one of the granaries of the world. However, if the Centre passes ‘black laws’ such as the three Acts in question as developmental and tried to implement them, the Congress would intensify the stir. He assured farmers that the Congress would stand by them till the repeal of the new Acts. Criticising KCR’s farm management in Telangana, he said the TRS government failed in insuring farmers when the heavy floods resulted in losses worth several crores.
09 December 2020||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||‘Centre’s farm laws will lead to food shortage’||Not only will farmers be at a loss but the Centre’s farm legislation will affect every population in the country, Energy Minister G. Jagadish Reddy said on Tuesday, leading hundreds of TRS activists and farmers during the Bharat Bandh in Suryapet and Nalgonda. He sat in the Narketpally-Addanki State highway blockade in Nalgonda, while at Suryapet, the Minister was part of a huge tractor rally onto NH-65 (Hyderabad-Vijayawada). Mr. Reddy described the three Acts — The Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020; The Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement of Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020; and The Essential Commodities (Amendment) Act, 2020, — “black laws, which will violate farmers’ rights, but not protect them.” ‘Struggle for meals’ “The legislation will severely affect farmers as they would struggle even for two square meals, and corporate entities and businesses will benefit the most,” he said. According to him, the legislation would ultimately lead to food shortage in the country and also hinder the free 24-hour electricity to farmers in Telangana. Earlier in the day, Mr. Jagadish Reddy directed hundreds of farmers for highway blockade, tractor rally from Tekumatla to Madharam, and motorcycle rallies. The Energy Minister also demanded the farm legislation to be repealed unconditionally.
09 December 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Siddipet town all set to get another makeover||The district headquarters town is set to get an underground drainage system and sewage treatment plant which is expected to serve the needs of the fast developing urban center for the next six to seven decades. Chief Minster K. Chandrasekhar Rao is scheduled to inaugurate the treatment plant on December 10. MLA and Finance Minister T. Harish Rao has played a key role in getting the funds sanctioned for the programme. A total of Rs. 278.16 crore was sanctioned for the project under Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUT), Telangana Urban Finance and Infrastructure Development Corporation (TUFIDC) and from the municipality. Out of the total 328 kilometres underground drainage system, as much as 302 kilometres was already completed and a treatment plant with a capacity of 7.25 MLD was established with moving bed bio-film reactor (MBBR) technology at Chintala Cheruvu. The Siddipet town has 25,517 houses in all the 34 wards, out of which some 8,000 houses have been connected with the underground drainage in the first phase and the remaining will be connected in the next three phases. The works were complete up to 80 % and Mr. Harish Rao has directed the officials to complete pending works at the earliest. Sewage water is being cleaned at six levels and then being released to fields through Chintala Cheruvu surplus canal. The sewage treatment plant would be handling 25 MLD once all the four phases of the project is completed. The Chief Minister is set to inaugurate Rythu Vedika at Mittapally constructed at an estimated cost of Rs. 22 lakh. As many as 110 Rythu Vedikas were completed in the district.
09 December 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||‘Housing dream has come true’||As a prelude to the grand inauguration of double bedroom houses constructed in G+2 mode at Narsapur on the outskirts of the district headquarters, Finance Minister T. Harish Rao extended new clothes and other traditional items like pasupu, kumkuma along with the pattas issued to the beneficiaries. The programme was held at an auditorium along with Collector P. Venkatarami Reddy here on Tuesday. Mr. Harish Rao said that he was lucky to make the dream of many poor people come true. “With the blessings of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao we are able to complete this project. As many as 144 families will perform housewarming ceremony in the presence of the Chief Minister. Within one month 1,341 families will enter into new houses in phased manner and the remaining beneficiaries will also be selected in transparent manner. These houses are fitted with piped gas lines and underground drainage system, probably the first such facility for the poor in the entire country,” said Mr. Harish Rao while chatting with media persons earlier in the day at Toopran.
09 December 2020||TOOPRAN (medak),TELANGANA||‘New Acts will turn farmers labourers in their own fields’||The Bharat Bandh called by different organisations was a grand success on Tuesday. The bandh was complete with shutters downed at many mandal headquarters and Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) party activists playing an active role. The bandh was observed in support of farmers agitating in New Delhi, demanding repeal of three farm Acts passed in Parliament. At several places, tractors with party flags were parked on the highway at Toopran while police remained mute spectators. At Sangareddy, traffic came to a standstill. All the three highways — Nanded-Akola, Mumbai Highway and Nagpur Highway — were blocked for more than five hours. Slogans were raised against the Union government. People stuck in vehicles suffered for want of water and food. Addressing a gathering here, Finance Minister Harish Rao, who led the agitation, said the entire nation was supporting the ongoing agitation. He said that in 1967, minimum support price of Rs. 65 per quintal for wheat was introduced by the then agriculture minister Jagjivan Ram and presently 23 crops were covered by it. “The new farm Acts will benefit corporate organisations and harm the interests of farmers. More than 92.5% farmers across the State are having less than five acres. The Centre has warned that 60 lakh metric tonnes of paddy will not be procured from the State if bonus is given to fine variety paddy,” he said. He warned that the BJP government at Centre would be washed away in the anger of farmers. He questioned whether small farmers would be in position to sell the produce at far-off places. He said farmer would become labourers in their own fields with corporate farming. On removing the limit of godown stock, he said this would also benefit corporate entities as farmers could not stock produce for long. “For the past one month, farmers from Punjab and Haryana have been on the road. Roads were dug to prevent farmers from entering Delhi,” said LS member K. Prabhakar Reddy.
09 December 2020||New Delhi,||Bharat Bandh peaceful, confined to Delhi borders||The national capital remained largely peaceful as the protesting farmers, who had called for Bharat Bandh on Tuesday, remained confined to their stir sites at the city borders. However, the city witnessed sporadic incidents of blockades. At the Ghazipur border, a large group of protesters blocked both carriageways of the Delhi-Meerut Expressway from 11 a.m. and opened them half-an-hour before the scheduled time of 3 p.m. During the protest, they allowed passage to emergency vehicles. The traffic was diverted to Anand Vihar and Sahibabad border. The one side of the carriageway (Delhi to Meerut) was opened for traffic. Farmers said they ended the protest timely without causing inconvenience to motorists during peak hours.   A small group of farmers from Shamli and Baghpat districts were on a hunger strike for the day. They had taped their mouths. “We are protesting peacefully on Gandhigiri sidhant and we are hopeful that government will listen to our demands,” said Kishan Pal, a farmer from Baghpat. Ghazipur vegetable market, located a kilometer from the protest site, was open. “We stand with farmers and support their demands but we can’t shut down the wholesale market because we will incur losses. There is already a crisis situation in the market due to restriction over the movement of trucks at the borders,” said Santosh Kumar, a wholesaler. During the shutdown, the police kept strict vigil at borders and other parts of the city. “We used drones to keep track of protesters. We held a meeting with organisers and policemen of neighbouring districts to keep the situation under control. No calls of any scuffle were received from any of the borders and the day ended peacefully. Security was strengthened at borders and traffic personnel was deployed on diverted routes,” said a senior officer. Impromptu blockade Minutes before the Bharat Bandh was scheduled to end, a group of youths started raising slogans in support of farmers and created an impromptu blockade at the carriageway leading to the Haryana border next to Gurudwara Hargobindsar. The protesters said the blockade was part of the Bharat Bandh, which was scheduled to be in effect between 11 a.m.-3 p.m. They said they had parked their four-wheelers and motorcycles on the highway to stall traffic till 3 p.m.   We stand with farmers and support their demands but we can’t shut down the wholesale market because we will incur losses. There is already a crisis situation in the market Santosh Kumar Wholesaler
09 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Despite farmers’ strike, no hiccups in traffic movement||Isolated incidents of agitation were reported from some areas in the Capital on Tuesday during the nationwide Bharat Bandh called by protesting farmers, but normal life within city limits remained largely unaffected. The commuters did not face any inconvenience as public transport continued to ply. Alternative routes The police said they had provided alternative routes to motorists and continued to share updates on social media. They said they also advised people to avoid particular stretches, including National Highway 44. “Singhu, Auchandi, Piau Maniyari & Mangesh borders are closed. NH-44 is closed. Please take alternate routes via Lampur, Safiabad, Saboli & Singhu school toll tax borders. Traffic has been diverted from Mukarba & GTK Road. Please avoid Outer Ring Road, GTK Road, NH-44,” tweeted Delhi Traffic Police. Delhi Police Public Relations Officer Eish Singhal said adequate arrangements have been made to ensure regular movement of people. Azadpur Mandi and other mandis here wore a deserted look during the day. Chairman of APMC Azadpur Mandi, Adil Ahmad Khan said that while some trucks arrived at the mandi, there was no business conducted as the entire market came in support of the farmers. However, most of the neighborhood markets were open throughout the day. Larges retail markets like Connaught Place, Khan Market, Sarojini Nagar remained unaffected. Some offices, too, were open. Scene at railway station Passengers arriving at New Delhi Railway station did not face any problems to find last mile connectivity and most of those travelling to other NCR towns opted for the Delhi Metro.
09 December 2020||New Delhi,||Kathua victim’s family counsel now brings comfort, food to the farmers||Advocate Mubeen Farooqui, who secured punishment for the accused in the gruesome Kathua gangrape and murder case, has been camping at the Capital’s borders and running a community kitchen for the protesting farmers for the past 12 days. In vehement agreement with their demands, Mr. Farooqui from Punjab’s Malerkotla arrived at the Singhu border with a team of 25 people and a large consignment of sweet rice hoping to “feed those who feed everyone else for a living”. Soon, he was joined by some locals from Haryana, Delhi and Uttar Pradesh. ‘Govt. forcing farmers’ “Farmers facing abject poverty needed their outstanding loans to be waived not new laws, which will, over the coming years, make them slaves of corporates. The government should have asked the farmers what they really need instead of forcing them to accept what it thinks they need,” Mr. Farooqui said. He also asked: “Our team came here to help ease the burden on those facing complete injustice. What can be a bigger service to God than feeding the farmer who feeds everyone else?” Tariq Manzoor Alam, who operates a real estate business in Malerkota and is one of Mr. Farooqui’s team members, said between 35 and 40 large pots of rice are pressed into service one after the other to serve langar to anyone who stops by their stall, which is among the busiest in a sea of similar ones stretching well into the territorial jurisdiction of Haryana. In June last year, Mr. Farooqui — representing the family of an eight-year-old Bakkarwal girl from Kathua, who was sexually assaulted and murdered in January 2018, — secured life imprisonment for three key accused and five-years’ imprisonment for three policemen from a District and Sessions Court in Pathankot. The policemen had allegedly tried to hush up the case. Justice in the Kathua case, especially the kind that the victim’s family deserved, he said, was still far from being done just like much was left wanting in the treatment meted out to farmers by the Centre. Next in Kathua case “We will move the Punjab and Haryana High Court for capital punishment in the Kathua case; that battle will continue. In the same way, we came here to stand with them [farmers] and will stay here till they leave,” he added.
09 December 2020||New Delhi,||Protest could take a violent turn if govt. doesn’t resolve deadlock by today, warn agitating farmers||Counting down the hours till the conclusion of the sixth round of talks, which they consider would be the final stage, with the Centre regarding their demands, agitating farmers said the hitherto peaceful protest at the Singhu border would take a sharp turn for the worse if the deadlock was not resolved by Wednesday. The burning of politicians’ effigies would replace rousing stage speeches, the remaining access points to the city would be blockaded while existing ones would be reinforced and the meagre supplies of food and essentials, which they are currently “allowing” to enter the Capital, would be completely and indefinitely cut off, they warned. “If the government does not accept our demands, you will see a very, very different atmosphere across the many kilometres which we have occupied. Those behind the birth of these anti-farmer laws will have their effigies burnt to cinders as black as the laws themselves,” said Sarabjit Singh from Ludhiana. “We have restricted movement at some of the most arterial routes into the city till now but there are more, such as those on the Faridabad side, which are still unaffected. They will be blocked too,” he also said. More on the wait Gurdyal Singh, another farmer from Ludhiana, said there were “many more” across Punjab and Haryana awaiting a nod to begin marching towards Delhi from several sides. “Till now, only big vehicles carrying vegetables, fruits and essential supplies like milk have been affected because of our blockade at the borders.,” he said. “Lakhs of farmers will join us as we form a ring all around New Delhi and completely choke all access points to it. Nothing except vehicles carrying medicines and ambulances will be allowed to move an inch till our demands are met,” he added.
09 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Congress chief among other party workers detained at ITO||The Delhi Congress on Tuesday protested near ITO flyover on Ring Road and other locations in support of the Bharat Bhadh called by agitating farmers. The party demanded the repeal of the “three anti-farmer black Acts” passed by the Central government. Delhi Congress chief Ch. Anil Kumar, along with several party workers, was detained by the Delhi Police at ITO and taken to the IP Estate police station where FIRs were filed against them. “Farmers feel that the anti-farmer Acts, in its present form, would hand over the farm sector to a few chosen corporates of the Modi regime, who would then exploit the farmers for their personal gains,” Mr. Kumar said. He added that it was unfortunate that Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who talks about the welfare of the farmers, was trying to suppress the voice of the protesters by detaining them at the borders.
09 December 2020||New Delhi,||AAP supports bandh by staging protest||AAP workers protested at ITO in support of farmers on Tuesday, the party said. The party had extended its support to the Bharat Bandh called by the farmers and asked the Centre to heed to their demands. On Tuesday morning, the party tweeted that their chief Arvind Kejriwal was kept ‘under house arrest’ by Delhi Police, a claim denied by the police. “After the Chief Minister met farmers at Singhu border, the Central government’s Delhi Police, on directions of the Ministry of Home Affairs, has barricaded the house of the CM from four sides and kept him almost under house arrest. No one can meet him and he cannot come out,” AAP chief spokesperson Saurabh Bharadwaj said while addressing a press meet.
09 December 2020||Aurangabad,||Number of human-leopard conflicts goes up in State||The number of people killed in attacks by leopards in Maharashtra more than tripled to 27 in 2020, compared to eight such incidents recorded in 2019, a senior Forest Department official has said. At the same time, the number of deaths of leopards also rose, compared to last year, he told PTI . A total of 172 leopards have died in the State so far this year due to various reasons. This figure stood at 110 last year, the official said. The rise in deaths of humans as well as leopards indicates growing incidents of conflicts between wild animals and humans. “A total of 27 people have been killed in attacks by leopards in various parts of Maharashtra till December 3 this year,” he said. “At 12, Nashik district in northern Maharashtra accounts for the highest number of deaths of people in attacks by leopards, followed by the Marathwada region which reported seven deaths. Remaining deaths were reported from other parts of Maharashtra,” the official said. When asked about the reasons for the rise in the number of deaths of leopards, he said some of them were killed in road accidents, while some drowned in wells. He said some leopards died due to natural causes while others were killed by poachers. When contacted, principal chief conservator of forest Nitin Kakodkar said the population of leopards in the State had gone up exponentially. “We don’t have the exact figures as many leopards are found in sugarcane fields and other areas which are under cultivation,” he said.
09 December 2020||Mumbai,||Transport unions seek Raj Thackeray’s intervention||Faced with financial constraints due to the lockdown, representatives of 14 transport unions on Tuesday met Maharashtra Navnirman Sena (MNS) chief Raj Thackeray, urging him to talk to the government on their behalf in a bid to get them assistance. Among their major demands were relief from exorbitant interest rates applied by non-banking financial companies (NBFC) despite guidelines from the Reserve Bank of India (RBI), interest-free moratorium on loan repayment till March 2021, loan restructuring without additional charges, and transfer of car papers to new owners without the presence of original owner in case of missing loan instalments. In a letter submitted to Mr. Thackeray, the representatives said that a number of illegal methods were being used by financial institutions against those who missed loan instalments. “Customers are being threatened over phone via agency; goons are being sent to home and office; and vehicles are confiscated illegally on road and they are being sold to third party without consent. These are illegal methods which is in violation of guidelines laid down by the RBI and numerous verdicts from the Supreme Court,” the letter said. Kirtikumar Shinde, general secretary, MNS, said that they had been raising the issues of the transport sector for the last few months. “The lockdown in view of the COVID-19 pandemic has taken a toll on this sector. Owners of auto, taxi, cab, truck, tempo, and buses are facing financial hardships. At this time, the NBFCs and banks are making it harder for them by harassing for loan repayments,” he said. Mr. Shinde said that the party had been meeting various NBFCs and banks asking them to follow law and not use might against vehicle owners who were financially destroyed in the lockdown.
09 December 2020||Mumbai,||TRP scam: Arnab seeks stay on probe by Mumbai Police||Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami moved the Bombay High Court on Tuesday seeking a stay on further investigation by the Mumbai Police in the alleged television rating points (TRP) manipulation scam. The petition, filed by Mr. Goswami and ARG Outlier Media which owns Republic TV , also alleged that one of the employees of the firm was tortured by the police in custody. It sought protection for all employees from the “malicious witch-hunt” allegedly being carried out by the Maharashtra authorities. Ghanshyam Singh, “assistant vice president, distribution” of Republic TV was arrested on November 10 and and “tortured, beaten and harassed in custody”, it alleged. Mr. Singh was given bail last week. The police were working in a “pre-determined manner to falsely implicate” Mr. Goswami and others from ARG Media by influencing witnesses, and extracting false statements against the petitioners”, the petition alleged. The court should, therefore, transfer the probe to the Central Bureau of Investigation or any other independent agency, the petition said. It is yet to be listed for hearing. When contacted, senior police officials refused to comment. TRP, measured by recording viewership data at sample households, is crucial for attracting advertisers. As per the police, some of these households were being bribed to tune into Republic TV and a few other channels. Republic TV has denied wrongdoing.
09 December 2020||Mumbai,||What action other democracies took over offensive tweets: HC||The Bombay High Court on Tuesday sought to know what democracies across the world did about offensive tweets or posts on social media. A Bench of Justices S.S. Shinde and M.S. Karnik was hearing the final arguments on a plea filed by Mumbai resident Sunaina Holey, who has been booked by the Azad Maidan police for allegedly posting offensive tweets against Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray and his son Aaditya. Ms. Holey, through her counsel Abhinav Chandrachud, has sought that the FIR against her be quashed. During the day’s hearing, Mr. Chandrachud argued that the facts in the FIR against Ms. Holey did not reveal any offence, and said that she had merely posted a video and was not the author or creator of the same. Mr. Chandrachud further argued that Ms. Holey had not referred to any community, caste or religion in her post and therefore, the post did not constitute any offence. The Maharashtra government’s counsel, senior advocate Manoj Mohite, however, told the court that an officer of the Mumbai Police’s social media department found “something fishy” in Ms. Holey’s tweets and hence an FIR was registered. At this, the court asked what other democracies in the world did in similar cases. The court said that the advocates from both sides must throw some light on the stand taken by other democracies, as the same might be useful for academic purposes too in the future.
09 December 2020||Navi Mumbai,||NMMC suspends three officials for irregularities in upkeep of gardens||The Navi Mumbai Municipal Corporation (NMMC) has recently suspended three officials of the garden department for irregularities in the maintenance of the gardens during the lockdown. The civic body has also terminated the contract of two contractors responsible for the upkeep and has asked them to refund Rs. 8.34 crore within 15 days. The move came after Belapur MLA Manda Mhatre had last month taken up the issue of irregularities with Commissioner Abhijit Bangar. Mr. Bangar first issued a show cause notice to 14 officials of the garden department and the two contractors. Then an enquiry was conducted following which administrative officer Chandrakant Tayade, deputy administrative officer Bhalchandra Gavali, and superintendent of the garden department Prakash Giri were suspended by the civic chief last week. “An enquiry committee headed by the executive engineer was set up to look into the allegations. Based on its report, and reply from the 14 officials, three officials were suspended immediately,” an officer from the NMMC said. As per the allegations, the gardens were not maintained from May to July. After conducting physical investigation for around two weeks verifying more than 360 locations, the committee found that the gardens were not maintained during that period. The panel has also recommended a departmental enquiry against nine garden assistants. In the last week of November, Dr. Sachin Nemane, the nodal officer in-charge of conducting antigen tests, was suspended following a data entry error.
09 December 2020||Pune,||Maharashtra sees more than 6,000 recoveries||Recoveries continued to outpace cases with as many as 6,365 patients being discharged across Maharashtra on Tuesday while 4,026 new COVID-19 cases were reported. The total case tally now stands at 18,59,367 with the number of active cases dipping further to 73,374. The cumulative recoveries have reached 17,37,080 with the State’s recovery rate rising incrementally to 93.42%. As many as 53 deaths were reported, taking the death toll to 47,827. The low case surge must, however, be viewed in the context of the lower number of samples tested — just over 45,000 as compared with a daily average of over 70,000. “Of a total 1,13,77,074 laboratory samples tested thus far, 18,59,367 (case positivity rate of 16.34%) have returned positive with nearly 60,000 samples being tested in the last 24 hours,” State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate said, adding that the State’s case fatality rate marginally decreased to 2.57%. Pune district reported more than 550 new cases to take its total case tally to 3,58,945 while eight deaths saw its fatality toll reach 7,582. As per the district administration figures, the active cases dipped to 10,731 while its recovery rate rose to 94.50%. Mumbai city recorded 585 new cases to take its total tally to 2,87,182 of whom 12,231 are active. Seven fatalities saw the city’s death toll rise to 10,914. Nagpur district in Vidarbha reported 447 new cases, taking the district’s total tally to 1,17,312 of whom 4,573 are currently active. Five deaths took the toll to 3,050. In western Maharashtra, Satara reported three deaths to push its fatality toll to 1,698. Just 55 fresh cases saw the total tally rise to 53,484 of whom 1,861 are active. Neighbouring Sangli reported 36 cases and three deaths as the district’s reported cases touched 48,996 of whom just 375 are active. Its death toll stands at 1,727. Kolhapur reported a mere eight cases and no deaths as its total case tally reached 49,078 of whom a little over 100 are active. The death toll remains constant at 1,654. In north Maharashtra, Nashik district reported over 500 cases and three deaths as its total tally reached 1,08,421 of whom 2,294 are active. Its fatality toll stands at 1,750. Neighbouring Jalgaon reported only 34 new cases and no deaths as its total case tally climbed to 55,358 of whom only 1,009 are active, while its death toll stood at 1,422. Dr. Awate said that currently, 5,48,961 people across the State were in home quarantine and 5,617 were in institutional quarantine facilities.
09 December 2020||Thane,||Court denies bail to builder accused of illegal construction||A magistrate court has rejected the bail plea of a builder accused of constructing a flat illegally and conning a buyer in Thane. The police had arrested builder Vasant Bhanushali for allegedly constructing a flat illegally on the seventh floor in the area meant for a terrace and booked him under relevant sections of the IPC. The accused and his partner Vijay Bhanushali constructed Shiv Tower in Khopat area of Thane, where they had permission to build four flats on the seventh floor and the remaining area was marked for a terrace. However, the accused illegally constructed a flat in the area meant for the terrace and made a camouflage agreement of selling the illegal flat to one Rajkumar Bathija. Mr. Bathija then sold the flat to complainant Haresh Jeswani and annexed the forged plans. He also facilitated bank loan for the purchase.
09 December 2020||December 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Biden picks retired Gen. Lloyd Austin as Defence Secretary||U.S. President-elect Joe Biden is expected to nominate retired General Lloyd Austin as his Defence Secretary according to reports, making Gen. Austin the first African American in the post, if he is confirmed by the Senate. In choosing Gen. Austin, Mr. Biden has passed over contenders for the job, such as former Secretary of Homeland Security Jeh Johnson and Pentagon official Michèle Flournoy. Mr. Biden could announce his nomination of the 67-year-old four-star General on Tuesday, as per Politico , which first reported the story. Gen. Austin formerly headed the U.S. Central Command overseeing combat in Afghanistan, Iraq, Yemen and Syria. Gen. Austin oversaw the U.S. response to the rise of the Islamic State (IS) — including a $500 million failed programme to recruit Syrian fighters against IS — and the withdrawal of U.S. troops from Iraq. U.S. law requires a seven-year cool-off period from the Army before becoming Defence Secretary — Gen. Austin will need a waiver from the U.S. Congress if he is to be confirmed to the position. If that happens, it will be the second time in recent history with U.S. President Donald Trump having got a waiver for his nomination Jim Mattis, who became Defence Secretary in 2017. Move criticised Several analysts took to social media to criticise the nomination of a former military officer for a civilian role. “From a civil-military relations perspective, this seems like a terrible idea,” Georgetown University an academic and former Pentagon official Rosa Brooks said on Twitter. “Lots of damage during the Trump era. Especially after Mattis, Kelly, McMaster, Flynn.... putting a recently retired 4 star, no matter how wonderful, into the top civilian DoD position sends the worst possible message.” Some also criticised the fact that Gen. Austin had joined the board of arms manufacturer Raytheon after retirement. “OH COME ON. A General and Raytheon board?” Danielle Brian, who heads the Project on Government Oversight, tweeted. “Possibly the worst of all options. Bad news for civilian control and any real distance from the military-industrial-complex,” she said.
09 December 2020||Washington,||Afghan civilian deaths surged during Taliban talks: report||Deaths of Afghan civilians in air strikes jumped from 2017 after the United States loosened its criteria and escalated attacks on the Taliban, according to a report on Monday. The number of civilians killed annually in U.S. and coalition air strikes soared by 330% to some 700 civilians in 2019, said Neta C. Crawford, co-director of the Costs of War Project at Brown University. The U.S. pulled back on air strikes after striking a peace deal with the Taliban in February 2020. But the Afghan forces stepped up their own as they entered talks with the rebels. While total deaths from air strikes has fallen, attacks are now coming from Kabul’s forces, and have accelerated in recent months. The Afghan Air Force, she wrote, is now “harming more Afghan civilians than at any time in its history.”
09 December 2020||Coventry,||Grandmother, 90, gets first jab of vaccine||Nurses cheered on Tuesday as a 90-year-old grandmother in Britain became the first person in the Western world to receive an approved vaccine against COVID-19, at the start of a marathon campaign health officials hope heralds a fight-back against the pandemic. Margaret Keenan, who turns 91 next week, called the jab she received at a hospital in Coventry, central England, “the best early birthday present”. “My advice to anyone offered the vaccine is to take it. If I can have it at 90 then you can have it too,” said the former jewellery shop worker who has two children and four grandchildren. “I feel so privileged to be the first person vaccinated against COVID-19.” Regulators in Britain — one of the worst-affected countries with more than 61,000 deaths from 1.6 million cases — became the first to approve the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine for general use last week. Ms. Keenan, wearing a Christmas T-shirt, received the jab in front of cameras at 0631 GMT, and received a guard of honour from clapping medics as she was wheeled back to her bed. She was followed by a man called William Shakespeare who, like the world-famous playwright, is from Warwickshire. May Parsons, a nurse originally from the Philippines who has worked for Britain's state-run National Health Service (NHS) for 23 years, called it a “huge honour” to administer the jab to Ms. Keenan. Second jab The over-80s, care home workers and at-risk health and social care staff are first in line to get the jab, on what has been dubbed “V-Day”. A second jab is required after 21 days. Prime Minister Boris Johnson, who spent days in intensive care with COVID-19 earlier this year, called it “a tremendous shot in the arm for the entire nation”. But with most people not expected to get vaccinated until early 2021, he said the public still needed to be careful to stop the spread of the virus. “We can't afford to relax,” Mr. Johnson said during a visit to a central London hospital. The U.K. has ordered 40 million doses of the jab — enough to vaccinate 20 million people — with 8,00,000 in the first batch. Up to four million doses are expected by the end of December.  Reports suggest Queen Elizabeth II, who at 94 is among those first in the line for the vaccination because of her age, could front a public awareness campaign urging compliance.
09 December 2020||Stockholm,||Amid pandemic, Nobel Prize winners receive prizes at home||Adjusting to a world where travel is hampered by the pandemic, this year’s Nobel laureates will receive their prizes at home this week following the cancellation of the traditional Stockholm and Oslo ceremonies. The awards in the six categories were announced in nearly typical fashion in October, albeit with fewer reporters in physical attendance. However, none of the winners will travel to Stockholm or Oslo to receive their diplomas and medals due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The ceremonies are traditionally held on December 10, the anniversary of the 1896 death of the prize’s founder, Swedish entrepreneur and inventor of dynamite Alfred Nobel.  According to the Nobel Foundation’s programme, France’s Emmanuelle Charpentier, the co-laureate in chemistry, had been scheduled to be first out to receive her prize in a ceremony on Monday evening with the Swedish Ambassador in Berlin. But on Monday the Foundation disclosed that literature laureate Louise Gluck had already been presented with her medal and diploma on Sunday at her home in Massachusetts. Chemistry co-laureate Jennifer Doudna will receive her honours at a ceremony in Berkeley, California, on Tuesday. The west coast U.S. state will also see economics winners Paul Milgrom and Robert Wilson pick up their awards in Palo Alto on Tuesday and physics laureate Andrea Ghez in Los Angeles on Wednesday.
09 December 2020||Washington,||Pakistan, China violate religious freedom: U.S.||The U.S. has designated Pakistan and China among eight other countries that are of particular concern for violation of religious freedom, Secretary of State Mike Pompeo has said. Pakistan and China along with Myanmar, Eritrea, Iran, Nigeria, North Korea, Saudi Arabia, Tajikistan and Turkmenistan were placed in the list for engaging in or tolerating systematic, ongoing, egregious violations of religious freedom , Mr. Pompeo said in a statement on Monday. The State Department placed the Comoros, Cuba, Nicaragua and Russia on a Special Watch List (SWL) for governments that have engaged in or tolerated severe violations of religious freedom . “Religious freedom is an unalienable right, and the bedrock upon which free societies are built and flourish. Today, the United States — a nation founded by those fleeing religious persecution, as the recent Commission on Unalienable Rights report noted — once again took action to defend those who simply want to exercise this essential freedom, Pompeo said. The U.S. also designated al-Shabaab, al-Qaida, Boko Haram, Hayat Tahrir al-Sham, the Houthis, ISIS, ISIS-Greater Sahara, ISIS-West Africa, Jamaat Nasr al-Islam wal Muslimin and the Taliban as ‘Entities of Particular Concern’.
09 December 2020||Colombo,||Sri Lanka to get $300 mn Chinese tyre factory||Sri Lanka announced on Tuesday the first large-scale Chinese investment in manufacturing in the country, a $300-million tyre factory near a strategic deep-sea port. Western nations, as well as regional power India, have long been concerned about Chinese influence in Sri Lanka through projects under its gargantuan Belt and Road infrastructure initiative. The factory will be adjacent to the Hambantota port, which was leased to a Chinese company in 2017 after Sri Lanka failed to service the $1.4-billion debt from Beijing used to build it. Generous concessions Sri Lanka’s Cabinet approved the setting up of the tyre plant under legislation that allows generous tax concessions, Media Minister Keheliya Rambukwella told reporters in Colombo. He said Shandong Haohua Tire Co Limited will export at least 80% of production, with the option of selling the rest on the local market. The announcement came just weeks after Prime Minister Mahinda Rajapaksa unveiled the country’s 2021 budget, banking on a huge Chinese real-estate development in Colombo to attract more investment and revive the island’s economy. The Colombo Port City — a $1.4 billion land reclamation project which started in 2014 — has doubled the size of Sri Lanka’s current financial district. When Mr. Rajapaksa was President between 2005-15, Colombo borrowed billions from China, accumulating a mountain of debt for a string of infrastructure projects — including an international airport dubbed “the world’s emptiest” by media for its lack of flights.
09 December 2020||PESHAWAR,||Gunmen kill TV cameraman in northwestern Pakistan||Unidentified gunmen shot and killed a journalist in the northwestern Pakistani city of Dera Ismail Khan. Gunmen riding on a motorcycle opened fire on Qais Javed near his home after midnight and fled from the scene.AP
09 December 2020||WELLINGTON,||Report finds lapses ahead of New Zealand mosque attack||There were no clear signs that an attack last year on two New Zealand mosques was imminent, but police should have done a better job vetting the lone gunman when he applied for a gun license, and intelligence agencies should have focused more on threats such as White supremacism, according to a new report.AP
09 December 2020||December 09 2020 00:00 IST,||The dangers of misplaced optimism||Preliminary evidence that India’s economy contracted by 7.5% in the second quarter of financial year 2020-21 was, as news, both good and bad. Good because that figure is far lower than the 23.9% contraction registered in the first quarter of this financial year. Bad because a 7.5% second quarter contraction is high both in itself and when compared with most similarly placed countries. The figure signals that the substantial relaxation of lockdown restrictions during that quarter has not ensured automatic recovery. The government, however, sticks with its recovery hype. It has chosen to focus on the unsurprising evidence that GDP rose sharply, by 23%, between the first quarter, when the national lockdown following the pandemic was severe, and the second when restrictions were substantially lifted. Based on that evidence, the Finance Ministry’s Monthly Economic Report , for November (https://bit.ly/3lSPeJP and https://bit.ly/2JZsLxu), speaks of a V-shaped recovery reflective of “the resilience and robustness of the Indian economy”. The danger is that such optimism would provide the justification to avoid adoption of the measures crucially needed to pull the economy out of recession. Shun fiscal conservatism Lockdowns limit production and result in a rundown of inventories. They also adversely affect employment, income and demand. When lockdowns are relaxed, therefore, production must rise, not just to meet demands backed by the available purchasing power but also to restore inventories to normal levels across the distribution chain. Once the latter is done, however, demand must return to and rise above pre-crisis levels for production to recover and grow. With the lockdown-induced adverse effects on demand of the loss of jobs and livelihoods, the increased indebtedness and the bankruptcies precipitated by the crisis bound to be felt well after restrictions are relaxed, the tasks of providing safety nets, reviving employment and spurring demand become crucial. Since the market cannot deliver on those fronts, state action facilitated by substantially enhanced expenditure is crucial. And since government revenues shrink during a recession, that expenditure has to be funded by borrowing. This is no time for fiscal conservatism, as governments across the world have come to accept. GDP movements It is in this light that the granular evidence on GDP movements must be read, with the caveat that these are preliminary estimates based on limited information . Going  by the available numbers, there are a number of features underlying aggregate performance that are suggestive of the dynamic of the post-COVID-19 economy. To start with, while the decline in private final consumption expenditure at constant prices, which accounts for 56% of GDP, has come down from minus 27% in the first quarter (relative to the corresponding quarter of the previous year) to minus 11% in the second, it still remains high. Though there are signs of a short-run recovery in private consumption demand with the lifting of lockdowns, net incomes and consumer confidence are not at levels that can even restore last year’s levels. Second, as is to be expected, with production restraints relaxed, depleted stocks are being replenished. The direction of changes in stock levels has reversed, with a fall of 21% in the first quarter turning into an increase in stocking of 6.3% in the second quarter. Third, however, these signals from the demand side have not been adequate to spur an investment revival. While the decline in fixed capital formation has fallen from a high minus 47% in the first quarter to minus 7% in the second, investment is still falling year-on-year. These are all signs of an economy that is severely demand constrained, requiring a significant step up in government expenditure. Impact on States However, the government, in Delhi, has not just chosen to hold back on its own spending but is adopting a stance that would squeeze expenditure at the State level as well. To start at the central level, figures from the Office of the Controller General of Accounts (https://bit.ly/3lTq3Xz) relating to the first seven months of 2020-21 (April to October) indicate that, over this crucial period, the total expenditure of the central government stood at 55% of what was provided for in the Budget for 2020-21, which too was woefully inadequate even for normal times. In fact, in a non-COVID-19 year, 2019-20, the ratio of actual spending by the central government over April-October relative to that budgeted figure was a higher 59%. The shortfall in spending was sharper in the case of capital expenditure, with 48% of that budgeted being spent over April to October. The corresponding figure for 2019-20 was 60%. This refers to the Centre’s own expenditures. Meanwhile, with Goods and Services Tax (GST) revenues having fallen from their lower-than-expected levels during the COVID-19 months, the States have been cash-strapped. Yet, the government has decided not to compensate them for the shortfall, as promised under the GST regime, on the grounds that only a part of the shortfall was due to the shift to the new regime, with the rest being the result of an “Act of God” that the Centre cannot be held responsible for. States have been left to fend for themselves by going to market and borrowing at high interest rates, which they would find difficult to cover. Needless to say, as a consequence, State spending has also been curtailed. Allocations for welfare The net result of this voluntary and enforced fiscal conservatism in the middle of a pandemic, which calls for hugely enhanced spending, is visible in the GDP figures. Government Final Consumption Expenditure, which rose by 10% in the first half of 2019-20, relative to the corresponding period of the previous year, declined by 4% in the first half of 2020-21, when it should have been rising. This is because, after a half-hearted ‘stimulus’ in the first quarter, that raised government consumption expenditure by a modest 16%, that expenditure fell by as much as 22% in the second quarter. This trend suggests that allocations for welfare expenditures — ranging from subsidised food to minimal guaranteed employment — needed to support those whose livelihoods have been devastated by the pandemic, would be reduced over time. As collateral damage, this frugality in a time of crisis is likely to prolong the recession, which could intensify as stocks are replenished and demand from those whom the government no longer supports, despite loss of earning and heightened indebtedness, shrinks. A possible explanation The rationale that underlies this privileging of fiscal conservatism over growth and, more importantly welfare, is nowhere explained. But there are signs of where it possibly comes from. This is a government that chose to push through regressive labour codes and Farm Bills in the midst of a pandemic. It is a government which sees not an opportunity to tax when incomes and wealth of the super rich explode during pandemic times, but a cause to celebrate India’s ability to ‘ease’ the doing of business and generate its own billionaires. It is, in sum, unabashedly neoliberal, possibly in the mistaken belief that, COVID-19 notwithstanding, such ‘reform’ would deliver a ‘robust’ and ‘resilient’ economy. That possibly explains the optimism that a V-shaped recovery is imminent, and that optimism, in turn, would justify the view that fiscal conservatism pays. It does not, as time would tell. C.P. Chandrasekhar is former Professor at the Centre for Economic Studies and Planning, Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi
09 December 2020||December 09 2020 00:00 IST,||The Marghazi festival in your living room||The COVID-19 pandemic has changed the performing arts in a significant way. For nearly a year, performing artistes have not been able to get on stage. This is the situation across the world affecting every country, social class, and artistic genre. In this inter-connected world, one of the first reactions of performing artistes to the situation was to get online immediately. Carnatic musicians were no exception to this trend. Most performers began to prepare to give online concerts soon after the lockdown was announced. Initially they sang or played instruments by themselves, and then, subsequently, when there were relaxations in movement, they began singing or playing with accompanying artistes while practising social distancing. Most of these digital concerts have been available for free to everyone; only a few have been paid events. So, more than being a source of revenue for the artistes, these concerts have served to keep the artistes visible and their names fresh in everyone’s minds. Virtual concerts of the past What does it mean to give a virtual concert? I have sung several virtual concerts in the past, except they were just not called that. Take an All India Radio (AIR) recording, for instance. The composition was sung inside the studio with no audience. I had the difficult task of later listening to the broadcast of my recording in the presence of my parents and my Guru, and suffering through those cringeworthy moments of slips, mistakes and apaswarams . On many occasions, the concert was broadcast live even as I was singing in the studio. So, technically in today’s terms, those were virtual audio concerts. Similarly consider a Doordarshan (DD) recording. Again, there was no audience in the studio. In short, it was a virtual concert recorded and telecast later. The only difference was that DD gave us less time than AIR. If AIR allotted 60-75 minutes for a concert, DD would give us 25-35 minutes. Editing of the recordings was minimal. We did have the option of singing something again if we were not satisfied, but we hardly did that. Once in a while, we stopped recording for other reasons. For instance, once during a recording, I started singing a song, but was asked to stop immediately. This was because the name of a caste was mentioned in the lyrics. It was election time and the radio was not allowed to broadcast those songs. I finally ended up singing something else. Commercial audio albums changed my perspective on virtual concerts. I would spend two days in a recording studio to provide 60 minutes of content. The structure that I followed for these recordings was not any different from what I followed for radio or television. Newer technologies meant more editing, voice mixing, pitch corrections, etc. The end result was a more polished, stylish version that worked very well for repeated listening at a higher sound quality. What I sang in those concerts was a capsule version of live performances, like a T20 version of a Test match. I sang compositions, alapana, neraval, kalpanaswaram , and even a ragam tanam pallavi , condensing and compressing these to whatever time was available. It was like zipping and archiving a file and then unzipping the same for a live concert later. While recording virtual concerts today, I find myself re-experiencing the old AIR/DD formats — 90 minutes, in camera, sung and recorded in one ‘take’, with hardly any editing. Of course, the audio and video quality have improved significantly compared to the old days. The lockdown period was not easy for artistes. Every month, like every other artiste in the world, I was given hope that I would be back on stage. That did not happen. Things have improved since, but it will take time. Being a positive person, I believe things will get back to normal soon. My initial apprehension of singing virtual concerts has changed over the last few months. Art that is accessible to all Meanwhile, the Carnatic music world as we know it has been active online. This has created a lot of content. Musicians have been busy singing and playing and creating music that is accessible to all. There are innovative ventures that take advantage of technology and present music in an interesting manner. Everyone who is online can experience and enjoy these wonderful artists. Take my event, Tamizhum Naanum, for instance. It is a virtual event this year. The sponsor and the event manager have done a fantastic job of ensuring that it is free and available for everyone to view online. Over the last several months, I have uploaded videos of my live concerts from the past. Thanks to the archiving that my wife Aarthi has been doing, it was possible for me to upload more than 150 videos on to my YouTube channel. Thus, the lockdown also gave us an opportunity to archive older content. This time has also been challenging for my accompanying artistes. They have kept themselves motivated by playing every day. They are highly conscientious. They set high standards for themselves and strive continuously to maintain those standards. Through these tough times, we have chatted frequently sharing thoughts and ideas to keep us going. Music teachers, too, have been busy. As children have not been able to go to school, they have online music classes. Even as they are learning, they are performing, and doing very well. The sheer volume of quality video forwards that I receive everyday shows the talent that is out there. It is endearing to see children get this attention. As a result of all these initiatives and new ways of thinking and performing in the online space, the old days of the patron/promoter deciding who should be featured has become redundant. There is a democratic level playing field on the digital platform for everyone to explore and experience. For the last seven-eight months, I have sat at home singing concerts every day. I am always conscious of an audience. I am very happy even if one person is listening to me sing. I generally look out for reactions from my accompanists as well as working technicians in the absence of an audience. At home, Aarthi stands outside and helps me when I pause to refer to the lyrics of a song that I have forgotten. Preparing song lists, getting ready, wearing concert costumes, tuning the tambura, etc. give me an experience that is almost like a kutchery . It is not the same as performing live, but I have been enjoying the experience and I hope you, the audience, will too from your homes. Sanjay Subrahmanyan is a Carnatic vocalist
09 December 2020||December 09 2020 00:00 IST,||In Stanford ranking, hope for Indian science||It would be quite relevant to recollect these words now: ‘India is at the origin of everything; intellectually, religiously or politically where even the Greek heritage seems pale in comparison’. Ancient India has made contributions to several complex and present-day scientific achievements. But these words spell some hope as far as the apparent dip in the performance of Indian scientists in the contemporary world is concerned. If one is to look at a new report, by Stanford University, U.S. on the world ranking of scientists it paints a positive picture and shows there are definite signs of Indian scientists regaining lost ground. A comprehensive database Scientists at Stanford University, led by John Ioannidis, have created a database of 1,59,683 (top 2%) scientists of the world (https://bit.ly/2JAQBzY), based on standard indicators such as information on citations, h-Index, co-authorship and a composite indicator. This database has largely depended on the citation index provided by resource databases such as Scopus and Web of Science. It is based on the number of research papers published, the number of times the author has been cited and the h-index, which is a measure of the impact of an author’s work and other people’s research. There is no other database that systematically ranks all the scientists across the world with such accuracy and depth. From India, 1,594 Indians have made it to the list of top 2% scientists in the world. An appraisal of the report, which includes disciplines of science, technology, medicine and allied areas, shows certain significant trends. Scientists from government-supported institutions have shown supremacy in the disciplines of science and technology, whereas scientists from private institutions find more place in the disciplines of medicine and allied areas. An analysis of the report shows that there is an equitable distribution of scientists working in institutions in urban and rural areas. In certain disciplines, a large number of scientists have secured a place in the list, whereas in some disciplines, only one scientist could be included. Government institutes score From the entire list of disciplines, one finds that more than four-fifths of the scientists are from government-supported institutions that include institutions of national importance, central universities, State universities, and government-funded research institutions. Among the institutions of national importance, several scientists from the Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru, the Indian Statistical Institute, Kolkata, and the Indian Institutes of Technology and the National Institutes of Technology have made it to the top. The University of Delhi and the University of Hyderabad find inclusion. In the disciplines of science and technology, the share of scientists from government-supported institutions, especially the institutions of national importance, is very high as they feature in most of the places in the list. The conclusion is that the listings point to the outcome of freedom, flexibility and facilitation to the faculty in these institutions to carry out research on any relevant topic. The practices of peer review, motivation to participate in international seminars, and incentivisation packages offered in these institutions are sure to have had a positive impact in this connection. Outside the urban hub A number of scientists from private colleges and other institutions even from the remote areas have managed to find a place in the list. This is noted in a number of conventional and modern disciplines, thereby showing the reach and the extent of the performance of these scientists beyond the centres of excellence. One also finds several institutions located in remote areas — much away from the ‘urban hubs of education’ — being listed. It highlights the professional excellence and equitable sharing of excellence in the rural and urban settings. The reading of this is that this could act as a great incentive to many rising scientists from the rural areas.  Scientists working in non-governmental organisations, and private institutions have also made it to the list consisting of science, technology and medicine. In disciplines such as general and internal medicine, anatomy, ophthalmology and optometry, nutrition and dietetics, etc., scientists from private institutions find mention. This points to the need for reorienting and taking a relook at the investment in research and development by government medical institutions. The Medical Council of India, the Pharmacy Council of India and other regulatory institutions would need to review their guidance and support mechanisms for enhanced research and development. In disciplines such as applied physics, artificial intelligence and image processing, mechanical engineering and transportation, organic chemistry and polymers, one finds more than 50 but less than 100 scientists in the list. It is a matter of great pride that so many Indian scientists from these disciplines have received international acclaim and recognition which is a motivating factor for a number of young scientists. At the same time, it is disappointing to note that only a few scientists in disciplines such as anaesthesiology, applied mathematics, emergency and critical care, genetics and heredity and geology have made the grade. It is a signal to these scientists to work harder, with purpose, and to demonstrate professional excellence. Drawing inputs from the National Education Policy, the Government of India has proposed the setting up of a National Research Foundation, or NRF. India invests less than 1% of its GDP in research and innovation. Relevance of the NRF The proposal to set up an NRF is aimed at boosting research and innovation in all higher education institutions in the country. If it sees the light of day, it would boost the overall research ecosystem in the country by focusing and extending support to take up research and development in thrust areas relevant to India’s national priorities. As in the proposal, the NRF will have four major divisions such as sciences, technology, social sciences, and arts and humanities. Additional divisions such as agriculture, environment, etc. could be added by the governing board of the NRF. The NRF paves the way for a self-reliant India while advocating merit-based but equitable peer-reviewed research funding, an incentivisation of research, and to usher in a new culture of research and development in the country. Despite certain limitations, the announcement of the NEP and the Atma Nirbhar Bharat Abhiyan may enable the country to redraw the contours of research beyond the conventional disciplines. The report by Stanford University provides the impetus to Indian scientists to reach international standards. K. Gireesan is Associate Professor, Rajiv Gandhi National Institute of Youth Development (RGNIYD), Sriperumbudur, Tamil Nadu. Jos Chathukulam is Director, Centre for Rural Management (CRM), Kottayam, Kerala
09 December 2020||December 09 2020 00:00 IST,||The rise of the AI economy||The pandemic has taught us many lessons and opened our minds to new ways of doing things, including understanding the potential of technologies such as artificial intelligence (AI) and machine learning (ML). AI/ML models and algorithms have supplemented the work of healthcare professionals, medical researchers, public health authorities and local administrations in monitoring and predicting trends. Lockdowns have led to a boom in Internet consumption. According to the Department of Telecommunications, Internet consumption in India rose by 13% after the lockdown was announced. Higher consumption has generated goldmines of user data that online businesses can harness. COVID-19 has created an AI moment that India can ill afford to miss. India’s rising eminence in AI We have made significant progress in AI capability-building in the past few years through government initiatives and private sector investments. NITI Aayog’s national strategy for AI envisages ‘AI for all’ for inclusive growth, and identifies healthcare, agriculture, education, smart cities and infrastructure, and smart mobility and transportation as focus areas for AI-led solutions for social impact. The Telangana, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra governments, among others, have announced policies and strategies for AI adoption. Technology companies have established AI centres of excellence to create solutions for global clients. India has a thriving AI start-up ecosystem with cutting-edge solutions being developed in areas such as cancer screening, smart farming and conversational AI for the use of enterprises. Our talent pool in AI/ML is fast growing, with over 5,00,000 people working on these technologies at present. India is thus poised to become the AI powerhouse of the world. And with that, there is a potential of the rise of an AI economy in the country. Data and AI services are expected to help boost India’s economic growth in a big way. Nasscom believes that data and AI will contribute $450 billion-$500 billion to India’s GDP by 2025, which is around 10% of the government’s aspiration of a $5 trillion economy. The thrust will come from three key segments: consumer goods and retail, agriculture, and banking and insurance. As more opportunities are created, we can expect a net positive effect on employment generation. The growing AI economy is estimated to create over 20 million technical roles alone. AI can create not just niche solutions to specific problems that banks and other service providers are deploying, such as speeding up loan application processing or improving customer service; it can also provide solutions for better governance and social impact. For example, during the lockdown, the Telangana police used AI-enabled automated number plate recognition software to catch violations. The pandemic has thus provided technology companies in the country a great opportunity to test their own capabilities to create solutions for fast evolving, real-world situations. We are now better prepared for an AI-led future in which we not just solve business problems but also find answers to complex social issues. Top priorities for India The stakes are high for India. We need to speed up our readiness to seize the opportunities that the future presents. Three areas need our attention. The first is talent development. No meaningful conversation on AI preparedness can take place unless we are able to meet the rising demand with the right talent. In 2019, we nearly doubled our AI workforce to 72,000 from 40,000 the year before. However, the demand continues to outpace the supply. That means our efforts to develop talent must pick up speed. The second area is policies around data usage, governance and security. Without data, there cannot be AI. However, we need a balanced approach in the way we harness and utilise data. We need a robust legal framework that governs data and serves as the base for the ethical use of AI. Third, though the use of digital technologies has gone up, the level of digitisation continues to be low. This poses a big challenge for organisations in finding the right amount of training data to run AI/ML algorithms, which in turn affects the accuracy of the results. Then there is the problem of availability of clean datasets. Organisations need to invest in data management frameworks that will clean their data before they are analysed, thus vastly improving the outcomes of AI models. The future for AI looks promising but to convert the potential into reality, India will need better strategies around talent development, stronger policies for data usage and governance, and more investments in creating a technology infrastructure that can truly leverage AI. Keshav Murugesh is Group CEO, WNS Global Services, and former chairman of Nasscom
09 December 2020||December 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Lessons from Hyderabad||The Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation election was a microcosm of Indian electoral politics. One can draw several important lessons from it. It showed that divisive politics works but also has its limitations. The Bharatiya Janata Party’s election rhetoric harped repeatedly on presumed past Hindu grievances rather than on local issues in an attempt to polarise the city’s population which is one-third Muslim. Changing Hyderabad’s name to Bhagyanagar and transforming Nizami culture, both suggestions emphasised by some of the BJP’s tallest leaders demonstrating their antipathy towards the prominence of Indo-Muslim culture in the city’s past, were more significant themes in the BJP’s campaign than developmental issues. Divisive themes The popularity of the All India Majlis-e-Ittehadul Muslimeen (AIMIM) in the Old City provided fodder for communal polarisation. However, there is a difference between the BJP and the AIMIM. In the final analysis, AIMIM leader Asaddudin Owaisi is a politician whose primary aim is to undercut the “secular” parties thus benefiting the BJP. He is an insignificant player in national politics attempting to exploit Muslims’ sense of grievance to boost his image as their sole spokesman and not to capture national power, which is far beyond his grasp. On the other hand, the BJP is a national party in power at the Centre and in several States, and the primary political formation in the country. It ill behoves a party that has national stature to adopt polarising tactics instead of building bridges between communities on the basis of “ Sabka Saath, Sabka Vikas, Sabka Vishwas ” to win a municipal election. A national ruling party should emphasise good governance and communal harmony and not utilise divisive themes for electoral gain. The Hyderabad election also demonstrated the limits of divisive politics. The BJP’s creditable performance was due in substantial part to the inadequacies of the Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) government and the hubris of the family-dominated party. The flood-hit areas in Hyderabad voted massively against the TRS expressing their disappointment with the relief measures undertaken by the government. However, despite its shortcomings and the polarising rhetoric of the BJP, TRS emerged as the single largest party. The BJP was unable to capture power despite the evident anti-incumbency trend. Beyond resuscitation The election also demonstrated the total irrelevance of the Congress in Indian politics. It confirmed the lesson from Bihar where the Congress by its miserable showing prevented the Mahagathbandhan from gaining a majority. It is time we rid ourselves of the fiction that the Congress is a national party or even a living political organism. Dominated by a dynasty surrounded by sycophants without any commitment to ideology or principle and bereft of committed cadres, it is beyond resuscitation. The so-called national leadership has become a millstone around the necks of those State Congress parties that still retain a degree of dynamism. The ‘high command’ of the Congress is a deadweight dragging down the better functioning State parties like those in Kerala and Punjab. It was the Kerala Congress that came to then Congress President Rahul Gandhi’s rescue in 2019 by offering him the Wayanad seat when it became apparent that he was in danger of losing Amethi. The State party in Kerala performed well despite, and not because of, the ‘high command’. The State parties will be far more successful if they cut their ties with the national leadership and transform themselves into regional formations rooted, like the Trinamool Congress, in their local environments and committed to pluralism. Only such parties can challenge and preempt the BJP’s dominance in their States. As long as the moribund Congress ‘high command’ exists, it will continue to drive into oblivion even those State parties that have signs of life left in them. It is time it was given a decent burial. Mohammed Ayoob is University Distinguished Professor Emeritus of International Relations, Michigan State University
09 December 2020||December 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Fresh vista||Laying the foundation for a new parliament building for India should be a celebratory occasion, one that every citizen would proudly claim as another edifice of a thriving democracy. It is an opportunity for accord, reflecting a pluralistic, progressive ethos. Yet, the ceremony is now poised to take place under the shadow of litigation, with the Supreme Court allowing the event to be held but temporarily restraining the central government from making site alterations in the form of additions and demolitions of structures and continued removal of trees. The new building, which is part of the Narendra Modi government’s ambitious plan to modify the Central Vista skyline of Lutyens’ Delhi, will cost an estimated Rs. 971 crore and be able to accommodate a much larger number of MPs, 888 in the Lok Sabha and 384 in the Rajya Sabha. Just weeks ago, the Housing and Urban Affairs Ministry said the overall cost of redevelopment of the Central Vista had not been calculated, but the plan is estimated to run into thousands of crores, involving, among other things, a new Central Secretariat and the offices and residences of the Vice-President and Prime Minister. An epochal project, timed for completion ahead of the 75th anniversary of Independence in 2022, it presents a rare moment to involve citizens and build a consensus. But the government is now pressing ahead at a cheerless time when the country remains dismayed over a slowing economy and the double blow of the COVID-19 pandemic. It is reasonable to assume that even with a strong revival of the economy in a post-vaccine era, the debilitation cannot be easily overcome. The government’s interventions so far have largely been to encourage private consumption and modest revival of businesses, while its own consumption expenditure, during the first half of the year, has been below that of the corresponding period in the previous year. This in effect ensured the persistence of significant GDP contraction. Even on the question of a free COVID-19 vaccine, the government has been prevaricating, with no assurance of universal vaccination. With concerns over allocation of resources, it cannot be anyone’s case that shining new Central Vista structures will add to the lustre of an Independence jubilee. There are also indications that the Centre’s PWD is trying to modify the overall redevelopment plan on the go, introducing changes piecemeal after getting approvals, which the Expert Appraisal Committee has frowned upon. In a year of unprecedented distress, therefore, what is seen as grand may appear grandiose to stricken citizens, who need every rupee to stabilise their lives. They would be justified in asking the government why the house cannot be beautified after essential repairs have been made to render it safe. The weakest link, exposed by the pandemic, is health care, and the 75th anniversary should be an occasion to guarantee that. A new parliament could then be built to celebrate such an achievement.
09 December 2020||December 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Constant vigilance||The arrest of five terror suspects in Delhi — two of whom were allegedly involved in the murder of Shaurya Chakra awardee Balwinder Singh in Punjab in October — has turned the spotlight on the embers of the long dead and buried Khalistan movement. The Delhi police have claimed that Pakistan’s Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) is seeking yet again to link up terror outfits in Kashmir with pro-Khalistan activists; three of the others arrested were from Kashmir. While these claims need to be investigated before any conclusion can be made about the presence of a link, the central government should not take the threat lightly. The Khalistan movement has long become moribund with the neutralisation of the threat and the ending of the Punjab insurgency in the early 1990s. The movement has lost support from the Sikh community within India and the Sikh diaspora across the world. The killing of Balwinder Singh is one of a few isolated and sporadic incidents that have occurred in the last decade but attempts to revive the movement from fringe groups have failed. There is also no truth in the allegation that there are pro-Khalistani sections as part of the large-scale protests led by farmers in Punjab. The irrelevance of the Khalistan movement notwithstanding, agencies such as the ISI have not stopped trying to foment such violence, either directly by funding fringe sections or by linking them with terror groups in Kashmir. Security agencies must therefore remain vigilant. Even if the Khalistan movement has been interred, the threat of terror in Kashmir remains well and truly active. Terror incidents and fatalities since the revoking of special status and statehood for Jammu & Kashmir in the last year have remained high. Data from the terrorism monitoring portal, satp.org, show that there were 382 incidents related to terrorism and 302 fatalities in 2020 so far in J&K compared to 369 and 283 in 2019, respectively. While many of these incidents have occurred due to acts of terror emanating from within the Union Territory, infiltration of terrorists from Pakistan continues apace as well, which is also correlated with the increased ceasefire violations at both the Line of Control and the International Border. The lull in terror activities and the relative peace in the Valley from 2011 to 2015 are now a thing of the past and renewed violence besides disaffection have become a new normal, even if they have not reached the high levels of the 1990s and the early 2000s. The persisting disaffection in the Valley can only be addressed by a new political process that seeks to review the unilateral changes made to the region’s status and restores its full statehood.
09 December 2020||December 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Punjab Government and reforms||The following Press Communique is issued by the Punjab Government [Lahore, December 7]: - In a recent statement published in newspapers Col. Wedgwood has written: “I have seen nothing worse than the way in which the Punjab Government has quite recently destroyed the Government of India Act so far as that province is concerned. They have so gerrymandered the franchise and constituencies that they themselves boast that the nationalists can only elect seven out of seventy supposed duly elected members.” This statement is entirely unfounded and the Government cannot let it pass unchallenged. The system on which elections have proceeded was outlined by the Southborough Committee and rules followed which were laid down by Parliament after consultation with the Government of India and the Punjab Government. These rules secure a system of elections far more liberal than that suggested by Lord Southborough’s Committee and there is nothing in them that can be described as gerrymandering. To take one instance alone the Committee would have enfranchised about 237,000 persons. The existing rules enfranchise over half a million. The Government have no idea as to the origin of the legislation — that it has boasted that the nationalists can only elect seven out of seventy elected members.
09 December 2020||December 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Govt. denies map theft||Angry members in the Lok Sabha to-day [New Delhi, December 8] clashed among themselves and with the Speaker while expressing dissatisfaction at the Government’s assurance that no classified maps were missing from the Surveyor-General’s Office in Shillong, Assam. The House was discussing a calling attention notice on “the reported escape of two Pakistani women working in Shillong to East Pakistan with some important documents including those on the McMahon Line”. The calling attention notice was table by Prof. Hem Barua (P.S.P.), Mr. K.K. Chatterjee, Mr. A.C. George (both Cong.-R), Mr. K.L. Gupta (J.S.) and Mr. N.P. Naidu (Cong.-O). Mr. Mirdha announced that the Surveyor-General of India had appointed a high power committee to inquire into the conduct of Maj. Kohli, an officer in the Surveyor-General’s Office in Shillong, who is alleged to have spent the night of November 21, in his office chamber with two women.
09 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Telcos urge govt. to spell out 5G policy||Telecom industry leaders on Tuesday urged the Centre to spell out the policy framework and standards that would enable an expeditious roll-out of 5G technology in the country and help ensure the success of the ‘Digital India’ initiative. Cautioning against adopting India-specific standards on 5G, Bharti Airtel’s India and South Asia CEO Gopal Vittal told participants at the India Mobile Congress 2020 that the country risked isolating itself from the larger world of communications. ‘Existential threat’ “There is sometimes talk of India having its own 5G standards. This is an existential threat which could lock India out of a global ecosystem and slow down the pace of innovation. We would have let our citizens down if you allow that to happen,” Mr. Vittal asserted.  Jio’s 5G launch Speaking earlier at the inaugural session, attended by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Communications and IT minister Ravi Shankar Prasad, Reliance Industries Chairman Mukesh Ambani also pressed for policy measures to expedite the early roll-out of 5G and to ensure access to affordable smartphones to 300 million mobile subscribers “trapped in the 2G era”. Reliance Jio, he hinted, was eyeing introduction of its 5G services “powered by indigenously developed network, hardware and technology components” in the second half of 2021. In his address, Mr. Vittal asserted that when it concerned technology, standards determined an ecosystem. Citing the case of GSM and CDMA technologies, he said while CDMA was a better technology, GSM had won as it had gained wider acceptance with more companies in the world embracing it. “So, GSM won because it became part of the global ecosystem, and CDMA died,” he added. “We have to set aside our differences and be part of one: the private sector — telcos, equipment players, device players, manufacturing companies, IT companies, everyone can benefit as the growth of technology makes us all more productive. So, we should collectively sign on to create a 5G ecosystem,” Mr. Vittal said. Also, to deliver the vision of Digital India, there was a need for enabling policies that kept the access to technology affordable, he said. “If we as a country can embrace global standards, create an open ecosystem for India and leverage this to re-imagine our businesses by having a single and predictable policy environment, the entrepreneurial energy of India will develop digital India,” Mr. Vittal added.
09 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Retail vehicle sales fell 19.3% in Nov.||Total retail vehicle sales in November fell 19.3% from a year earlier to just over 18.27 lakh vehicles, data from the Federation of Automobile Dealers Associations (FADA) showed on Tuesday. Two-wheeler and commercial vehicle sales nosedived 21.4% and 31.2%, respectively, last month. Passenger vehicles (PVs), however, bucked the trend rising 4.17% to 2.91 lakh units on the back of festival season purchases.  FADA also released separate data for comparative 42-day festive period sales between 2020 and 2019. In this set of figures, passenger vehicle sales grew 13.6% to more than 4.31 lakh vehicles, compared with the festive period sales last year, while two-wheeler festive sales declined 6.31% to about 19 lakh units in the same period. In November,  tractor sales continued to grow, rising 8.47% to 49,313 units over the same month in 2019. Sales of two-wheelers last month fell to just over 14.13 lakh units from 17.98 lakh units. Commercial vehicle sales stood at 50,113 units as against 72, 863 units in the year-earlier month. On the outlook for the future, FADA said that with the festive season now over and heavy rains in certain parts of the country leading to crop damage, demand revival would depend only on exciting year-end schemes. Supply chain issues “If the supply-chain issues in the PV segment are controlled, we may see continued growth in December,” the association said. FADA President Vinkesh Gulati said while registrations during Navratri were tepid, people came out in good numbers to purchase vehicles in the Dhanteras-Diwali period. “New launches and especially compact SUVs continued to show good demand,” he added.
09 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Centre unveils fourth bid to fully privatise Pawan Hans||The Central government on Tuesday launched its fourth attempt to fully privatise state-owned helicopter company, Pawan Hans India Limited. On offer is the entire 51% stake of the Government of India in Pawan Hans, along with the transfer of management control as well as 49% of ONGC’s entire share. The last date for submission of bids is January 5, and the date for intimation of the shortlisted bidders is set for February 17. As per the eligibility criteria, the minimum net worth of interested bidders should be Rs. 300 crore. The amount had already seen reduction from Rs. 500 crore initially to Rs. 350 crore in the last sell-off attempt in July 2019. The other sore point for proposals in the earlier bid was the tax liabilities and dues of Pawan Hans coming to nearly Rs. 650 crore. The government has offered to indemnify the winning entity by up to 51% of dues once they are fixed by various courts where different arbitration cases are pending.
09 December 2020||MUMBAI,||Manufacturing, services lead recovery: SBI||Recovery in gross domestic product (GDP) has been led by manufacturing and the largest components of the services sector such as trade, hotels, transport and communication, the economic research department of State Bank of India (SBI) said in a report. The nominal GDP loss narrowed to Rs. 2 lakh crore in Q2 FY21, fromRs. 11.1 lakh crore in Q1, the department said in its report titled ‘Six months after unlock’. Manufacturing had minimised its losses by 91% from Q1, the services sector by 43% andthe trade sub-segment by 80%,it said. “This is quite obvious given the movement of freight traffic in Q2,” said Soumya Kanti Ghosh, group chief economic adviser, SBI. “During November, the business activity index showed persistent modest improvement in economic momentum,” he added. Weekly food arrival data for November showed an increase in the arrival of cereals and vegetables to some extent but pulses and fruits saw declines after recording a modest improvement in October. In November, GST revenue was 1.4% higher than the year-earlier period. “The positive trend, which started from September, has sustained,” it said. However, States’ market borrowings had risen 46% compared with the year-earlier period, indicating the persisting stress in their revenue, it said. “India’s agri and metal exports have bucked the trend and stayed upbeat. Pharma exports have also stayed positive. Meanwhile, imports have shown a broad-based decline,” it added. Stating that India had now accumulated huge foreign exchange reserves, it said excluding gold, India now had the fourth largest foreign currency reserves. SBI’s research team also mentioned the possibility of a ‘mild’ second COVID-19 wave in January, February.
09 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Stakeholders must unite for timely 5G roll-out, says Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi told telecom sector leaders that all stakeholders need to work together to ensure timely roll-out of 5G technology as well as make India a global hub for telecom equipment, design, development and manufacturing. “The future holds great potential with the rapid technology progress,” said Mr. Modi while addressing a virtual gathering at the inauguration of India Mobile Congress 2020 “We need to work together to ensure the timely roll-out of 5G to leapfrog into the future and empower millions of Indians,” he added. Mr. Modi also pointed out that with technological upgradation, there was a culture of replacing handsets and gadgets frequently, and asked the industry to look at forming a task force to think of better ways of handling electronic waste. In his address, Minister for Communications and IT Ravi Shankar Prasad urged innovators and manufacturers to tap the enabling atmosphere in India, stating that while foreign capital and innovation was welcome, safety and security of the nation was also important. FDI rises 7% He disclosed that the communication and IT sectors had witnessed a 7% growth in FDI even in midst of the pandemic. “We are not against FDI. “We are not against foreign innovative mind. They are most welcome. Foreign capital is welcome, foreign innovation is welcome, but we are equally keen that safety and security of the country are also important,” said Mr. Prasad. He added that digital technology had to be secure so that vested interests and extremists were not able to abuse it. “We are all open for new technology, new innovation, be it artificial intelligence, IoT, machine learning, all have enough opportunity in India,” the Minister said. Centre for AI “We are very particular that India should become a big centre for artificial intelligence. But new technology should lead to empowerment of common people,” he added. “And, most important, AI should not become the monopoly of a few and should not become an instrument of weaponisation,” Mr. Prasad stressed. He added, “We are also very keen that India must be 5G-ready and for that, test beds have been created, those provisions will also be unfolded further.”
09 December 2020||Chennai,||‘Murugappa Group is mentoring only sons’||Valli Arunachalam, the elder daughter of the late M.V. Murugappan, has termed the restructuring exercise at the Murugappa Group ‘unfortunate’ as it failed to keep pace with time in an era when women are an integral part of the workforce. “All major studies have shown significant economic benefits of having women in leadership positions and it is rather shocking that the Murugappa Group continues to marginalise daughters and mentors only sons for leadership roles,” Ms. Arunachalam said. Ms. Arunachalam, along with her sister, holds about 8.21% stake inherited from their late father in the Rs. 38,105-crore Chennai-based group. “It is very unfortunate that our family branch was not even contacted by the family about restructuring and we learnt about it from the media,” she said, adding that the family branches included in the restructuring were represented by sons. “We don’t form part of the next generation of the Murugappa family. We are able individuals with strong professional qualification and yet we are being kept out of the business and our interests are being disregarded once again,” she said. Asked whether any family member had shown interest in buying out their stake, Ms. Arunachalam said that she made every effort to get the matter settled amicably. However, it was turned down by the Murugappa Group.
09 December 2020||New Delhi,||MTNL plans Rs. 2,138 cr. bond issuance||State-owned MTNL on Tuesday said it will seek shareholders’ nod to raise Rs. 2,138.6 crore via sovereign-guarantee bonds. The Centre allowed MTNL to raise up to Rs. 6,500 crore for a tenure of 10 years through sovereign guarantee bonds as part of its revival package. The company, which had already raised Rs. 4,361.4 crore under the package on October 12, will seek shareholders’ nod at its annual general meeting scheduled for December 31.  MTNL will also seek shareholders’ approval for the appointment of P. K. Purwar as CMD.
09 December 2020||Chennai,||TVS Srichakra plans Rs. 1,000 cr. for expansion||TVS Srichakra Ltd., a manufacturer of two-and-three wheeler and off-highway tyres, will invest Rs. 1,000 crore in expanding production capacity of radial tyres and other premium products, according to the company. The investment, when fully made in Madurai and Pantnagar plants, would result in an increase in two-and-three wheeler tyre capacity by 25-30% and doubling of off-highway tyre capacity. This investment, spread across three years, would be funded by a mix of debt and internal accruals. The expansion program will focus on setting up additional capacities in this space to cater to growing demand of both domestic and global markets. “We are further strengthening our manufacturing capabilities to cater to the growing demands in India and abroad,” said S. Ravichandran, director, TVS Srichakra Ltd.
09 December 2020||HYDERABAD,||‘Belgium ideal to partner with for vaccines’||Belgium could emerge as the ideal partner for vaccine makers in India as they gear up to reach COVID-19 vaccines to different markets across the globe, said speakers at a webinar organised by the Consulate General of Belgium, Chennai, in partnership with CII and others. Consul General of Belgium in Chennai Mark Van de Vreken said such partnerships would help diversify the bilateral trade between the two countries, which now is heavily oriented towards gems and jewellery. Pankaj Bhatnagar, acting team lead — National Public Health Surveillance project, WHO Country Office for India, said with logistics related to vaccines and safety surveillance set to be big challenges, systems need to be geared up to address them. Astra Zeneca MD Gagan Singh said India has lots to offer in a partnership with Belgium beyond vaccines.
09 December 2020||Sydney,||Australia holds off Kohli, prevents clean sweep||The Australian bowlers held their nerve to come up trumps against the genius of Virat Kohli, stalling an Indian clean sweep with a 12-run victory in the third and final T20 International here on Tuesday. End of winning streak While India won the T20I series 2-1, it was overall an even result for the teams having won three white-ball games each. Tuesday’s loss ended India’s 10-match winning streak in the format. Kohli cashed in on four reprieves to smash his way to 85 off 61 balls, but India could only reach 174 for seven in pursuit of 187. Kohli’s effort ended when a slash-drive off Andrew Tye in the penultimate over was plucked inches off the ground by Daniel Sams. In the previous over, Hardik Pandya’s swagger was checked by Adam Zampa, his leg-break turning enough to force the ‘Baroda Bomber’ to hit one against the turn and be caught at short third-man. Hardik was adjudged Player-of-the-Series for his heroics with the bat. While he hit four fours and three sixes, Kohli did lead a charmed life as Steve Smith missed a dolly at deep mid-wicket fence when he gave Maxwell the charge. Then Sean Abbott failed to get his hands on a tough return catch while another slipped through Tye’s palms. Towards the fag end, Matthew Wade missed an easy stumping. The India captain scored his third half-century of the tour and an effortless six off Abbott after the completion of the milestone brought much-needed relief to the Indian dug-out. This was after Man-of-the-Match Mitchell Swepson’s (3/23) innocuous leg-breaks had reduced India to 100 for four. Swepson would be the first to admit that he was lucky to dismiss Shikhar Dhawan (28 off 21 balls) with a half-tracker and Sanju Samson (10) with a low full-toss. The only wicket-taking delivery he bowled was the one that got Shreyas Iyer out for a first-ball duck. While Hardik (20, 13b) initially took time, Kohli decided to take matters into his hands, first depositing Sams into the mid-wicket stands and then guiding a rising delivery behind square. Earlier, Wade’s second consecutive half-century was well-complemented by Glenn Maxwell’s blazing strokeplay. Wade smashed his way to 80 off 53 balls with seven fours and two sixes. Maxwell, who struggled with his timing initially, also got into the act during the last six overs with a 35-ball-54 and a third-wicket stand of 90 runs in 8.4 overs with Wade. Reprieves After being caught behind off a Chahal no-ball in the 13th over, Maxwell went on the rampage in the 15th over. He deposited Chahal for a straight six and followed it up with another into the mid-wicket stands. Riding his luck, he got another life in the 17th over when a mis-hit was dropped by Deepak Chahar running in from deep point. Between overs 13 and 18, Australia racked up 68 runs.
09 December 2020||Madrid,||Powerhouse Real, Inter facing the heat||Real Madrid values success in the Champions League above all else, but the 13-time champion heads into Wednesday’s game against Borussia Monchengladbach with its qualification hopes hanging by a thread. Should it suffer a humiliating group stage exit, ending its remarkable run as the only team to ever avoid elimination at this phase, coach Zinedine Zidane’s future will be at risk. Win required A win in the Spanish capital will guarantee Real passage through to the last 16 from Group B. If Madrid draws and Shakhtar Donetsk wins or draws with Inter Milan in the other group match, the Spanish giant will be out. Zidane is at least boosted by the return of captain Sergio Ramos and right back Dani Carvajal. Ramos in particular is essential, with Madrid having lost eight of its last 10 European games in which the 35-year-old has not played, including the Ajax and Manchester City eliminations. Inter meanwhile will be counting on prolific striker Romelu Lukaku to power the former three-time winner into the last 16. Bottom of Group B, Inter needs to win at the San Siro and for ‘Gladbach and Real Madrid not to draw their match. Atalanta heads to Ajax with a slender advantage ahead of Wednesday’s showdown for a place in the last 16. Atalanta sits second behind Group D winner Liverpool and one point ahead of third-placed Ajax, and needs to avoid defeat. Ajax must win to ensure qualification.  Wednesday’s schedule Midtjylland vs Liverpool; Ajax vs Atalanta ( both at 11.25 p.m. ) Bayern Munich vs Lokomotiv Moscow RB Salzburg vs Atletico Madrid Real Madrid vs Borussia Monchengladbach Inter Milan vs Shakhtar Donetsk Manchester City vs Marseille Olympiacos vs Porto ( all at 1.30 a.m., IST, Thursday )
09 December 2020||December 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Lessons for India from cricket’s bio-secure bubbles||International cricket is at the crossroads. One road leads to bilateral series that are important for television money and the inaugural World championships. The other to ‘bubble exhaustion’ and even COVID-19 infection. England have called off their tour of South Africa half-way through following news of two of their own players (possibly) contracting COVID-19 to add to the two home players and a member of their hotel staff who had already done so. England team director Ashley Giles said there were doubts about the bio-secure bubble from the start, thus raising the levels of anxiety in the team. There’s just so much golf you can play, just so much staring at the walls in your room that you can do, just so much disquiet you can handle. International sport at the best of times causes anxiety and apprehension. Now there is the added fear of contracting a deadly virus far away from home and family. You can’t play cricket when your mind is on other things. England had played host to the West Indies, Ireland, Pakistan and Australia in the summer without a single positive case of COVID-19. The South African doctor in the charge of his country’s bio-secure bubble, Dr Shuaib Manjra, has been quoted as saying that England’s cricket board created more of a ‘vacuum’ than a ‘bio-secure environment’, adding it was not financially or logistically possible to create such an environment elsewhere, especially since England had hotels attached to the venues of the matches. He might have put his finger on an important issue. Increasingly difficult As the sporting lockdown is extended, it becomes increasingly difficult for young, fit, athletes to confine themselves to hotel rooms. The bio-security breaches wherever they occur need to be studied so they are not repeated. From all accounts, South Africa were unhappy with England changing the venue of their nets, Pakistan might not have checked their own players well enough before departure from home, and earlier there were cases of players meeting those outside the bubble. It is costing cricket boards a small fortune to keep the players safe and to bring the matches to our television screens. Three questions Three questions arise from the recent COVID-19 cases — six Pakistani players tested positive on their current tour of New Zealand, although subsequently the team has tested negative — and need to be addressed by the authorities. One, how secure is bio-secure, and what are the lessons to learn from the English summer? Two, where will such issues leave the World championships in Test cricket as well as One-Day Internationals where points count towards identifying the finalists. And three, with India hosting England for four Tests, three ODI and five T20I in February-March next year, what guarantees can the Board of Control for Cricket in India provide?  To take the last question first, the BCCI might point to the successful conduct of the IPL in the UAE where eight teams were involved in a 53-day tournament, and once it began, there were no casualties. India’s officials are in talks with England’s to persuade them that spreading the matches across the country is the way to go rather than playing at one or two centres. That might be a bit ambitious under the circumstances. Fewer centres mean fewer problems, but the BCCI might have too many officials and centres to satisfy. There will be discussions about the imminent vaccines too, although it would be useful to remember what England’s captain Eoin Morgan has said — that cricketers should be at the back of the queue. No country can afford to get it wrong. Already Sri Lanka and Australia, the two teams scheduled to tour South Africa next, are beginning to wonder if they ought to take the risk, even if the dates are a few weeks hence. The BCCI will have to deal with yet another virus — its own insistence on hanging on to seats illegally. Senior officials beginning with the President have overstayed their welcome according to the original Supreme Court decision, but the matter is back in the Supreme Court for a ruling which is unlikely to come this year. When decisions on tours have to be made quickly and decisively, will the office-bearers be able to look beyond personal issues and focus on the crucial matter of bio-security? Taking a new look As for the World Test Championship, the new chairman of the International Cricket Council, Greg Barclay has already said the whole plan will have to be looked at afresh after the final scheduled for June next year. It is unlikely to be a satisfying finish to the first cycle, and the ICC will have to decide whether it is best to leave things as they are, or change the plan. So not really a crossroad, but a side road that needs attention too.
09 December 2020||December 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Was confident about my ability at the death, says Natarajan||After an impressive IPL, T. Natarajan was fast-tracked into the national team and the 29-year-old has proven to be the find of the Australian tour so far with his impressive performances in the T20I series. The left-arm pacer was a last-minute addition to the T20 squad, replacing Varun Chakravarthy. He even made his one-day debut in the third ODI after being included as cover for Navdeep Saini. The Tamil Nadu bowler picked up six wickets with an economy rate of just 6.91 per over in the three-match T20 series. Speaking to Sony TV after the third T20I on Tuesday, Natarajan shared his thoughts about the tour and his approach. Feels extraordinary “I was not expecting anything as I just came as a net bowler. I got an opportunity and wanted to utilise it well,” said Natarajan. “Just to do well in Australia against such a good team feels extraordinary. “Everyone in the team helped me a lot and the fact that I was in good form during the IPL also helped,” he added. The pacer’s strength has always been his yorker, right from the time he came into the limelight during the TNPL’s inaugural edition in 2016, and he said he just focused on backing his strengths. “My strength has always been my ability to bowl those yorkers and cutters. I took advice from the wicketkeeper and captain to find the nature of the wicket and adapted accordingly. “So I was confident with my yorkers and slower ones in the death overs. I wanted to do what I did in IPL and just focused on executing it clearly,” he explained
09 December 2020||Coimbatore,||Team Hero all set to take on the sands of Arabia||Riders taking part in Dakar Rally 2021 have a tough challenge ahead of them what with COVID-19 continuing to pose a threat. But, the bravehearts of the Hero MotoSports Team Rally sounded confident of doing well in the greatest rally raid in the world. In an exclusive online chat with The Hindu , the team, represented by 2020 FIM cross-country BAJA World Cup winner Sebastian Buhler, 2019 Pan Africa Rally winner Joaquim Rodrigues and ace Indian rider C.S. Santosh, spoke about the challenges and how it plans to storm the sands of Saudi Arabia. Big event “Dakar is big for all of us and there’s so much to learn from it every year. I have always been somebody who wants to do well. I have also come close to achieving my goals,” said Santosh. It was a good last year for the experienced star. “I enjoyed my journey very much. But this year, we will be on a new Hero 450 rally bike (featuring a new 450cc engine and evolved chassis) and that’s something I am eagerly looking forward to,” he said. He is quite clear with his plan — go out with the same attitude and spirit and also be optimistic. “It’s a unique opportunity for all of us and I am proud to represent my country,” he said. Rodrigues, meanwhile, is prepared for a tough rally. “Shorter the race the tougher it's going to be. It will be a huge task not just for me but for all the riders. It’s going to be technical and, only the smartest will win,” he said. While it will be the fifth appearance for Santosh and Rodrigues, for Sebastian it will be the second official appearance in Hero colours. New livery The team will also be seen in a new livery, sporting a futuristic Barcode-inspired design aesthetic, to showcase its technical edge. Team manager Wolfgang Fischer said it would be an emotional return after the tragic event earlier this year. “But, we are determined to put up a good show.”
09 December 2020||LONDON,||Southampton rallies to beat Brighton||Southampton came from behind to beat traditional south coast rival Brighton & Hove Albion 2-1 in the Premier League on Monday as Jannik Vestergaard and Danny Ings cancelled out a Pascal Gross opener for the home side. German midfielder Gross fired Brighton ahead with a 26th-minute penalty before Vestergaard levelled with a superb header on the stroke of halftime and Ings turned the match on its head with an 81st-minute penalty. The result left Southampton fifth in the standings on 20 points from 11 games while Brighton stayed 16th on 10 points, four clear of the relegation zone.  The results:   Premier League: Brighton 1 (Pascal Gross 26-pen) lost to Southampton 2 (Vestergaard 45, Ings 81-pen).   Serie A: Fiorentina 1 (Milenkovic 90+8) drew with Genoa 1 (Pjaca 89).   LaLiga: Eibar 0 drew with Valencia 0.   Bundesliga: Hoffenheim 3 (Grillitsch 17, 46, Bebou 50) bt Augsburg 1 (Caligiuri 31) .
09 December 2020||KOLKATA,||TMC takes on Bagan in final||Tapan Memorial Club relied on Vikash Singh’s fine all-round showing to record a 25-run win over Kalighat Club and reach the final of the Bengal T20 Challenge here on Tuesday. In the other semifinal, Mohun Bagan beat Town Club by nine wickets. TMC, put in to bat, posted a challenging 149 for eight before stopping Kalighat for 124 for eight in the semifinals. Vikash (34, 22b, 5x4, 2x6) made the most of the field restrictions in PowerPlay to collect 47 quick runs with Koushik Ghosh (25, 24b, 2x4). Aamir Gani slowed down TMC’s run rate by castling Vikash and Gaurav Chauhan. Kaif Ahmed (46, 38b, 4x4, 2x6) showcased his array of strokes as he built a 60-run stand with Shahbaz Ahmed (27, 19b, 1x4, 2x6). Pacer Amit Kuila, who had Shahbaz caught at fine-leg and dismissed two others, bowled exceptionally well in the slog overs. He conceded only three runs as TMC lost three wickets in the last over.  Kalighat replied well with Prinan Dutta (51, 50b, 5x4) and Sudip Chatterjee (28, 21b, 4x4) showing positive intent. Off-spinner Vikash broke the 65-run partnership by having Sudip stumped by Shakir Gandhi on a spinner-friendly track. TMC spinners scalped six more wickets, including three by Vikash, to tighten the noose around Kalighat. Gandhi assisted them with three more stumpings.  The scores:   Tapan Memorial Club 149/8 in 20 overs (Vikash Singh 34, Kaif Ahmed 46, Amit Kuila 3/16, Aamir Gani 2/20) bt Kalighat Club 124/8 in 20 overs (Prinan Dutta 51, Vikash Singh 4/15, Gaurav Chauhan 2/23).   Town Club 124/9 in 20 overs (Gitimoy Basu 41, Sunil Dalal 2/16, Rajkumar Pal 2/16, Sayan Ghosh 2/18, Writtick Chatterjee 2/19) lost to Mohun Bagan 127/1 in 17 overs (Vivek Singh 76 n.o.).   On Wednesday: Final: Tapan Memorial Club vs Mohun Bagan (4 p.m.) .
09 December 2020||Sydney,||Saha digs in; match ends in draw||Wriddhiman Saha got himself some invaluable batting practice ahead of the first Test against Australia, but his other famed Indian colleagues failed to bat long as their warm-up game against Australia-A ended in a draw here on Tuesday. Medium-pacer Mark Steketee, who returned five for 37, stood in the way of what could have been a few sessions of good batting practice on the third and final day for the touring Indians. Making up for his first-innings nought, Saha top-scored with 54 off 100 balls (7x4). Behind by 59, the Indians declared their second innings at 189 for nine. The Australians, needing 130 in 15 overs, reached 52 for one when stumps were drawn. Pucovski concussed Meanwhile, Will Pucovski, potentially in line for a Test debut against India in the four-match series beginning with the Day-Night game in Adelaide on Dec. 17, suffered a concussion after being struck on the helmet by pacer Kartik Tyagi and has been ruled out of the second tour game starting on Friday.  The scores: India-A 247/9 decl. in 93 overs & 189/9 decl. in 61 overs (Shubman Gill 29, Hanuma Vihari 28, Ajinkya Rahane 28, Wriddhiman Saha 54 n.o., Mark Steketee 5/37) drew with Australia-A 306/9 decl. in 95 overs (Marcus Harris 35, Cameron Green 125 n.o., Tim Paine 44, Michael Nesser 33, Umesh Yadav 3/48, Mohd. Siraj 3/83, R. Ashwin 2/62) & 52/1 in 15 overs.
09 December 2020||December 09 2020 00:00 IST,||NEUFC shares honours with BFC||Bengaluru FC was left to rue a host of missed chances as NorthEast United FC held the 2018-19 ISL champion to a 2-2 draw at the Fatorda Stadium on Tuesday. Substitute Udanta Singh ended a barren 20-match goalless run dating back to last year to give BFC what seemed like a decisive lead in the 70th minute only for Luis Machado to score his second of the night eight minutes later and save his side the blushes.  The result ensured that both sides maintained their unbeaten runs, but NorthEast will clearly be the happier of the two, rising up to second place. It took the lead as early as the fourth minute when Rochharzela’s left-footed shot went in after taking a wicked deflection off Machado, who had initiated the move with his fleet-footed brilliance in the centre of the park. BFC’s 13th-minute equaliser from Juanan was scrappy. Centre-back Dylan Fox couldn’t clear Rahul Bheke’s long throw-in and the Spaniard’s fierce shot from close went in off goalie Gurmeet. From then, until Udanta’s goal, BFC came close multiple times. A cut-back from the left wing found Harmanjot Khabra unmarked, but he took one touch too many and didn’t even hit the target. Gurmeet denied Ashique Kuruniyan with a low save before thwarting Kristian Opseth. Just after the break, Gurpreet Sandhu came up with a remarkable full-stretch save to parry away a Kwesi Appiah header. The India custodian’s best efforts were complemented soon by Udanta. Fox allowed a header from Chhetri to run across the goal unaware of Udanta’s presence behind him and duly paid the price. All through this, Machado kept up his intelligent play feeding multiple balls for his teammates. He finally took matters into his own hands, latching on to Idrissa Sylla’s flick on, beating Juanan for pace before slotting it home.  The result: Bengaluru FC 2 (Juanan 13, Udanta 70) drew with NorthEast United FC 2 (Machado 4, 78) .
09 December 2020||Wellington,||Roach and Dowrich out of second Test||New Zealand’s number one wicketkeeper B-J. Watling is set to return from hamstring strain for the second Test against the West Indies, while the tourists suffered a double blow on Tuesday with Kemar Roach and Shane Dowrich ruled out. Pace bowler Roach is returning home following the death of his father last week while wicketkeeper Dowrich continues to be troubled by the hand injury that sidelined him after day one of the first Test. Looking for a sweep New Zealand is looking to sweep the series having wrapped up the first Test by an innings and 134 runs inside four days, on the back of a career-best 251 first innings by Kane Williamson. Watling was confident he would be able to take his place in the Black Caps line-up when the second Test starts on Friday at the Basin Reserve in Wellington. If Watling is included, that will likely mean Will Young, who debuted as an opener in Hamilton, will be forced out and Tom Blundell, who took over the ’keeper’s gloves and batted at number six, will return to his regular position at the top of the order.  The West Indies, meanwhile, called up uncapped 22-year-old Joshua da Silva to cover for Dowrich while Chemar Holder is in line to replace Roach in the bowling line-up.
09 December 2020||Lausanne,||Breakdancing gets nod for Paris debut||Breakdancing was one of four new sports along with skateboarding, surfing and sport climbing to get the Olympic green light on Monday for inclusion at the 2024 Paris Games. The four sports were included as the International Olympic Committee (IOC) executive board met to confirm the Paris 2024 programme. Skateboarding, sport climbing and surfing have already been added to the programme for the 2020 Tokyo Olympics, which will take place in 2021 after being postponed by a year because of the coronavirus pandemic. Priority The introduction of breakdancing was “one of the results of the Olympic Agenda 2020”, IOC president Thomas Bach said. “We had a clear priority to introduce sports (that are) particularly popular among the younger generation.” Breakdancing, which grew up alongside hip hop in the South Bronx of New York in the 1970s and is officially known in sport terms as “breaking”, appeared at the 2018 Youth Olympics in Buenos Aires, in the form of head-to-head “battles”. Russia's Sergei Chernyshev, competing under the nickname Bumblebee, won the first breakdancing gold medal for boys in that event, while Japan’s Ramu Kawai won the girls' title. Federations of sports already having Olympic status were disappointed in their bid to increase events within their sports as Bach said none of the proposed 41 events would be included in Paris.
09 December 2020||Sydney,||Tried to get some nice shape and turn: Swepson||Rookie leg-spinner Mitchell Swepson was happy to get some “turn and shape” during his match-winning spell of three for 23 as it worked really well against a rampaging Indian skipper Virat Kohli. “Yeah (I am) obviously a lot happier with how I bowled tonight compared to that first game,” Swepson said at the post-match media conference. “So tonight, I just tried to really spin it up and get some nice shape and turn. That seemed to work a lot better for me and it worked quite well to Virat (Kohli),” he said. One side was just 60-odd metres and Swepson said that he had to defend that side bowling wide of Kohli. “They had that short boundary, to his leg-side, so I was really just trying to defend that short-side and luckily I was able to do that,” said the 27-year-old bowler. Swepson called Adam Zampa “a bit of a mentor” as he has been there and done that at this level. “Zampa has been excellent since I have come into the T20 squad. He is obviously a very experienced bowler now in white-ball cricket, played close to 100 games for Australia now.”
09 December 2020||December 09 2020 00:00 IST,||We never give up, someone puts his hand up: Kohli||The last time India lost a T20I before Tuesday’s game was exactly a year ago, but rather than sulk after a narrow defeat, captain Virat Kohli chose to look at the big picture. The triumph against Australia in Australia came despite India resting its key pacers, making it all the more special. Kohli highlighted the team’s never-say-die attitude as one of the main reasons for the 2-1 victory. “This was a squad that had players who haven’t had so much exposure at the international level — we still played a few guys that were playing their first few games — and from that point of view it was a really nice performance,” Kohli said after the dead rubber at the Sydney Cricket Ground. “Especially after losing the first two ODIs, we came back in the third and then we carried that momentum forward; fighting back in the first T20 and even tonight’s game was close, so… I think the standout is the guys are not giving up and someone’s putting their hand up every time, making an impact for the team, which is very important.” The review that wasn’t There was controversy during Tuesday’s game, with India not being allowed to review a decision against Matthew Wade. “That lbw was a strange one because we were still discussing whether the ball was going down [the leg-side], and within the 15-second [window], they showed the replay on the screen. We decided to go for the review but the umpire said they have already shown the replay on the screen,” Kohli said. “I had a chat with Rod [Tucker, the umpire] and said, ‘What do we do in this situation?’ and he said, ‘Nothing can be done. It’s a mistake from TV’. “I thought from a management perspective, a message has to be passed on that this can’t be done at the highest level because in a very important game, it can be very costly. It was a little bit of a miss from the TV guys upstairs and I am sure it won’t be repeated.”
09 December 2020||December 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Darkness of samsara||In the Kapilopadesa section of the Bhagavata Purana, the primary creation, that is, the natural evolution of the fundamental categories from Prakriti, is explained in detail. The categories remain separate and only when Divine Will intervenes and infuses them with His power that the Cosmic shell from which Narayana lying in the cosmic waters emerges along with Brahma. Brahma is Vishnu’s intermediary, distinct but not different from Him. Prakriti, the primordial matter, comprises the three gunas, satva, rajas and tamas. Kapila then expounds the path of spiritual evolution that leads the jiva to a state of freedom from the darkness of samsara, pointed out Sri R. Krishnamurthy Sastrigal in a discourse. Life and death is a recurrent occurrence in the journey of the jiva through countless births. There are 84 lakh species in creation and the jiva is allotted a body in every birth according to its past karma. The jivatma should understand that the soul is only a temporary resident in the body. He should train himself to be unaffected by the experiences of happiness and joy, pleasure and pain, etc. Just as the reflection of the sun in water is not in the least affected by the differing qualities of water, the soul should remain detached if one desires to have peace of mind. The jivatma who is attracted to the senses and their objects will be forced to pass through the cycle of birth and acquire a new body according to the nature of his deeds, good and bad. To avoid sense pursuits one should exercise self control and focus on thoughts about the Supreme Lord. Kapila explains further that by the Lord’s abundant grace alone it is possible to transcend samsara and turn one’s mind towards the path of selfless devotion. Then the blissful state of mukti is attained from which there is no return.
09 December 2020||KOLKATA,||BFI elections put off||The Boxing Federation of India's (BFI) on Tuesday announced the postponement of its elections, scheduled to be held in Gurugram on December 18, due to the pandemic. “The decision to postpone the elections was taken after a majority of member associations wrote to the Returning Officer, Justice Rajesh Tandon, requesting postponement due to COVID-19. A large number of voting members of the BFI are above 60 years of age and are in the high-risk category,” said a BFI statement. BFI said 23 out of the 32 State units requested a postponement and the Indian Olympic Association, too, had given its approval.
09 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Ankita bows out in first round||Fifth seed Katerina Siniakova of the Czech Republic recovered from a slow start to beat wild card entrant Ankita Raina 1-6, 6-2, 6-2 in the first round of the $100,000 ITF women’s tennis tournament in Dubai on Tuesday.
09 December 2020||London,||Ben Stokes’ father passes away||Ged Stokes, father of England all-rounder Ben Stokes and a former rugby player with Workington Town, has passed away after a year-long battle with brain cancer. ANI
09 December 2020||December 09 2020 07:54 IST,||Sudoku - December 9, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
09 December 2020||December 09 2020 00:00 IST,||The Nature dance||Can you seek answers to the problems life throws at you through Nature and dance? Akhila explores that idea in the eyes of a woman who has a conflict of sorts, and sets on a journey. Now available on YouTube, Akhila is described as a ‘Carnatic-electronic dance music video’, with instrumental music by Mahesh Raghvan, Karthick Iyer and Sumesh Narayanan. It features choreographer Nikitha Sharma as the protagonist. The seed of Akhila was born when Phaneendra Medida, a North Carolina-based independent filmmaker, reached out to popular musicians Mahesh and Karthick for a possible collaboration. Medida initially planned to shoot and direct it in Iceland but due to travel restrictions in light of the pandemic, that was not possible. “The idea was to shoot in natural locations to be consistent with the core concept of the video that revolves around the central character seeking answers from Nature,” explains Medida. With Iceland ruled out, Karnataka came to her rescue. She decided to rope in a filmmaker in India to execute the idea. Gomtesh Upadhye, Bengaluru-based filmmaker with experience in films like Lucia and U Turn , started working on the video. With rich experience in the format — his 2016 Telugu dance music video ‘Neeve’ fetched 21 million views on YouTube — Gomtesh and cinematographer Vishwakiran Nambi scouted places in Karnataka to convey the protagonist’s journey. “We needed places that would bring a ‘wow’ factor among viewers,” recalls Gomtesh, who zeroed in on locations in Shimoga and Chikmagalur. “We also shot for three days at a picturesque place called Kalasa. Due to the pandemic, there were no tourists in these places and we could capture the essence of the place, while placing our sole subject as the only human element in the frames.” In Akhila , Nikitha Sharma drives, treks and breaks into a dance near a waterfall, even as she strives to resolve her inner conflicts by connecting to the abundant natural wonders around her. She does so while a soothing Carnatic instrumental track based on the song ‘Akhilandeshwari’ set in Dwijavanti raga plays in the backdrop. “The soundtrack was a contemporary touch to a very traditional number, much like how the protagonist who is a modern girl but holds on to traditional values,” says Gomtesh, who is currently working on a Telugu web series that features Nithya Menen in the lead.
09 December 2020||December 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Healing for the healers||If there is one element of wellness that we have identified and accepted, in this year of constraints and lockdowns, it is the importance of movement. Recognising this, classical ballet dancer and educator Vaidehi Patel and her team of movement professionals have launched Project Move. This website contains “movement tutorials based on tension-release, created keeping the needs of frontline healthcare workers in mind,” says Vaidehi, over phone from Mumbai. A registered teacher with the Royal Academy of Dance, Vaidehi started training students independently in January this year. When the pandemic struck, she moved to Zoom, holding beginner-level ballet classes. “It was then that a doctor from Mumbai, a friend of a friend, reached out to me. She said she would have loved to take this class but was working in COVID wards. She would be exhausted by the end of the day, and wouldn’t have the time or energy to do a whole one-hour lesson,” says Vaidehi. It prompted Vaidehi to reach out to other dancers and movement professionals to create videos specifically for the medical fraternity, tailored to their needs. “We started off with dance tutorials, but then thought it would be better if we did a survey asking doctors what they would like us to do,” she says. This way, she learnt that quite a few doctors, especially male ones, were either not interested in, or intimidated by, anything dance-related. “We wanted our videos to be more open and acceptable to everyone. That’s why we made it around movement, rather than dance,” says Vaidehi. So far, Project Move has put up eight videos on topics ranging from neck and upper body stretches, full body yoga flow, stretch exercises to guided meditation and breathwork. As the word spread, says Vaidehi, more movement professionals from the community agreed to be a part of it. The eight instructors in the team, though belonging to different disciplines of yoga and fitness, are all dedicated to advocating for the idea that movement is an essential part of healing — ‘disconnecting one from the outside world and reconnecting with oneself’. “We first studied and surveyed the most common issues for medical professionals — for instance, neck and shoulder pain either from long hours of consultation or from surgeries. Based on that, we decided what stretches and movements to include,” says Vaidehi. However, each practitioner was free to choose whatever they felt best aided relaxation. Project Move is not limited to its physical aspect. A section of it is dedicated to music that moves — 11 songs written by musicians, some from the wellness space. “A lot of movement professionals use independent music to aid their practice. Music is such a critical part of any type of movement, that it naturally got added on, as part of what we do,” says Vaidehi. The team includes Abhinav Saxena who had released an album of music for relaxation this year, Rustom Warden who creates music specifically for pets, classical singers, and handpan artistes, among others. “We were not limited by genre. If typically slow acoustic music relaxes one person, rock works for someone else. So the idea is just for the artiste to create music, in a relaxed space, and to relax people,” says Vaidehi. Adding that Project Move is still evolving, with a couple of videos being added every month, Vaidehi says, “We are studying the activity on the website. We found that a lot of people are interested in the strength and fitness side of it. But we want to focus on a low impact form of doing that, so we hope to add on a more pilates-centric tutorial. We may also add basics of dance styles like ballet, contemporary and Indian folk as well.”  For more details, head to www.projectmove.in
09 December 2020||December 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Let the battle begin||Anurag Kashyap believes one cannot make it into Bollywood unless their surname is Kapoor. It is a clear jibe at Anil Kapoor, who, in turn, states that Kashyap has finished the careers of artists by making “dark” films. What starts as a banter between two AKs at the trailer launch of their upcoming AK vs AK on Monday, turns into a nasty exchange of words, forcing the intervention of filmmaker Vikramaditya Motwane. Starring Anil Kapoor and Anurag Kashyap, playing themselves on screen, the film pits them against each other, taking on celebrity culture and possibly settling the answer for the age-old debate: Is cinema a medium of the director or artiste? The genesis of the script originated from screenwriter Avinash Sampath seven years ago, said Vikramaditya Motwane. “Like all my films, it has taken seven years to make this [ AK vs AK ] one,” he said, adding, “[About who is bigger of the two] Ultimately, it’s the movie that matters and not these two.” Never has there been three different trailers for a film. As the story goes, Anurag Kashyap approached Anil Kapoor for a film and is shown his place, despite being a celebrated filmmaker who has consistently represented India at international film festivals. In Anil’s version of the trailer, the star is bigger than the film, aptly reflecting the Bollywood we have come to know. “Stars make films in India, not the director,” says Anil Kapoor in the trailer, which, according to him, is the “original, Los Angeles-approved [headquarters of Netflix] trailer that Vikram and I agreed upon”. A visibly miffed Kashyap accused Kapoor of, “sitting on Vikram’s shoulders and coaching him to make it look like there’s only one AK...Anil Kapoor.” Kapoor, on the other hand, said that the reason he agreed to be part of AK vs AK , apart from getting to work with Vikramaditya Motwane, is to show Anurag “what acting is, what cinema is”. In Anurag’s version, Anil Kapoor can be seen approaching the filmmaker for an acting gig. This time, Kashyap has the upper hand showing the world that cinema is a director’s medium. “I have cast light on artists by making dark films. I am India’s [Quentin] Tarantino,” announces Kashyap. Finally, in the original, director’s cut of the trailer, we get to see what one could expect from AK vs AK . The film is about a director (Anurag Kashyap) who kidnaps a movie star’s (Anil Kapoor) daughter (Sonam Kapoor) for their film. The actor’s quest in finding his missing daughter forms the premise. On bringing the two AKs together, Motwane said, “I wanted a commercial star for my film, so, Anil sir. But I wanted to make it in my style, hence, Anurag.” He added that he lost 10 kilograms in the process of putting up with their ego issues. The film releases on Netflix on December 24.
09 December 2020||December 09 2020 00:00 IST,||Samyuktha Karthik: ‘The backlash to my Bigg Boss stint isn’t justified at all’||The star-studded cast of Vijay TV’s Bigg Boss saw a host of models in its fourth season. One such model not only stood out for her poise but also for her grit. The fifth contestant to be evicted from the show, Samyuktha Karthik speaks to MetroPlus about her spat with Aari Arjuna, her experience in the Bigg Boss house, and what it takes to be a mother working in the entertainment industry. Excerpts from an interview: What was it like entering the Bigg Boss house amidst a pandemic? From one lockdown to another? It was like a vacation you could not have taken in the outside world. Definitely, a different experience owing to this particular year. Since we have already been in lockdown, to move into a house like that didn’t feel claustrophobic because you are used to being confined to one particular space. What drove you to participate in a reality show?  I have been modelling for quite some time now, but I felt like I had never done anything in mainstream media all these years. This was my one shot at it. To top that, you were stuck there in the middle of a cyclone...  When we were inside the house, we didn’t know the implication of the cyclone. But when they said they were going to evacuate us out for a night and bring us back, that kind of struck an alarm. We felt we were safe inside the house, but if they were going to stop an entire day’s shoot, we thought the situation outside was probably really bad. So we all started panicking about our families, but they kept reassuring us that they had been in touch with them and everybody was safe. You were quite popular among your fellow mates. What do you think went wrong?  Obviously when you are inside, you don’t even realise it. Now I feel that it is probably because certain words that I used inside the house got misconstrued and blown out of proportion. Way more offensive words have been used inside that house and none of them was highlighted. I am getting enormous amounts of love, but there is a lot of backlash also which I don’t feel is justified at all. Tell us about your spat with Aari.  The basis of our tiff was Sanam and Bala’s earlier argument. When he (Aari) yelled at me using the word ‘ dubakur’ during the court argument, things got a little agitated. It went to an extent when things started becoming all about personal attacks which everybody got offended by. I don’t know why what I murmur — when I was so hurt — became such a big deal.  How hard is it to thrive in the entertainment industry as a working mother?  It is hard, but thankfully I have a great support system. My mother is always there to support me. Because of my support system I am able to do how much ever I do.
09 December 2020||New Delhi,||Dust pollution unchecked in parts of Delhi||Despite the pollution being ‘severe’ and ‘very poor’ in the city, local dust pollution is still going unchecked in many areas, spot checks by The Hindu at different parts of the city have shown. Moreover, more than 5,000 complaints have been registered under the dust pollution category between October 29 and December 1 on a mobile app launched by the Delhi government. According to Delhi government data, shared with The Hindu, about 30% of these complaints were unresolved and overdue on December 1. “This year, the government has a stricter campaign to control dust pollution and a lot of agencies were fined for not controlling dust on their construction sites. The government has also launched the Green Delhi mobile app using which people can file complaints of different types of pollution,” a Delhi government official said. The official said that while some roads belong to the Public Works Department many are under the municipal corporations, which are ruled by the BJP. The multiplicity of agencies was a problem, he said. “Policies and rules to control air pollution are in place. What we need is strict implementation of these rules,” said Anumita Roychowdhury, Executive Director of Centre for Science and Environment (CSE), a research and advocacy organisation in Delhi. Respiratory problems Dust contributes to fine inhalable particles called Particulate Matter (PM), which can get into the lungs and cause a range of respiratory problems. During the spot checks, mounds of construction and demolition (C&D) waste and dug-up earth were found in Max Muller Marg, located in the heart of the city. C&D waste and loose earth should be properly covered to prevent dust pollution, as per the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) guidelines. Dusty roads were found near NTPC Eco Park in Kalindi Kunj in south Delhi, Kotla Mubarakpur in central Delhi and Model Town in north Delhi. “Whenever a vehicle passes, it kicks up dust. For many years the road has not been repaired. We have complained multiple times about it, but the municipal corporation says there are no funds to repair the roads,” said Bunty Sharma, 38, who runs a shop in Kotla Mubarakpur market. C&D waste being dumped along the roadside, broken pavements, and dusty patches along the road were found in multiple areas of the city too. After the Delhi government launched the mobile app on October 29, about 1,700 complaints were received about illegal dumping of C&D waste by December 1. As per the government data, more than 1,650 complaints were received about potholes, 1,050 complaints about road dust and about 700 complaints about dust pollution due to construction activities in the same period. Though the government had announced a plan for edge-to-edge paving and greening of all roads, to control dust pollution, the work has not been completed. “The government is conducting regular checks. But the people should be also proactive and report violations on the Green Delhi app. We have a dedicated team working to solve issues,” the official said.
09 December 2020||GURUGRAM,||Road blockades, demonstrations, marches mark bandh in Haryana||Peaceful demonstrations, protest marches and road blockades, including on State and national highways, across the State marked the day-long Bharat Bandh in Haryana. Though the bandh remained peaceful, a protester died due to heart attack in Jind. The markets and mandis also remained shut for a few hours in several districts, though the traffic remained as usual. Leaders detained The Communist Party of India (Marxist) Rajya Sabha MP K.K. Ragesh, All-India Democratic Women’s Association national general-secretary Mariam Dhawale and Centre of Indian Trade Unions’ Haryana vice-president Satvir Singh were detained along with a hundred anganwari and ASHA workers at Gurugram’s Bilaspur Chowk, off National Highway-48, during a demonstration against the farm laws in the afternoon. Mr. Singh said the police stopped them twice and later detained them. Pataudi SDM Pradeep Kumar said the protesters had violated the Section 144 of the Indian Penal Code and there were apprehensions of them blocking the national highway. Later, workers from several automotive companies, including Maruti Suzuki and Hero Motorcorp, and All India Trade Union Council, took out a protest march from Hero Honda Chowk to Rajiv Chowk in Gurugram under the banner of Trade Union Council (Gurugram-Rewari). Several political, social and farmer organisations also held a sit-in near Jharsa Chowk near NH-48 in the Millennium City in the morning. Haryana Director General of Police Manoj Yadava told The Hindu that the protests remained peaceful, but a 55-year-old man died of heart attack in Jind during the demonstration. “Mostly the blockades were on the village roads. Some national and State highways at a few points were also affected for around two hours in the afternoon,” he said. Former Transport Minister and Deputy Leader of the Congress Legislative Party Aftab Ahmed went around Nuh making an appeal to the shopkeepers and commission agents in grain markets to down their shutters. He claimed the support to bandh was complete. Besides, there were reports of demonstrations, protest marches and markets remaining shut in Hisar, Jind, Karnal, Ambala, and Kurukshetra as well. Several organisations, including CITU and AIDWA, took out a protest march from railway station to Ambedkar Chowk in Rohtak passing through the main market. Haryana Congress chief Kumari Selja, in a video, claimed the reports from across the State suggested that the bandh was successful. She expressed gratitude towards the people of the State, party leaders and workers to make it a success.
09 December 2020||New Delhi,||Capital’s AQI in ‘very poor’ category||The air quality of Delhi and Gurugram was in the “very poor” category on Tuesday and Noida’s continued to be in the “severe” category, as per the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data. The national capital’s air quality is expected to stay in the “very poor” category for the next two days. Air pollution of “very poor” category can cause “respiratory illness on prolonged exposure”, according to the CPCB. Also, AAP leader and chairperson of the Environment Committee of the Delhi Assembly, Atishi, on Tuesday said that commissioners of the East Delhi Municipal Corporation and the North Delhi Municipal Corporation have been asked to appear before the committee to discuss frequent fires at Ghazipur and Bhalswa landfill sites. Both the municipal corporations are ruled by the BJP. Surface winds “Surface winds are likely to be picking up slightly and the AQI (Air Quality Index) is forecast to be in the ‘very poor’ category for the next two days. The AQI is likely to improve and stay in the middle-end of the very poor category on December 11,” said a statement by the government-run monitoring agency SAFAR (System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research). The air pollution was high in Delhi because the local surface-level winds were calm, which do not help in the dispersion of pollutants. Also, the mixing height, which is the height from the ground level up to which pollutants can be dispersed, was also low at night. This also prevents pollutants from getting dispersed easily. The AQI of Delhi was 383 on Tuesday, slightly down from 400 on Monday, as per CPCB’s 4 p.m. bulletin, which is an average of the past 24 hours. The values for Gurugram and Noida were 347 and 407 respectively. An AQI between 0 and 50 is considered “good”, 51 and 100 “satisfactory”, 101 and 200 “moderate”, 201 and 300 “poor”, 301 and 400 “very poor”, and 401 and 500 “severe”. The contribution of stubble burning in neighbouring States to PM2.5, a chief pollutant, in Delhi was estimated to be only 2% on Tuesday. Also, the number of fire counts in neighbouring States were only 211, as per SAFAR. Moderate fog Meanwhile, minimum temperature dropped to 9.5 degrees Celsius and a blanket of fog covered the Capital, affecting visibility on Tuesday.
09 December 2020||New Delhi,||HC: cannot insist on physical presence of litigants, advocates||The Delhi High Court has said that litigants and advocates cannot be asked to appear physically before the trial court during the current COVID-19 pandemic unless all the parties consent to it. Justice Sanjeev Sachdeva directed a trial court here to take up the proceedings before it through videoconferencing and not to insist for a physical hearing unless all the parties consent to the same. The court’s direction came on a plea by a man challenging a trial court order listing, for a physical hearing on December 19, a 41-year-old suit related to a property dispute. The man had contended that in view of the present pandemic, it would not be possible to physically appear in the proceedings. “Without getting into the controversy and since the suit has been pending for over 41 years, the trial court is directed to expedite the proceedings and endeavour to conclude the same preferably within a period of six months,” Justice Sachdeva said. During the initial period of the lockdown, the High Court introduced videoconferencing hearing to curb the spread of COVID-19. The High Court had put an embargo on the district courts from passing any adverse order in non-urgent or routine matters when the advocate or litigant is unable to join the proceedings through videoconferencing. The HC has notified that if an advocate or litigant stays away from virtual proceedings after being intimated that the case would be taken up on a particular date.
09 December 2020||New Delhi,||70% beds free as new cases drop in city||Delhi witnessed 3,188 new COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 5,97,112, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Tuesday. Also, 57 more deaths have been reported in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of deaths to 9,763. Of the total cases, 5,65,039 people have recovered and there are 22,310 active cases. A total of 75,409 tests were done in the past 24 hours. The positivity of COVID-19 cases on Tuesday was 4.23%, lesser than the average daily positivity in November, which was 11.65%. The overall positivity till now was 8.69%, as per the bulletin. Of the total 18,807 beds available for COVID-19 treatment in the city, 69.5% were vacant, as per the bulletin. Also, 66.6% of ICU beds with ventilators in the city were occupied by Tuesday night and 46.9% of the ICU beds without ventilators were full, as per Delhi government data. In November, there were days when more than 50% of beds were occupied and about 90% of ICU beds with ventilators were full. There were 6,357 containment zones in the city as on Tuesday.
09 December 2020||Ghaziabad,||Mixed response in western U.P.||Western Uttar Pradesh saw a mixed response to the call of Bharat Bandh given by farmer groups and political parties on Tuesday. While most markets in urban areas functioned as usual, mandis in rural areas remained shut. Members of different factions of the Bharatiya Kisan Union protested on the national and State highways. The police put many local political leaders under house arrest and did not allow them to join the protests, citing Section 144 and the Epidemic Act. Bhim Army chief Chandrashekhar Azad was placed under house arrest when he tried to participate in the bandh. In a tweet, Mr. Azad said, “Today our annadatas (farmers) need us”, but the Yogi government had put him under house arrest since morning. In Saharanpur, Haji Fazlurehman, Lok Sabha MP of the Bahujan Samaj Party, was also placed under house arrest. “The BJP government is throttling the voice of farmers with force,” said Mr. Fazlurehman. “These laws will only favour the corporates and are against the interests of farmers.” In Budaun, local Congress leaders were placed under house arrest. “We have been stopped from lending support to farmers... It is our democratic right and the BJP government would suffer its consequences in Assembly elections,” said Omkar Singh, district president of the Budaun unit of the Congress. Detained at Noida Rajendra Yadav, president, Bhartiya Kisan Sangathan, was detained along with farmers at the Sector 122 crossing of Noida. “We are being held for violating the Epidemic Act but the government could not wait for the pandemic to be over before bringing in just laws for farmers,” he said. Despite heavy security presence, the impact of the bandh was also seen in Agra, Aligarh, Muzaffarnagar, Bulandshahr, Meerut, Hapur and Gautam Buddh Nagar, where farmers blocked State and national highways. In Aligarh, hundreds of farmers blocked the road leading to the Yamuna Expressway with tractors and trolleys. In Meerut, members of BKU blocked the Meerut-Pauri highway. Farmer groups assembled at nine points in Muzaffarnagar, demanding that the farm laws be repealed. In Greater Noida, farmers jammed the Eastern Peripheral Highway. Hundreds of farmers also blocked the NH-9 in Ghaziabad at the Ghazipur border.
09 December 2020||New Delhi,||HC rejects plea on ballot option in polls||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday declined to entertain a plea seeking to the Centre and Election Commission to provide a ballot option to the public to vote for the “least undeserving candidate” in the electronic voting machines (EVMs). A Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan, however, said that the voters have the option of expressing dissatisfaction with regard to candidates fielded in an election by opting for the None of the Above (NOTA) option. ‘Mental perspective’ The High Court also said that by voting for a particular candidate, the voters have expressed their dissatisfaction for the other candidates. Hence, there was no need for “reflection of the mental perspective” of a voter while casting their vote, it said. The High Court remark came while hearing plea by Akshay Yadavrao Bajad, an Ayurvedic doctor, presently working as a medical officer in an insurance company, who contended that providing the option of “least undeserving candidate” in EVMs would compel political parties to nominate candidates with good moral character and integrity. The plea said that though Mr. Bajad had made a representation in December last year to the Centre on this aspect and it was forwarded to the poll panel, nothing has been done till now. The High Court declined to pass any orders on the plea and suggested that Mr. Bajad pursue his representations with the poll panel instead.
09 December 2020||GURUGRAM,||Road project connecting Delhi-Gurugram still under way||The revised proposal for connecting Nelson Mandela Marg to Gurugram, which was earlier put on back burner because of strong opposition by the environmentalists and the residents, is still under preparation by the DLF. The development was informed by the Chief Executive Officer of Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority (GMDA) during its 7th meeting at New PWD Guest House here on Tuesday. The CEO, in the sixth meeting of the authority on March 16, had informed that the proposal was being prepared by the DLF taking into account all the environment concerns, including the Biodiversity Park. Width of road The meeting, presided over by Chief Minister Manohar Lal, also cleared the proposal to increase the width of 2.5 km-long Hero Honda Chowk-Umang Bhardwaj Chowk road to 60 metre at the cost of Rs. 200 crore. The GMDA has already taken up the project to strengthen and widen the road from Umang Bhardwaj Chowk to Dwarka Expressway. The project is likely to be completed by June next year. After the two projects are completed, the road from Hero Honda Chowk to Dwarka Expressway would be six-lane and provide relief to the commuters from traffic congestions. The meeting also discussed in detail the proposed Shri Sheetla Mata Medical College and Hospital project coming up in Kherki Majra village. A 100-bed Trauma Centre would be constructed along with the 650-bed hospital as part of the medical college project. A Rs. 135 crore project to construct a drain along the Central Peripheral Road was also cleared at the meeting. The cost for the construction will be borne by the GMDA and the National Highways Authority of India.
09 December 2020||New Delhi,||Kejriwal pretending to be under house arrest, claim BJP leaders||The Opposition BJP on Tuesday accused Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal of “pretending” to be under house arrest after having failed at affecting a shutdown of the city as part of the Bharat Bandh which he had supported. While BJP national spokesperson Gaurav Bhatia accused Mr. Kejriwal and the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) of practising politics based on lies and deception, Delhi BJP MLAs and State president Adesh Gupta attacked the Chief Minister at a joint press conference. “CM Kejriwal loudly claimed to shut down Delhi but failed to do so that’s why he brought a new bunch of lies about of being house arrested but was exposed. Now he is hiding to avoid all questions. Businessmen and people of Delhi rejected CM Kejriwal’s call for a Delhi bandh,” Mr. Gupta alleged. Instead of solving the problems of the people of Delhi, Mr. Gupta alleged, Mr. Kejriwal wanted to “create an atmosphere of anarchy” in the city. He also questioned why the Chief Minister has so far not met Municipal Corporation of Delhi leaders camping outside his residence overnight, demanding financial dues. Leader of the Opposition Ramvir Singh Bidhuri allegedly said that the party would not back down despite apprehensions of an attack on protesting civic bodies’ leaders outside Mr. Kejriwal’s residence. “We got information that the Kejriwal government is conspiring to attack the corporation leaders sitting outside the CM residence but we are not going to back down for fear of an attack. Our struggle will continue till the Kejriwal government releases the outstanding funds to the municipal corporations,” Mr. Bidhuri said. Rohini MLA Vijender Gupta termed Mr. Kejriwal’s allegation of being placed under house arrest an instance of the extent to which the Chief Minister could go to “lie and run away from his responsibilities.”
09 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||2 arrested for importing drugs via courier service||Two men were arrested for allegedly importing contraband from USA through international courier service and supplying it in the national capital, police said on Tuesday. The accused have been identified as Avinash Jain, a resident of Inder Puri, and Shashank Gupta, a resident of Vasant Kunj, they said. Information was received that some persons were involved in illegal import of marijuana and other contraband from USA by using ‘dark web’ through courier service and supplying it to various parts in Delhi and NCR, a senior police officer said. “Police received a tip-off and laid a trap at Vasant Kunj. The accused were apprehended while they were going to deliver marijuana in their car,” Additional Commissioner of Police (Crime) Shibesh Singh said. Contraband recovered During the search, 450 gm of imported weed, 100 gm toffee containing tetrahydrocannabinol and 50 gm malana cream charas was recovered from their possession, he said. Jain had disclosed that he had been consuming marijuana since the last two years. He was procuring it from one Khanna of Chhattarpur. As it was expensive to purchase from the broker, he learnt the process of importing marijuana from USA and started procuring it through ‘dark web’, police said. The payments were made in advance through crypto currency, mainly Bitcoin. Once the payment was done, the parcel was dispatched through courier service, police said.
09 December 2020||GUWAHATI,||HC stays nod for OIL project in Assam national park||The Gauhati High Court has stayed the environmental clearance given to Oil India Limited (OIL) for extended-reach drilling (ERD) operations at seven locations beneath the Dibru-Saikhowa National Park in eastern Assam. Hearing a PIL on December 7, a Bench comprising acting Chief Justice N. Kotishwar Singh and Justice Manish Choudhury issued the stay order on the May 11 environmental clearance that OIL had received.  Non-compliance of order The stay was in view of the non-compliance of a September 7, 2017, order of the Supreme Court in an earlier case that required the exploration major to conduct biodiversity impact assessment study at the ecologically fragile national park covering 350 sq km. In an affidavit submitted to the High Court on November 17, the Forest Department said Rs. 22 lakh was given to OIL for conducting the study but it was yet to begin work on it. An OIL spokesperson said the exploration major would not take up any drilling till the Supreme Court order is complied with. “As per our commitment made to the apex court, we will not start our ERD operations before carrying out the biodiversity impact assessment study. We have not carried out any operations of the ERD project. We have already begun the ground work for carrying out the said study,” he said from OIL’s headquarters Duliajan in eastern Assam’s Dibrugarh district.
09 December 2020||JAIPUR,||BJP leads in Rajasthan rural polls||The Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party registered a lead in the elections to panchayat bodies in 21 districts of Rajasthan on Tuesday, winning 1,824 seats in Panchayat Samitis and 200 in Zila Parishads. The ruling Congress won 1,710 Panchayat Samiti and 138 Zila Parishad seats. The polling was held in four phases, on November 23, 27, December 1 and 5, to elect 4,371 members of Panchayat Samitis and 636 members of Zila Parishads. Counting of votes was continuing till late evening. The Rashtriya Loktantrik Party, an ally of the BJP which fought the elections independently, bagged 56 Panchayat Samiti and seven Zila Parishad seats. As many as 418 independent candidates and three Bahujan Samaj Party and 16 CPI(M) candidates also won the Panchayat Samiti member seats. Independent candidates are likely to hold the key to the formation of boards in a large number of Panchayat Samitis.
09 December 2020||New Delhi,||Court grants custody parole to riots accused||A Delhi court on Tuesday granted custody parole to a man, arrested in a northeast Delhi riots case, to appear for Delhi Police constable examination on December 9. Additional Sessions Judge Vinod Yadav granted the parole to Yogesh from 12 p.m. to 7 p.m. on December 9 to appear in the exam. The court directed the Mandoli jail authorities to get the admit card of Yogesh downloaded and make necessary arrangements to take him to the examination centre at Dwarka and back to jail.
09 December 2020||GUWAHATI,||AASU plans musical protest against CAA||The All Assam Students’ Union (AASU) has planned a musical protest on December 12 to mark the “dark” anniversary of the contentious Citizenship (Amendment) Act, 2019. The AASU has dubbed the State-wide protest as Gana Hunkaar (public cry) but voices against the “anti-indigenous” Act would be raised through traditional and folk musical instruments, leaders of the outfit said. “New Delhi imposed this anti-Assam legislation on us last year and barbarically tried to crush the people’s agitation through the police. Five innocent people, including a school student, were killed in the police firing on the protesters,” AASU president Dipanka Kumar Nath said. “Apart from demanding the scrapping of CAA, we will also seek justice the families of these five martyrs are yet to get,” he added.
09 December 2020||Noida,||18 held for flesh trade from Greater Noida spa||Eighteen people, including seven women, have been arrested for their alleged involvement in illegal sex trade in Uttar Pradesh’s Greater Noida, the police said on Tuesday. The racket was busted after the local police raided a spa centre located at the Jagat Farm market on Monday evening, according to officials.PTI
