10 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||ICMR to test for community transmission in 75 districts||With India registering 3,320 new COVID-19 cases in the past 24 hours, taking the overall tally as reported by State Health Departments to 62,584, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) on Saturday said it will initiate a study in the worst-affected 75 hotspot districts to check for community transmission. In a separate development, the Health Ministry announced that it will deploy central teams to 10 States witnessing high case load and spurt in cases. “The teams are being sent to Gujarat, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab, West Bengal, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. This is besides the 20 central teams of public health experts earlier sent to the high case load districts. A high level team had recently been deputed to Mumbai to support the State’s efforts,” the Ministry said. “The teams will support State health departments in containment measures,” it added. An ICMR official said the study on community transmission was scheduled for the first week of April but had “subsequently got derailed”. “We had drawn up places based on hot-spots, which being dynamic have changed; a final list will be announced soon,” he said.
10 May 2020||Barwani,||Weary workers lug crashed hopes en route their homes||As the sun soared over the highway in Indore district, Madan Kumar Saroj had to make a tough choice. Riding a moped in the searing summer daytime without some kind of protection against the heat could prove fatal. But having run out of cash and the stock of rice fast draining, the family could take only measured halts. Spotting a patch of shade under a neem tree beside the Mumbai-Indore highway, the family’s 28 members who were all riding on a clutch of rickety mopeds to Kaushambi district in Uttar Pradesh, decided to make one of the rare halts to catch some respite from the afternoon sun. “W oh bole number aayega, number aayega. Arey kab aayega! (They said your number will come, it will come. But when will it come),” said a miffed Devaki Saroj, 42, his wife. The family, after registering to return home with a panchayat in Maharashtra’s Pune district, had waited in vain for 10 days. Both patience and food eventually ran out. And they resolved to undertake the more than 1,300 km journey back home on mopeds. With the third extension of the lockdown dashing all hope that work would resume soon, about 50,000 migrant workers have been crossing over from Maharashtra into Madhya Pradesh’s Barwani district daily since May 3 — huddled inside trucks, precariously perched atop goods lorries, on bicycles, or simply on foot, in a desperate attempt to return home. As many as 10 lakh workers crossed the border since March 22, said Sendhwa Sub Divisional Police Officer Tarunendra Singh Baghel. While a majority were returning to U.P., many were headed towards Rajasthan, Jharkhand and Odisha. A kulfi vendor in Pune district, Mr. Saroj made Rs. 15,000 a month. Barely 10 days into the yearly trip, when the summer was just picking up, his business prospects were crushed by the lockdown. And the rest of the days were spent spending the meagre savings to buy grains. “We had to work as labourers on fields to make ends meet,” he said. Once back home, they plan to await the monsoon, when agricultural labour will be required.
10 May 2020||New Delhi,||Police get a guide to detect fake news||The Bureau of Police Research and Development (BPRD) has published a step-by-step guide for law enforcement agencies to identify “fake news” and videos intended to spread panic through hatred and communal violence in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. The think-tank under the Union Home Ministry, in the detailed guide, has said “digital news has brought back and increased the usage of fake news or yellow journalism” usually “published with the intent to damage an agency, entity or a person and gain financially or politically “often using sensationalist, dishonest or outright fabricated headlines to increase readership.” ‘Look for trusted source’ “Photos, audio recordings, and videos can be edited to mislead the recipient. Look at trusted news sources to verify whether the story is being reported elsewhere. When a story is reported in multiple places, it is more likely to be true,” the manual said, asking the officers to read beyond “outrageous” headlines designed to attract clicks. It asked them to read the whole story and also do a “quick search on the author” if he or she is “reliable and real.”   The manual gives an indicative list of websites that could be accessed for fact-checking including thehindu.com , pib.gov.in and reporterlabs.org among others. Communal angle To explain the communal aspect, the guidelines include a screenshot of a fake video which accused Muslims of licking cleaned plates and spoons to “transfer the virus to people at large”. It also attached a clip where miscreants used fake URLs to mislead people who wanted to donate to PM-CARES fund. The guidelines ask police and other investigating agencies to use open domain tools to authenticate content such as Google Reverse Image search for collecting more information on fake videos. The research body, however, cautioned that the “Investigating officer may consider the case sensitivity because these websites are hosted on foreign servers/cloud systems, that may influence or mislead the investigation due to data leakage.”
10 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||New COVID-19 cases worrying, says CM||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said here on Sunday that the report that two persons who had arrived from the Gulf on Thursday tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 was worrying. He said health workers had checked them before boarding the flight to Kerala. The infection could go undetected and some medicines might even mask it. Many aspects of the pandemic were still unknown. It had scythed through the populations of developed nations. Kerala had mostly been insulated from the worst of its ravages. A minor let-down in guard could cause the virus to spread in the community rapidly. A tightrope walk He said the government was walking a tightrope. It had to bring back Keralites from pandemic regions without inadvertently importing the disease. The COVID-19 situation in neighbouring Tamil Nadu and Karnataka and distant Maharashtra, which had a sizeable non-resident Keralite population aspiring to return home, had compelled the government to reinforce the COVID-19 lockdown restrictions further. The government would not allow any person to enter the State without the requisite pass issued by the Department of Non-Resident Keralites Affairs and the authorities at the point of commencement of their journey. Arrivals with flu symptoms would go into institutional quarantine for 14 days. Infected persons would be hospitalised.
10 May 2020||Patna,||Bihar, Delhi govts. spar over migrants’ train fare||The Nitish Kumar-led Bihar government on Saturday engaged in a virtual face-off with the Delhi dispensation over reimbursement of train fare of returning migrants. The controversy erupted on Friday when Delhi Labour Minister Gopal Rai tweeted, “Train with workers departed from Delhi to Muzaffarpur, Bihar. Fare of all 1,200 on board will be paid by Arvind Kejriwal government.” Citing the tweet, Bpihar Water Resources Minister Sanjay Jha accused the Delhi government of resorting to “cheap populist politics” over the train fare. He posted a letter from Mr. Rai asking the Bihar government to reimburse the train fare spent by the Delhi government to the tune of Rs. 6.5 lakh. “The problem with lies is that you forget what you have said. See, your Minister Gopal Rai is lying on Twitter that your government will pay the fare, and then sends a letter asking for money from us,” Mr. Jha tweeted. “The Bihar government has already paid Rs. 76 lakh as advance to the railways for trains destined to Bihar,” said Mr. Jha. Later, Union Minister Giriraj Singh, too, took on the AAP government for “trying to claim credit when the Bihar government was paying the rail fare”. Replying to Mr. Jha’s claims, Mr. Rai tweeted, “It is true that the Delhi government wrote a letter to the Bihar government...But it is also true that there was no response from them.” Bihar Opposition leader Tejashwi Yadav and poll strategist Prashant Kishor too tweeted to take on the Bihar government over the row.
10 May 2020||HYDEABAD,||COVID-19: State sees 31 new cases, one death||Telangana reported 31 fresh COVID-19 positive cases and a death on Saturday, thus taking the total number of affected persons to 1,163 and the death toll to 30. Of the 31 cases, which includes a migrant, 30 have been reported from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation limits. The number of positive cases was relatively lower (10) only a day before. While the health bulletin released to the media on Saturday reported the number of persons who were so far treated and discharged at 751, there were 382 active cases. As many as 23 patients were discharged after treatment on Saturday. These include 12 from Hyderabad, 3 from Gadwal and 2 each from Suryapet and Adilabad. Thus far, Warangal (Rural), Yadadari and Wanaparthy have not reported any COVID-19 positive cases. Also, 23 districts, including Karimnagar, Sircilla, Kamareddy and Mahabubnagar, among others, did not register any COVID-19 positive case in the past 14 days. The Telangana government continued to appeal to the public to maintain physical distancing, wear face masks, and avoid travelling unnecessarily.
10 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||ICMR, Bharat Biotech tie up for Indian vaccine||The Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) on Saturday announced a research collaboration with Hyderabad-based Bharat Biotech International Ltd (BBIL) to develop a COVID-19 vaccine. The ICMR said in a statement that it had transferred the virus strain isolated at the National Institute of Virology, Pune (an ICMR institute) to BBIL. Fully indigenous “... Work on vaccine development has been initiated between the two partners. ICMR-NIV will provide continuous support to BBIL for vaccine development. ICMR and BBIL will seek fast-track approvals to expedite vaccine development, subsequent animal studies and clinical evaluation of the candidate vaccine, which will be fully indigenous to India,” the ICMR statement said. No further details were available on whether any pre-clinical studies were done or the basis for which this appeared to be a promising step forward for successfully developing a vaccine.
10 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,||Villagers stage protest with bodies of victims||Tension prevailed at LG Polymers at RR Venkatapuram in the city on Saturday as the villagers brought the dead bodies of four victims of the gas leak and staged a dharna demanding that the company be shifted from the area. Over 100 villagers participated in the dharna when DGP D. Goutam Sawang was visiting the accident site. CP’s assurance The police had to resort to mild lathi-charge to quell the situation. The villagers relented only after Commissioner of Police R.K. Meena intervened and assured to look into their grievances. Mr. Sawang interacted with a few villagers who entered the factory by jumping the gate, and assured to take up the matter with the authorities. In the early hours of Thursday, styrene vapours leaked from one of the two storage tanks, and spread across RR Venkatapuram and four other villages in a radius of 1.5 to 3 km. After inhaling the poisonous gas, 12 persons died and over 300 were hospitalised. Over 2,000 families were evacuated. Later, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy announced a package of Rs. 1 crore to the next of kin of the deceased, job to one member of the family and a slew of other packages. “We are happy with the package announced by the Chief Minister. But we are not satisfied with the attitude of the company. It has not enquired about our well-being. We demand its immediate shifting, as we have to live with this imminent danger all the time,” said K. Appanna, who lost his uncle in the incident.
10 May 2020||May 10 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Only severe cases need to test negative for discharge’||The Union Health Ministry has revised its discharge guidelines for COVID-19 patients, saying only those with severe illness need to test negative (through a swab test) before discharge. Other categories of patients — very mild, mild, pre-symptomatic and moderate cases — need not be tested before discharge. The two-page revised guideline replaces the rule that patients could be discharged only after testing negative on the 14th and 21st day after confirmation of the infection.page 7
10 May 2020||May 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Key committee disbanded||The Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) has dissolved a key committee charged with developing a COVID-19 research protocol, team and partners for vaccines as well as drug development.page 7
10 May 2020||New Delhi,||AAP legislator arrested for doctor’s death||Two persons, including AAP MLA Prakash Jarwal, were arrested on Saturday in connection with the death of a BAMS doctor in south Delhi’s Neb Sarai, the police said. The 52-year-old doctor was found dead at his house on April 18. The police said he had blamed Mr. Jarwal and another person in his note.
10 May 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi reports 224 new COVID-19 cases, no death||The Capital on Saturday reported 224 new COVID-19 cases, taking the total number to 6,542, stated a Delhi government health bulletin. No new death was reported in the city and the toll of dead remained at 68. In all, 2,020 patients have recovered so far and 4,454 are under treatment.
10 May 2020||MADURAI,||Colleges, hostels turn isolation centres||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Saturday urged PM Narendra Modi to prevail upon the Ministry of Power to keep the proposed amendments to the Electricity Act in abeyance till they were thoroughly discussed with the States.
10 May 2020||Bengaluru,||Two COVID-19 positive patients give birth||In a first, two COVID-19 patients from Padarayanapura, a containment zone, gave birth through C-Section at the Emergency and Trauma Care Centre on Victoria Hospital premises on Friday night and Saturday morning.
10 May 2020||Belagavi,||Delay in passes leaves many stranded at border||Delays and technical problems in the issue of passes and lack of clarity among officials seem to be slowing down the movement of labourers between States. Everyday, people are lining up on the border checkposts set up in Kankumbi on the Goa highway and Kugunoli near Nippani on the Maharashtra border.
10 May 2020||Bengaluru,||Builders look at design interventions||As the real estate sector slowly resumes, builders and developers are looking at design interventions to accommodate the requirements of a world with COVID-19. According to real estate bodies, developers are introducing more common areas and open spaces to help maintain social distancing.
10 May 2020||Chennai,||Rangarajan panel to study COVID-19 impact||The Tamil Nadu government on Saturday announced the formation of a 24-member committee, headed by former RBI Governor C. Rangarajan, to assess the immediate and medium term impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on different sectors of the State’s economy.
10 May 2020||Chennai,||T.N. to ease lockdown curbs from tomorrow||The Tamil Nadu government on Saturday announced further relaxation of lockdown regulations from May 11 outside COVID-19 containment areas in the State as per the decision taken in the Cabinet meeting on May 2 and the guidelines issued by the Union Home Ministry.
10 May 2020||New Delhi,||Green norms must be discussed: Cong.||The Environment Ministry’s announcement to extend the deadline for receiving public comments on the draft Environment Impact Assessment Notification 2020 by 45 days amid the nationwide lockdown is a “crumb that is being thrown”, Congress leader Jairam Ramesh said in a letter to Environment Minister Prakash Javadekar. Mr. Ramesh had been Environment Minister from May 2009 to July 2011. The EIA Notification 2020 is to replace and supersede the 2006 notification and as many critics claim will fundamentally change the environmental regulatory regime. Mr. Ramesh said life over the next few months was going to be extremely dislocated and an extension by 45 days was a crumb that is being thrown. “What is the great urgency in ramming such a far-reaching notification through at a time of grave national crisis,” he asked in his letter. He has suggested that the notification be first discussed in the Parliamentary standing committee and the Minister meet environmental groups rather than just depend on the online comments before finalising it. Mr. Ramesh told The Hindu that there were many alarming clauses in the draft notification including the concept of post facto clearance. He said it was also a matter of concern the violations could only be reported by the project developer himself and/or government authorities. Not citizens or the civil society. “New construction projects up to 1,50,000 sq.m do not need detailed scrutiny by an expert committee or EIA. Earlier it was 20,000 sq.m. Basically nearly the entire sector with huge greenhouse gas emission is exempt,” he said. Taunting Mr. Javadekar, he said, “I know orders to push through the notification are coming from elsewhere but surely you can fulfil your dharma as Minister responsible for protecting the environment which has assumed special significance in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic.”
10 May 2020||New Delhi,||Cong. welcomes hike in govt. borrowing||Senior Congress leader P. Chidambaram on Saturday welcomed the Centre’s decision to borrow an additional Rs. 4.2 lakh crore, but cautioned that the money should be used to provide relief to the poor and restart the economy. “After resisting our appeals, especially through statements of the Chief Economic Adviser, the government has finally decided to borrow an additional amount of Rs. 4.2 lakh crore, taking the projected fiscal deficit to 5.38%. We welcome the decision,” he said in a statement. The government on Friday revised its gross market borrowing target from the estimated Rs. 7.8 lakh crore to Rs. 12 lakh crore in view of the COVID-19 pandemic. “The estimated gross market borrowing in the financial year 2020-21 will be Rs. 12 lakh crore in place of Rs. 7.8 lakh crore as per the Budget estimates 2020-21. The above revision in borrowings has been necessitated by the COVID-19 pandemic,” the Finance Ministry said in a statement. Earlier, in a series of tweets, Mr. Chidambaram said that as the country went into lockdown, the Congress had asked the government to take care of the migrant workers. He said the party was the first to demand that cash and grain be given to the poorest 50% of the families. However, the Narendra Modi government did not pay heed to the demand, he said. The party had also sought help for the migrants to return home. “Central government dragged its feet for 38 days,” he said. As for the additional borrowing, Mr. Chidambaram said, “It is not enough to borrow more unless the amount is used to provide relief to the poor and restart the economy. We look forward to the revised expenditure budget for 2020-21.” He said the budgeted fiscal deficit of 3.5% should not be a constraint in these extraordinary times.
10 May 2020||New Delhi,||Health Ministry eases discharge guidelines||The Union Health Ministry has revised its discharge guidelines for COVID-19 patients, saying only those with severe illness need to test negative (through a swab test) before discharge. Other categories of patients — very mild, mild, pre-symptomatic and moderate cases — need not be tested before discharge. The two-page revised guideline replaces the rule that patients could be discharged only after testing negative on the 14th and 21st day after confirmation of the infection. Three-tier facilities The guideline states that the revised policy is aligned with the guidelines on the three-tier COVID-19 health facilities and the categorisation of patients based on clinical severity — mild, moderate and severe. Reacting to the revised guideline, Srinivas Rajkumar, general secretary, All India Institute of Medical Sciences Resident Doctors’ Association, said the decision to send back COVID-19 positive patients without testing was a disaster in the making. “People sent back untested may spread the virus in the community. What was the government doing for 40 days without arranging enough testing facilities? Is the government ready to sacrifice 2 lakh Indians or more to COVID-19 based on estimates?” he said. Under the latest guideline, mild, very mild and pre-symptomatic cases admitted to a COVID-19 care facility will undergo regular temperature and pulse monitoring. “Patient can be discharged after 10 days of symptom onset and if they have no fever for three days. There will be no need for testing prior to discharge,” the revised guideline says. It adds that at the time of discharge, patients will be advised to follow home isolation for seven more days. It further clarifies that after discharge from the facility, if patients develop symptoms of fever, cough or breathing difficulty, they must contact a COVID-19 care centre, State helpline or call 1075. Their health will again be followed up through teleconference on Day 14. Moderate cases will undergo monitoring of body temperature and oxygen saturation. If fever resolves within three days and a patient maintains saturation above 95% for the next four days (without oxygen support), he or she will be discharged after 10 days of onset of symptoms in case there is no fever without anti-fever drugs, no breathlessness and no need for oxygen. “There will again be no need for testing prior to discharge, and home isolation for seven days is suggested, with close monitoring of health,” notes the guideline. Explaining the rationale for discharging mild/moderate cases without testing, a senior ICMR scientist told The Hindu : “Studies outside India have shown that positive test result does not mean the person is still infectious. They may be positive for the virus but can remain non-infectious.” Spread of infection He further explained that 10 days after the disease set in, people might not be infectious. But once discharged, they should stay at home for five days. The Ministry’s revision also takes into account the fact that hospitals are reaching their handling capacities. The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention too hadrevisedthe guidelines on May 6, saying that no negative test for the virus is needed before a hospitalised person can be discharged. The CDC says decisions about discharge should be based on “clinical status and the ability of the accepting facility to meet their care needs and adhere to recommended infection prevention and control practices”.  (With inputs from   R. Prasad in Chennai)
10 May 2020||Vijayawada,||A.P.’s dire finances drive it to seek Central help||A precipitous slide in revenues, combined with the burden of the costs associated with the COVID-19 pandemic, has left Andhra Pradesh facing a “grave financial crisis”. Add to it the distress in industry, exacerbated by the mass migration of workers, and the State government finds itself with little option but to look at the Centre for liberal financial help, a stimulus package and statutory measures to help the industry. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had apprised Prime Minister Narendra Modi of the dire situation in the State, during a videoconference in April, and made a pitch for liberal financial aid. The State’s revenue had reportedly dipped to a mere Rs. 2 crore a day. “We could not pay full salaries for the month of March to our staff due to the grave financial crisis,” Mr. Reddy said during his interaction with the PM. The revenue shortfall in A.P. in the wake of the lockdown was about Rs. 5,000 crore a month, Finance Minister Buggana Rajendranath Reddy said. The slump in receipts include deep deficits in excise collections, sales tax, motor vehicles tax and revenue from stamp duty and registration. And the deficit is expected to continue in the month of May, the Minister said. While the actual calculations of the State’s finances and revenue deficit are yet to be confirmed, sources in the government said revenue receipts in the financial year 2019-20 were likely to be about Rs. 1.04 lakh crore as against the revenue of almost Rs. 1.15 lakh crore in the previous fiscal. Despite the challenges, the government has spent about Rs. 1,330 crore on COVID-19 assistance to 1.33 crore white ration card holders in the State. In addition, it spent Rs. 1,400 crore on interest waiver to women’s self-help groups. The government has also made elaborate arrangements, including food and accommodation during the lockdown for nearly 70,000 migrant workers across the 13 districts. As a measure of support to industry during the current crisis, the State has paid Rs. 905 crore of industrial incentives, which were pending since 2014, to the MSME sector. Besides, it has waived Rs. 188 crore in power demand charges and decided to provide Rs. 200 crore in low-interest working capital. The A.P. government is estimated to have so far spent more than Rs. 10,000 crore on COVID-19-related activities, financial assistance and relief measures, the government sources, speaking on the condition of anonymity, revealed. There was also no official statement by the State government on the extent of assistance given by the Centre to address the COVID-19 pandemic so far. Central assistance The Centre has extended financial assistance amounting to Rs. 10,947 crore to A.P. through various schemes to mitigate the impact of COVID-19, BJP State Secretary V. Jaya Prakash Narayana said in a statement. To tide over the crisis, the State government wants the Centre to take a slew of measures to boost industry. In a letter to Mr. Modi on April 30, the chief minister listed A.P.’s contributions to the country’s economy including Rs. 98,983 crore worth of exports during 2018-19. Fund for MSMEs Given the distress across the globe, the CM wanted the Centre to facilitate a fund to support MSMEs for liquidity needed to meet wage liabilities during the lockdown, allow a moratorium on payment of PF, ESI and gratuity for six months, provide for a 12-month moratorium on all repayments for MSMEs, release of delayed payments and waiver of minimum power charges among others. On the GST front, Mr. Reddy suggested an increase in the threshold limit of GST compliance eligibility to an annual turnover of Rs. 100 lakh. He sought several supportive measures for the textiles, auto components, pharma, metals and mining and food processing sectors. And besides a stimulus package, he also urged GST rate cuts.
10 May 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha govt. extends work shift to 12 hours||The Odisha government has temporarily changed the daily eight-hour shift to 12 hours by tweaking the Factories Act, 1948, amid opposition from labour organisations. The State government modified the existing eight-hour shift considering representations of certain industries and industry associations. “In exercise of power conferred by Section 5 and 65 of the Factories Act, 1948, the Government of Odisha hereby directs that all the factories registered under the said Act will be exempted from provisions relating to weekly, daily hours and interval of rest of adult workers under Section 51, 54, 55 and 56 for a period of three months and a 12-hour shift is allowed in the period,” says a government notification. “No adult worker will be allowed or required to work in a factory for more than 12 hours in any day and 72 hours in any week,” it says. As per the notification, the periods of work of adult workers will be so fixed that no period will exceed six hours and that no worker will work for more than six hours before he has had an interval for rest of at least half an hour. The total spreadover will not exceed 13 hours, it adds. Similarly, no female workers will be allowed or required to work in a factory between 7 p.m. and 6 a.m. unless specifically permitted by the government. Janardan Pati, president of Centre of Trade Unions (CITU), said, “The change in working hours is against our Constitution. At a time when workers have been impacted the most due to lockdown, making them work for an additional four hours a day defies logic.”
10 May 2020||New Delhi,||Bengal not cooperating, Shah tells Mamata||Union Home Minister Amit Shah sent a letter to West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Friday stating that the State government was not allowing special trains and it was an “injustice” to stranded migrant workers. The letter said that the Central government had facilitated more than two lakh migrants reach home. “Migrants from West Bengal are also eager to reach home. Central govt. is facilitating but we are not getting expected support from W.B. State Government, which is not allowing the trains to reach W.B. This is injustice with W.B. migrant labourers. This will create further hardship for them,” the letter said. The Railways has been running Shramik Special trains on the request of State governments to help the migrant workers stuck in various parts of the country due to the ongoing nationwide lockdown to reach home.
10 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Row over new link road to Kailash Mansarovar||India’s plans to shorten the travel time for pilgrims to Kailash Mansarovar ran into a diplomatic trouble as Nepal strongly objected to the new link road from India to China which was inaugurated by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Friday. In a strongly worded statement, Nepal’s Foreign Ministry said India’s decision to build the road through territory at the Lipulekh pass that it claims as its territory is a breach of an agreement reached between the two countries to discuss the matter. “The Government of Nepal has learnt with regret about the ‘inauguration’ yesterday by India of ‘Link Road’ connecting to Lipulekh, which passes through Nepali territory,” said the statement on Saturday. Boundary issue “This unilateral act runs against the understanding reached between the two countries, including at the level of Prime Ministers, that a solution to boundary issues would be sought through negotiation,” the statement said, referring to the agreement between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and (then) Nepal PM Sushil Koirala in 2014 for Foreign Secretaries to work out the “outstanding boundary issues” on Kalapani (where Lipulekh lies) and Susta. Nepal Prime Minister K.P. Sharma Oli, along with Pushpa Kamal Dahal “Prachanda”, both of whom are co-chairs of the ruling Nepal Communist Party (NCP) issued a separate statement, referring to India’s decision to build the road during the coronavirus pandemic as “deplorable”. Student activists from the All Nepal National Free Students Union, affiliated to the ruling Nepal Communist Party, and other groups protested outside the Indian embassy in Kathmandu over the new road. “Leaders within the ruling party are also putting pressure on the government to take initiatives in the matter,” a senior Nepali official told The Hindu.  In its response, the Ministry of External Affairs said the road going through Uttarakhand’s Pithoragarh district “lies completely within the territory of India”. MEA response “The road follows the pre-existing route used by the pilgrims of the Kailash Mansarovar Yatra. Under the present project, the same road has been made pliable for the ease and convenience of pilgrims, locals and traders,” the MEA said, adding that the boundary delineation exercise with Nepal is ongoing, and that “India is committed to resolving outstanding boundary issues through diplomatic dialogue and in the spirit of our close and friendly bilateral relations with Nepal”. The road that starts from Dharchula in Uttarakhand and runs 80 km to the Lipulekh pass was built by the Border Roads Organisation.
10 May 2020||Mumbai,||Maharashtra tops 20,000-mark; toll rises to 779||Maharashtra recorded 1,165 more COVID-19 cases, pushing the tally to 20,228 on Saturday. The State also recorded 48 deaths, the highest in a day, taking the toll to 779. The case fatality rate stands at 3.8%. Of the 48 deaths, 27 were in Mumbai, 10 in Pune, eight in Malegaon and one each in Akola, Nanded and Amravati. While 21 of them were men, 27 were women. Health officials said 28 patients had such underlying conditions as diabetes, hypertension and heart disease, which made their recovery difficult. The number of cases has doubled in the State in 10 days, while the number of deaths has doubled in 13 days. Two districts in green Only two districts — Wardha and Gadchiroli — remain in the green zone. All the other 33 districts have reported cases. Mumbai remains the worst affected, with nearly 64% of the cases and 63% of the deaths reported from the city alone. The Mumbai Metropolitan Region, consisting of Thane, Navi Mumbai and other areas, has the highest number of cases in the State. The Pune Municipal Corporation has recorded 1,975 cases and 141 deaths. Malegaon has emerged as an area of concern, with 472 cases and 20 deaths. On Saturday, 330 patients were discharged from hospitals across the State. A total of 3,800 patients has been discharged so far after recovery. As many as 2.41 lakh people in the State are in home quarantine and 13,976 in institutional quarantine. The State has 1,243 active containment zones and has carried out nearly 2.27 lakh tests.
10 May 2020||AHMEDABAD,||Gujarat tally jumps to 7,797; Ahmedabad adds 280 cases||Gujarat on Saturday reported 394 fresh COVID-19 cases, taking the total to 7,797. It also reported 23 deaths, pushing the toll to 472.  The number of recoveries rose to 2,091, with 219 patients discharged on Saturday. Ahmedabad recorded the bulk of new cases and fatalities (280 and 20). The city has so far registered 5,540 cases and 363 deaths. According to the data from the Health Department, there are 5,234 active cases in the State, of which 24 are in a critical condition. As at 5 p.m. on Saturday, 1,09,650 samples have been tested in the State. After Ahmedabad and Surat, the administration in Gandhinagar has decided to impose a total lockdown in the district from Sunday.  In Surat, hundreds of migrant workers took to the streets near the Hazira industrial zone, demanding that they be sent back home. The police lobbed tear-gas shells to break up the crowd.
10 May 2020||Patna,||70 migrants jump quarantine in Bihar||At a time when thousands of workers are returning to Bihar daily, more than 70 migrants on Saturday fled from a quarantine centre in Nawada district of Bihar, citing poor facilities and lack of food and drinking water. As many as 200 migrants are quarantined at Aadarsh Inter School at Sirdala block in the district. On May 8, one of them had tested positive for COVID-19. Local news channels broadcast images of the migrants, including women and children, fleeing from the centre. Efforts are on to trace them, said officials. Similar reports of migrants complaining of food and drinking water not being served came from a quarantine centre at Amarpur block in Banka district. Earlier, more than 20 migrants had run away from a quarantine centre in Katihar district of northeast Bihar. Videos of hapless workers complaining of shoddy facilitieshave been pouring in on social media from different parts of the State. The State government, meanwhile, has banned the entry of media at quarantine centres. Recently, an order released by the Munger District Magistrate instructing officials to ban media persons from visiting quarantine centres went viral on social media. Panel to be formed Sources told The Hindu that the government is planning to form a local-level committee under Circle Officers to look after quarantine centres set up at block levels. Panchayat members will be engaged in the committee. Earlier, Chief Minister Nitish Kumar had announced that he had instructed officials to provide adeqaute food, drinking water, soap and other required facilities at quarantine centres. “The ground realities are however quite different from what the Chief Minister and the officials have been announcing in Patna,” a local journalist from Katihar told The Hindu over phone.
10 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Aarogya Setu app promoting a few e-pharmacies, says SJM||The Swadeshi Jagaran Manch (SJM), an RSS affiliate, has strongly objected to the promotion of some e-pharmacies via the Aarogya Setu app developed by the government. The Aarogya Setu app had been devised, according to the government, as a COVID-19 surveillance-cum-mapping app for the general populace. SJM convener Ashwani Mahajan tweeted strong words against Niti Aayog chief executive officer (CEO) Amitabh Kant over what he deemed the promotion of e-pharmacies that “are functioning illegally in India”. The app has a dialogue box that pops up informing the user that it is leading out of the app, and then to a link to four e-pharma outlets. Speaking to The Hindu , Mr. Mahajan said that while the SJM had no problems with the Aarogya Setu app as such, it had serious objections to the government-backed app promoting four e-pharmacies that were foreign-funded. “We want a level playing ground for all e-commerce and ground retailers,” he said. “Since the app is backed and put in place by the government, crores of Indians have downloaded it and joined the platform, it cannot be linked to such companies that employ predatory practices and are a threat to lakhs of our chemists,” he said.
10 May 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Cong. wants Centre to roll back value cut in wheat MSP||Senior Congress leader Randeep Singh Surjewala on Saturday accused the BJP governments at the Centre and in Haryana of ignoring the interests of farmers by allegedly deciding to make a value cut in the minimum support price of wheat for high moisture content and shrivelled or broken grains. He demanded that the Central government roll back the order, alleging that there was a delay in payment to several farmers by the Haryana government for wheat procurement. Mr. Surjewala alleged that the Central government decided on a value cut of Rs. 15 in the minimum support price of wheat because of moisture content and other issues. He called it a “black chapter in the exploitation of farmers by the BJP government”. He criticised the State government for accepting the Centre’s order of value cut without even protesting. “We will not accept this anti-farmer order and the State government must take up the issue with the Centre. If the BJP government at the Centre does not address the pressing problem of farmers, the State government must bear the cost, not farmers,” he said. “There should not be any reduction in the minimum support price in the guise of shrivelled and broken grains because of rain and hail. The farmers of the State should not suffer for the government’s failure to provide adequate and timely facilities for wheat procurement,” he said. Mr. Surjewala said the BJP-JJP government in the State was ignoring the interests of farmers and leading them towards economic destruction. The Modi and Khattar governments should know that anything detrimental to the interests of farmers will never be tolerated by the people, he said.
10 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||CBSE to start answer sheet evaluation at 3,000 centres||Nearly 3,000 schools affiliated to the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) have been notified as evaluation centres, and will soon begin work on evaluating Class 10 and 12 board examinations which have been disrupted by the lockdown, Human Resource Development Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank said on Saturday. In a memo issued on Saturday, the Union Home Ministry said that while all schools remained closed under the lockdown guidelines to prevent the spread of COVID-19, “special permission has been granted for the operation of 3,000 CBSE-affiliated schools selected as evaluation centres, for the limited purpose of work associated with the evaluation of answer sheets.” It said there was no restriction on the transport of answer sheets to the homes of evaluators unless they were located within a containment zone. CBSE regional offices can also begin work in green and orange zones and function with limited restrictions in red zones, the Ministry memo said. In total, 1.5 crore answer sheets in 173 subjects will be evaluated, said Mr. Nishank. Results will only be announced after the completion of the pending examinations in 29 subjects, which are to be held from July 1 to 15, he added.
10 May 2020||New Delhi,||States should decide on exit plan: Baghel||States should have the power to decide on the strategy to come out of the lockdown, Chhattisgarh Chief Minister Bhupesh Baghel said in a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. He has argued against the centralisation of the fight against COVID-19, saying the States should have been empowered to demarcate containment zones and decide on which economic activities to start and how. Practical difficulties In his May 8 letter, Mr. Baghel highlighted the difficulties in the demarcation of red zones by the Union government. What if fresh cases were detected in a green zone which had already been opened up for basic economic activities, after the Centre announced the demarcation of zones based on the number of cases, he asked. “If a zone which had been opened up is again declared a red zone, whatever little economic activities that had restarted here will have to be shut down again. If an area that has been opened up after a long wait has to be closed down once again, we will only create a situation of unrest and uncertainty,” he said. “To end all these uncertainties, it is essential that while observing all necessary precautions we slowly unroll our usual economic activities. And it would only be appropriate that the State governments are given the full rights to operate the economic activities,” he said.
10 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Key ICMR panel on vaccines dissolved||The Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR) has dissolved a key committee, which was part of the National COVID-19 Task Force (NTF) and tasked with developing a research protocol, a team and partners for vaccines and drug development. The NTF’s key responsibility was to create a “India COVID-19 Clinical Research Collaborative Network”. The group for ‘Vaccines/Drug Research and Development’ — one among five constituted by ICMR Director-General Balram Bhargava on April 6 — was to identify ‘research priorities, review evidence and develop concept notes’. However, these objectives were not met, multiple members of the group confirmed to The Hindu . The group met thrice. One member told The Hindu that the team was probably constituted to help ICMR gain an overview of potential vaccines, existing capabilities in India and research institutions with expertise in specific areas of drug- and vaccine-development. “I don't think it was a statutory committee. There were experts from different institutions such as DBT (Department of Biotechnology) and CSIR (Council for Scientific and Industrial Research) and we gave our views on the strengths and capabilities that existed,” Srivari Chandrasekhar, Director, CSIR-Indian Institute of Chemical Technology, told The Hindu. “From the discussions, ICMR would have got clarity on where they could best invest their expertise and time. A colleague from ICMR was recording deliberations.” In the last month, the Department of Science and Technology, the DBT and the CSIR have compiled the existing knowledge base on drugs, diagnostics and potential vaccine development pathways. According to the ICMR website, members of the group included Gangandeep Kang (Chair), Suman Kanungo (National Institute for Cholera and Enteric Diseases- NICED), Bikash Medhi (Post Graduate Institute for Medical Education and Research), S.S. Das (NICED), Debashish Mitra, (Centre for DNA Fingerprinting and Diagnostics), Sarah Cherian (National Insitute of Virology), Sanjay Mehendale (Hinduja hospital) and Niraj Agrawal (ICMR). Dr. Mitra told The Hindu that the group was “likely reconstituted” and that he was unaware of further developments. Dr. Kang didn't respond to requests for clarification on whether the terms of reference of the group were achieved. Dr. Bhargava, in response to queries, referred this correspondent to ICMR’s Saturday announcement of the Council partnering with Bharat Biotech International Ltd/ for developing an indigenous potential COVID-19 vaccine. The other groups constituted as part of the NTF include a clinical research group headed by Dr. Randeep Guleria of AIIMS and on Research on Diagnostics and Biomarkers headed by D.A. Gadkari.
10 May 2020||Mumbai,||9,000 walking to M.P. sent to shelter homes||A day after 16 migrant labourers were run over by a train on Friday, the district authorities in Aurangabad said they had over the past week intercepted 9,000 people walking to Madhya Pradesh and sent them to shelter homes. On Saturday, a ‘Shramik Special’ train from Aurangabad to Jabalpur with 1,132 migrant labourers reached its destination at noon carrying the 16 bodies and the two injured. Jabalpur District Collector Bharat Yadav said two parcel coaches had been attached to the train to carry 11 bodies to Shahdol and five to Umaria from Jabalpur. The deceased had hoped to board the same train back home. “The two injured were taken to their villages in Mandla by ambulance,” said S.S. Jain, Superintendent of Police (Railways), Jabalpur. All the deceased were aged between 20 and 30 and hailed from Umaria and Shahdol districts. They were working at a steel firm in the Maharashtra Industrial Development Corporation (MIDC) zone in neighbouring Jalna district. On Saturday, the Aurangabad district authorities said they had close to 9,000 such migrant labourers housed in various shelter homes where food, water and facilities to play carrom had been provided. Radio or television sets were also available in some homes. Senior officials ensured that expectant mothers and those with infants received care and were provided with formula milk and sanitary napkins by paying out of their pockets. “We have alerted neighbouring Jalna to keep patrolling to dissuade people from coming on tracks. To avoid fatalities on roads, constant patrolling is on,” Mokshada Patil, SP (Aurangabad Rural), said. State government officials said the number of migrant workers on foot is hard to assess because some take paths through jungles and internal roads. Some are on the highway. “As of now, whoever we see, we stop them and plead not to march ahead,” the official said. The official said a majority of the 1,132 people who reached Jabalpur were workers who had been in Pune and had walked over 200 km to Aurangabad before boarding the train.
10 May 2020||New Delhi,||Narco-terrorist with links to Pak. groups held||In a joint operation, the National Investigation Agency (NIA) and the Punjab and Haryana police arrested Ranjit Singh, an alleged narco-terrorist, at Sirsa in Haryana on Saturday. In a statement, the NIA said Singh was acting as a conduit for Pakistan-based groups to push drugs into India, and the money generated was used for terror activities. The NIA said Singh alias Rana, and another accused Iqbal Singh alias Shera, were the prime accused in a case registered by the NIA last year in connection with the seizure of 532 kg of heroin hidden in a consignment of rock salt imported from Pakistan. The seizure was made by Customs officials at the Attari border checkpoint on June 29 last. “Investigation revealed that Pakistan- based entities are smuggling narcotics from Pakistan into the Indian territory by hiding them in sacks of rock salt imported from Pakistan. This is done through an elaborate network of importers, custom house agents and transporters,” the statement said. The NIA said the seized consignment was part of five consignments of drugs, of which four had been smuggled into India. The first chargesheet was submitted in December last year against 15 persons, including Singh, who had been absconding since then. The NIA said Singh was also the prime accused in the recent unearthing of a Hizb-ul Mujahideen terror-funding module, with the arrest of suspect Hilal Ahmad Wagay on April 25 with Rs. 29 lakh, by the Punjab police. “This money was being transported to the Kashmir Valley to be handed over to Riyaz Naikoo, chief operational commander of the Hizb-ul Mujahideen,” the NIA said. Naikoo was killed in a gunfight with security forces earlier this week.
10 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘HC order hampers reopening of economy’||The Tamil Nadu government, which on Saturday moved the Supreme Court against a Madras High Court order to close liquor shops in the State, also filed a separate memo, requesting that the case be heard even on Sunday. “The entire country and the State are facing a unique situation, wherein the economy is sought to be reopened in a phased manner, the directions issued are seriously impeding this process. Therefore it is prayed that this case may be listed at the earliest, even on Sunday, so as to mitigate the hardship caused to the citizens,” the State said. Tamil Nadu, represented by advocate Yogesh Kanna and State Additional Advocate-General Balaji Srinivasan, said liquor retail was owned and operated by the Tamil Nadu State Marketing Corporation Limited (TASMAC). The order for an open-ended ban was on the basis of petitions filed by parties interested in keeping the State-run shops closed, he said. As for online liquor sales and home delivery, Tamil Nadu said the Supreme Court had clarified on May 8 that a decision would be left to the discretion of the States. It said no other State, except Maharashtra where the COVID-19 cases were three to four times more than Tamil Nadu, sold liquor exclusively through online means. Online sales could at best supplement sales through physical outlets. “E-payment and home delivery call for immense logistical coordination, supply chain management, which needs time and manpower, especially in the present situation,” the petition contended.
10 May 2020||May 10 2020 00:00 IST,||ICMR to test for community spread||“But we will go into 75 districts to find the spread, if any, and extent of community spread,” said a senior ICMR official. Community transmission is said to have taken place where tracing the source of infection is not possible, he said. The ICMR, which was supposed to use the rapid antibody test kits for the survey, will now use the enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) test — used in HIV detection — for the survey. Fatality rate now 3.3% On Saturday, the country registered 95 more deaths, taking the total COVID-19 fatalities to 1,981, the Health Ministry said. 17,847 persons have been cured so far with 1,307 cured in the last 24 hours. India now has a fatality rate of 3.3% and recovery rate is 29.9%, a Ministry release said. Data from State Health Departments put the nationwide death toll at 1992, with 40,382 active cases. A total of 280 new cases were reported from Ahmedabad along with 20 more deaths on Saturday, taking the total case count to 5,540 in the district and fatalities to 363, a Gujarat Health department official said. Maharashtra reported 1,165 new case, taking its tally to 20, 228. The State also reported 48 deaths, taking the death toll to 779, said a health department official. Cumulatively, 15,25,631 tests have been done so far for COVID-19, the Ministry added.
10 May 2020||May 10 2020 00:00 IST,||ICMR, Bharat Biotech tie up for Indian vaccine||Chairman and Managing Director of Bharat Biotech, Dr. Krishna Ella said in a statement: “We are very proud to participate in this project of national importance with ICMR and NIV. We will do everything to make this program successful in our nation endeavour to combat COVID-19 pandemic.” Saturday’s announcement is BBIL’s third stated initiative in developing a COVID-19 vaccine. On April 20, the Department of Biotechnology had announced funding support to the company to develop a vaccine candidate utilising the inactivated rabies vector platform. On April 3, the company had said it was working on 'CoroFlu', a one-drop COVID-19 nasal vaccine built on a flu vaccine “backbone” that had proven to be safe in humans. For developing that vaccine, BBIL was part of an international collaboration of virologists at the University of Wisconsin, Madison, and vaccine company FluGen. Head of Business Development at Bharat Biotech Raches Ella had then said: “Bharat Biotech will manufacture the vaccine, conduct clinical trials and prepare to produce almost 300 million doses of vaccine for global distribution. Under the collaboration agreement, FluGen will transfer its existing manufacturing processes to Bharat Biotech to enable the company to scale up production and produce the vaccine for clinical trials”.
10 May 2020||May 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Police get a guide to detect fake news||The manual said some points to identify fake news were when headlines, visuals or captions do not support the content or when “genuine contents or sources are impersonated with false or made-up sources” and content is fabricated to deceive and harm. It said there was another category of satire or parody, where the intention is to not cause harm, but it has the potential to fool people. Telltale signs The manual suggests that to spot fake news, the investigating officer should stay alert to clues such as language, since such websites and links usually have spelling mistakes, and adds that officials must look for indicative signs to check if the information is accurate. “The extensive spread of fake news has the potential to gravely impact individuals as well as the society at large. Therefore, fake news detection in cyber space has become an important issue for the law enforcement agencies. The step-by-step procedure will assist LEAs in spotting and investigating fake news in a systematic manner. It will also help in effective prosecution of offenders involved in such mischievous acts,” said the guidelines.
10 May 2020||May 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Weary workers carry crushed hopes home||Crammed inside a truck bearing the ‘MH-04’ registration code of Thane, Siaram Jaiswal holds on to a rope at its rear to keep himself from falling every time the vehicle navigates a curve or a bump or brakes. “Each year, I used to send my family money. Now I had to ask them for it,” said Mr. Jaiswal, who was working as a security guard in the city. The truck is bound for Basti district in U.P. and each of the 30 passengers have had to pay Rs. 4,000 each to book a spot — space to stand for the entire 1,600 km journey.  ‘No factories’ “My village has no factories; that’s why we moved to Mumbai,” said Dharam Singh, 23, a fruit vendor, waiting for his turn to receive a portion of khichdi arranged by a local temple at the border checkpost. “During the lockdown period, we were fed this every day, and we got bored of it. Today, this is our first meal after two days. Doesn’t it look tasty? Kya bolte? (What do you say?),” he nudged the worker standing in the queue ahead of him, with glittering eyes, who nodded. Sonu Rawat, a Saharia Adivasi, pushes a wheelbarrow laden with utensils, clothes and toys stacked inside, and three toddlers flopping over the heap. A tattered piece of discarded sari, tied across four bamboo sticks fastened to the cart, barely shields them from the sun. Long journey “Only God is giving us strength,” said Mr. Rawat. The group of 32, who work at a brick kiln on Dhar Road in Indore, is headed to Lalitpur district in Uttar Pradesh. They said they expected to reach home in about 10 days. “The contractor, who lent us Rs. 1 lakh for my daughter’s wedding, took us to the kiln so that we could work for repaying the amount. We are left with work worth another Rs. 24,000. We will return after the monsoon,” he said.
10 May 2020||Mumbai,||Dharavi adds 25 cases||Twenty five more COVID-19 cases were recorded in Dharavi on Saturday, pushing the tally in the slum pocket to 833. The area also recorded one more death, taking the toll to 27. New civic commissioner Iqbal Chahal visited Dharavi on Saturday and interacted with many locals. The new cases were from Prem Nagar, Kela Bakhar, Rajiv Gandhi Nagar, Muslim Nagar and Shiv Shakti Nagar. Five cases were reported from Mukund Nagar that has the most cases in the area. Dharavi has 3,000 beds in various quarantine facilities and more than 2,400 people are under institutional quarantine.
10 May 2020||Kolkata,||‘Centre is targeting State’||The Trinamool Congress on Saturday released letters written by the West Bengal government to Telangana, Rajasthan, Karnataka and Kerala seeking details of stranded migrants and their destinations. State Home Secretary Alapan Bandyodhyay said the return of migrants was based on “bilateral discussions” between the States and there was “a well-planned process for taking back the migrants”. Earlier, the party denied Union Home Minister Amit Shah’s charge that the State government was not allowing special trains. Eight trains with 30,000 migrants would arrive in the State in the next few days, it said. Trinamool national spokesperson Derek O’ Brien said Mr. Shah had targeted the State “without facts and with a bunch of lies”. “There is too much evidence in the public domain to suggest that West Bengal is being targeted. It was targeted through bureaucrats, and now the Home Minister has woken up from slumber and targeted the State without any facts,” he said. Trinamool MP Abhishek Banerjee said Mr. Amit Shah should either prove the allegation or apologise.
10 May 2020||Kolkata,||Private lab in Kolkata sealed for illegal tests||At a time when the West Bengal government is trying to increase the number of COVID-19 tests, an incident of a private lab conducting tests illegally for the disease has come to the fore in Kolkata. An FIR has been lodged and immediate closure ordered against a Kakurgachi-based testing lab. The lab has also been fined Rs. 10 lakh. “Inquiry has revealed that the said Diagnostic Laboratory did not have ICMR approval and was, hence, found to be doing concluding tests illegally,” an order from Sanjay Bansal, Secretary, Health and Family Welfare Department, said.
10 May 2020||JAIPUR,||Rajasthan mandi cess opposed||The imposition of a new cess of 2% on sale and purchase of agricultural commodities in mandis for monetary contributions to the Farmers’ Welfare Fund has taken a political twist in Rajasthan. The Opposition Bharatiya Janata Party and Rashtriya Loktantrik Party have alleged that the cess will force the farmers to sell their agricultural produce at much lower prices. The State government had said the cess collected would be deposited in the Farmers’ Welfare Fund of the Agricultural Marketing Board to be used only for activities and schemes for the farmers. As a mark of protest, the traders have closed all the 247 Krishi Upaj Mandis as well as the flour, oil and pulses mills in the State for five days from Wednesday.
10 May 2020||May 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Big risks||
10 May 2020||New Delhi/Ahmedabad,||Shah quashes rumours, says he is healthy||Dismissing rumours, Union Home Minister Amit Shah issued a statement on Saturday that he is healthy and not suffering from any ailment. In a signed statement, Mr. Shah said for the past few days rumours have been floating on social media regarding his health and “some people even wished death for me through their tweets”. “In the past two days, lakhs of people from my party and well-wishers expressed concern about my health ... I would like to clarify today that I am totally healthy and not suffering from any ailment. According to Hindu beliefs, such rumours make a person healthier. So I would like to request everyone to mind their work... ,” he said. Ahmedabad’s Crime Branch arrested four persons for allegedly spreading misinformation about the health of Mr. Shah by circulating a fake tweet, said Special Commissioner (crime) Ajay Tomar.
10 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||4 Maoists, SI killed in encounter||In a joint operation, the Indo Tibetan Border Police (ITBP) and Chhattisgarh police killed four Maoists in an encounter in Chhattisgarh’s Rajnandgaon district on Saturday. Shyam Kishore Sharma, a sub-inspector (SI), was also killed in the encounter. The bodies of the Maoists were recovered and they include two women, said an ITBP official.
10 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||ED attaches assets in AJL case||The Enforcement Directorate (ED) has attached assets worth Rs. 16.58 crore in the Associated Journals Limited (AJL) case. The attachment order was issued on the company and veteran Congress leader Motilal Vora, as its then CMD, said the agency. The case involves an alleged irregular re-allotment of a Panchkula plot to the AJL in 2005. The plot was allotted to the company in 1982. The Haryana Urban Development Authority (HUDA) took back the land in 1992 as the AJL did not comply with some conditions of allotment, it is alleged. “However, Bhupinder Singh Hooda, the then Chief Minister of Haryana and Chairman of HUDA ... allotted the said plot afresh in the guise of re-allotment,” said the agency. The allotment was done at original rates plus interest in alleged violation of HUDA policy, vide a 2005 order.
10 May 2020||Srinagar,||Valley hospital turns COVID-19 hotspot||A super-speciality hospital and an apple cold storage unit have become COVID-19 infection hubs in the Kashmir valley, as 13 more people tested positive for coronavirus on Saturday, pushing the total to 836. The hospital, associated with the Government Medical College (GMC), witnessed the death of a 34-year-old attendant, who was tending to his ailing father, on May 7. Two days later, 11 people, including one doctor, two nurses, have tested positive. “Around 20 staff members have been put in administrative quarantine. A majority of staff has been tested and found negative,” said Dr. Salim Khan, head of department, Social and Preventive Medicine and nodal officer for COVID-19  .
10 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Bengal cleared 10 trains, says Railways||The Railways, which has so far run more than 300 Shramik specials, on Saturday said the West Bengal government had given approval to run 10 such trains to ferry migrants. In a tweet on Friday evening, the Railways said it had run over 300 specials for States such as Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Odisha and Madhya Pradesh. However, for West Bengal, it had received approval only for two — one from Ajmer Sharif (in Rajasthan) and the other from Ernakulam (in Kerala). It said after the request by Home Minister Amit Shah, West Bengal had approved two trains each from Punjab and Tamil Nadu, three from Karnataka and one from Telangana “which are being arranged”. Mr. Shah had earlier in the day sent a letter to West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee stating that the State government was not allowing the trains and it was “injustice” to the stranded workers. The Railway Ministry said West Bengal “has not approved any train from Maharashtra, while there is a requirement of 16 trains to West Bengal and presently six requests are pending for which approval is still awaited from West Bengal”. A Railways spokesperson said it has so far run about 302 such trains, ferrying about 3.4 lakh passengers.
10 May 2020||GUWAHATI,||Demand for Bharat Ratna for ‘Bodofa’||Bodoland People’s Front (BPF) president Hagrama Mohilary has asked the Union government to bestow Bharat Ratna posthumously on Upendranath Brahma. Revered as Bodofa — father of the community — Brahma had spearheaded the Bodoland statehood movement that led to the creation of the Bodoland Territorial Council (BTC) in February 2003. The BPF, a minor partner in the Assam government led by the BJP, had an uninterrupted reign in the BTC until Governor’s Rule was imposed after the expiry of its five-year term. “Bodofa has always remained an icon of Bodo leadership, sacrifice and unity. ‘Live and let live’ was his mantra...,” Mr. Mohilary said.
10 May 2020||ARIYALUR,TAMIL NADU||‘Positive patients respond to treatment well’||Allaying fears on the spread of COVID 19 virus in the district, Collector D. Rathna said that almost all of the positive patients were responding to the treatment well and they had been given best treatment. Detailing the steps taken by the district administration to treat the patients as the number of positive cases have shot up to 246 over the last few days, Ms.Rathna said that the cases had gone up after a group of infected workers from other places returned to Ariyalur. After medical screening, they were put in quarantine. Mrs. Rathna said that out of 246 patients, six were discharged. While nine were undergoing treatment at the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital in Tiruchi, 76 were at the Government Hospital in Ariyalur. Remaining 154 patients were quarantined at government and private institutions in Ariyalur, Royapuram, Andimadam and Jayankondam. All of them were well. They were being treated as per the treatment protocol of the State government. None of them had symptoms of COVID 19 virus. However, since they were tested positive for COVID 19, they were put in quarantine. Similarly, the Collector said that in addition to them, 212 persons had returned to Ariyalur from other places. They had been quarantined at various educational institutes at Thathanur, Koovagam, Keelapalur and Jayankondam. Mrs. Rathna said that the villages of virus affected persons were brought under the list of containment zones. She added that the government hospital in Ariyalur had sufficient stock of medicine and equipment to treat the patients. All patients would be taken care of well.
10 May 2020||Bengaluru,TAMIL NADU||Karnataka mulls relaxing some key labour laws||The State government is considering relaxing some key labour laws meant to protect the interests of workers in Karnataka, including those which govern termination, retrenchment and closure, even as it is consulting stakeholders. Multiple sources confirmed that the government, like its counterparts elsewhere in the country, could take the Ordinance route to bring about changes, a move which is being opposed by unions. Changes are being sought in the implementation of Factories Act, Industrial Disputes Act, Contract Labour (Regulation and Abolition) Act, and Minimum Wages Act. In line with others Sources aware of the developments said that many of the changes to these laws were in line with those brought in Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, and Gujarat. It is learnt that though the Labour Department is holding its ground and opposing the amendments, the Industries and Commerce Department is pushing for some of these amendments. A source in the Labour Department said, “We are discussing with both industry bodies and trade unions on the proposed changes.” Extending hours On Saturday, the department sought inputs from industry leaders while a scheduled meeting with labour unions was deferred. CII said in a release, post the meeting, “The government is looking at extending working hours to a daily 12-hour shift and a 72-hour shift per week.” The FKCCI, in its letter to Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar, on Friday sought deferment of labour laws for three years to attract new investments to the State. When other states have already deferred labour laws, Karnataka may lose opportunity if it does not follow suit, it said. The industry body has listed 15 things to do to attract investments, and deferring labour laws for three years is one of them. It has been proposed to amend the Factories Act to increase the working hours from the current 8-hour shift to 10 or 12 hours. The wages will be in proportion to the existing wages and the additional time will not be considered as overtime. The Industries and Commerce Department has also pushed to defer the implementation of the new minimum wages notified under the Minimum Wages Act, which received the Karnataka High Court’s nod recently, by a year. The new minimum wages were to come into effect from April, 2020. The Industrial Dispute Act that governs the termination, retrenchment and closure of industries is also being looked at. Sources said that the discussion was on to increase the threshold limit of the employees that will enable employers to shut down the industry. “Currently, factories that employ more than 100 employees need government permission to close. Now discussions are on to increase the employee limit,” he said. The Contract Labour (Regulation and Abolition) Act, that mandates employers to register the contract labour, is also being looked into. Further, the Industries and Commerce Department has proposed an exemption for industries from paying rise in variable dearness allowance for 2020-2021, defer payment of ESI and PF contribution for three months, among others. Opposing the proposed amendments to crucial labour legislations, a trade union leader asked: “Karnataka is a leading industrial State with these labour laws. Then why is the government pushing for these changes?” “How far the Labour Department will be successful in stalling these amendments is to be seen,” a government source added.
10 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Thirumazhisai market ready||The temporary market that has been set up at Thirumazhisai will begin functioning from Monday. On Saturday, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami and Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam inspected the facilities along with officials of the Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority. According to officials, only wholesale shops from Koyambedu would be allowed to function in the new premises. About 200 shops had been set up with 10 feet space between them to ensure physical distancing. The 200-sq.ft. shops had been divided into four blocks. Toilet blocks and shelters for workers had been provided, the officials said. Provision had been made for bank kiosks and food stalls at the makeshift market. Roads had been paved to facilitate entry of heavy vehicles and for unloading of vegetables. All vehicles would be sanitised before they enter the premises. The market would be monitored from watch towers, sources said. Koyambedu wholesale vegetable market was closed on May 5 as it became a COVID-19 cluster with the traders and vendors becoming carriers of the infection when they returned home. According to Koyambedu wholesale traders, vehicles would begin to arrive from 7 p.m. Sunday and sales would start from the early hours of Monday and go on till 10 a.m. A separate block had been allotted for onion and potato stalls as heavy vehicles from Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra would bring these produce. Moreover, space had been earmarked for those selling mint, coriander, greens and coconut. Passes for vehicles and traders were expected to be issued on Sunday. About 2,000 workers were expected to work in the new market, traders said.
10 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||From tomorrow, shops to stay open longer||The Tamil Nadu government on Saturday announced a further relaxation of lockdown regulations from Monday, for areas outside containment zones in the State. A press release said that in areas under the Greater Chennai Police, shops selling vegetables and essentials would function from 6 a.m. to 7 p.m. Standalone and neighbourhood shops would be allowed to operate between 10.30 a.m. and 6 p.m., it added. Shops selling vegetables and essentials in other parts of Tamil Nadu would function from 6 a.m. to 7 p.m. Standalone and neighbourhood shops would be allowed between 10 a.m. and 7 p.m. Warning issued Tea shops would be allowed to function in all areas, except containment zones, between 6 a.m. and 7 p.m., for parcel service alone. The government said that tea shops should ensure that physical distancing norms are followed and must disinfect the shops five times a day. “Customers are not allowed to sit in the shops. Shops violating rules will be shut down,” the government warned. Petrol pumps in areas under the Greater Chennai Police can function from 6 a.m. to 6 p.m. In other areas, they will function between 6 a.m. and 8 p.m. There are no restrictions on working hours for pumps along National Highways.  Private firms Private establishments in areas under the Greater Chennai Police can function between 10.30 a.m. and 6 p.m. with 33% employees. In other areas, working hours will be between 10 a.m. and 7 p.m. The government has urged District Collectors, Corporation Commissioners and the police to strictly enforce standard operating procedures, physical distancing norms, ensure the safety of workers and the disinfection of establishments. “The relaxations already announced will be in force till further orders are issued. People and private establishments are advised to cooperate with the government,” the release said.
10 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Now, a panel to assess impact of pandemic on economy||The Tamil Nadu government on Saturday announced the formation of a 24-member committee, headed by former Governor of the Reserve Bank of India C. Rangarajan, to assess the immediate and medium-term impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on various sectors of the State’s economy. This is the 16th committee formed by the government to tackle issues arising out of the pandemic. This also comes in the wake of Punjab forming a similar panel. As far as Tamil Nadu is concerned, there is one more reason for constituting the panel. During his reply in the Assembly to the debate on the State Budget in February, Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam, who also holds the Finance portfolio, stated that a committee of experts would be set up to recommend measures to improve the tax-GSDP (Gross State Domestic Product) ratio. Apart from this, the committee will give its findings on the impact of the COVID-19 crisis on the State government’s fiscal position and outline the way forward to improve the fiscal health, including increasing tax, diversifying revenue sources and re-prioritising expenditure. The panel will also study the lockdown’s impact, additional costs and implications due to personal distancing and other precautionary measures; assess opportunities and threats in the short and medium terms and suggest measures required to help the important sectors of the economy overcome the adverse impact. Besides, it will identify fiscal issues and economic promotion measures required to be pursued by the State government with the Centre and possible sources of financing and funding for different sectors, including infrastructure projects and small businesses.  Non-official members Former Chief Secretary N. Narayanan, who served as Finance Secretary for years under the chief ministership of M. Karunanidhi and Jayalalithaa; vice chancellors of Madras and Agricultural University P. Duraisamy and N. Kumar; directors of Madras School of Economics and Madras Institute of Development Studies K. R. Shanmugam and P.G. Babu; three industrialists A. Vellayyan, former chairman of the Murugappa Group, N. Srinivasan, vice chairman and managing director of India Cements and Venu Srinivasan, chairman of TVS Motors; MD of Indian Bank Padmaja Chunduru; MD and CEO of Equitas Bank P.N. Vasudevan; public finance expert M. Govinda Rao; professor at the Indian Institute of Technology-Madras M. Suresh Babu; and UNICEF coordinator in Chennai Pinaki Chakraborty are the non-official members of the panel, according to an order issued by the Finance Department. While Additional Chief Secretary (Finance) S. Krishnan will serve as the coordinator of the committee, other representatives of the government are Principal Secretaries in charge of Industries, Agriculture, Animal Husbandry and Fisheries, Housing and Urban Development, Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises and Handlooms, Handicrafts, Textiles and Khadi departments; Additional Chief Secretaries looking after Labour and Employment, Tourism and Culture departments and the Secretary of the Information Technology department. The committee has been asked to submit its final report to the government in three months, besides an interim report.
10 May 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Special train takes migrants to Odisha||For the first time, a Shramik Special train was operated from Chennai Central station to Jagan Nathapur in Odisha on Saturday. A senior official of Southern Railway said the 24-coach train carrying migrants and stranded passengers was operated via Renigunta, Vijayawada, Balharsha, Nagpur, Bilaspur, Jharsuguda, and Khurda Road junction. The train left the Central station at 10 p.m. and would reach its destination at 8 a.m. on Monday. A railway official said that the train scheduled to be operated from Chennai, which has a large migrant population, was being kept secret to avoid unnecessary crowding by passengers at the Central railway station during the lockdown. Vellore to Patna The third train carrying 1,138 patients and their caregivers from Vellore district left for Patna in Bihar on Friday. The 24-coach train was commissioned at Katpadi junction after the district administration got concurrence of Bihar government to receive the batch. Vellore Collector A. Shanmuga Sundaram said that 9,093 people were listed to leave Vellore district. Staying in lodges and other residential localities around Christian Medical College Hospital, they were stranded after the institution was declared a COVID-19 facility. After the government decided to allow them to go home, two trains were arranged to Ranchi this week. Nod awaited There are over 4,000 people from West Bengal staying in Vellore district and arrangements would be made for their return once the government of their home State gives its concurrence, said Mr. Sundaram.
10 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Online application for RTI in the works||Applications seeking documents under the Right to Information (RTI) Act can now be filed online in Tamil Nadu. A Government Order issued by S. Swarna, Secretary, Department of Personnel and Administrative Reforms, on April 29, said the facility of online filing of petitions under Section 6(1) and First Appeals under Section 19(1) of RTI Act will be rolled out. This will be done using the software available with the National Informatics Centre (NIC) and after making necessary changes to make it suitable for the needs of the State. “As a first step, a trial run of the software for filing of petitions will be conducted in the Personnel and Administrative Reforms Department at the Secretariat. After ascertaining the performance, a pilot run will be conducted in a major department such as School Education Department, which has a wide penetration of officers in the State,” Ms. Swarna said. The government also decided to accept online payment pending amendment to the Tamil Nadu RTI (Fees) Rules and to engage the State Bank of India to act as a merchant banker for providing payment gateway. So far, applications under the RTI Act, are submitted in the State only through typed or handwritten applications. Karnataka, Maharashtra, Meghalaya, Odisha and Uttar Pradesh and Delhi already allowed online applications. Many RTI activists consistently demanded that online application facility be introduced in the State. Reacting to the decision, RTI activist, V. Gopalakrishnan, said, “It is too late since other States have already introduced the system. The State Information Commission recommended that the government introduce the online facility.” However, another activist P. Viswanathan welcomed the addition and said “This introduction of online facility will encourage the younger generations to file more petitions and will bring more transparency into the system.”
10 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Two flights, a whole range of emotions||Velmurugan, in his 50s, left Tirunelveli with his brother-in-law on Thursday, for Chennai. The journey was rather painful, as he was to receive his 29-year-old daughter V. Kollammal, who was arriving from Dubai along with the mortal remains of her husband L.M. Kumar. “It is a long journey back and a tough road ahead for us. I don’t know how to comfort her. It is heart-wrenching for me see these events unfold at this age of my life,” he said. His daughter and son-in-law were living in Dubai and were to celebrate their third anniversary next month. Ms. Kollammal was among the 358 Indian nationals flown to Chennai by two flights from Dubai at 12.30 a.m. and 1.30 a.m. on Saturday. After completing the procedures at the airport, she and her father have now left for their home town. The remaining passengers finished the immigration procedures, gave authorities their swab samples, and then left for quarantine centres. All of them were given a choice of free quarantine accommodation offered by the government or paying and staying in a hotel.  Options given While nearly 230 passengers were taken to a college campus on the Vandalur-Kelambakkam road, 102 opted to stay in a hotel in Periyamet which will cost them Rs. 1,500 a day. The remaining checked into a luxury hotel in Guindy. All passengers were taken by bus and would remain in quarantine for two weeks at these locations. For 30-year-old Suganya Saravanan, the homecoming is rather special and crucial as she is expecting to deliver soon. It was a hurried decision — after receiving a mail from the Indian embassy, her husband quickly booked tickets for her to return home. “It was a smooth process. From staff at the Dubai and Chennai airports to co-passengers, everyone helped me and didn’t even allow me to lift my baggage,” she said. The flight itself was a unique experience, as almost everyone was clad in personal protective equipment, she said. “As soon as we entered the aircraft, we were given a new set of gloves and masks. The food — a sandwich and cake — and water were already placed in each seat. The crew was fantastic,” she added. After spending two weeks in quarantine, she will return to Puducherry for the birth of her child.  As soon as we entered the aircraft, we were given a new set of gloves and masks. The food and water were already placed in each seat Suganya Saravanan Passenger
10 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Patients housed in Corpn. care centres stage protests||Patients housed in COVID-19 care centres of the Chennai Corporation have been holding protests against civic officials, demanding better facilities. Hundreds of patients were housed in the care centres of the Corporation after the Health Department permitted the shifting of asymptomatic patients. Patients and their family members had started a campaign on social media demanding better facilities at the centres. The information on social media led to a rise in the number of protests by patients in various centres. Video recordings of conditions at the centres have been shared on social media, highlighting the problems faced by patients. “We do not get nutritious food. The food is inadequate and drinking water is not supplied either,” said a patient. Some women and children, admitted to the centres, have complained of a lack of medical care from qualified doctors. Protests in Loyola College and the Chennai Trade Centre have been shared on social media. Patients have complained about the delay in food delivery and the lack of medical care. ‘Not clean’ Traders who were housed in a marriage hall on the outskirts of the city said that officials housed them in the building without cleaning it. “The building has not been cleaned for months. Toilet cleaning has not been done properly. They should keep the building clean. Disinfection is not done regularly. They sent us inside and closed the door, leaving us without food and water for several hours,” said a trader. Corporation officials said that they had assessed the condition of the centres to improve services. “The Corporation on Saturday received reports of a large number of patients testing negative for COVID-19 in several care centres. More than 50% of patients at the centres tested negative on Saturday,” said a Corporation official. Testing for patients is being done at the Chennai Trade Centre, where protests have been frequent. “Over 154 patients have tested negative for COVID-19. Doctors have to make a decision on asking them to remain under home quarantine. We will provide additional food for the patients,” said an official. Over 1,000 patients, admitted to tertiary care hospitals, have been shifted to the care centres. Work on development of care centres for at least 50,000 patients is expected to be completed by the end of the month.
10 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Four women die, 526 persons test positive||Four more women succumbed to COVID-19, taking the toll to 44 in Tamil Nadu, which on Saturday, for the fifth consecutive day, saw over 500 persons testing positive for the novel coronavirus disease. With the day’s 526 cases, the number of patients who have tested positive as on date in the State rose to 6,535*, of which 1,867 were attributed to the Koyambedu market cluster. The fresh cases were reported in 20 districts, with Chennai continuing to lead the table with 279 cases. According to the Health Department, a 67-year-old Chennai resident undergoing treatment at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital since May 1 died on Friday night, while a 70-year-old resident of Ramanathapuram died on Saturday afternoon at the Sivagangai Medical College Hospital. Both had co-morbid conditions. At the Government Kilpauk Medical College Hospital, a 58-year-old Chennai resident, admitted on May 7, died shortly past midnight on May 8 and a 73-year-old resident of Chennai, admitted on May 4, died at 3.40 p.m. on the same day, the Health Department said. On Saturday, 219 persons were discharged from hospitals. Totally 1,824 persons have been discharged till date and 4,248 persons suspected to have symptoms of COVID-19 are in isolation wards. New cases Among the new patients — 360 male and 166 female — was a five-day-old baby in Chennai. The city’s total tally of cases stood at 3,330, of which 2,757 are active cases. A majority of the new cases were reported in the northern districts of the State. There were 67 cases in Villupuram, 40 in Chengalpattu, 26 in Tiruvallur, 17 in Kancheepuram and 15 in Tiruvannamalai. The cases continued to increase in Ariyalur and Perambalur, that accounted for 16 and 31 cases, respectively. There were 10 cases in Ranipet, eight in Tirunelveli, four in Tirupattur, three in Cuddalore, two each in Ramanathapuram and Theni, and one each in Dindigul, Kallakurichi, Namakkal, Nilgiris, Thanjavur and Tiruchi. Cuddalore had the second highest number of cases with 394, followed by Villupuram, 293; Tiruvallur, 290; Ariyalur, 271; and Chengalpattu, 224. Kancheepuram’s tally surpassed the 100-mark with the day’s new cases. As many as 26 children in the 0-12 age group and 30 more persons aged above 60 have tested positive. A number of pregnant women have tested positive for COVID-19 in the last few days. There are 14 such patients at the Government Kasturba Gandhi Hospital for Women and Children, Triplicane, and 18 at the Government RSRM Lying-In Hospital, Royapuram. This includes pregnant women who have tested positive for COVID-19 and were referred to the hospitals, according to officials. A total of 13,254 samples were tested on Saturday, taking the number of samples’ tested so far to 2,29,670. Testing of 559 samples are under process. One more testing facility has been approved in the government sector — the District Headquarters Hospital, Tiruppur. With this, there are 37 testing facilities in government and 16 in private sector. (* This is inclusive of two deaths cross-notified to other States and one patient who died after testing negative for the infection)
10 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Worker’s death triggers panic||The death of a 40-year-old front line worker of the Chennai Corporation has sparked fear among staff members working on the containment of COVID-19. The deceased, who held the post of a malaria worker of the Chennai Corporation under the National Urban Livelihood Mission (NULM), died in the Government Stanley Medical College Hospital on Saturday, after testing negative for the disease. That he tested negative was confirmed by Chennai Corporation Commissioner G. Prakash. The employee was admitted to the hospital on May 3 after complaining of breathlessness. He was initially taken to the Veterinary College Hospital and later shifted to the Government Stanley Medical College Hospital on May 3, after his condition worsened as he developed a severe acute respiratory illness. An official of the Government Stanley Medical College Hospital said the patient had tested negative twice. "It was a case of non-COVID respiratory infection," he said. The employee had been working in ward 116 of the Teynampet zone in the vicinity of Triplicane for the past few weeks, testing residents for COVID-19. He had joined the Chennai Corporation in 2013 as a malaria worker under the Health department. Around 20,000 Corporation workers are engaged in COVID-19 containment activities, and have been deployed at testing facilities and locations where patients are under quarantine. As news of the civic worker’s death spread on Saturday, a number of Corporation employees thronged the hospital, demanding compensation for NULM workers who die while engaged in testing people for the disease. "Chennai Corporation officials did not hand over the body to our family for the last rites. They took the mortal remains to Moolakothalam, and permitted just four members of our family, with personal protective equipment, to take part in the ceremony," said a family member of the civic worker, one of whose sons has tested positive for COVID-19. His wife and other son have tested negative.
10 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Special camp at prison to lodge foreign Tablighi delegates||The State government has notified a borstal school inside the Puzhal prison complex in Chennai as a special camp to lodge 125 foreign nationals, including 12 women, who had attended the Tablighi Jamaat conference in Delhi and had subsequently preached Islamic values in Tamil Nadu. They were arrested under provisions of the Foreigners Act, 1946, for violating conditions of their tourist visas. The Prison Department has handed over control of the borstal school to the Chennai district administration for setting up infrastructure for the special camp. The foreign nationals are currently lodged in the Saidapet sub-jail in Chennai. Six foreigners who had been released on bail have been moved to the special camp, DGP (Prisons) Sunil Kumar Singh told The Hindu . Many of them were not conversant in English or any Indian language. This was delaying their bail application process. Only a few advocates had met the foreigners, and no representative from any of their respective embassies had entered the scene yet, since a foreigner meeting a foreigner would require permission from the government of India, Mr. Singh said. A special camp in Tiruchi, which houses around 70 Sri Lankan nationals, is being renovated to increase capacity, and hence, it was decided to keep the foreigners linked to Tablighi Jamaat in Chennai till the new camp is ready for full occupancy. On complaints of space constraints in the Saidapet sub-jail, Mr. Singh said the facility had the capacity to accommodate 150 persons, whereas only 121 were currently lodged there. “The sub-jail is a spacious campus with adequate water supply and other amenities for the inmates. There has not been a single complaint from any of the prisoners on the inadequacy of any facility,” he said. While an Indian coordinator of the Tablighi Jamaat was released on conditional bail, 11 Bangladeshi nationals were quarantined in a hospital in Poonamallee, after two of them tested positive for COVID-19. Prison officials were closely monitoring the health of all foreigners, and round-the-clock ambulance and medical facilities were available in case of any emergency, he added.  The sub-jail is a spacious campus with adequate water supply and other amenities for the inmates Sunil Kumar Singh DGP (Prisons)
10 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. CM asks Modi to put amendments to Electricity Act in abeyance||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Saturday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to prevail upon the Ministry of Power to put the proposed amendments to the Electricity Act in abeyance till they were thoroughly discussed with the State governments after the COVID-19 pandemic subsided. He reiterated that the State was committed to providing free electricity to farmers and the Bill could affect this policy. “As some of the provisions of the draft amendment Bill are also likely to put the general public to hardship, particularly during this crisis period, I am of the view that this may not be an appropriate time to bring in such sweeping amendments,” he said. In a letter to Mr. Modi, a copy of which was released to the media, Mr. Palaniswami said the proposed amendments required detailed consultations with the States and other stakeholders. Recalling his November 2018 letter, the Chief Minister said the proposed amendments had taken away certain powers of the State and the changes to the existing Electricity Act would make the power utilities in the public sector unviable. He pointed out that the new draft Bill sought to privatise not just the supply of power through franchisees but also the entire distribution network, which would be detrimental to State utilities and go against public interest. “Despite our strong reservations, the new draft Bill continues to have provisions for the Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) of subsidy provided to consumers, particularly in the agricultural and domestic sector,” he said. Mr. Palaniswami said he had already pointed out in his earlier letter that implementing DBT in the sector would be difficult and would go against the interest of farmers and domestic consumers. “ I have also pointed out that the proposed amendment seeks to take away the power of the State government in deciding the constitution of the State Electricity Regulatory Commission, which is against the federal principles of the Constitution,” the CM wrote. The Chief Minister said not only were the same provisions retained, but a parallel authority, namely Electricity Contract Enforcement Authority, at the Central level, to handle all contractual issues, was also proposed. This was hitherto dealt with by the Central and State Electricity Regulatory Commissions. “This would unnecessarily dilute the authority of the regulatory commissions and needs to be deleted. You are aware that all States are currently preoccupied with fighting the pandemic and will, therefore, require some time to give their detailed response to the proposed amendments,” he said. ‘Drop proposal’ PMK founder S. Ramadoss on Saturday urged the Centre to take back the proposed amendments to Electricity Act and drop the proposal entirely. In a statement, he alleged that the amendments took away States’ rights and would affect farmers and people with low income.
10 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Infant mortality rate drops by one point in T.N.||Tamil Nadu’s Infant Mortality Rate (IMR) has dropped by one point, from 16 to 15 per 1,000 live births in 2018, as per the latest Sample Registration System (SRS) data. From 37 per live births in 2006, the State’s IMR has steadily declined, reaching 20 per live births in 2014. K. Senthil Raj, mission director, National Health Mission (NHM), Tamil Nadu, said the Special Newborn Care Units (SNCU) in government hospitals played a crucial role in saving several sick babies. “Tamil Nadu has always been keen on ensuring 100% immunisation coverage of babies. Our village health nurses follow up on the health of both mother and child during their home visits,” he said. An important point to note is the reduction in neonatal deaths that has indirectly led to the decrease in IMR, according to S. Srinivasan, State Nodal Officer, Child Health. “IMR takes into account deaths during neonatal and post-neonatal period (one month to 12 months of age). When we look at the admission data from SNCUs in government hospitals, we see a significant reduction in neonatal deaths. There was a reduction in neonatal mortality from 6.8% in 2017 to 5.7% in 2018,” he said. J. Kumutha, expert advisor-Child Health, NHM-TN, said that the State had considerably reduced deaths due to birth asphyxia. “Pre-term care has improved. Antenatal care and interventions soon after birth have definitely helped,” she said.
10 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Work begins on final stretch of Outer Ring Road||Work to construct the final portion of the Chennai Outer Ring Road (CORR) at Padianallur in Red Hills has begun after the government allowed construction of roads despite the COVID-19 lockdown. Motorists had been taking a diversion of 4 km since the stretch of 300-metre road remained incomplete due to a court case. “The issue has been settled and the contractor has moved in men, materials and machinery for the work. But just as he was to start the work, the lockdown began and the men were provided food and salaries so that they will continue to stay here,” explained an official in the Tamil Nadu Road Development Company, the managing associate of the project. The work is expected to be completed in three months time, this includes construction of embankment, filling with flyash and laying of road, stormwater drains and laying of service roads. Finishing touches are being given to the toll plazas as well, the sources said. The 60-km CORR will connect Vandalur and Minjur on completion. Phase 1 of the road is already operational.
10 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin: restore funds under MPLADS||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Saturday sought restoration of the funds allotted under the MPs Local Area Development Scheme (MPLADS) for 2019-20. The Centre had decided to suspend the funds for 2020-21 and 2021-22. The works for this year under MPLADS have already started, he said and demanded withdrawal of the circular of the Union Ministry of Statistics and Policy Implementation suspending the funds. “The government, which is not able to set right the economy and offer relief to people severely affected by the COVID-19 pandemic, has deprived the MPs of their rights. It is an insult to the people’s representatives,” he said. Mr. Stalin added the government’s decision had raised a question whether it was interested in rehabilitation undertakings since the Supreme Court itself had allowed usage of funds under the MPLADs. “The BJP government’s motive is to prevent MPs of the opposition parties from helping people,” he alleged.
10 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Petition in HC to reopen places of worship||A public interest litigation (PIL) petition has been filed in the Madras High Court seeking a direction to the State government to permit reopening of temples, mosques, churches, gurudwaras and other religious institutions that have remain closed ever since the nationwide lockdown was implemented on March 24 to fight the COVID-19 pandemic. The case has been listed before a Bench of Justices Vineet Kothari and Pushpa Sathyanarayana on Monday. R.K. Jaleel, an activist from Chennai, had filed the case through his counsel M.L. Ravi. He filed the case contending that there was no logic behind keeping religious institutions closed, when the government was desperate to open liquor shops. Since the lockdown had been relaxed to a great extent now, with shops and other commercial institutions having been permitted to function, for extended hours with limited staff, the litigant claimed that religious institutions should also be allowed to be reopened. The litigant further added that this should be the case especially because Muslims were now fasting during the holy month of Ramzan.
10 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Contributions for COVID-19 relief pour in||Contributions continued to pour in for COVID-19 relief in Tamil Nadu. The Ola Group announced a contribution of Rs. 50 lakh to the Tamil Nadu Chief Minister’s Relief Fund to help fight the pandemic. Yamaha Motor India Group (YMIG) said that both its white-collar and blue-collar employees, as well as some trainees, donated a day’s salary from April, amounting to Rs. 61.5 lakh, to help the government fight the contingencies arising out of the COVID-19 outbreak in India. Samsung India contributed Rs. 2 crore to the Tamil Nadu State Disaster Management Authority to support the State’s fight against COVID-19. Chennai Petroleum Corporation Ltd. (CPCL) distributed packs of dry rations to 1,399 migrant labourers in Manali.
10 May 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Bakery owner arrested for offensive ad||The Mambalam police on Saturday arrested Prasanth, 32, owner of T. Nagar-based Jain Bakeries and Confectioneries, on the charge of outraging religious feelings. In an advertisement for his bakery circulated on WhatsApp, he had mentioned ‘Made by Jains on Order, No Muslim Staff’. Initiating suo motu action, Mambalam police inspector Balamurali arrested Prasanth. He was booked under Sections 295A (Deliberate and malicious acts intended to outrage religious feelings of any class by insulting its religion) and 504 (Whoever intentionally insults, and thereby gives provocation to any person, intending or knowing it to be likely that such provocation will cause him to break the public peace) of IPC.
10 May 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Tight checking on inter-state border at Walayar||Several people who wanted to travel to Palakkad in Kerala via Coimbatore were made to wait at the inter-State border at Walayar on Saturday as they did not obtain pass from both the Governments. Police said that their Kerala counterparts wanted those travelling from Coimbatore to Palakkad to have passes issued by both the governments. Since more COVID-19 cases were being reported in Tamil Nadu, the checking was tightened by the Kerala officials, police added.
10 May 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Seeman booked for defamatory speech||The Kuniyamuthur police here have registered a case against Naam Tamilar Katchi coordinator Seeman for allegedly speaking against the Central Government in February this year. As per the FIR registered by the police on Friday, Mr. Seeman spoke against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, National Population Register and National Register of Citizens at a meeting of the Muslim organisations held at Athupalam in Coimbatore on February 22 this year.
10 May 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||200 ATMs without security guards closed in Erode||For want of security guards, as many as 200 Automated Teller Machines (ATMs) were closed in the district causing hardship to the people on Saturday. There are around 600 ATMs of nationalised banks, private banks and small finance banks in the district that serve the needs of the people in disbursing cash. After the outbreak of COVID-19, the district administration and the Corporation has asked all banks to ensure security guards at the ATMs so that they can provide hand sanitisers to the people visiting the kiosks. However, over 60% of the ATMs do not have either security guards or sanitisers forcing many people to return. A report on “Absence of sanitisers in ATMs poses risk to users”, was published in The Hindu dated May 2 after which the district administration and the Corporation has asked all the banks to ensure security guards at the ATMs. Since security guards cannot be posted immediately, around 200 ATMs were closed across the district temporarily, said officials at the District Lead Bank. They said that recruitment of guards is not possible immediately and hence, ATMs without guards were closed. However, ATMs attached to bank branches would be opened during bank working hours and sanitisers would be placed, they added.
10 May 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Colleges, hostels turn isolation centres||The district administration and the department of health services have established 11 isolation centres across various taluks. It has been done to tackle any explosion of cases, says Collector T. G. Vinay. He adds that these facilities are in addition to those functioning at the Southern Railways hospital, Government Hospital for Thoracic Medicine at Thoppur and taluk-level hospitals. As on date, the Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) has around 300 beds in the COVID-19 speciality ward. This includes beds in the COVID-19 suspected ward too. “Only the first floor of the super-speciality block is being used as there are only 57 active cases. There are two other floors which can be used as well,” a source said. Asymptomatic cases Mr. Vinay says they have set up beds at taluk hospitals in Melur, Tirumangalam and Usilampatti to treat asymptomatic cases. The administration has approached private colleges and has taken over government hostels to provide space for COVID-19 patients. These facilities will predominantly be used for isolating and testing potential cases. These include Sri Meenakshi Government Arts College for Women hostel, Madurai Kamaraj University hostel, Thiagarajar Engineering College hostel, Police Training Centre (Othakadai) hostel, Meenakshi Nursing College, Mannar Thirumalai Naicker College hostel, Homeopathy Medical College (Tirumangalam), Sedapatti High School, Kamaraj Engineering College hostel, Vadipatti Government High School and Arul Anandar College. Some colleges like Sri Meenakshi Government Arts College for Women and Thiagarajar Engineering College have provided space with the health department setting up beds. However, some other institutions like Madurai Kamaraj University and Meenakshi Nursing College have provided beds as well. Each of these facilities have access to a dedicated doctor, AYUSH doctor, staff nurse, lab technician and hospital worker who all operate from a nearby Primary Health Centre. They also will be provided with surgical instruments, drugs and consumables, the Collector said. “In case there is a rise, asymptomatic cases will be shifted to these facilities. For each of these centres, two Compulsory Rotatory Residential Internship (CRRI) students will be deputed as well. The Deputy Director, Public Health, will form schedules regarding relieving doctors and staff nurses,” the Collector added.
10 May 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Family members of stranded pilgrims seek govt. help||With 22 senior citizens from Madurai, who were on a pilgrimage to north India, stranded in Gaya in Bihar for over 40 days following the lockdown, family members have sought the State government’s help to bring them back. The group had left for the pilgrimage on March 11 and are now being provided food and shelter by the Nattukottai Nagarathar Chathiram in Gaya. Family members said that the senior citizens were psychologically affected as they were unable to come back home. One of the family member, M. Gnanagurunathan, said that his mother and mother-in-law were among the stranded. Though he was in touch with them over phone, he said that being away from home had taken a toll on the mental health of the elders and they longed to return home. He said that the family members of the senior citizens had sent representations to both Tamil Nadu and Bihar governments and were awaiting response from them. Members of DLSA Madurai said that they were in touch with their counterparts in DLSA Gaya and were monitoring the status. The senior citizens will undergo a medical test on Monday and will apply for travel e-pass, the members said. Meanwhile, 23 pilgrims from Madurai who were stranded in Varanasi in Uttar Pradesh reached the city on Friday. They were taken to the Government Rajaji Hospital for a medical check up and have been asked to remain in home quarantine for two weeks, the members said.
10 May 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||23 discharged in Madurai||A total of 23 people who recovered from COVID-19 were discharged from Madurai’s Government Rajaji Hospital on Friday, according to the district administration. However, the discharge was confirmed by State-level authorities through the bulletin only on Saturday. There were 16 patients from Madurai and seven from Virudhunagar who were discharged. Of them 13 were men, six women and four children. The patients from Madurai were residents of Kottampatti, Anaiyur, Usilampatti, Sellur, Vandiyur and Sikkandar Chavadi. Collector T. G. Vinay said that after treatment, the patients were discharged. Those who did not display symptoms were in the hospital only for 14 days, he said and added that a final test was taken 24 hours before it was decided that they could leave the hospital.
10 May 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||45 retail fruit shops to function from school||In a bid to reduce crowding at Smart Fruit Market at Mattuthavani here, a total of 45 retail fruit shops will be temporarily shifted to De Nobili Matriculation Higher Secondary School at Pudur. Collector T. G. Vinay and Madurai Corporation Commissioner S. Visakan inspected the Smart Fruit Market on Saturday and ordered shopkeepers to draw boxes in front of their shops to ensure personal distancing between customers. They instructed them that it is mandatory to wear face masks. An official said a total of 245 shops are functioning at the fruit market. “Customers were seen crowding in front of shops and physical distancing was almost absent. So, it was ordered to shift the retail shops from the market,” he said. Currently, the wholesale vegetable market from Mattuthavani is functioning from M.G.R. Bus Stand, the lorry shed behind the bus stand and the helipad at Amma Thidal.
10 May 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Drink kabasura kudineer to boost immunity, says Revenue Minister||Revenue Minister R. B. Udayakumar said that people must consume kabasura kudineer on an empty stomach everyday to boost their immunity. He said this while distributing sachets of the powder to members of various minority groups here on Saturday. He also distributed dry ration as part of the COVID-19 relief efforts by the State government at Kallikudi and Tirumangalam to members of the Narikuravar community, the elderly and differently abled persons. Although no direct link has been established between kabasura kudineer and COVID-19 treatment, Siddha practitioners and Ayurveda doctors say that it helps in boosting immunity, he said. Corporations and district administrations across the State have resorted to distributing tonnes of sachets to the public, he added. “Kallikudi block is one of the few blocks in the district without any cases. To ensure that the status quo remains, the public must cooperate,” he said. He said the relaxation which has led to the revival of several industries in these two regions will help in stabilising the economy. “With Mahatma Gandhi Employment Guarantee Act scheme kick-starting, I am sure several labourers will receive regular income,” he added.
10 May 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||briefly||An ambulance driver and a paramedic helped a woman deliver a baby on Thursday. They got a call at 10 p.m. that a woman from Paalkudi in Melur taluk was in labour. The woman was to deliver the baby in about four weeks. But it was born premature.
10 May 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Railway employees contribute Rs. 95 lakh||James Selvaraj of Madurai division of Southern Railway, a loco pilot, contributed Rs. 1 lakh towards PM-CARES fund. Around 8,000 officers and employees of Madurai Division have contributed their one-day salary of Rs. 95 lakh out of which over 500 employees contributed five days of salary to the fund, a statement said. Meanwhile, Chairman of Aravind Eye Care System R.D. Ravindran and Govel Trust president G.Srinivasan presented a cheque of Rs. 27 lakh to Collector T.G. Vinay here on Saturday, towards Chief Minister’s Public Relief Fund to support the government’s initiatives to prevent the spread of COVID-19.
10 May 2020||NAGAPATTINAM,TAMIL NADU||Migrant workers return home||A group of migrants who had been working at a brick kiln at in Kizhakancherikavu in Kerala travelled to their hometown in Mayiladuthurai on Saturday morning after a long struggle. A video which they had circulated seeking help finally led to a quick response from officials, they say. Forty families hailing from Sirkazhi, Edamanal, Vadakkal had travelled to Palakkad in Kerala in November 2019 for work. While the work at the kiln was completed early in March, they prepared to return their hometown when the lockdown to prevent the spread of COVID-19 was announced, they said. For two months, the workers survived with the money they had earned but the cash soon ran out, R. Kumar, one of the workers, said. “Groceries for two months left us dry. We did not know what to do and sought help.” The family members of the workers, including small children and wives, can be seen pleading for help. “We have not seen our brothers and sisters, our parents for six months. We are unable to sustain ourselves here, please help us come back home,” Mr. Kumar says in the video. “We were initially told we would be able to travel in April but it did not happen as the lockdown was further extended,” he adds. The video drew the attention of Nagapattinam Collector M. Govinda Rao, district officials in Palakkad and NGOs. Officials in both districts coordinated the mission to bring them back home. A total of 87 people set off from Palakkad to Mayiladuthurai on a 10-hour journey on Friday. Three buses of the Kerala State Road Transport Corporation ferried them and reached Mayiladuthurai on Saturday morning where the passengers were tested by healthcare workers. They have all been quarantined at the AVC College here which has been converted into a quarantine facility, officials said.
10 May 2020||NAGERCOIL,TAMIL NADU||Stringer held for harassment||The Nesamony Nagar police in Nagercoil on Saturday arrested the stringer of popular TV news channel on charges of harassing a college girl. Police said E. Boopathy Raj, 27, working as a stringer in Valliyoor, had posted her mobile phone number along with an obscene video and described her as a call girl. Superintendent of Police N. Sreenath said the girl had filed a complaint alleging she had been receiving numerous calls from those who had seen her contact number since last year. Besides, the accused had also harassed her. The police seized Boopathy’s laptop, mobile phones and storage devices from his house.
10 May 2020||PERAMBALUR,TAMIL NADU||Man attempts to end life||A 23-year-old man attempted to self-immolate outside the Collectorate here on Saturday morning after he could not contact his pregnant wife who had been taken to her parents’ house. However, police thwarted the attempt. The couple working in Chennai had been in love and were married at the Vadapalani temple without the knowledge of their parents late last year. They had returned to their hometown in Perambalur last week and were asked to self-isolate for 14 days when the girl’s parents visited the couple and learned of her being pregnant. They took the girl to their house after the visit, official sources said. The man has been admitted to the District Headquarters Hospital here. Further investigation on the whereabouts of the girl is on. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Chennai-based Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.
10 May 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Youth dies in brawl||A 28-year-old man died after being attacked in a brawl between two inebriated groups near Omalur on Friday night. Police are investigating. According to police, two groups of youth in inebriated condition got into a quarrel near Putuhukadai Colony here on Friday. Vishnupriyan (28) a resident of Puthukadai Colony who tried to pacify the groups was attacked by them and he suffered severe injuries. Though villagers rushed him to nearby hospital, he was declared dead. Special teams formed Superintendent of Police S. Deepa Ganiger visited the spot and conducted an inquiry.  Four special teams were formed and 10 persons have been arrested.
10 May 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Department of Posts to hold essay contest||The Department of Posts has announced an essay competition to promote writing habit among the people during the lockdown period. The participants are required to write an essay on any one of the following topics – a) Role of your neighbourhood Post Office in the lockdown period; b) Self-discipline today for a better tomorrow and c) How to spend time at home in a useful way in the lockdown period. While the first two topics are open to all, the third one is exclusively for students. The essays should be sent by post to the Office of the Senior Superintendent of Post Offices, Thanjavur Division, Thanjavur – 613 001 within 10 days of lifting of the lockdown. The best entries at the divisional level will fetch cash wards of Rs. 1500, Rs. 1000 and Rs. 500 for first, second, and third best entries, respectively. From among the first three best entries of 11 postal divisions in the Central Region, three best entries would be selected for Regional level cash award of Rs. 3000, Rs. 2000 and Rs. 500, respectively, according to the Senior Superintendent of Posts, Thanjavur Division, S.Krishnamoorthi.
10 May 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||AITUC to stage demonstration||The All India Trade Union Congress will be organising a demonstration on May 11 to press the Union and State governments to expedite the process of distribution of relief in view of the COVID 19 pandemic. In a press release, the AITUC spokesperson Durai Mathivanan said that the demonstration would be held in front of the Collectorate and a memorandum containing demands would be submitted to Collector M. Govinda Rao. The demands include, among others, speedy disbursement of cash assistance and groceries to all daily wage labourers, sanction of financial assistance of Rs. 7,500 per month for three months from March to May to the labourers who lost their income following the lockdown, disbursement of cash assistance and groceries to those who have failed to renew their membership in construction, autorickshaw and other unorganised sector workers welfare boards, relief for pensioners, convening of a district-level monitoring committee meeting to ensure proper disbursement of relief assistance, releasing of full salary for permanent, casual and contract labourers during the lockdown period, to shelving move to withhold DA increase and payment of arrears and special pay for all sanitary workers.
10 May 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Two of a family murdered in Thoothukudi||Tension prevailed in Udaiyarkulam near Nazareth in Thoothukudi district after two labourers were hacked to death on Friday night by a gang following a dispute over repayment of loan. The Nazareth police have arrested three persons from nearby Vaidhyalingapuram for murdering A. Palavesam, 60, and his son-in-law Thangaraj, 38, and are on the lookout for nine others. Palavesam had borrowed Rs. 40,000 from Shanmugasundaram of Vaidyalingapuram a year ago after pledging the document of a property. Claiming that he had repaid the principal with interest, Palavesam asked Shanmugasundaram to return the document. When the moneylender disputed Palavesam’s claim and told him that he had to pay more, it led to a dispute between them. Subsequently, Palavesam and Shanmugasundaram filed complaint with the Nazareth police. While Shanmugasundaram was arrested under the Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe (Prevention of Atrocities) Act [the victims belonged to the SC] and remanded in judicial custody, Palavesam was not arrested, which agitated the moneylenders’ relatives. Against this backdrop, Shanmugasundaram’s brothers and few others, all carrying lethal weapons, barged into the hut of Palavesam on Friday night and murdered him and Thangaraj, the police said. Around 100 police personnel have been deployed in the Udaiyarkulam area.
10 May 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||49 more test positive for COVID-19 in central region||Forty-nine persons hailing from the central region tested positive for COVID-19 on Saturday. Sixteen of them hailed from Ariyalur, 31 from Perambalur and one each from Tiruchi and Thanjavur districts. Most of the patients contracted the infection at the Koyambedu market in Chennai, official sources said. In Perambalur district, 31 men tested positive for the infection. The individuals were workers who had returned to their hometown in Perambalur after the Koyambedu market was shut. Samples were lifted at the Labbaikudikadu Primary Healthcare Centre from all on May 6, after which they were facility quarantined, officials here said. The patients have all been shifted to the Perambalur District Headquarters Hospital. “All patients are asymptomatic and they had all travelled to Perambalur together and spread the infection to one another,” official sources here said. The positive cases of COVID-19 in the district is now 95. In Ariyalur, 16 more patients tested positive for the infection on Saturday, increasing the total number of positive cases in the district to 271. The patients are all returnees from Chennai and arrived in the district on May 5. Test samples were lifted from all and while 14 were sent to the King Institute of Preventive Medicine and Research, Chennai, two were tested at the newly set-up facility at Ariyalur itself. Six of the patients hailed from within the Ariyalur town, while four each hailed from Jayankondam and T. Palur block. Two patients belonged to Thirumanur and Sendhurai. A 27-year-old man tested positive in Tiruchi district. The patient was among the 300 who returned to the district after working at Koyambedu market in Chennai and had tested positive here. The man hails from Thuvarankurichi. Swabs from his family members and contacts will also be lifted, official sources here said. In Thanjavur district too, a 42-year-old man tested positive and is undergoing treatment at the Thanjavur Medical College Hospital here. Meanwhile, in Pudukottai, test results of 202 people, who had returned from other districts and states, including Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh and Gujarat, returned negative.
10 May 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||177 Indians stranded in Malaysia arrive in Tiruchi||As many as 177 passengers from Malaysia arrived in Tiruchi late on Saturday on an Air India Express flight as part of the government’s Vande Bharat Mission, an effort to repatriate home Indian nationals stranded in various countries following the COVID-19 pandemic. The special non-scheduled rescue flight IX – 0681 flying from Kuala Lumpur International Airport with the passengers departed from Malaysia landed at the Tiruchi International Airport by 10.20 p.m. High Commissioner of India to Malaysia  Mridul Kumar, along with members of the Malaysian Indian Congress, wished the passengers a safe journey and saw them off at Kuala Lumpur airport. The flight was received at a specially prepared bay at the Tiruchi International Airport. Health officials, along with airport staff and the Tiruchi Collector S. Sivarasu, welcomed the passengers. “We sanitised the aerobridge and prepared bay number 7 for the landing of the flight. All surfaces that the passengers would come in contact with, including trolleys and railings, have been disinfected,” K. Gunasekaran, Airport Director, said. “The Central Warehouse Corporation has been given the contract to do the required preparatory work. The workers are on standby and will disinfect each passenger’s bag as it goes onto the conveyor belt,” he said. Mr. Sivarasu said 1,100 rooms in various hotels in the city have been cleaned and prepared to accommodate the passengers. “On arrival, they will be given a choice if they want to stay at a quarantine facility of the district administration or at the hotel rooms. The Government Polytechnic College in Senthurappatti has been converted into a quarantine facility,” he said.
10 May 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Underground sewer line work resumes||The second phase of the underground drainage (UGD) works, which were suspended since March 25 following the imposition of the nationwide lockdown, has resumed in Tiruchi after a gap of about seven weeks. The project being undertaken at an estimate of Rs. 344 crore under the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation (AMRUIT) began in July 2018. It has been divided into three packages to facilitate speedy completion of works. The project is scheduled to be completed by 2021. According to sources, more than 60 % of the works have so far been completed. Several residential areas in 19 wards of the city, which were omitted in the phase-I of the UGD project, were included in the phase-II UGD project. Sanjeevi Nagar, Fathima Nagar, Vekkaliamman Nagar, Cauvery Nagar, John thoppu, Devathanam, Ananda avenue, Dharanallur (North), Pichai Nagar, Viswas Nagar, Mahalakshmi Nagar, Akilandeswari Nagar, Natharsha Pallivasal, Maris Avenue, Friends Enclave, Raja Colony, Kailash Nagar, Kattur, Manjathidal, Ammaiyappa Nagar, Geetha Nagar, Annamalai Nagar and Jayam Nagar are among the residential areas, where laying of UGD pipes, construction of manholes, provision for connecting individual households and other works have been taken up. The contractors had mainly engaged migrant labourers from Bihar, Odisha and West Bengal for the works. With the easing of curbs on lockdown, the Tiruchi Corporation has pooled together men and machinery and resumed the works. Corporation Commissioner S. Sivasubramanian told The Hindu that the State government had given the green signal to resume UGD works by employing available workforce. All works, including construction of manholes and pumping stations and laying of UGD mains, had begun. He held a meeting with the representatives of the contractors and impressed upon the need of adhering to the physical distancing norms while at the work site. He said that instruction had been given to subject all workers for medical screening. If they were down with fever, cold and cough, they would not be engaged in construction activities. The health of workers would be closely monitored on a daily basis. Mr. Sivasubramanian said that more than 100 workers were engaged in the UGD works. The officials had been asked to expedite the works so as to offset the loss of construction period. Steps would be taken to complete the project by 2021.
10 May 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Moodle App for online teaching-learning||The Higher Education Department in Tamil Nadu has chosen Moodle platform for online teaching-learning in government arts and science colleges. As directed by the Higher Education Department, the Tamil Nadu State Council for Higher Education has planned a two-day online hands-on training workshop on 'Design, Develop and Deliver Online Courses through Moodle Platform' for teachers of government arts and science colleges on May 15 and 16. With support of the Directorate of Technical Education, the Tamil Nadu State Council for Higher Education intends to rope in 1,000 teachers of government arts and science colleges on a first-come-first serve basis. Selected faculty Members for this program will attend and interact through Google Meet with resource persons during the workshop hosted by Directorate of Technical Education. The principals have been asked to ensure registration of the faculty members before May 10 by using a Google Form Link. Certificates will be issued to the participants of the workshop. In a letter addressed to the Director of Collegiate Education, Regional Joint Directors, and Principals of 113 government arts and science colleges, V. Vivekanandan, Member Secretary, Tamil Nadu State Council for Higher Education, said the objective of the workshop was to educate and empower faculty members on various online teaching tools for augmenting the teaching-learning process and facilitate uninterrupted, continuous teaching / learning process and to adopt blended learning concepts for enhancing active participation of students in the class. The idea is to harness a learning model of knowledge sharing, and facilitate students to learn at their own pace, during this unprecedented situation.
10 May 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||No total lockdown||Officials in Ariyalur and Thanjavur districts announced that the total lockdown enforced on Sundays had been lifted. In Ariyalur, Collector D. Rathna said the norms would be relaxed as per instructions of the State government. All shops, except salons, could be opened, she added. Shops selling essential commodities will function between 6 a.m. and 5 p.m. Stand alone shops in non-containment zones can function from 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. Restaurants can function from 6 a.m. to 9 p.m. with takeaway service. In Thanjavur too, the administration announced there will not be a total lockdown on May 10. However, the shops and business establishments and the general public would have to adhere to the regulations laid down by the State government, the Collector, M. Govinda Rao said in a press release.
10 May 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Migrant labourers stage protest again||Tension prevailed at Kudankulam Nuclear Power Project site on Saturday as migrant contract labourers resumed their protest urging contractors and the KKNPP administration to take immediate steps to send them back to their native places in the wake of COVID–19 pandemic. As some of them pelted stones on the police, an Inspector and a constable sustained injuries. The situation was brought under control after additional police force was brought in. On May 4, over 1,500 contract labourers staged a sit-in on the nuclear plant premises, where they have been kept in temporary sheds, urging their contractors to send them back home. After stalling the ongoing construction of reactors 3 and 4 and the earthwork for construction of reactors 5 and 6 for a while following the nationwide lockdown, the KKNPP resumed activities in the last week of April. When works were stalled due to COVID-19 lockdown, the 5,000-odd construction workers from various States were not allowed to go out of the campus fearing that they might contract the viral infection outside. A larger section of these labourers, accommodated in sheds with asbestos or tin roof, became restive due to space constraints and paucity of water and toilets. On May-4 protest, the workers said that after medical screening they could be allowed to go home. When they were asked to register their names online, 3,341 persons, mostly from Jharkhand and Bihar, registered. Since no formal announcement was made about their journey home, a fresh agitation started brewing in the labourers’ sheds on Saturday. Cases were registered against 31 persons.
10 May 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Counterfeit notes seized||A youth has been arrested with fake currency notes worth Rs. 65,000. A special team from Tirunelveli picked up R. Mahendran, 32, of Ayansingampatti under Kallidaikurichi police station limits recently and seized fake currency notes in the denomination of Rs. 100 and Rs. 200, totally worth about Rs. 25,000. The team handed him over to the Kallidaikurichi police for further action. Mahendran, a history-sheeter, and his associate Murugesan had got in touch with a person from Melapalayam when the two were in prison. Based on his instructions, Mahendran and Murugesan sourced counterfeit notes to the tune of several lakhs of rupees from another person and circulated them for a while. Mahendran was arrested in connection with robbery, rape and murder of a primary health centre nurse along with his associates. While two of the accused were awarded death sentence by a court here in February, Mahendran, was acquitted.
10 May 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Eight test positive||Tirunelveli district recorded eight more COVID-19 positive cases - four men and four women - on Saturday to take the total number of the patients infected by the virus to 80. As 58 of these 80 patients were discharged from Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital and one died due to “other underlying health complications,” 21 patients are undergoing treatment. However, no positive case was reported from Tenkasi, Thoothukudi and Kanniyakumari districts on Saturday. The number of cases in Virudhunagar district has come down to six with seven positive cases getting discharged on Friday.
10 May 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Rumour on issuance of token for train tickets creates furore||Thousands of migrant workers thronged the Tiruppur Railway Station on Saturday morning following a rumour that tickets were being issued for special trains to their hometowns. Police said that the workers from across the district visited the railway station in large numbers from 4 a.m to 8 a.m. They came in batches after a rumour was allegedly circulated on WhatsApp among them that tokens are being issued for train tickets. Nearly 350 personnel from the Tiruppur City Police deployed outside the railway station and in various check posts in the Tiruppur city limits chased the workers away to prevent them from gathering at one place, which could have led to a protest in violation of the prohibitory orders under Section 144 CrPC, according to police. MP condemns lack of train services Following the incident, Tiruppur MP K. Subbarayan condemned the State and Central governments for not arranging train services to send migrant workers from Tiruppur district to their hometowns. In a press meet, he also condemned the alleged police violence on the workers earlier in the day as well during the protests by the workers in the past week. The State and Central governments have “lost their moral responsibility of being in power,” Mr. Subbarayan alleged. Sources in the District Administration said that the trains from Tiruppur would be operated after receiving consent from the respective State governments of the workers’ hometowns. With Coimbatore seeing the operation of four special trains in two days, announcement on special trains from Tiruppur is expected soon, sources said.
10 May 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Six persons booked for attacking constable||Velampalayam police booked six persons on charges of attacking a police constable outside a Tasmac outlet in Tiruppur city on Friday. Police said that Nallasami (39), a Grade-I constable attached to Velampalayam police station, was deployed outside the Tasmac outlet at Thilagar Nagar. As the outlet downed its shutters on Friday, two men demanded to purchase liquor, but the constable sent them back as they allegedly did not wear masks. On Friday night, as Mr. Nallasami was about to leave after his duty, a gang of six men attacked him and absconded. The constable was admitted in a private hospital. Efforts to arrest the accused are under way, Velampalayam police said on Saturday.
10 May 2020||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||Food Minister hands over power tillers and tractors||Power tillers and tractors purchased by the Farmers Producers Organisations in Tiruvarur district for deployment in the forthcoming crop season were formally handed over to them by Food Minister R. Kamaraj on Saturday. Handing over the machines to 11 FPOs at the Office of the Assistant Director (Agriculture), Valangaiman, Mr.Kamaraj said that a total of 37 FPOs had been formed in Tiruvarur district this year and each FPO had been granted a loan of Rs. 5 lakh for the purchase of machinery of their choice for agriculture operations through the Integrated Farming Scheme. While 34 FPOs have been promoted through Agriculture Department and three have been promoted under the auspices of Horticulture Department. Administrative sanction had been granted to these groups for the purchase of 65 power tillers at a total cost of Rs. 1.22 crore, 16 tractors at a cost of Rs. 1.08 crore, one leveler machine at a cost of Rs. 3.70 lakh and a straw baler machine at a cost of Rs. 6.40 lakh. In the first phase, 27 power tillers and 3 tractors purchased by 11 FPOs at a cost of Rs. 55 lakh were handed over to them on Saturday, he said. Calling upon the ryots to make best use of the machines bought by the FPOs, the Minister expressed confidence that Tamil Nadu would continue to register a good harvest record which it had achieved with a production of 101 tonnes of paddy during the 2011 season. Then on the State continues to receive the `krishi karman’ award every year. Further, the State government expects to keep up its procurement record in the forthcoming season also. The State had procured 22 lakh tonnes of paddy during the current season and is expecting to procure another 6 lakh tonnes before the commencement of next crop season, he added.
10 May 2020||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||‘COVID-19 mortality rate low’||The mortality due to COVID-19 virus infection in Tamil Nadu is 0.67%, according to Food Minister R. Kamaraj. Disclosing this at a special medical camp for “COVID-19 warriors” at Valangaiman in Tiruvarur district on Saturday, Mr.Kamaraj said out of 6,000 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu as on May 8, only 40 patients died. This figure includes a patient who had died after turning negative for COVID-19. The dedicated performance of health department staff supplemented by the local body and other government department staff in combating the pandemic resulted in 1,700 persons, who tested positive, recovering and returning home, Mr. Kamaraj said. In Tiruvarur district, of the 32 persons who had tested positive, 27 were discharged from the Tiruvarur Government Medical College hospital after treatment. Just five persons were undergoing treatment at the Special Ward as on May 8 and till date no death had been reported in Tiruvarur district, he said. Thanking the “COVID-19 Warriors” for their stupendous and dedicated service, Mr. Kamaraj called upon the public to adhere to the guidelines issued by the State government to combat the pandemic effectively. Wearing face masks while moving out of residence and washing of hands at frequent intervals would help keep the coronavirus at bay, he pointed out.
10 May 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Two women test positive in districts||A 24-year-old woman from Nanjanad has tested positive for COVID-19 in the Nilgiris, the district administration confirmed on Saturday. Officials said the woman was a relative of one of the four lorry drivers who tested positive recently after visiting Koyambedu Market in Chennai. The number of active cases in the Nilgiris is five.  NAMAKKAL  A 46-year-old woman in Pallipalayam tested positive for COVID-19 on Saturday. According to officials, the patient returned from Chennai about a week ago and her family members have been quarantined here.
10 May 2020||May 10 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore city sees dip in waste collected during lockdown||One of the consequences of the COVID-19 lockdown on the city is that the quantity of waste generated had come down. The quantity of waste that the Corporation had collected during the lockdown was around 850 – 950 tonnes a day, down from the 1,050 to 1,150 tonnes a day it used to collect prior to the lockdown. The quantity of waste started going down gradually and never fell drastically as the Corporation used the lockdown opportunity to clear accumulated garbage in various parts of the city. The impact of the reduced garbage was also felt by the Coimbatore Integrated Waste Management Company Pvt. Ltd., which manages up to 500 tonnes a day in Vellalore. The sources said the company had received over 11,000 tonnes in January this year at an average 372 tonnes a day. In February, it increased to over 12,000 tonnes before falling to 11,500 tonnes in March and around 9,600 tonnes in April. A sanitary officer said with commercial establishments shut, the quantity of dry waste came down and since restaurants too were shut, the quantity of wet, organic waste also came down. The only waste that the civic body collected was from houses. But during the lockdown, the Corporation was getting used masks and gloves in waste and it treated those the same way it treated the waste from containment zones by isolating and burying those. Now, with the State Government easing restrictions, the quantity of waste generated and collected was slowly inching towards the pre-lockdown levels of 1,050 to 1,150 tonnes a day. In containment zones, though, the Corporation collected and separately disposed of the waste by disinfecting first and then burying it in local burial grounds.
10 May 2020||May 10 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Three more trains leave Coimbatore on Saturday with migrant workers||Three trains carrying totally 3,420 migrant workers left Coimbatore on Saturday to Bihar and Uttar Pradesh. The Salem Division of Southern Railway operated the three ‘Shramik’ special trains to transport the migrant workers in Coimbatore district to their respective home States. One train had left for Bihar on Friday evening.  Railway officials said the first train on Saturday that left Coimbatore Junction at around 8 a.m. was bound for Danapur Junction in Bihar. The second train’s destination was Akbarpur Junction in Uttar Pradesh which left at around 4 p.m., and the third train was bound for Jaunpur Junction in Uttar Pradesh that left the Coimbatore junction at around 8 p.m. All the trains had 24 coaches and each was allowed only 1,140 passengers. Personal distancing was ensured inside the trains and all the coaches were disinfected prior to the operation. Coimbatore Junction was initially allotted five rakes for operation of special trains. With four used as of Saturday, more rakes will be prepared as per requirements, according to the railway officials. According to officials in the district administration, the plan is to help nearly 20,000 guest workers in the district reach their respective States. There are no immediate plans to operate train services on Sunday and even if it gets finalised, the train will leave on Sunday evening. Since only those who have registered online are given priority now, there is every possibility that many workers who want to board the train, but have not registered, will come to the railway junction and are sent back to their accommodations here. Next to Chennai, Coimbatore has the largest number of migrant workers and many of them will leave the district to return home, at least for a few days, when regular train services restart, the officials said.
10 May 2020||May 10 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 in neonates and infants||Here is some good news for pregnant and lactating mothers: Coronavirus infection is less frequent and less severe in children (Child Sparing Pattern) During and after pregnancy, a woman is not at increased risk of coronavirus COVID-19 does not increase in severity in pregnancy as compared to other people Transmission from mother to baby before, during and after birth can happen but it is less common than anticipated Most of the breastmilk samples tested for risks have negative results. So most European counties, most international authorities such as WHO, UNICEF, many Indian professional bodies recommend to continue breastfeeding even if the mother has COVID-19. Be careful with testing COVID-19 in new born infants is suspected in only two situations: Born to mother with suspected or confirmed COVID-19 Related to cluster outbreak or exposed to infected relatives or caregivers Indiscriminate testing of all infants with respiratory symptoms is not recommended. One should note that occasionally babies infected before birth can have RT-PCR test negative and many babies with RT-PCR test positive can be quite healthy. Newborns and mothers During this pandemic, no extra care is needed for a normal new-born born to a normal mother. Regular precautions such as hand washing and breastfeeding should be enough. Social events such as baby shower before birth or naming ceremony after birth should be performed in a symbolic way only. Crowding of relatives and well-wishers near mother and baby should be avoided till this pandemic is over. Vaccinations should be given as usual; avoiding crowding in hospitals. Parents should not delay visit to hospital if baby develops any medical complication. In summer season, dehydration is common. Please avoid over-wrapping the baby and visit the paediatrician if the baby stops feeding and urine output becomes less. They are treated like any other pregnant women. Full medical and obstetrics care is given by designated hospitals. An attempt is made to postpone the delivery beyond the eighth month of pregnancy. If mother’s health is at risk; then baby is delivered early. So far, Indian perinatal and neonatal outcomes are satisfactory. After birth, mothers must wear a mask and breast-feed the baby on demand. The baby and mother can be kept in the same room or different rooms depending on availability of accommodation and nurses. If in same room, a 2-metre distance should be maintained between mother and baby. The baby is monitored for signs such as fever, difficulty in breathing, lethargy, rash, and diarrhoea. May 10 is International Mother’s Day. According to UNICEF, 24 million babies are expected to be born in India during next year. One can be optimistic of better perinatal and neonatal care due to better awareness of hygiene, better health infrastructure. Even if COVID-19 lingers, good habits such as handwashing and physical distancing can make our world a better place for newborns.
10 May 2020||May 10 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Administration clarifies on list of shops that can be opened||With confusion prevailing over opening of shops, the district administration has issued clarification and released list of shops that can be opened and list of shops that are restricted from opening. Collector C. Kathiravan in a press release said that lockdown is extended till May 17 and following are the list of shops that are permitted to function: shops selling hardware, cement, sports materials, automobile, books shops, sanitaryware, electronic sales shops, mobile phones, computers, household items, electric motor repair shop, spectacles sales shop, already permitted grocery, pharmaceuticals, hotels (only parcels), studio, sweet stall and bakery, printing press, two-wheeler and four-wheeler service centre and meat stalls that were permitted to sell only in packs. The release said that owners and workers of shops that were permitted to function should wear mask and they should ensure personal distancing among customers and insist they wear mask. If customers were not wearing mask, action will be taken against the shop owner, the release said. Also, sanitizer and soap should be kept at the shop entrance for the customers, the release added. Shops that were not allowed to function were air conditioned shops, jewellery shops, all types of textile showrooms and textile market, tea and beverages shops, saloon, spa, beauty parlour, departmental stores, market complexes, fitness centres, sports ground, swimming pool, theatres, clubs, lodges, resorts, bar, museum, park, tourist spots and showrooms selling two-wheelers and four-wheelers.
10 May 2020||May 10 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||MSMEs likely to start functioning from Monday||Several micro, small and medium-scale enterprises (MSMEs) in Coimbatore Corporation limits are expected to start operations on Monday. “The order issued by the State Government on Saturday says all private enterprises in the State can function from 10 a.m. to 7 p.m. This means industries too can operate one shift,” said J. James, president of Tamil Nadu Association of Cottage and Tiny Enterprises. “We have circulated the order to all our members so that they can prepare to start operating the units from Monday,” he said. However, he was apprehensive that the units may not be able to operate for long as they may face challenges in getting orders, payments, etc. “We will know the real situation only after 10 days,” he said. Several MSME unit owners have read the order to mean that industries can operate in the Corporation limits too. This is only a short period of one week before the lockdown is lifted. The actual economic activity will take off only from May 18, said another small-scale unit owner. The MSMEs are waiting for a support package from the Central Government so that they can start operations full-fledged. The State Government is also expected to come out with lockdown exit strategies next week, he said. Representatives of trade unions here met the District Collector on Friday and appealed to him to reopen the industries so that workers can return to work. Some of the unions also said the NTC mills should pay its workers’ wages for April.
10 May 2020||May 10 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Public advised to exercise caution while handling biomedical waste||The district administration has advised public to exercise caution while handling biomedical waste of persons in home quarantine or from quarantine facilities here. In a release, District Collector S.A. Raman said that public should follow strict measures while handling, transporting and disposing biomedical waste of quarantined and COVID-19 affected persons. Mr. Raman said that biomedical waste generated from quarantine centres should be collected separately in yellow coloured bags which is suitable for biomedical waste collection and it should be handed over to authorised waste collectors here. Paper bags Officials have also been advised to keep gloves, masks used by persons in home quarantine and others here in a paper bags for at least 72 hours before disposal. Public have also been advised to cut the masks prior to disposal to prevent reuse. Public have been advised to not to mix or store COVID-19 waste with other wastes and avoid exposure or contact with COVID-19 waste without proper PPE. Mr. Raman said that persons showing COVID-19 symptoms will not be allowed to work here. As on Friday, there are 11 containment zones in the district, according to health officials. Corporation officials said that sanitary workers in containment zones are provided with PPE kits and residents here have been advised to provide biomedical waste separately. Corporation officials said that biomedical waste collected from its limits are handed over to authorised agency for processing. The Corporation has also placed separate boxes at its zonal offices and public places here for collection of masks and gloves discarded by the public. Till date, the Corporation collected about 350 kg of biomedical waste and handed over to authorised agencies for processing.
10 May 2020||May 10 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Keep used masks for 72 hours: TNPCB||Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board (TNPCB) has urged people to keep the used masks and gloves for a minimum of 72 hours in a bag and dispose it. In a press release, it said that used masks and gloves generated from home quarantine or other households should be kept in paper bag for a minimum of 72 hours prior to disposal of the same as general waste. It also asked the people to cut the masks before disposing it so that reuse could be prevented. The release said that biomedical waste generated from quarantine centres or camps should be collected separately in yellow coloured bags provided by urban local bodies. The bags should be handed over to the authorised waste collection workers at doorsteps engaged by local bodies, the press release added.
10 May 2020||May 10 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘No short supply of Aavin milk’||Minister for Dairy Development K.T. Rajenthra Bhalaji, on Saturday, said there was no short supply of Aavin milk in any part of Chennai or Tamil Nadu. Speaking to reporters, he said two workers of an Aavin plant at Madhavaram in Chennai were tested positive for COVID-19 recently. Both were not involved in handling milk nor deployed for milk packet distribution. “Both have been kept in isolation and are under treatment,” he said. Stating that 12 lakh litres of milk from other districts used to be taken to Chennai, Mr. Bhalaji said that 14.50 lakh litres of milk was being supplied to the State capital. “While Chennai gets an extra 2.5 lakh litres of milk, 12 lakh litres of milk is being supplied to other districts,” he said. Sale of Aavin milk had increased and some people were spreading rumours. Machinery imported from Germany was being used to disinfect streets of Tiruthangal and Sivakasi. While disinfection was completed in Tiruthangal, it was in progress in Sivakasi. Later, the work would be taken up in every panchayat including Anaiyur, Sithurajapuram, Pallapatti, Thevarkulam panchayats, he added.
10 May 2020||May 10 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||TNSTC Coimbatore Division to operate 1,326 buses from May 18||The Coimbatore Division of Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) has said that 1,326 buses are to be operated in four zones from May 18, when the COVID-19 lockdown ends. According to a release, 50 % of the buses will be operated with 50 % capacity following an order from the State government. Of the 1,326 buses, 539 are for Coimbatore Zone, 173 for Udhagamandalam Zone, 334 buses for Erode Zone and 280 for Tiruppur Zone. As part of the COVID-19 prevention measures, the buses will be disinfected every day. The drivers and conductors will wear masks and gloves and their body temperatures will be checked by TNSTC officials. The conductors will also provide hand sanitisers to passengers inside the buses. The public will be allowed to enter these buses only if they wear masks. They must board the buses from the rear entrance and exit through the front. At bus stops and inside the buses, they should maintain a distance of six feet between each other to ensure physical distancing, the release said.
10 May 2020||May 10 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Proposal to set up Tasmac outlet in Hogenakkal opposed||The Communist Party of India (Marxist) has opposed a proposal to set up a Tamil Nadu State Marketing Corporation (Tasmac) outlet in the vicinity of Hogenakkal tourist spot here on Saturday. The proposal of the district administration to set up a Tasmac outlet in the vicinity of the tourist spot, which was also in the proximity of the government hospital and government school in Hogenakkal has left the locals and the political parties outraged. Petition submitted According to the CPI (M) Hogenakkal unit, the move was an outrage against the public safety and demanded that the proposal be immediately scrapped. Earlier, the local party functionaries met the tahsildar of Pennagaram and petitioned against the outlet. According to the party, the tourist spot is a hit amongst tourists from within Tamil Nadu and the neighbouring States, with a significant proportion of women and children frequenting the destination. However, a Tasmac outlet in the vicinity will increase the risks of safety of tourists, who may come to the tourist spot in a drunken state posing threat to self and others. A few years ago, a TASMAC outlet in Hogennakkal was forced out of the location by the locals. In the meantime, local BJP unit of Pennagaram also petitioned the tahsildar against the proposed outlet.
10 May 2020||May 10 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Collector discusses preventive measures||District Collector K. Megraj on Saturday held discussions with representatives of Indian Medical Association on preventing spread of COVID-19. He advised the doctors to ensure that the hospital premises are disinfected and separate place is set up outside the hospital for handwashing. He added that public must be made aware about wearing masks. Mr. Megraj later conducted inspections on roads here.
10 May 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Technical glitches, delay in issue of passes leave many stranded at border||Delays and technical problems in the issue of passes through the Seva Sindhu portal and lack of clarity among officials seem to be slowing down the movement of labourers between States. Everyday, scores of labourers and others are lining up on the border checkposts set up in Kankumbi on the Goa highway and Kugunoli near Nippani on the Maharashtra border. Migrants complain that officials were delaying their entry by citing silly reasons and technical formalities. On Thursday, officers sent back 26 students who had arrived from Gujarat via Maharashtra. They were told that the permission letters given by the district administration of Bharuch in Gujarat were not in the format approved by the Union Home Ministry. They were travelling towards Sangli when one of them called an activist in Hukkeri. The activist alerted some senior officers in Belagavi who called up the officers at the checkpost to admit them. The officers called the students and asked them to come back. Similarly, officers sent back a team of around 50 labourers to Goa as their Aadhaar cards were issued by Goan officers. Basavanneppa Kumbar, a Kannada activist from Madagaon in Goa, told The Hindu that the labourers had obtained Aadhaar cards using Goan addresses as they were staying there for 6 to 9 months a year. But, they all belonged to North Karnataka districts like Bagalkot, Vijayapura and Gadag. They wanted to go back to their native villages. But the officers at the border checkpost said since they had Goan Aadhaar cards, they could not be considered immigrants from North Karnataka. They have come back to Campala. We have appealed to the Goa Chief Minister to speak to the Karnataka Chief Minister, he said. Some non-migrants are speaking about their troubles too. The Seva Sindhu portal does not say only migrants should apply. Therefore, I applied for a transit pass to bring my family from Goa. But it was rejected as officers felt only migrants should apply. My application was rejected three times, said Saber Yaragatti, who has been going to the border three times since the lockdown began. Mr. Yaragatti, who runs a business in Belagavi, is worried because his family is stuck in Goa for the last five weeks. My wife and infant daughter went to go Goa to attend a function. They have been stuck there since the last week of March. I have applied for the interstate pass online and offline, but in vain, he said. Deputy Commissioner S.B. Bommanahalli said there was some delay in issuing passes due to technical problems like server overload. There may also have been some delays due to lack of communication between two State governments. He said that the officers were not discriminating between migrants and others. But such cases will be looked into, he said. Mr. Bommanahalli said officers had been asked to follow the MHA guidelines strictly to ensure that only genuine passholders enter. Those who seek to cross State borders should get passes from their State government or district administration. They should also see that their State has communicated their movement to the receiving State, he said.
10 May 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Infant dies after drinking paint thinner||A one-and-a-half year old infant died after accidentally consuming paint thinner in Balekundri, Bujurg village in Belagavi district on Saturday. The paint thinner included turpentine, which can be fatal for children, doctors said. Reedha Jamadar drank from a bottle kept outside the house for mixing with the paint. She was taken to the hospital, but died. Her father, a farmer, had brought the paint and chemical to paint his bullock cart. A case has been registered.
10 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Builders look at design interventions||As the real estate sector slowly resumes, builders and developers are looking at design interventions to accommodate the requirements of a world with COVID-19. According to real estate bodies, developers are introducing more common areas and open spaces to help maintain social distancing. “Some developers are also introducing quarantine facilities in malls. One such is already being talked about in Chennai,” said Kishore Jain, chairman, Confederation of Real Estate Developers’ Association of India (CREDAI), Karnataka. In addition, with the world shifting into the work-from-home culture — a change that is increasingly being looked at as doable by many — real estate developers will be nudged into looking at integrating a home office space within the house design, developers said. Sathish Kumar M., president, National Real Estate Development Council, Karnataka, said builders would build what customers ask for. “Buyers have their own design aspirations. The coronavirus pandemic may go, but the future may not be the same. So changes are inevitable. Apart from surviving the pandemic, the work-from-home scenario will also see builders offering a 2.5 BHK instead of 2 BHK, the half being a home-office space. For existing houses which do not allow design changes, retractable furniture may become popular. A lot of people are returning to India from abroad and these issues will be among the selling points as well as requirements for builders,” he said. He also said that common areas and amenities would see changes, while points of entry and exit would be more tech-enabled, with no-touch mechanisms. Commercial properties In commercial properties, prevention standards, experiments with anti-microbial surfaces have begun, said developers. But what about the demand for office spaces itself? Though at present there are worries over the future, the CREDAI chairman said there was unlikely to be a drop in demand. “Companies still need to keep equipments, etc. somewhere. So commercial real estate will still be in demand. Moreover, they are unlikely to completely move into work-from-home [set-up] because past experiences have shown that this could lead to reduction in productivity,” Mr. Jain said. Mr. Sathish Kumar said companies would be shifting away from people-oriented management and integrating technology. Spaces such as the office cafeteria would have to be adapted to the new normal. “Robotics may also pick up,” he added. Project completion But the most immediate change that one would see is the impact on project completion. “There has been a mass exodus of workers since a few days. It is definitely going to hamper the project completion and there will be delay. We are working out catching-up strategies to overcome this,” Mr. Jain said. He also added that the supply chain disruptions, lack of adequate manpower and cost escalations would affect the overall cost to the consumer too.
10 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Over 76% of COVID-19 patients in State are asymptomatic||Over 76% of the total 753 positive patients (till May 8) have been asymptomatic in the State, according to data from Karnataka COVID-19 War Room. Over 50% of these cases have been discharged after recovery. According to the data, out of the 753 cases reported in the State till Friday evening, 574 have been asymptomatic. While Mandya has the highest number at 96.42% (of 28 cases, 27 are asymptomatic); North Karnataka districts of Vijayapura, Belagavi, Bagalkot, Bidar and Kalaburagi have asymptomatic cases above 79%. In Bengaluru Of the 163 cases in Bengaluru, 105 are asymptomatic. Almost all the eight children in the COVID ward of Emergency and Trauma Care Centre in Victoria Hospital apart from several other patients aged above 60 and even two pregnant women who delivered at the COVID ward on Friday and Saturday are asymptomatic. In Mysuru, 68 of the 88 cases have been asymptomatic. While asymptomatic cases have become a cause of concern among the community — given that they can spread while showing no symptoms and move freely —doctors attributed it to early detection, even before the symptoms start showing up. C.N. Manjunath, Director of Sri Jayadeva Institute of Chest Diseases, who is also the nodal officer for lab testing in the State’s COVID-19 task force, said symptoms may not show up in those who have a stronger immune system. “Some patients may have mild symptoms such as headache, fatigue, malaise and bodyache as in any other mild viral illness. But as these symptoms are in tolerable limits, such patients may not complain,” he said. Stating that it is a challenge to clinically identify such asymptomatic patients, Dr. Manjunath said the only way to detect such patients is to take up random tests, especially among the vulnerable and susceptible population. He said random tests should also be done in the green zone areas. “If positive cases are detected there, then it speaks of community spread,” he said. A myth V. Ravi, Senior Professor and Head of Neuro Virology at NIMHANS, who is part of the COVID-19 Analysis Committee, which is tasked with identifying how the disease infects people, said the term “asymptomatic” COVID infection is a myth. “It all depends on how the patient’s history is recorded. Usually, patients with a strong immune system will be able to handle the virus and such patients will only have very mild symptoms, which they feel is not worth reporting and hence they are not recorded.” There is a small percentage of patients who do not have any symptoms and this is because of their strong immune system, he said.
10 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Two positive patients give birth||In a first, two COVID-19 patients from Padarayanapura, a containment zone, gave birth through C-Section at the Emergency and Trauma Care Centre on Victoria Hospital premises on Friday night and Saturday morning. While one delivered a healthy baby girl on Friday night, the other delivered two pre-term babies at 34th week on Saturday morning. One of the women had tested positive during random testing and the other was detected at Vani Vilas Hospital when she had gone for ante-natal check-up. As she was from the containment zone and a neighbour of a positive patient, her swab was tested and it was positive. As Vani Vilas is not a designated COVID ward and as she had tested positive, she was shifted to the COVID facility in the Emergency and Trauma Care Centre. It turns out that the woman had also visited a BBMP Maternity Hospital on Mysuru Road before she was tested and 36 women who had waited with her in a queue have now been quarantined. At the Trauma Centre, hospital authorities realigned the nursing and Group ‘D’ staff and gave them guidance on infection-control practices. “The Septic OT was converted into a labour room and the C-Section was done in the Major Operation Theatre on the third floor,” sources said. “Although newborns are usually negative, the protocol is to test them after 24 hours of birth and again at 48 hours. They have been separated from the mothers and kept under isolation. While the pre-term babies may require longer stay at the hospital, the other baby (depending on the test report) will be given to a care-giver or family member as the mother has to stay in hospital till she tests negative,” said a senior doctor. Both the new mothers are asymptomatic. Meanwhile, there was panic in Vani Vilas Hospital on Saturday as postgraduate students, resident doctors, nurses and other paramedical staff were worried that they may have been exposed to the virus as the positive case was admitted in the isolation ward in the hospital before she was tested. Demanding PPE kits and other COVID precautionary measures, the staff staged a snap protest and met the BMCRI Dean and Director C.R. Jayanthi. “Their demand was that Vani Vilas should be allowed to treat only COVID negative patients or the hospital should be turned into a COVID facility. But that is not possible as we cannot turn away poor patients irrespective of the area they come from,” the Dean told The Hindu . “With no other such government speciality facility in the city, patients come to Vani Vilas as the last resort. Even during this pandemic, a record 1,200 deliveries were conducted in this hospital last month. We have told the staff that patients cannot be turned away. All required personal protection equipment will be made available to them,” she said.
10 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Units outside containment zones set to reopen in State||Following the formula of graded relaxation of the lockdown, the State government has allowed garment factories located outside containment zones to commence business activities. In an order issued by Chief Secretary T.M. Vijay Bhaskar, the government has allowed garment units to operate in Bengaluru and other districts, except in containment zones. The order allows all garment or textile manufacturing units registered under the Apparel Export Promotion Council and IEC code units to operate to meet their export commitments. Apparel industries have been told to work with only one-third of their staff at a time. They have been directed to follow all the norms announced by the Ministry of Home Affairs. Garment units in the State have been hiring a large number of workers, a majority of them women. The State government has already allowed other kinds of industries to operate, both in rural and urban areas. Protests Meanwhile, hundreds of garment workers employed by a private garment factory in Peenya have been staging protests since Friday over the non-payment of salary for nearly 40 days. They have also alleged a lack of communication from the owners on when the factory will reopen. “We have not been paid for the month of April and there has been absolutely no response either from the management of the factory or from the Labour Department even after repeated requests,” said Ravi, a garment worker. He added that most of the protesters, including pregnant women, were getting to the protest venue on foot. Another worker said that his friends who worked in other factories had been paid 40-50%of the salary. “We understand the situation and we were expecting at least half of our wages. Even when we are paid in full, we lead a hand-to-mouth existence. Now our situation is worsening by theday as we haven’t been paid for over a month,”he said. R. Pratibha of the Garment and Textile Workers’ Union told The Hindu that many factories had not communicated anything to their workers and also not paid their wages.
10 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BBP adoption programme generating good response||Despite these times of distress, the Bannerghatta Biological Park’s (BBP) animal adoption programme has been generating a good response. On Saturday, the park received Rs. 6.45 lakh worth of contributions from people who adopted animals there. While 17-year-old elephant Nisargha, and tigress Hima, aged one and a half years, were adopted by Bengaluru MLA M. Krishnappa for Rs. 2.75 lakh, others adopted tigers Rajendra and Gokul for Rs. 1 lakh each, leopards Lokesh and Ashoka for Rs. 35,000 each, tiger Sanjay for Rs. 50,000 and a zebra for Rs. 50,000, a BBP release stated. In 2019-20, BBP incurred expenditure of Rs. 38 crore on fodder and feed, salary to the staff, maintenance and development and veterinary care. The park has been seeing increasing interest from organisations and individuals wishing to contribute to the park in the form of donations, animal adoption and implementation of development works such as construction of animal enclosures and visitor facilities, BBP officials said. BBP Executive Director Vanashri Vipin Singh told The Hindu that the adoption programme had received around 80 enquiries from across India and also abroad, and there would be more adoptions in the coming week. “Last week, 36 people adopted 43 animals and donated Rs. 5.36 lakh. The number of people involved in ex situ conservation is increasing by the day. Last year, the total number of people who adopted was 64 and the donation received was Rs. 7 lakh. Most of them had adopted small animals,” she said.
10 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||More than one lakh samples tested so far||Even as the total cases in Karnataka rose to 794 with 41 new ones on Saturday, the State has crossed the mark of testing over one lakh samples so far. A total of 1,03,098 samples have been tested. The State now has 32 ICMR approved testing labs, including 11 private labs. Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar tweeted that Karnataka has crossed a milestone. “We are boosting our testing capacity to have 60 labs by end of this month and will be able to conduct 10,000 tests per day.” The 41 new cases reported on Saturday include 12 from Bengaluru Urban, eight from Bhatkal in Uttara Kannada, six from Davangere, four from Tumkuru, three each from Bantwal in Dakshina Kannada, Chitradurga and Bidar, and one each from Chickballapur and Vijayapura. While most cases are contacts of previous positive patients, six are with travel history to Ahmedabad. In Bengaluru Urban, five are from Hongasandra and the remaining from Padarayanapura, both containment zones. Following complaints that Medical Superintendents, Administrative Medical Officers and in-charge officers of COVID-19 facilities are discharging patients without informing the District Surveillance Officers due to which the department loses track of the patients, the Additional Chief Secretary (Health and Family Welfare) Jawaid Akhtar has issued a circular that they should compulsorily inform the jurisdictional District Surveillance Officers about discharges.
10 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Buses for those from other southern States||In a relief to migrant workers, pilgrims, tourists, students and those from other southern States stranded in Karnataka due to lockdown, the State government has permitted them to make use of the services of the State Road Transport Corporations to reach their places on “payment basis” with “relevant permission from competent authority.” Those registered on Seva Sindhu portal can hire buses from the RTCs to neighbouring south States, sources said. A senior official of the State government said that the RTCs had been asked to provide such services based on demand by taking necessary precautions, including maintaining social distance and thermal screening. “There are trains operating and they are mainly for migrants from northern States. To those who are mainly from the southern States who intend to go to their native places, this move will be helpful as it provides them an official and alternate mode of transport,” the official said. A KSRTC official said that they were ready to provide such facilities and were charting out plans to operate inter-State buses mainly from Bengaluru and if demand arises from other parts of the State as well. “We are trying to reach out to those who have already registered through Seva Sindhu portal. We will deploy buses to various destinations on demand basis from Monday,” the official said. KSRTC is also mulling the possibilities of getting back people from Karnataka who are stranded in such destinations.
10 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Now, automatic water-level control system mandatory||Amendments to the Bangalore Water Supply Sewerage Act, 1964, have made installation of automatic water-level control system and provision of internal meters mandatory for owners of buildings in the city. A gazette notification in this regard was issued by the State government on March 26, a BWSSB press release stated. According to the release, occupiers of buildings should install automatic water-level control system or suitable devices to prevent overflow of water from the overhead tanks. That apart, owners of buildings having a site area of not less than 2,400 sq.ft, buildings with three or more houses on site area of not less than 1,200 sq.ft shall install internal meters for judicious water consumption. However, the readings of these internal meters will not be used for billing or any case to dispute the readings of the meter provided by the BWSSB in any legal proceedings, the release added. Non-compliance will attract punishment specified under relevant sections of the act.  Internal meters also made mandatory for judicious water consumption Readings of these internal meters, however, will not be used for billing
10 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Shops offer discounts, virtual tours to win back customers||A large number of stores, which reopened for business after restrictions were relaxed, have initiated a slew of measures to attract customers, many of whom remain wary of entering public spaces with high-touch areas. From discounts to virtual tours of their stores, and allowing customers to make purchases via video calls — owners are adjusting to a new reality. Suhail Yusuf, secretary of Brigade Road Shops and Establishments Association, said many stores were offering rebates of up to 50%. “Our members are calling their customers and informing them that they are open. But despite that there are almost no walk-ins,” he said. Mr. Yusuf said shops were being advised to ensure that not more than a third of their staff report to work. Only a limited number of people are allowed inside the stores at a given time. Customers will be allowed in only after they undergo thermal screening and they sanitise their hands. Air conditioners will be switched off. Even stores that do not usually provide home delivery services were upping their game. “I visited the website of a clothing brand which was offering a 50% discount. I thought it is the best time to buy and I have placed my order on the phone,” said Shefali K., a software professional. Anand, store manager, Looking Good Furniture, Basaveshwarnagar, said they were allowing customers a virtual shopping experience. “Customers can video call us and select our products. We have offers on every product,” he said, and added that the store is sanitised three times a day. “We also sanitise all the products before delivery and send a video clip to customers.” Mr. Anand, however, said that while there were enquiries, sales have remained low. Another reason for the dip in sales volume is the financial toll the pandemic has taken. With so much uncertainty, people are unwilling to spend money on non-essential items. “My salary was cut by 30% and I don’t want to splurge on anything. So, though I am being bombarded with calls and messages from several stores, I am ignoring them,” said Krishna N., a private company employee.
10 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Over 3,500 bars and restaurants open in Karnataka||More than 3,500 bars and restaurants, and about 1,300 bars attached to hotels offering boarding and lodging facilities, opened on Saturday to clear their stocks even as wine merchants urged the government to allow them to purchase fresh stocks to continue with their business. Memorandum On a day that bars opened for businesses to clear stocks, the Federation of Wine Merchants’ Association, Karnataka, shot off a memorandum to Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa seeking to be allowed to continue their business even as it thanked him for providing temporary relief. Of about 11,000 various categories of liquor licence holders in the State, about 4,500 stand-alone outlets of wine stores and State-run MSIL operated wine stores had been earlier allowed to open. The federation said bars andrestaurants have huge power bills, wage bills and bank loans among other expenditure, and allowing them to purchase fresh stocks would help tide over financial issues. Since bars and restaurants are also working like wine stores, they can be allowed to continue their business, they argued.
10 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Increase in work hours: Trade unions to protest||Opposing any increase in working hours for labourers in Karnataka, the Joint Committee of Trade Unions (JCTU), an umbrella organisation of nine trade unions in the State, on Saturday said it would stage protests from Monday against the move to dilute labour laws. The protests by trade unions in Bengaluru will take place at the factory gates as the unions have desisted from taking out big ralliesowing to the prevailing COVID-19 situation. On May 18, they plan a Statewide protest. “Under the pretext of the COVID-19 lockdown, employers’ bodies are lobbying with the State government to increase working hours to 12 hours a day,” the JCTU said in a release. It also pointed out that amendments were being proposed to permit industries to announce layoffs, terminations and closures without prior permission.
10 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Centre allots 2.1 lakh tonnes of foodgrains a month||A total of 2.1 lakh tonnes of foodgrains per month has been allotted under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Anna Yojana (PMGKAY) to Karnataka for three months (from April to June). It is to be distributed free of cost to 4.01 crore National Food Security Act beneficiaries. The total expenditure of about Rs. 2,351 crore for providing free foodgrains to people in the State is being borne by the Centre, said an official press release. The State government had till May 7 lifted 4.45 lakh tonnes of foodgrains, valued at Rs. 1,735 crore, under this scheme.
10 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Residents join policeman to beat two youths caught drag racing||The Kodigehalli police have registered a case against residents of Sahakarnagar for assaulting two youths for drag racing in the locality on Saturday. A video clip of the incident showed that a beat policeman on duty who caught them kicked one of the young men, after which residents joined him. The video which was shared widely on social media drew criticism from citizens who questioned how the police could allow such an assault to take place under the watch. “They were racing on their scooter and were intercepted by the beat policeman who detained them for questioning. Residents gathered around them. The policeman, while questioning them, kicked one of the boys on his face and abused him. He was joined by a resident who attacked them with a wooden log,” said a police officer. While they started crying for help, residents accused them of straying into their area from Padarayanapura which is currently a containment zone after a spike in COVID-19 cases. The situation was defused only after the Kodigehalli police reached the spot and intervened. The police later took the bikers to the police station and brought the matter to senior police officers. The police booked a case of assault against the residents and detained one of them for questioning. “We are also trying to trace the policeman who assaulted the boy. We are also booking cases against the youth for drag racing,” the senior police officer added.
10 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||ACP, two inspectors suspended||The Home Department on Saturday suspended Prabhushankar, Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP), Fraud and Misappropriation Wing, Central Crime Branch, who has been accused of taking a bribe from cigarette distributors during the lockdown. Two inspectors were suspended by City Police Commissioner Bhaskar Rao for allegedly colluding with the ACP. On Friday, the CCB submitted a report to the State police chief recommending that stringent action be taken against the ACP after they recovered Rs. 25 lakh from him. “Inspectors Ajay and Niranjankumar colluded with him to collect the bribe amount from the dealers on behalf of their senior. They were given a share of the money,” said a senior police officer.
10 May 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Industries raise logistical issues||The State government may have permitted industrial units to reopen, but an interaction with MSME bodies brought to light the acute logistical problems industries were facing. During a virtual interaction involving Department of Commerce and Industries senior officers Gaurav Gupta and Maheswara Rao, representatives of industry bodies FKCCI and KASSIA from across the State highlighted the problems in transportation, storage and handling, among other things, that industries were facing. They also brought to the officers’ notice the fact that several industrial areas, despite being in green zones, had not been allowed to open owing to some confusion at the local level. The industry representatives also pointed out the bottlenecks in inter-district movement across the State and the need to address them quickly. They added that power supply outages and disruptions needed to be addressed.
10 May 2020||Bengaluru/Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Five Shramik trains ferry migrant workers||Five Shramik Special trains — four from Bengaluru and one from Mangaluru — left for north Indian States on Saturday from Karnataka to ferry migrant workers back to their homes. While two trains left to Lucknow from Chikkabanawara station carrying 1,200 and 1,198 passengers, respectively, two other trains headed to Darbhanga (Bihar) from Malur station. The train from Mangaluru left with 1,140 migrant to Jharkhand. South Western Railway has operated 15 Shramik Specials. Meanwhile, SWR carried 270 rakes (7,02,000 tonnes) of food grains to Karnataka from other parts of the country from March 24 to May 5. It also carried 120 rakes (3,12,000 tonnes) of fertilizers for agricultural products and 49 rakes (1,27,400 tonnes) of cement.
10 May 2020||DHARWAD,KARNATAKA||Curbs to ease in Hubballi from tomorrow||Barring the containment zones in Hubballi, economic activities are set to begin here from Monday, Minister for Large and Medium Industries and district-in-charge Jagadish Shettar has said. Of the 12 COVID-19 positive cases reported in Dharwad district, seven persons have been discharged from the designated hospital and the condition of five continues to be stable. Speaking to presspersons on Saturday, Mr. Shettar said excluding shops and establishments in containment zones, all other shops providing essential commodities would be allowed to operate from Monday.“From Monday on, all shops including provision stores, hotels (only takeaway facility) and others registered under the Shops and Establishment Act will resume operations,” he said. The relaxations will not apply to malls, shopping complexes, temples, gymnasiums, bars, and restaurants, he clarified. Director of Karnataka Institute of Medical Sciences (KIMS) Ramlingappa Antarthani said that every day, an average of 250 samples were being tested at the virology laboratory. Dr. Antarthani said for the first time, ICMR had given permission to KIMS to conduct plasma therapy trials on COVID-19 patients.
10 May 2020||DHARWAD,KARNATAKA||Govt. quarantine facility opposed at Navalur||Even as the district administration is busy taking steps to set up an institutional quarantine centre at Devaraj Urs hostel at Navalur between Hubballi and Dharwad, the residents have opposed the move. Dharwad has recorded two positive cases of COVID-19 and one case is from Navalur. On Saturday, the residents submitted a memorandum to the district administration opposing the move to convert the hostel into a quarantine centre. They said around 10,000 people reside at Shakambari Nagar, Gurudev Nagar, Nandini layout, and Basaveshwar layout in Navalur. They said there were chances of the pandemic spreading in the locality.
10 May 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Lawmakers take on each other at meeting||Much to the embarrassment of Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar and Davangere district in charge Minister Byrathi Basavaraj, Lok Sabha member G.M. Siddeshwar and Madal Virupakshappa, MLA, both of BJP, got into a fight during a COVID-19 review meeting in Davangere on Saturday. The incident occurred when Mr. Virupakshappa sought free supply of purified drinking water to villages. Mr. Siddheshwar objected to this and asked whether he (Mr. Virupakshappa) would bring money from his “father’s house” for the purpose. An angry Mr. Virupakshappa posed the same question to Mr. Siddeshwar, leading to exchanges. The two lawmakers reportedly used foul language against each other as Dr. Sudhakar and Mr. Basavaraj watched in embarrassment. Finally, Deputy Commissioner Mahanthesh Bilagi and Superintendent of Police Hanumantharaya managed to pacify the elected representatives.
10 May 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||‘Plans to set up two virology labs in all districts by May-end’||Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar has said that the State government has plans to set up at least two virology laboratories in each district by May-end. Chairing a COVID-19 review meeting in Davangere on Saturday, Dr. Sudhakar said that already steps had been initiated to start 30 virology laboratories in the State and the plan was to set up 60 laboratories by the month-end, so as to facilitate at least 5,000 to 5,500 tests daily. Already, the State government had announced that virology laboratories will be set up in 60 medical colleges in the State, he said. Mentioning about the start of testing facility at SS Hospital in Davangere, he said that the Chigateri Hospital, the designated COVID-19 hospital in Davangere, will get the testing facility in two days. Regarding the non-payment of stipend for postgraduate medical students in private colleges, he clarified that the payment had been stopped due to audit objection and it will be sorted out soon. G.M. Siddeshwar, MP, Shamanur Shivashankarappa, M.P. Renukacharya, Madal Virupakshappa , S.A. Ravindranath, S.V. Ramachandra and Ramappa, MLAs, and others were present.
10 May 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Bidar reports three more cases||Three new cases of COVID-19 have been reported from Bidar on Saturday taking the total number of positive cases in the district to 25, which includes a death and 13 discharges. Of the new cases, P-770, a 30-year-old man, and P-771, a 12-year-old girl, are the contacts of P-647 and P-648. The source of infection of another one, P-772, a 30-year-old man, has not been ascertained. All three patients have been isolated at the designated hospital. By Saturday evening, there were just 11 active cases and 13 discharged after recovery.
10 May 2020||mandya,KARNATAKA||Leopard kills child||A three-year-old boy was killed by a leopard near Bengaluru early on Saturday. The victim, C. Hemanth, was sleeping with his father Chandrashekhar and others outside his grandfather Chikkanna’s residence at Kadaraihana Palya, the Magadi police told The Hindu . Chandrashekhar and his wife Mangalagowramma, residents of Dodderi near Big Banyan Tree (Dooda Alada Mara) near Bengaluru, had been staying at Chikkanna’s [Mangalagowramma’s father] residence for the past few days following the outbreak of COVID-19 in Bengaluru. Some of the family, with the child, had slept outside the residence on Friday. The animal might have taken the child between 1.30 a.m. and 4 a.m., and killed it on the outskirts. Family members and villagers found the body in the morning. The leopard had left the partially devoured body on the outskirts of the village, added the sources. According to the villagers, many felines had been prowling in the area, probably from forests around Magadi and attached areas, for several weeks. Department officials said that they have launched an exercise to trap the animal by placing cages with live bait. Preliminary investigations showed taht the child was killed by a leopard. Pug marks were found near the body. A detailed investigation and post-mortem report will find the exact cause of the death. Sources say villagers are planning to launch a protest to condemn the killing. Compensation Minister for Forest and Environment B.S. Anand Singh has announced a compensation of Rs. 7.5 lakh to the family of the victim.
10 May 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||First train with migrants leaves for Jharkhand from Mangaluru||A train with 1,140 migrant workers left Mangaluru Junction for Jharkhand on Saturday evening. The workers, who had registered on the Seva Sindhu app, were picked up from different places in the city on KSRTC buses by the district administration, according to D. Vedavyasa Kamath, MLA, Mangaluru City South. The MLA told The Hindu that a health check-up was performed on the workers before allowing them to board the train. The administration provided them food packets with water at the station. The MLA said that three more trains will leave from Mangaluru for Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, and Jharkhand on Sunday. Nalin Kumar Kateel, MP, and Mr. Kamath spoke to the workers at the station. Deputy Commissioner Sindhu B. Rupesh said in a statement that the workers on Sunday need not come to the station on their own. The district administration will pick them up in buses from their places of stay. They will be picked up on the basis of registration made on the app.
10 May 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Workers heading to Bengaluru sent back||The police on Thursday night sent back 90 migrant workers, from U.P., Rajasthan and Bihar, after they were found at Gundia check-post in two trucks heading to Bengaluru. The Uppinangady police in Dakshina Kannada have filed a case against the truck drivers under Sections 269 and 270 of IPC. The workers who worked in Mangaluru were misled that they could catch trains from Bengaluru to reach their home States. The police offered them food and arranged buses to send them back to Mangaluru. Though police told them that no trains from Bengaluru have been scheduled the workers insisted that they should be allowed to travel and it took some time to convince them to return.
10 May 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Indian grey wolf sighted for the first time in Chamarajanagar||A group of conservationists studying and camera-trapping leopards in the Cauvery Wildlife Sanctuary has stumbled upon an Indian grey wolf (Canis lumpus pallipes), in what is reckoned to be its first-ever documentation in Chamarajanagar district. Previous studies in the district undertaken in Cauvery and M.M. Hills wildlife sanctuaries, BRT Tiger Reserve, and Bandipur Tiger Reserve had not documented the Indian grey wolf. What is significant is that this indicates the presence of all four large canid species found in southern India (dhole, Indian wolf, jackal, and Bengal fox) in Chamarajanagar. The presence of the Indian grey wolf was documented by Sanjay Gubbi of Nature Conservation Foundation and his team while they were camera-trapping for studying leopards. The study team consists of Sandesh Appu Naik, M.N. Girish, Gnanendra, H.C. Poornesha and others. Mr. Gubbi said in a release that the wolf was camera-trapped in Kothnur range of Cauvery Wildlife Sanctuary recently. “This is possibly the first-ever photographic evidence of wolf presence in Chamarajanagar district. This record also documents the southernmost limit of wolf presence in Karnataka,” he said. In Karnataka, the wolf is found in isolated pockets in the drier areas, including Haveri, Koppal, Tumakuru, Raichur, and Ballari, according to Mr. Gubbi. A highly endangered and threatened Indian grey wolf species mostly survives on grasslands, scrub forests, and rarely in dry deciduous forests. “Though the species is distributed widely, it is threatened largely because of habitat loss and retaliatory killing. Indian wolf numbers are suspected to be lower than that of tigers. They are protected under Schedule I of the Wildlife Protection Act, 1972,” said Mr. Gubbi. He said this study on leopards had yielded very valuable information on other species. Incidentally, in 2014, such a study had documented for the first time in Karnataka the presence of the honey badger. In 2015, it recorded a new population of chinkara in Tumakuru district; it was later notified as Bukkapatna Chinakara Wildlife Sanctuary. In 2018, this study documented the easternmost limit of the brown mongoose in BRT Tiger Reserve. In Karnataka, brown mongoose was never recorded outside Virajpet taluk before the study by Mr. Gubbi, the release said.
10 May 2020||Shivamogga,KARNATAKA||289 workers quarantined in Shivamogga district||As many as 289 migrant workers from Shivamogga district working outside the State who returned to their native areas in the past one week have been quarantined, said K.B. Sivakumar, Deputy Commissioner. Mr. Sivakumar visited Sahyadri College in the city on Saturday where those arriving from outside undergo a comprehensive medical examination. Speaking to presspersons, he said those, who arrive from States where COVID-19 cases are more and are identified as high-risk areas, are sent to institutional quarantine. The remaining persons are sent to home quarantine. He said measures are taken to prevent unauthorised entry of people into Shivamogga district, from districts where positive cases of COVID-19 have been reported.
10 May 2020||Tumakuru,KARNATAKA||Man who returned from Padarayanapura tests positive in Tumakuru district||A 45-year-old man (P-764), who worked at a hotel in Padarayanapura in Bengaluru and returned to his hometown in Sira of Tumakuru district on May 4, tested positive for COVID-19 on Saturday. Deputy Commissioner K. Rakesh Kumar said the patient’s son had brought him in a private vehicle to Sira from Bengaluru. On his arrival in Sira, the taluk administration kept him under isolation and collected his throat and nasal swabs for testing. Three others who returned to Tumakuru from Ahmedabad also tested positive. According to officials, they had tested negative for COVID-19 in Ahmedabad before coming to Tumakuru. All the three had travelled from Ahmedabad in Gujarat to Chitradurga and to Pavagada in Tumakuru district on May 5. They were part of a group of 33 people who had travelled from Chitradurga and Tumakuru districts to attend an event in Ahmedabad. They were stranded there after the lockdown was announced. Mr. Kumar said that action will be taken if is found that they had used forged documents to travel to Tumakuru district from Ahmedabad.
10 May 2020||UDUPI,KARNATAKA||Man booked for violating rules||The police registered a case against a person for negligent act likely to spread disease, and not having a pass to enter Udupi district on May 8. According to the police, Raghavendra had come in a car from Chikkamagaluru district. His car was stopped at the checkpost at Someshwara village. But, neither Raghavendra nor the car driver could produce the pass to enter Udupi district. Instead, Raghavendra unnecessarily loitered around the checkpost without wearing a mask.
10 May 2020||Vijayapura,KARNATAKA||9,194 migrants return||As many as 9,194 migrants have returned to the district after the government granted permission for their transport. While 2,213 workers returned to Vijayapura taluk, 1,559 returned to Muddebihal taluk and remaining to other taluks. Around 540 workers have been sent back to their respective States by the district administration. Of them, 388 from Rajasthan and 152 from Madhya Pradesh were sent in 17 KSRTC buses. Since outsiders are still registering their names through the Seva Sindhu app for returning to their native States, buses will be arranged for them after consulting the authorities of the respective States. Besides government buses, some of them went in private vehicles by obtaining permission. The district administration will send to institutional quarantine persons arrived or arriving from Maharashtra, Gujarat, Tamil Nadu, Rajasthan, and Delhi, which have high number of COVID-19 cases. Warning of legal action has been given to those found to have entered the district clandestinely. An appeal has been made to the public to share information with the administration about those who have arrived clandestinely.
10 May 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||30 people hospitalised||At least 30 residents, including 16 children, of Chintanahalli villages in Gurmitkal taluk have been admitted at the primary health centre at Kandkur after they complained of diarrhoea and vomiting due to acute gastroenteritis early on Saturday. Hanumanth Reddy, taluk health officer, suspected that consuming contaminated water was the reason. However, the real cause will be revealed only after examination of the water samples, he said. The condition of the patients is stable, he said.
10 May 2020||May 10 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Karnataka mulls over relaxing some key labour laws||The FKCCI, in its letter to Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa and Industries Minister Jagadish Shettar, on Friday sought deferment of labour laws for three years to attract new investments to the State. When other states have already deferred labour laws, Karnataka may lose opportunity if it does not follow suit, it said. The industry body has listed 15 things to do to attract investments, and deferring labour laws for three years is one of them. It has been proposed to amend the Factories Act to increase the working hours from the current 8-hour shift to 10 or 12 hours. The wages will be in proportion to the existing wages and the additional time will not be considered as overtime. The Industries and Commerce Department has also pushed to defer the implementation of the new minimum wages notified under the Minimum Wages Act, which received the Karnataka High Court’s nod recently, by a year. The new minimum wages were to come into effect from April, 2020. The Industrial Dispute Act that governs the termination, retrenchment and closure of industries is also being looked at. Sources said that the discussion was on to increase the threshold limit of the employees that will enable employers to shut down the industry. “Currently, factories that employ more than 100 employees need government permission to close. Now discussions are on to increase the employee limit,” he said. The Contract Labour (Regulation and Abolition) Act, that mandates employers to register the contract labour, is also being looked into. Further, the Industries and Commerce Department has proposed an exemption for industries from paying rise in variable dearness allowance for 2020-2021, defer payment of ESI and PF contribution for three months, among others. Opposing the proposed amendments to crucial labour legislations, a trade union leader asked: “Karnataka is a leading industrial State with these labour laws. Then why is the government pushing for these changes?” “How far the Labour Department will be successful in stalling these amendments is to be seen,” a government source added.
10 May 2020||May 10 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Deserted look||
10 May 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Houseboat sector struggling to stay afloat||The houseboat sector was among the first to come to a grinding halt after the COVID-19 pandemic started to sweep the world earlier this year. With the crisis unlikely to subside anytime soon, houseboat owners and people who are attached directly and indirectly with the backwater tourism industry are a worried lot. Houseboat owners say it will be difficult to keep the business afloat without government intervention. “Demonetisation, Nipah outbreak, and back-to-back floods had put an enormous strain on the industry. The sector was on the path to recovery when COVID-19 dashed all hopes. Even if the pandemic is brought under control, it will take a year to bring the tourism sector back on track. The State government should intervene to prevent the industry from collapsing,” says Vinod V., president, All Kerala Houseboat Owners Association. There are around 700 licensed boats in the district. Besides, a large number of boats ply without mandatory licence and registration. Around 8,000 people are attached directly with the sector and many thousands indirectly. A large number of them have already become jobless.  One-year moratorium Houseboat owners say that the losses suffered due to COVID-19 outbreak runs into crores. According to them, they will have to spend huge amounts of money for carrying out the maintenance of the boats that remain defunct for the past several months. “Ninety percent of the houseboat owners have taken loans from public/cooperative banks and other financial institutions to run the business. With COVID-19 putting a brake on all houseboat operations, owners are in deep financial crisis. The government should initiate steps to provide interest-free loans. It should also extend the moratorium on banks loans from three months to one year,” Mr. Vinod says. The owners have also urged the government to extend the soon to-be-expiring registration, fitness, licence, and pollution control board certificates of the boats by a year. Kevin Rozario, general secretary, All Kerala Houseboat Owners and Operators Samithi, says that unlike other businesses, it will take months to revive the backwater tourism sector post lockdown. “The government should immediately intervene in the matter and announce measures needed to keep the sector afloat,” he says.
10 May 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||9 more Gulf returnees in care centres||Nine more Gulf returnees on Friday were shifted to COVID-19 care centres in Alappuzha district. “So far 31 people have returned to the district from Gulf countries and 12 have been sent home for self-quarantine. Eighteen persons are at a KTDC resort at Thanneermukkom. An elderly person who needs better care has been hospitalised. He is not showing any symptoms of COVID-19,” said an official.
10 May 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Idukki declared COVID-free again||Idukki became a COVID-19-free district again on Saturday with the lone patient testing negative for the virus. The district was downgraded from green to orange zone on April 27 after four cases were reported. The cases were the mother of a COVID-19-affected person at Elappara who came from Mysuru, a doctor attached to the Primary Health Centre at Elappara, a nurse at Thodupuzha, and a person from Tamil Nadu. Though three more persons tested positive in the subsequent days at a newly set up lab at Kottayam, two tests at the virology lab in Alappuzha found the samples negative. A health official said though the district was COVID-19-free, it would be included in the green zone only if no cases were reported for 21 continuous days. Areas declared as hotspots continue to be under strict vigilance and there are curbs on the movement of people. Border areas too will be monitored strictly as there is a spurt in cases in neighbouring Tamil Nadu. A corona care centre was set up at Thodupuzha on Friday to accommodate those arriving from outside the State. In the first phase, 38 persons were admitted there.
10 May 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Megalithic era cave discovered at Cheruthoni||A cave, purportedly of the Megalithic era, was discovered while removing earth for construction of a building by the Police Cooperative Society at Cheruthoni, near the district headquarters, on Thursday. The work was stopped and the Archaeological Survey of India was informed.
10 May 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||4,311 migrants in Wayanad register to go home||Migrant workers in the district hailing from various States are preparing to return home. As many as 4,311 workers have registered their names in various local administrative bodies in the district to return to their States. The largest number of workers have registered their names in Kalpetta Municipality and the lowest in Noolpuzha grama panchayat. While 722 workers have registered their names in Kalpetta, 17 workers registered themselves in Noolpuzha. Most of the migrant workers hail from West Bengal, Uttar Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra, Assam, Rajasthan, Bihar, and Odisha and have been working as daily wage earners in plantations, cooks in restaurants and bakeries, security guards, or pursing other vocations. The largest number of workers hail from West Bengal and the lowest from Meghalaya and Haryana. While 2,422 workers from West Bengal have registered for their return journey, one person each from Meghalaya and Haryana registered for the purpose.
10 May 2020||KASARAGOD,KERALA||Ban on entry of unregistered Keralites through Talapady||The Kasaragod district administration has closed down the additional help desk, which was opened for registration of Keralites who reach the Talapady check-post from other States without prior registration on the approved government websites. The district administration had opened around 100 help desks, including one for those arriving without registration. However, over the past three days, there was a surge in the number of returnees without registration. This triggered panic among officials as many of the returnees had arrived from districts in the red zone in other States. In the wake of this, District Collector D. Sajith Babu on Saturday ordered that passes should not be issued to Keralites isolated in other States without prior permission from the government. He said though it was decided that passes would be given based on the priority list of the government, it was noticed that several unregistered people had arrived at the check-post with groups that had registered on the website. “We had issues handling returnees as many of them had come from the red zone in Bengaluru, Mumbai, and Gujarat,” said a senior Revenue official on condition of anonymity. In fact, the help desk had allowed people to register after their arrival at the check-post. District Surveillance Officer A.T. Manoj observed that the decision to prevent people attempting to enter the State without registration had come at the right time. “There is every possibility for another COVID-19 outbreak if returnees are allowed to enter the State without proper checks,” he said. Meanwhile, the district has just one positive patient now.
10 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||362 NoRKs arrive from Muscat, Kuwait||Two Air India Express (AIE) flights carrying 362 Non-Resident Keralites (NoRKs) from Kuwait and Muscat landed at the Cochin international airport here on Saturday at 9.45 p.m. and 10 p.m. respectively. Another AIE special flight from Doha will be reaching the airport early Sunday morning. They were being evacuated after they were stranded in these countries following the worldwide lockdown in air traffic to combat COVID-19. There were 181 passengers, including four children, on the AIE (IX 0442) Muscat-Kochi flight. They included 23 from Ernakulam, 26 from Thrissur, 20 each from Palakkad and Pathanamthitta, 16 from Kannur, 13 each from Kollam and Kottayam, 12 each from Thiruvananthapuram and Alappuzha, two each from Idukki and Kasaragod, 15 from Kozhikode, and nine from Malappuram. The AIE flight from Kuwait (IX 0396) had 181 passengers, including four children. The flight from Doha (IX 0476 ), scheduled to land at 1.40 a.m. on Sunday, will be carrying 183 passengers. Reports indicated that the 541 Malayalis being evacuated from the Gulf countries will be reaching Kochi without preliminary screening for COVID-19. It will be a major challenge for the State government, which has left nothing to chance by arranging quarantine for expatriates with symptoms in government facilities and home quarantine for those without the symptoms From Bahrain A group of 181 evacuees from Bahrain landed in Kochi on Friday night. The passengers comprised 87 men. Officials said 25 of the 94 women passengers were pregnant. The flight also had 28 children below 10 years of age. Of the 28 natives of Ernakulam, who arrived from Bahrain, 15 were sent to corona care centres and 13 in home quarantine. The flight had 41 natives of Thrissur, 19 of Palakkad, 22 of Kottayam, four of Kannur, ten of Alappuzha, and 17 of Kollam.
10 May 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Shelters for migrants, destitute being shifted||With school premises being required for paper evaluations and pending examinations, two temporary shelters set up by the Kochi Corporation in schools to house the city’s destitute and migrant workers will be shifted. People from the shelters at SRV Government School and the Government Girls’ High School will be shifted to Maharaja’s College late on Saturday. The school’s premises would be required from May 13 onwards for higher secondary examination paper evaluations, followed by the remaining exams from May 21 onwards, said SRV School Principal Biju A.N. The Corporation has not yet decided how the destitute and homeless in the shelters would be rehabilitated when the shelters might be disbanded. “As per government orders, we had set the shelters up to avoid community spread of the disease. A more permanent solution would require the Corporation council’s decision,” said K.V.P. Krishnakumar, councillor representing Ernakulam South. Of the 10 shelters that the Corporation ran, the Palluruthy settlement was best suited to house the vagrant and destitute population, but it was running a little over its capacity of 350 people, said an official with the National Urban Livelihood Mission at the Corporation.
10 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Young filmmaker dead||Jibit George, co-director of the Malayalam movie Kozhipporu , died here on Saturday. He was 30. Jibit, a resident of Kalathiparambil house at Kidangoor, near Angamaly, had directed the movie along with his friend Jinoy Janardhanan. Jibit experienced uneasiness in the morning which developed into acute chest pain by the afternoon, said Mr. Janardhanan. Jibit was rushed to the Little Flower Hospital in Angamaly, where he was declared brought dead. A postmortem examination will be held on Sunday to ascertain the cause of death, said hospital authorities. Jibit had also penned the story of Kozhipporu that was released a few days before the lockdown. The movie was being planned for re-release after the relaxation of lockdown norms.
10 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Gulf returnee tests positive; admitted to isolation ward||A 23-year-old man who returned from Abu Dhabi on a repatriation flight, has tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. The district now has two positive recorded cases of COVID-19. The patient had been on the flight carrying Non-Resident Keralites from Abu Dhabi that landed at the Cochin International Airport on Thursday. On landing, the Malappuram native had shown symptoms of COVID-19 and was immediately admitted to the isolation ward at the Government Medical College Hospital, Kalamassery. His condition was reported to be stable. As many as 556 persons were placed in home quarantine on Saturday, taking the total number of people in home quarantine to 1,284 in the district. Of them, 47 were identified as high-risk. Twenty people are being monitored in hospitals.
10 May 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Motorist hurt after metro worker’s tool falls on him||A two-wheeler rider was injured on Saturday evening after a hand grinder, that slipped from the hands of a worker engaged in cladding work over the Kochi metro’s Pettah station, fell on him. Following this, the motorist lost control of his bike and hit a car. Twenty-two-year-old M.R. Aravind of Thykoodam broke his teeth in the incident. He also suffered abrasions on the face and hands. A maxillofacial surgeon was attending to him, said sources at a private hospital where he is admitted. A relative of the youth said his life could be saved since he was wearing a helmet. He was administered first aid at the Thripunithura Taluk Hospital before being rushed to the private hospital. DMRC sources said the incident could have been averted. The contracting firm has been directed to look into the incident.
10 May 2020||Kochi,KERALA||HC to hold sitting on transport of returnees||A division bench of the Kerala High Court will hold a special sitting on Sunday to consider issues pertaining to the transport of Keralites from across the border at Walayar. The Kerala government has maintained that those arriving at the entry points without passes will not be allowed to proceed. Reports suggest that people turning up in large numbers at the check-post without passes has resulted in crowding at the check-post, causing tension.
10 May 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Kollam bids to plug loopholes at check-post||The Kollam district administration has expedited the procedure for issuing passes for those arriving from abroad and other States. Three teams have been deployed under a deputy tahsildar at the Civil Station. Officials said the new system would ensure that those who cross the district border entered quarantine centres. Their details will be forwarded to the LSGs, medical officers, and tahsildars without delay. Constant scrutiny The list from Jagratha portal will be scrutinised by the officials 24 hours to monitor those placed under institutional and home quarantine. Those coming from other countries will be given instructions over phone. The data from the portal will be communicated to the authorities by District Informatics Officer through SMS. Those getting the pass from the Aryankavu check-post will be given the contact details of respective local body secretaries and medical officers. They should call the toll-free number 1077 or 0474-2797609/8589015556 if they have any quarantine-related queries.
10 May 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Tracking arrivals a daunting task||Ensuring institutional quarantine for people arriving from red zone areas in other States has become a daunting task for the district administration and the Health Department. While expatriates are transported directly from airports to various isolation centres, officials are still struggling to trace those who came from red zone areas via road, because of the absence of a centralised system. Though real time data of people from red zones are made available to the district authorities from the border check-posts, many of the returnees are not reporting at the designated isolation centres.“Several people entering the State are not reporting to isolation centres, rendering the institutional quarantine system futile,” said a Health Department official. As many as 884 Kottayam natives, including 434 from red zones, entered the State through various check-posts till Saturday afternoon. Of these, only 170 persons have reported at the isolation centres so far. 30 students from T.N. Efforts are now on at the grassroots-level to locate the missing persons, including about 30 students from Thiruvallur district in Tamil Nadu, with the help of the local police.
10 May 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Penalising violators an uphill task||Collecting compounding fee from those charged with violating the lockdown is likely to be a tough task for the government as the police are confused over the appropriate provisions to be invoked against such offenders. Even though the government promulgated the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance, 2020 giving extraordinary powers to the district administration to deal with the COVID-19 outbreak, including restrictions on essential services, many are still being booked under the Epidemic Diseases Act of 1897, which can be easily challenged through a discharge petition. Special order Station house officers say they will be able to register cases under the new Ordinance only on a special order from the District Collector concerned. In most of the districts, such an order is yet to come, compelling the police to book the offenders under the old Act. They also argue that the promulgation of the new Ordinance has literally made the Epidemic Diseases Act of 1897 invalid. A station house officer in Kozhikode city says the delay in issuing a district-level order directing the police to charge cases only under the new Ordinance will cause huge financial loss to the government as collection of already imposed fine may be challenged by the majority of offenders in court taking advantage of the loophole. “We have already come to know the attempts of some lawyers to support their defendants with this option,” he says. Personnel attached to various stations say registering cases under the Disaster Management Act too will not result in any tougher action against the violators. On most occasions, cases are registered under Section 188 (disobedience to order promulgated by a public servant) of the Indian Penal Code, which is a too lighter provision. Kerala has so far witnessed over 40,000 cases apart from the seizure of over 30,000 vehicles in connection with the violation of the lockdown regulations. Therefore, the fine amount too will be a hefty sum compared to the other States. According to police sources, a top-level discussion is on to tackle the method of handling the already registered cases in such a way to make the offenders accountable for the payment of fines.
10 May 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Consumerfed makes a windfall||The Kerala State Cooperative Consumers’ Federation Limited (Consumerfed) has doubled its sales in the State due to COVID-19 lockdown. Its sales have touched Rs. 55 crore during the past 40 days of the lockdown. Usually the monthly sales hover around Rs. 18 crore
10 May 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Kozhikode corpn. rolls back decision on project||The Kozhikode Corporation Council has gone back on its decision to hand over the project for renovation of Muthalakkulam grounds to Salim Group and Associates. The council, in its meeting on Thursday, decided to call for applications from its empanelled architects for the project. The project was handed over to Salim Group in the council meeting held on November 27 despite the disapproval of Opposition councillors. The rollback of the decision was meant to overcome any hurdles in the future, said Corporation sources.
10 May 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Learning app offers free service||Codesap Technologies, an edutech firm under the district unit of the Kerala Startup Mission (KSUM), has offered its app free of cost for educational institutions for online learning during the COVID-19 period. The software “Edusap” with a mobile application, was launched three years ago. Edusap can be downloaded from Playstore and Appstore for Android and iOS phones respectively.  For details, contact: 9539380303, 9744031237 or visit www.edusap.in.
10 May 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||Two expats from Malappuram test positive for SARS-CoV-2||Two persons from the district who returned from the Gulf by special repatriation flights on Thursday were confirmed to have contracted COVID-19. District Collector Jafar Malik said here on Saturday that a 39-year-old man from Chapanangadi near Kottakkal and a 23-year-old man from Naduvattom near Edappal were tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. While the Chapanangadi man was admitted to Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode, the Naduvattom man was shifted to Government Medical College Hospital, Kalamassery. The Chapanangadi native returned from Dubai on Air India Express special flight that reached Karipur on Thursday night. He was under treatment for renal ailment, and returned home for follow-up treatment at Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode. He was shifted to the medical college hospital in an ambulance at 1.30 a.m. on Friday. He was tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Saturday. The Naduvattom native reached Nedumbassery airport on a special flight from Abu Dhabi on Thursday night. As he said that he had fever a week ago, he was shifted in an ambulance to the Government Medical College Hospital, Kalamassery, by 11 p.m. His COVID-19 test results turned positive on Saturday. District Medical Officer K. Sakeena said both of them would not be counted in the list of COVID-19 patients in Malappuram district as they were being treated in other districts. Those who returned from Dubai and Abu Dhabi along with the patients were asked to remain alert during their quarantine at homes and at COVID-19 care centres. The District Collector said health officials were maintaining regular contact with the returnees. He said if those in home quarantine developed any health issue, they should not directly go to a hospital. “They should contact the control cell and follow their instructions. The control cell can be contacted at 0483 2737858, 2737857, 2733251, 2733252, 2733253,” he said.
10 May 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Rush, chaos at Walayar check-post||Confusion and chaos prevailed at the Walayar check-post over permitting dozens of Keralites who reached the border without passes issued by the district authorities on Saturday. District Collector D. Balamurali said no out-of-turn or on-the-spot permission could be given as the government was following a strict guideline about the return of Keralites from other States. Long queues of vehicles were formed at Walayar as people with and without proper passes arrived on the border. As many as 3,340 Keralites returned home through Walayar on Friday alone, the biggest number to reach the State on a single day since Monday. Meanwhile, the Coimbatore district administration has agreed to shift the Keralites trapped at Walayar to an outbound training centre at Kaliyapuram, Coimbatore. Dozens of families without proper passes were prevented from entering Kerala on Saturday. Mr. Balamurali said the trapped people would have to apply for proper passes while being at the Coimbatore camp. He said the crisis could be resolved within a couple of days.
10 May 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Police drone spots tiger that killed plantation worker||Drones deployed by the police to search for the animal that killed a plantation worker at Manpilavu here on Thursday spotted a tiger on Saturday. Villagers were not sure whether the animal that killed Binish Mathew, 37, at the rubber plantation of the Kerala State Plantation Corporation was a leopard or tiger. The visuals captured by the drone cleared the confusion. His fellow workers had told the police that the animal had swooped down on Binish who was standing on a ladder, bit him on the neck, and pulled him towards the bushes stood nearly I00 metres away. The Forest Department has set up two iron cages, with two goats as baits, in the forest areas of Thannithode to trap the tiger. During his visit to the area on Saturday, Forest Minister K. Raju said Rapid Response Teams of the department were camping at Thannithode. An expert from Wayanad too would reach Thannithode soon for tranquillising the tiger, if it could not be trapped. Curbs on movement The Minister said he had asked the Chief Wildlife Warden to take the decision on killing the tiger, if it continued to attack people and the department failed to trap it. District Collector P.B. Noohu has clamped prohibitory orders on the locality, curtailing free movement of the people, in the wake of the threat posed by the animal.
10 May 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||10,844 migrant workers register in Pathanamthitta to go home||A total of 10,844 migrant workers in Pathanamthitta have registered their names seeking arrangements to return to their villages in other States. District Collector P.B. Noohu said 7,549 workers were from West Bengal and 1,557 from Bihar. As per the Labour Department figures, the district houses 16,066 migrant workers. Mr. Noohu said the administration would transport the labourers in a systematic way as per the schedule of the special trains allotted. The schedule would be announced later. Six pregnant women Meanwhile, 18 persons who arrived in two flights from Bahrain and Riyadh on Friday night were quarantined at a corona care centre and their homes on Saturday. Of the 18, six are pregnant women. With this, the number of Non-Resident Keralites (NoRKs) in quarantine in the district has gone up to 25. Seven persons who came from Dubai and Abu Dhabi on Thursday night were quarantined at another corona care centre at Ranni on Friday. No new cases A medical bulletin on Saturday stated that no new COVID-19 case has been reported from the district for the 27th day on Saturday. Only four persons remain under treatment at the three government hospitals in the district as on Saturday evening.
10 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Flight from Doha to arrive today||With the district set to receive 182 people who are being repatriated in a special flight from Doha on Sunday, the district administration has readied all arrangements to ensure their smooth transportation in adherence to the COVID-19 safety protocol. The flight that will arrive in the Thiruvananthapuram International Airport at 10.45 p.m. will comprise passengers mostly hailing from Thiruvananthapuram, Kanyakumari, Kollam, Alappuzha and Pathanamthitta. Following their arrival, the passengers will be subjected to screening using the thermal and optical imaging camera that has been installed at the Thiruvananthapuram International Airport. While those found with symptoms of the disease will be immediately shifted to hospitals in ambulances, asymptomatic people will be transported to quarantine facilities in their respective district in KSRTC buses with police convoy. Visits airport District Collector K. Gopalakrishnan and District Police Chief (Thiruvananthapuram City) Balram Kumar Upadhyay visited the airport to take stock of the arrangements Meanwhile, the Collector issued an order that made it mandatory for people crossing the Inchivila inter-State border without travel permit or passes to be quarantined in the designated facilities. Every person, except those from certain excluded categories, who come from such containment areas will be sent to institutional quarantine centres even if they do not have any symptoms of the disease. As many as 1,733 people were directed to go on quarantine in the district on Saturday, increasing the number of those under observation to 3,924. As many as 3,687 people were quarantined in their homes. Ten people were admitted to hospitals with various symptoms. The City police registered 178 petty cases against those found without masks. Thirty eight others were also booked for other lock-down violations. Twenty five vehicles were also seized. The Thiruvananthapuram Rural police also registered 196 cases, arrested 207 people and seized 104 vehicles. Restrictions today The police will impose restrictions declared by the government on Sunday. Only essential services will be permitted to operate. Travel will only be permitted for those seeking medical care in hospitals or purchasing medicines.
10 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||21,812 have arrived from other States||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said here on Saturday that 21,812 people had arrived in Kerala from other States. Another 54,262 persons have applied for entry passes. The government has opened help desks in Bengaluru, Chennai, Mumbai, and Pune to assist stranded Keralites. The government would issue entry passes in phases to avoid tightlines and long queues of vehicles in border localities. The Centre has indicated that it would operate special non-stop trains to Kerala from Mumbai, Bengaluru, and Chennai. Railways would give priority to pregnant women, aged and ailing persons, and students. Muthanga There was heavy rush of Keralites at the Muthanga check-post on the Kerala-Karnataka border in Wayanad on Saturday to cross over to the State. As many as 433 people in 210 vehicles crossed the check-post till 8 p.m. Among them, 33 were institutionally quarantined. Close to 50 persons reached the check-post without registration. However, they were allowed to enter the State later. The dearth of basic amenities and mobile network near the Moolaholla forest check-post put the returnees in a fix. 362 enter via Talapady As many as 362 people crossed the Talapady check-post on Saturday. The government had issued passes to 671 people to enter the State on Saturday. A total of 4,017 people had so far entered the State through the check-post. As many as 17,196 had applied to enter the State through this check-post on the NoRKA website. Via Inchivila As many as 139 people entered the State through the check-post at Inchivila on Saturday. None of the returnees were diagnosed with COVID-19 symptoms. Of 52 people who came from red zones, 37 were quarantined at a corona care centre in the Mar Ivanios College hostel. The remaining were transported to their houses in ambulances. Via Aryankavu As many as 131 returned home through the Aryankavu check-post on Saturday. Apart from 19 Kollam residents, persons from Pathanamthitta, Thiruvananthapuram, Ernakulam, and Alappuzha also crossed the border. The Health Department has placed 65 people in institutional quarantine while 66 were asked to remain in home isolation.
10 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Kerala will not dilute labour laws, says Labour Minister||Labour Minister T.P. Ramakrishnan says Kerala has not taken any steps to dilute labour laws and that the government is taking necessary steps to promote investment while protecting the rights of workers. Speaking to The Hindu on Saturday, he said the State had taken several steps in recent weeks to address issues faced by employers. Some States, including Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, and Gujarat, had decided this week to suspend major labour laws for a few years to promote investment in view of the COVID-19 epidemic. “We are living through times when investors and workers need to have friendly relations and mutual understanding for us to forge ahead. Any step to promote investment should not be at the cost of denying the rights of workers. The government has now taken decisions that would make it easier for businesses to get licences and start functioning,” said Mr. Ramakrishnan. INTUC stance Indian National Trade Union Congress (INTUC) State unit president R. Chandrasekharan said stipulating 12-hour working hours at a time when the country was facing the biggest job losses in history was condemnable. “Even before the pandemic, India was having the highest job loss rate in 45 years. In addition, we have lakhs who lost their jobs overseas and are coming back, besides several migrant workers who are jobless now. Instead of providing more jobs to them, the attempt now is to burden the remaining employees with more work,” said Mr. Chandrasekharan. CPI(M) Rajya Sabha MP Elamaram Kareem, a member of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Labour, said the decisions of a few State governments were a continuation of the Narendra Modi government’s attempts to water down labour laws over the past six years. “Earlier this year, the Centre brought in the Labour Code on Industrial Relations, 2019, consolidating 44 existing labour laws into four codes out of which one, the Wage code, was passed in Rajya Sabha with even the Congress supporting it. In the standing committee discussions on the other codes, the Left and some parties moved amendments and dissent notes, while the Congress did not. The latest moves by the States come in such circumstances, irking the INTUC and even the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh-affiliated Bharatiya Mazdoor Sangh who have made their opposition clear,” said Mr. Kareem. The leaders said nowhere in the world had steps been taken to clamp down on workers’ rights following crisis situations. On the contrary, labour-friendly decisions were taken to help kick-start the economy.
10 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Two expatriates test positive after return||Two expatriates who returned to the State by the first evacuation flights on May 7 with mild symptoms of COVID-19 have tested positive for SARS-CoV-2, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said here on Saturday. While one person came by the Dubai-Kozhikode flight, the other arrived by the Abu Dhabi-Kochi flight. Both are being treated in Kozhikode and Kochi respectively. Among expatriates Mr. Vijayan said that the confirmation of COVID-19 in expatriates who just came into the State was an indication that the State had to renew its vigil and strengthen its containment measures so that there was no resurgence of the disease again. They were the first of the travellers who had been allowed to board the special flights to bring back expatriates after they underwent rapid antibody testing to rule out that they were not afflicted by the virus. The State tested these passengers using reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) to find active infection. The State now has chalked up a total of 505 cases so far, out of which only 17 cases are currently undergoing treatment. Recovered A total of 485 patients have recovered from the disease. The number of persons under surveillance in the State is 23,930, out of which, except for 334 in isolation in hospitals the rest are in home quarantine. Till date, the State has tested samples from 36,648 persons, of which 36,002 have returned a negative result. Of the sentinel surveillance testing samples of 3,475, a total of 3,231 samples have been negative.
10 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||First-line hospitals to come up in local bodies||The government has given the nod for establishing COVID First-line Treatment Centres (CFTC) in the State as a contingency measure. The CFTC will be the first-line hospital care for COVID-19 patients or COVID-19 suspected individuals. The CFTCs, temporarily created medical facilities, will manage any sudden outbreak of COVID-19 in any local area without affecting the State’s health-care network. The government has assigned the roles and responsibilities of the departments and agencies involved in creating the CFTCs. Local bodies have been asked to set up CFTCs in three phases using Plan funds or own funds. The cumulative cost of setting up CFTCs in the local bodies for adding 50,000 beds has been estimated at Rs. 430 crore. The Health Department has been asked to take care of the procurement of medical equipment and medical administration. The Kerala State Disaster Management Authority will be in charge of overall coordination.
10 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Corporation arrangements for returnees||The city Corporation has made elaborate arrangements for non-resident Keralites ahead of the landing of the first flight from Doha in the capital on Sunday, said Mayor K.Sreekumar. In the quarantine centres, 21 items including sanitary items, toiletries and plates have been arranged. The civic body has also fixed the food menu for each days for those staying in the quarantine centres. The Corporation has arranged 9,100 rooms across 330 buildings for non-resident Keralites. Out of this, 55 are Government buildings, while 275 are private, a pressnote said.
10 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||COVID-19 hospital in Kasaragod||The government has accorded sanction to a 500-bed COVID-19 hospital to be set up in five acres at Thekkkil village in Kasaragod district by Tata Projects Ltd. under a corporate social responsibility (CSR) initiative. Aimed at improving the medical infrastructure in the border district, the hospital to take care of those infected by SARS-CoV-2 will have a 400-bed quarantine ward and a 96-bed isolation ward. Adjunct facilities such as observation rooms, laboratories, rest rooms, and toilets will be created. The cost of the facilities will be borne by Tata Projects.
10 May 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Total lockdown today||The government has imposed a total lockdown in the State on Sunday. It has exempted hospitals, laboratories, medical stores, milk distribution, hotels that offer takeaway or home delivery service, garbage collectors, and essential services from the mandatory holiday. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan urged people to remain indoors. Citizens would require a pass from the police or District Collector for travelling. The holiday will not apply to marriages and funerals, but not more than 20 persons should assemble. The State has permitted walking and cycling. Only emergency services and freight trucks will be allowed on designated routes from 5 a.m. to 10 a.m.  Kozhikode Corporation  Beach road, PHED Road from Eranhipalam-Sarovaram Park, Vellimadukunnu- Kovoor road. Kochi Corporation BTH to High Court Junction, Manorama Junction to Panampally Nagar, the entire stretch of the Stadium link road and approach road to the GCDA stadium, Kaloor. Thiruvananthapuram Corporation Museum Junction to Vellayambalam, Kowdiar-Raj Bavan-Vellayambalam, Pattom-Kuravankonam-Kowdiar.
10 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Chennithala writes to Centre||Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala on Saturday wrote to Union Railway Minister Piyush Goyal seeking special trains for Keralites stranded in Delhi. Numerous Keralites were stranded in different parts of Delhi on account of the lockdown. They included pregnant women, children and the elderly.
10 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Online platform for NoRKs to book vehicles||Kerala Tourism has launched an online platform that enables the stranded non-resident Keralites (NoRKs) to book vehicles of tour operators to travel back to the State. Those stranded in other States can submit enquiries to tour/transport operator through Kerala Tourism’s official websitewww.keralatourism.org. The tour operator will get the NoRKs’ requirements and contact details by email. Simultaneously, the applicants will get an enquiry number and relevant information about the preferred travel company. The interaction can help fix a trip and payment. The traveller can then apply for the entry pass to travel to Kerala, using the vehicle details. “This would help the NoRKs to get vehicles for their travel to the State,” said Rani George, Secretary, Kerala Tourism. The platform has facilitated 151 registrations and registration of tour/transport operators is continuing. The number of vehicles available for the service is now 493, with an overall seating capacity of 5,897.
10 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Milk procurement||Milk procurement and supply will continue on May 10, as usual, the Thiruvananthapuram dairy of Milma informed dairy farmers and consumers.
10 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Arrest||The Peroorkada police arrested two people on Saturday for allegedly brewing and selling spurious liquor. Those arrested were identified as Sunil Kumar, alias Chani Suni, and Mahesh alias Mahi. They were caught with the equipment used to manufacture liquor in their house.
10 May 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||PETA flags TB in elephants||With tuberculosis (TB) prevalent among captive elephants, the People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA) India has demanded festival organisers go for elephant-free celebrations. Pointing to this year’s elephant-free Thrissur Pooram against the backdrop of COVID-19, it urges Devaswom Minister Kadakampally Surendran to direct Devaswom boards and temples to stop using captive elephants in festivals for the sake of the health of both elephants and humans. PETA notes that many captive elephants in Kerala are suffering from TB, which is highly contagious and transmissible not only between elephants but also from elephants to human beings. “TB in elephants has been so prevalent in Kerala that it may wipe out all captive elephants in the State within the next 15 to 20 years,” says PETA India CEO Manilal Valliyate. “PETA India is urging temples to stop using elephants for festivals as it poses a health risk to thousands of people. It has been reported that on average 25 elephants die every year in Kerala because of TB. Elephants can spread TB without ever exhibiting symptoms,” he says. “When infected animals are forced to work at crowded festivals, they come into close contact with other elephants and humans and expose all of them to the disease,” the PETA India CEO says. PETA urges the Minister toTB seek help from the Minister for Forests and Zoos to screen all captive elephants under the Devaswom boards and temples for TB immediately. All mahouts and elephant caretakers also should be screened for the disease. Many studies A study of 600 elephants in Karnataka, Kerala, and Tamil Nadu published in 2012 found “evidence for high prevalence of asymptomatic (mycobacterium) tuberculosis infection in Asian elephants in a captive Indian setting”, he says. A study in 2013 by scientists in Kerala discovered “two probable cases of cross-species transmission of M. tuberculosis between mahouts and captive elephants. First is a case of human-to-elephant transmission and second is a case of elephant-to-human transmission of M. tuberculosis”, Dr. Valliyate says. A paper published in 2017, following confirmation of TB in three wild elephants in southern India, states that “tuberculosis may be spilling over from humans (reverse zoonosis) and emerging in wild elephants”, he adds.
10 May 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||347 returnees quarantined in Thissur||The quarantine centres for Keralites returning from abroad and other States have accommodated 347 people in Thrissur district. They were sent to the centres as institutional quarantine has been made mandatory for them. Pregnant women, children, and elderly people have been sent for home quarantine under stringent restrictions. Of the NRIs who returned from the Gulf in the past two days, 67 persons were sent to institutional quarantine. There were 38 persons from Thrissur on the Bahrain-Kochi flight that arrived on Thursday night. Of them, 10 persons, including pregnant women, were taken home for quarantine. Others were sent to Garuda Express.
10 May 2020||May 10 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Decks cleared for repatriation of evacuees from Maldives||The city police have made extensive arrangements for the clearance and transportation of expatriates set to arrive at the Kochi port from the Maldives by a vessel on Sunday around 10 a.m. The police have laid down a streamlined protocol for the entire operation. District Police Chief (Kochi City) Vijay Sakhare will oversee the operations. “Preferential category passengers, including pregnant women and children, will be allowed to disembark first. Nineteen pregnant women and 10 children below the age of 10 are on the vessel,” said G. Poonguzhali, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order). They will be followed by those with physical discomfort like sea sickness. Doctors of the Cochin Port Trust will subject them to medical screening. “Those with COVID-19 symptoms will be escorted by policemen in Personal Protection Equipment (PPE) to isolation rooms,” Ms. Poonguzhali added. Thereafter, passengers will be put through the emigration and customs clearance. Those with nothing to declare to the Customs authorities will be directed through the green channel, while a separate counter will be arranged for the rest. Their luggages will be disinfected by Fire and Rescue Services personnel. Passengers can then collect the free SIM provided by BSNL. They will be later guided to a counter manned jointly by the police and the Revenue Department where their details will be verified. Passengers will be issued chits for the buses they will have to board. “KSRTC buses labelled with the names of the districts they are operating to will be lined up in front of the Samudrika Hall. Special taxis will also be available,” said Ms. Poonguzhali.
10 May 2020||May 10 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Relief from the heat||
10 May 2020||May 10 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Back to the roots||
10 May 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||RTC bus from Vizag delivers TB medicines in Anantapur||While Andhra Pradesh Road Transport Corporation(APSRTC) is transporting essential goods like rice, vegetables and fruits within the State, it has also taken up the task of delivering medicines. A Cargo Bus of Madhurawada Depot in Visakhapatnam run by Govardhan and his colleague Srinivas travelled all the way from the port city to Anantapur and Kurnool to deliver the Tuberculosis medicines that are essential for those surviving on the first line or second line of Multidrug resistant TB drugs. They delivered the medicines to 232 Multidrug Resistant TB patients in Anantapur district on Saturday. Almost a similar number in Kurnool district.  Second Line of Drugs More than 250 boxes of Second Line of Drugs weighing close to two tonnes were carried by them. There are more than 4,000 patients currently undergoing treatment under the Multi-Drug Therapy that ranges from 6 months to a maximum of 24 months, said District TB Control Officer R. Sudheer Babu.
10 May 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Positive cases breach the 100-mark in Chittoor||Five new positive COVID-19 cases were reported in Nagalapuram mandal headquarters of Chittoor district on Saturday. All the cases were linked to the Koyambedu in Chennai, thus bringing the cases linked to the market to 15, and the total number of cases in the district to 101. Revenue and police officials rushed to Nagalapuram, on the Puttur-Chennai national highway, and turned it into a containment zone. Superintendent of Police S. Senthil Kumar inspected the mandal headquarters and the surrounding villages. He said that the new cases, in addition to Friday’s 10 cases, were traced to Koyambedu market. “All these patients work as vegetable vendors, drivers and cleaners who keep shuttling between the eastern mandals and the Koyambedu market,” he said. Following the detection of the cases, red zones were created at Satyavedu, Varadaiahpalem, B.N. Kandriga and V. Kota mandals so far. 160 identified Collector Narayana Bharat Gupta told the media here that 160 persons who maintained prime contact with the Koyambedu were identified in the district. Tests were conducted for 80 persons, and the remaining would be completed in a couple of days. He appealed to the public of the affected mandals to voluntarily reach out to the officials of their concerned areas or inform the district administration through helplines if they had any contact with Chennai market in recent weeks. Surfacing of COVID-19 positive cases in Nagalapuram led to tension in the neighbouring mandals of Puttur, Nagari, Nindra, Pitchatur and Narayanavanam. It is observed that several small vendors from here procured the vegetable stocks from Nagalapuram and Satyavedu to supply to the local markets.
10 May 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Odisha workers in despair after cancellation of special trains||The joy of about 400 migrant workers from Odisha knew no bounds while boarding special buses at Tirupati on Saturday, as they headed to Chittoor to take a special train to Bhubaneshwar. But their happiness was short-lived as the railway officials temporarily cancelled the special trains to Odisha and Uttar Pradesh following changes in services after the LG Polymers gas leak tragedy in Vishakapatnam. The revenue officials of Tirupati urban limits mustered about 400 Odisha-bound migrant workers from Tirupati and surrounding areas after announcement of the schedule for special train from Chittoor on Saturday. Of the 400 workers, 109 were already given shelter at a Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams-run choultry behind Tirupati railway station. Special shelters All the workers were given sumptuous breakfast and lunch packets before they boarded the special buses to Chittoor railway station at noon. However, the special buses instead of ferrying them to the railway station, took them to the special shelters at SITAMS Engineering |College on the outskirts of Chittoor and the accommodation block at Kanipakam nearby. Tahsildar (Tirupati Urban) Venkata Ramana told The Hindu that as per schedule, the migrant workers were made to gather in Tirupati to board special buses to Chittoor. “As we received information that the railway authorities have temporarily cancelled the special train, we shifted the workers to the two shelters in Chittoor. As and when the railways reschedule the specials, the workers will be sent back,” he said. Workers from U.P. The official said that arrangements were also made to transport about 500 migrant workers to Uttar Pradesh, but the expected special train was also cancelled. “We have close to 1,000 U.P.-based migrant workers in and around Tirupati alone, being sheltered at various localities here,” he said. On Thursday night, a special train, carrying about 1,200 migrant workers and 242 students of Sainik School (Kalikiri), left for Bihar from Chittoor. Meanwhile, a group of 40 migrant workers from Odisha on Saturday approached the Tahsildar office at Baireddipalle mandal, seeking their transportation to Bhubhaneshwar. The workers engaged with power cable works by a Bengaluru based firm were stranded in Baireddipalle owing to the lockdown.
10 May 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three from T.N. killed in accident in Chittoor||Three persons were killed on the spot when the SUV in which they were travelling skidded off the road and overturned in a rocky terrain, 300 metres away from the road, at Gundlaguttapalle of Pakala mandal on Saturday. According to information, G. Ramkumar (26) of Chennai, V. Manibalan (24) and R. Venu (58) of Dindivanam of Villupuram district of Tamil Nadu, were working as drivers of earthmovers with a Chennai-based construction company KGK constructions. The firm is executing dam works at Siddipet in Telangana. The three men were on their way to Telangana from Chennai to relieve a batch at the worksite. After crossing Nendragunta junction near Pakala, the SUV reportedly at high speed jumped the road and repeatedly tumbled before hitting a huge boulder. The impact of the accident was such that the bodies of the three were scattered in a distance of 300 metres. The Pakala polcie said that as the roads remained deserted due to the lockdown, the vehicle was at a high speed. The bodies were shifted to the area hospital for autopsy, and their family members informed about the tragedy. A case has been registered.
10 May 2020||ELURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||Migrant labourer found dead||A migrant labourer, S. Rajwar (34), who migrated to Chennai, died under suspicious circumstances. His body was found on the National Highway on the outskirts of Eluru on Saturday. Rajwar was travelling on foot along with other workers. The labourers slept on the median of the highway on Friday night, and Rajwar was found dead on Saturday morning frothing from his mouth. Police suspect that the worker died of snake bike. The body was shifted to Government Headquarters Hospital for post-mortem.
10 May 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Central team inspects containment zones||An inspection team dispatched by the Central government visited containment zones in Guntur district on Saturday to check their functioning. The two-member team, comprising All India Institute of Hygiene and Public Health associate professor Bobby Paul and public health specialist Nandini Bhattacharya visited Nallacheruvu, Sangadigunta, Dargah Manyam and Etukuru Road as part of their inspection drive. District Collector I. Samuel Ananda Kumar, DIG (Guntur Urban) P.H.D. Ramakrishna and Municipal Commissioner C. Anuradha accompanied the team as they went around the containment zones. The committee members went around the cluster containment zones, red zone mapping and control rooms. They also inspected the control rooms in the areas and visited the areas in Ahmed Nagar. World Health Organisation representative Harshit and District Medical and Health Officer J. Yasmin were present.
10 May 2020||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||Telangana battle against virus||Telangana reported 31 fresh cases and one death. In Kerala, two expatriates who returned by the first evacuation flights on May 7 tested positive. Telangana’s 31 fresh cases took the total to 1,163 and the death toll to 30. Of the new cases, which included a migrant, 30 were from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation limits. The health bulletin said 751 persons were so far treated and discharged, and there were 382 active cases, while 23 were discharged after treatment on Saturday. Warangal (Rural), Yadadari and Wanaparthy had not reported any cases. Also, 23 districts, including Karimnagar, Sircilla, Kamareddy and Mahabubnagar had no new case in the past 14 days. Two expatriates, who returned to Kerala on May 7 and who were in COVID care hospitals after they showed mild symptoms, tested positive for COVID-19, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said. While one person had come by the Dubai-Kozhikode flight, the other arrived by the Abu Dhabi-Kochi flight. They were being treated at Kozhikode and Kochi. Mr. Vijayan said that the confirmation of COVID-19 in expatriates showed that the State had to renew its vigil and strengthen containment measures. The two travellers on special flights had taken a rapid antibody test. The State had tested passengers using RT-PCR to find active infection. Kerala now had a total of 505 cases, of which 17 were under treatment. A total of 485 patients had recovered. There were 23,930 persons under surveillance, and except for 334 in isolation in hospitals, the rest were on home quarantine. The State had tested samples from 36,648 persons, of which 36,002 were negative. Of the sentinel surveillance samples of 3,475, a total of 3,231 were negative. Total lockdown today The Kerala government imposed a total lockdown on Sunday. Hospitals, laboratories, medical stores, milk distribution, hotels offering takeaway or home delivery, garbage collectors, and other essential services were exempted. Citizens would require a pass from the police or District Collector for travelling. Karnataka tests one laks samples Total cases in Karnataka rose to 794 with 41 new ones added on Saturday, and the State had tested 1,03,098 samples. The State now had 32 ICMR-approved testing labs, including 11 private labs. Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar tweeted, “We are boosting our testing capacity to have 60 labs by end of this month and will be able to conduct 10,000 tests per day.” Saturday’s 41 new cases included 12 from Bengaluru Urban, eight from Bhatkal in Uttara Kannada, six from Davangere, four from Tumakuru, three each from Bantwal in Dakshina Kannada, Chitradurga and Bidar, and one each from Chickballapur and Vijayapura. While most were contacts of previous positive patients, six had travelled to Ahmedabad. In Bengaluru Urban, five were from Hongasandra and the remaining from Padarayanapura.   526 test positive in TN Tamil Nadu added another 526 cases of COVID-19 to its tally of positive cases on Saturday. The fresh cases were reported in 20 districts, with Chennai leading the table with 279 cases. As the State’s tally of positive cases rose to 6,535, it was pointed out that 1,867 cases were linked to the Koyambedu market cluster. Four women died of COVID-19 in Chennai and Sivagangai. This took the total deaths due to COVID-19 to 44. A 67-year-old resident of Chennai who was admitted to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital on May 1 died at 10 p.m. on May 8, while a 70-year-old resident of Ramanathapuram died at 12.15 p.m. on May 9 at Sivagangai Medical College Hospital. Both had co-morbid conditions. At Government Kilpauk Medical College Hospital, a 58-year-old resident of Chennai who was admitted on May 7 died at 12.05 a.m. on May 8 and another 73-year-old city resident admitted on May 4 died at 3.40 p.m. the same day. The majority of Tamil Nadu’s new cases were reported in the northern districts. Besides Chennai, there were 67 cases in Villupuram, 40 in Chengalpattu, 26 in Tiruvallur, 17 in Kancheepuram and 15 in Tiruvannamalai. The cases continued to increase in Ariyalur and Perambalur that accounted for 16 and 31 cases respectively. There were 10 cases in Ranipet, eight cases in Tirunelveli, four in Tirupattur, three in Cuddalore, two each in Ramanathapuram and Theni, and one each in Dindigul, Kallakurichi, Namakkal, Nilgiris, Thanjavur, and Tiruchi.      (With inputs from Thiruvananthapuram, Bengaluru and Chennai Bureaus)
10 May 2020||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Clarify stand on AP’s plan to divert Krishna water: CPI||The Telangana unit of Communist Party of India (CPI) has demanded that the State government make its stand clear on the plans of Andhra Pradesh to divert 6 to 8 tmcft water a day from Srisailam reservoir. State secretary of CPI Chada Venkat Reddy said on Saturday that it was time the Telangana government made its stand clear on AP’s plans to further increase the capacity of Pothireddypadu head regulator by 5 tmcft a day and lifting another 3 tmcft a day from one more point in the foreshores of Srisailam reservoir. There was information that the AP government had also called tenders for diverting huge quantity of Krishna water from Srisailam. Stating that the CPI had opposed diversion of Krishna water from Pothireddypadu in 2004 itself, Mr. Reddy said the Telangana government had taken up Palamuru-Rangareddy project based on Krishna (Srisailam) waters and the works were in progress. Besides, the Chief Ministers of the two States had also discussed the issue of rightful and judicious share of river waters when the two had met last year. Telangana Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao had indicated in the Assembly about the new proposals of the government to improve irrigation in the Krishna Basin in the State. However, AP’s plans to increase the capacity of Pothireddypadu head regulator would warrant clarity from Telangana government as to what kind of agreement was reached at with AP in the matter of Krishna waters. The CPI leader also demanded that the Telangana government announce its water policy since its agenda had commenced with water itself. ‘Withdraw fee hike’ Meanwhile, the party also asked the State government to withdraw the hefty increase in the post-graduate medicine courses fee taking it to about Rs. 7 lakh per student. The move would deny super speciality medical education to students of poor families whose income has been affected badly due to the COVID-19 lockdown. Lack of public healthcare to people was already resulting in instance of pregnant women delivering babies on roads and patients with chronic diseases succumbing due to non-availability of timely medical intervention.
10 May 2020||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police issue guidelines to IT firms in Hyderabad||The Cyberabad police on Saturday asked IT companies to engage buses to the maximum extent, following social distancing norms, to reduce the number of individual vehicles on the road. With the State government permitting the IT/ ITES industry to operate with up to 33% work force, in red zones, including GHMC area, Commissioner of Police V. C. Sajjanar issued certain guidelines after a meeting with the heads of a few top companies. Staggered timings He suggested that the companies follow staggered timings (login between 7 am and 10 am and logout between 3 pm and 6pm) and asked them to issue authorisation letters for employees and cabs which should be utilised only for the purpose of travelling from home to office and back home. “Every employee must carry the authorisation letter along with ID card to commute to work,” he said. Movements are strictly restricted during curfew hours (7pm to 6am) and the companies should ensure health, safety and hygiene measures as per the guidelines issued by the Health department. Mr. Sajjanar said that two passengers besides driver were allowed in a car and no pillion rider on two-wheeler, while company-operated buses were limited to 50% occupancy. ‘No gatherings’ “Do not allow gathering of employees outside IT parks and campuses, which encourages street hawkers and other activities on roads. Strict action will be initiated if any violations are observed,” the Commissioner said, directing the companies not to operate the cafeteria until further notice. Mr. Sajjanar said that no socialising or gathering of employees in common areas within the IT companies or IT parks would be allowed.
10 May 2020||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Now, contactless entry into Hyderabad airport||Hyderabad International Airport, in the forefront of implementing innovative digital solutions and technology for seamless passenger experience, has come up with first-of-its-kind contactless entry into the terminal for the safety of passengers, even as it receives the first passenger flight from abroad late on Saturday night. Under contactless entry, instead of handing over physical documents like travel itinerary and any of the photo ID cards issued by the government, to a CISF personnel for verification, a passenger will be required to display the documents onto a High-Definition camera installed at each gate at the domestic departures terminal of the airport. The output of the camera will then be verified by CISF personnel from the specially-designed computer monitor kept at a distance from passengers. The passenger will be allowed inside the terminal building for check-in and other processes once the document check is done. Thermal cameras have been positioned at each of the departure gates besides the document verification cameras at the domestic terminal to measure the temperature of every passenger in a non-intrusive way. Rajiv Gandhi International Airport (RGIA) CEO S.G.K. Kishore requested passengers to support the measures for a high level of hygiene and operational procedures introduced inside and outside the premises by wearing masks, and maintain thermal screening and social distancing.
10 May 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||ONGC, GAIL told to submit NOC on safety of installations||East Godavari Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy on Saturday made it mandatory for the Oil and Natural Gas Corporation and the Gas Authority of India Limited to produce a ‘No Objection Certificate’ on the safety and maintenance of the their installations within a week to continue their operations. In a high-level meeting with the ONGC and GAIL authorities here, Mr. Muralidhar Reddy said, “The ONGC and GAIL should conduct a field-level inspection of their installations, mostly the pipeline system, and come out with the NOC certifying that the condition of their existing installations in operation is safe in the East Godavari district.” The meeting on the safety of the gas pipeline operations was convened by the Collector in the aftermath of the gas leak from the LG Polymers unit in Visakhapatnam. GAIL Deputy General Manager (Fire and Safety) S.V. Reddy told The Hindu after the meeting: “We have a 350-km length of pipeline system in operation in East Godavari district. We have been directed by the Collector to review our preparedness measures on the safety of our installations. We have also been asked to submit an internal audit and safety inspection report to the district authorities to continue our operations.” Uninterrupted operations ONGC General Manager (Rajamahendravaram Asset) Sankar Saran said, “We did not have to stop our operations during the COVID-19 lockdown. However, we have been told to certify that our installations are in a safe condition by inspecting all the existing installations and pipeline system.” The two entities have also been directed to conduct a mock drill on fire safety and other disasters to instil confidence among the local communities. “The ONGC and GAIL must conduct the mock drill on safety preparedness within a week to resume or continue their operations in East Godavari district,” said Mr. Muralidhar Reddy. Divisional-level revenue officials have been entrusted with the task of closely monitoring the safety measures of the public sector units in the district.
10 May 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Supply of sand, gravel to resume for Polavaram rehab works||Mines and Geology Department Director V.G. Venkata Reddy on Saturday directed the Mines and Geology and A.P. Mines Development Corporation (APMDC) authorities to grant permission to procure sand and gravel required to build rehabilitation colonies of the Polavaram Irrigation Project in East Godavari district. Mr. Venkata Reddy on Saturday took stock of the problems faced by district authorities in obtaining permissions from the Mines and Geology Department to procure sand and gravel, during a video conference with East Godavari Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy. “The permission to procure and supply the sand and gravel should be given on a war-footing to speed up the construction of the rehabilitation colonies of the Polavaram Irrigation Project. The Department of Mines and Geology and APMDC should coordinate to ensure speeding up the rehabilitation project,” said Mr. Venkata Reddy. The East Godavari district authorities have set a deadline for completing the construction of over 10,000 houses in the Polavaram rehabilitation colony by July. The group of colonies is expected to be handed over to beneficiaries on July 8 as claimed by Irrigation Minister P. Anil Kumar. The floods in the ensuing monsoon would become a major hurdle in the completion of rehabilitation works if they are delayed due to the non-availability of sand and gravel. Housing scheme Mr. Muralidhar Reddy has sought coordination and support from the Mines and Geology Department and the APMDC to procure the sand and gravel required for the leveling of house sites to be distributed among the poor in the district. “The Revenue officials will certify the tractors to transparence in the transportation of the sand and gravel,” said Mr. Muralidhar Reddy. Joint Collector-II G. Raja Kumari, A.P. Pollution Control Board Executive Engineer Rammohan Naidu, and other officials were present.
10 May 2020||KURNOOL/ ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||One dead, six new cases reported in Kurnool||A two-member experts’ team from the All India Institute of Hygiene and Public Health(AIIHPH), Kolkata reached Kurnool on Saturday and formally discussed the COVID-19 situation in the district with District Collector G. Veerapandian, Joint Collector Ravi Pattanshetty and Superintendent of Police Fakkeerappa Kaginelli. The team members will hold a meeting with all frontline officers and tour the district from Sunday. Six new cases (three in Kurnool City, one in Nandyal Urban and two in Adoni) were reported on Satruday. The cumulative total number of positive cases in the district touched 553 in Kurnool district and the number of patients discharged on Saturday was 21, taking the total to 239. There are 299 active cases under treatment in COVID hospitals. One person died of the virus on Saturday taking the toll to 15. Among those who were discharged included five from the State COVID Hospital GGH, Kurnool, 12 from Viswabharathi Hospital and 4 from Shantiram Hospital in Nandyal. New front in Anantapur Anantapur district, meanwhile, reported three cases on Saturday taking the total to 129 and 44 persons were discharged so far. There were seven deaths so far and 81 persons were being treated in the district, including 27 shown in the ‘Others’ category. The worrisome factor was a new case emerging in Madakasira town on Saturday, while a police constable at Rahmath Nagar in Anantapur city tested positive on Friday. Backward Classes Welfare Minister Malagundla Sankaranarayana on Saturday visited the quarantine centre established at the Adarsh Pathashala in Chinna Mushturu village in Uravakonda mandal of the district and interacted with the residents. He enquired about the arrangements at the centre and promised to address all the problems.
10 May 2020||MACHILIPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Woman tests +ve in Masula||A 68-year-old woman tested positive for COVID-19 virus in Gandhinagar area of Machilipatnam on Saturday. In a press conference, Bandar Revenue Divisional Officer N.Sk.Khazavali has said the woman wass a relative of a couple who tested positive on May 5. The couple is undergoing treatment and their health condition is stable, he added.
10 May 2020||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Officials in Nellore on alert as Koyambedu cases rise||The spiralling cases of the infection in Koyambedu vegetable and fruit market in Chennai has set the alarm bells ringing in SPSR Nellore district. Given the fact that Nellore accounts for a substantial number of transactions every day with the wholesale traders in Tamil Nadu, Collector M.V. Seshagiri Babu took up measures to prevent the spread of the disease at the A.C. Subba Reddy vegetable market here. One more discharged Meanwhile, the number of active coronavirus cases came down further to 32 in the district with one more person getting discharged in the last 24 hours. With this, the total number of discharged patients rose to 61 in the district. Reviewing the health situation with officials, Irrigation Minister P.Anil Kumar Yadav said more patients were likely to be discharged in the coming week. The total number of confirmed cases remained at 96. As many as three patients died from the infection so far. Prakasam’s tally Talking about the migrant workers, the Minister said about 1,200 of them were sent by a special train to Patna, adding that efforts were on to bring back 74 persons stranded in Delhi after they went for a religious congregation. They were also in talks with the State government officials in West Bengal, Uttar Pradesh, Delhi and Jharkand to transport migrant workers, the Minister added. In Prakasam district, the officials heaved a sigh of relief as no new case was reported in the district in the last 24 hours. Further, 60 of the 61 patients in isolation ward have been cured. Meanwhile, activists of CPI(M) frontal organisations led by Kula Vivaksha Porata Sangam city Secretary A. Srinivasa Rao distributed 11 different varieties of vegetables and rice to about 100 families. The Centre should provide Rs. 7,500 each to all poor families to cope with lockdown 3.0, the activists demanded.
10 May 2020||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tobacco auctions to resume tomorrow||Much to the relief of farmers, e-auctioning of tobacco, which has been suspended since the lockdown came into effect, will recommence in two auction platforms in SPSR Nellore district on Monday. Following pleas from farmers, who were worried over deterioration of crop quality due to prolonged delay in auctions, Industries Minister M.Goutham Reddy intervened and directed district officials to coordinate with Tobacco Board officials and recommence auctions in the district as the auction platforms were now in the green zone. Auctions could not be restarted in D.C. Palli and Kaligiri in the Southern Light Soil (SLS) region when the Centre announced relaxation in lockdown condition and allowed agri-commodity marketing, as they came under red zone following detection of a positive COVID-19 case.
10 May 2020||NEW DELHI,ANDHRA PRADESH||TN moves SC against HC order on liquor shops||The Tamil Nadu government on Saturday moved the Supreme Court against a Madras High Court order of May 8 to close liquor shops in the State with immediate effect to maintain physical distancing till the COVID-19 lockdown is lifted or modified. It said an indefinite closure of liquor shops would lead to ‘grave’ revenue and commercial losses. A separate memo was filed by the Tamil Nadu government requesting the Supreme Court to hear the case even on Sunday.Highlighting that the ban order was passed the very same day the Supreme Court dismissed an identical call to close liquor shops across the country, the State contended that the High Court order amounted to judicial overreach.
10 May 2020||POLAVARAM (WEST GODAVARI DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||Migrant workers jump barricades, set off on foot to native places||Tension prevailed at the Polavaram project site on Saturday, when migrant labourers tried to force their way out and set off on foot to their home States. Hundreds of workers removed the barricades at the police outpost. Police dispersed the group and sent them back to their dormitories. About 1,450 migrant workers from six States are working at the site. In the last few days, they have been demanding that they be sent back to their native States. Collector Revu Mutyala Raju and Superintendent of Police Navdeep Singh Grewal, along with the Revenue, Irrigation and Labour department officials held discussions with the workers on Friday. The officials assured the workers that they would provide them transportation. They alerted the government of the developments at the site. On Saturday, more than 500 labourers entered into an argument with the officials and began removing the barricades demanding that they be allowed to walk to their native States. Speaking to The Hindu , Polavaram Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) Venkateswara Rao said the situation was peaceful and arrangements were being made to provide transportation for the migrant labourers. Additional Superintendent of Police (Administration) Kareemulla Sharif rushed to Polavaram village and is monitoring the situation. “Food, accommodation and medical facilities have been arranged,” an officer camping at the site said.
10 May 2020||SRIKAKULAM/VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Officials have a hard time dealing with migrated labourers||Apart from their efforts to curb the spread of COVID-19, the Srikakulam administration is having to tussle with the issue of convincing migrated labourers to stay put in the quarantine centres for at least 14 days. Reportedly, a majority of the labourers, who are restive, exhausted and desperate to go home, are not keen to stay in these centres despite all the facilities. As many as 8,057 persons have been put up in 133 quarantine centres in the district. A majority of them are migrated labourers and fishermen from Viraval in Gujarat. “Every person has to undergo tests and it is a systematic process. Unless we get the reports, we can’t send them back to their native places as it would endanger the lives of their family members and neighbours,” said a senior officer. “Initially, they had agreed to stay here when the district administration initiated the process of bringing them back from Gujarat. We have to deal with them patiently as many of them have lost their livelihoods and are psychologically disturbed,” the official added. Srikakulam Collector J. Nivas has reportedly directed officials to visit the centres and make the labourers understand the importance of their quarantining. In Vizianagaram too, Collector M. Hari Jawaharlal said that migrated labourers would not be exempted from any rules and that following the mandatory 14-day quarantine is imperative, given the emergence of three positive cases among labourers a couple of days ago. He also said that any lapses at these centres might lead to community level transmission of the virus within no time. Minister for Medical and Health Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas who reviewed the COVID-19 situation in Vizianagaram district on Saturday directed the officials to attend to grievances of the labourers.
10 May 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||A lifeline that came in a 40-minute flight from Kerala capital||The police transported a heart harvested from a brain-dead woman in Thiruvananthapuram to Kochi in a government-rented helicopter that was flown for its first mission as an air ambulance on Saturday. The heart was transplanted into Lina Shibu, a 49-year-old woman from Kothamangalam, who had been diagnosed with ischemic cardiomyopathy and under treatment at Lisie Hospital in Kochi for the past three months. The district administration of Thiruvananthapuram and Ernakulam joined hands soon after Chempazhanthy native Laly Gopakumar’s death on Friday and her family expressing their desire to donate her organs. Laly, 50, teacher at Poundkadavu Government Lower Primary School, near Kazhakuttam, died at KIMS Hospital after she suffered cerebral aneurysm that led to a fatal haemorrhagic stroke. During her final days, she had apparently conveyed her wish to donate her organs. Mrithasanjeevani Soon, officials of the Kerala Network for Organ Sharing (KNOS), the nodal agency coordinating State government’s deceased donor organ donation programme (Mrithasanjeevani), took steps to harvest her heart, kidneys, and corneas. The organs were allotted for transplantation in patients admitted to the Government Medical College Hospital, Thiruvananthapuram, Regional Institute of Ophthalmology, KIMS Hospital, and Lisie Hospital, Kochi. A medical team of Lisie Hospital, led by cardiac surgeon Jose Chacko Periapuram, came to Thiruvananthapuram by road in the morning and the heart was taken to the Thiruvananthapuram airport around 2.45 p.m., with the police demarcating a green corridor. The helicopter arrived at the helipad of Hotel Grand Hyatt in Kochi at 3.45 p.m. The police ensured a green corridor from the helipad to the hospital, helping the team to cover the 5-km in five minutes. The surgery began at 4 p.m. “The heart has begun to beat without mechanical help at 8 p.m., which shows that the first two phases of the surgery are a success. The procedure will continue into the night,” said a spokesman of Lisie Hospital. Arranging the flight The government arranged the helicopter after hospital director Fr. Paul Karedan took up the matter with former MP P. Rajeev. He spoke to the Chief Minister, who directed the State Police Chief to arrange the service, the spokesperson said. The State government had invited the Opposition’s wrath after it hired the AS 365 Dauphin N3, medium twin-engine 11-seater helicopter from Pawan Hans Ltd. amid financial crunch. The helicopter was rented for Rs. 1.44 crore for 20 hours of flight time a month.
10 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three dead, 43 new cases in State||The State reported three more COVID-19 deaths and 43 new cases during the last 24 hours during which period 8,388 samples were tested. With these, the tally crossed the 1,900-mark and stood at 1,930 and the toll touched 44, a health bulletin said. Meanwhile, 45 patients recovered during the period. There are 999 active cases. So far, 887 patients were discharged. The recovery rate among the infected patients is going up. While 52% of the patients are under treatment, 46% of patients have recovered. About 2% of patients have succumbed. Meanwhile, with downward trend being witnessed in new cases, the daily positivity rate is gradually coming down. The overall positivity rate in the State was 1.169% as of Saturday. Of the new cases, Krishna district reported 16, Chittoor 11, Kurnool 6 and Visakhapatnam 5 cases. Anantapur reported three and Guntur two cases. The district-wise tally was as follows: Kurnool (553), Guntur (376), Krishna (338), Anantapur (102), Nellore (96), Kadapa (96), Chittoor (96), West Godavari (68), Visakhapatnam (62), Prakasam (61), East Godavari (46), Srikakulam (5), Vizianagaram (4), and other State cases 27.
10 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naidu govt. allowed polymers to expand unit, alleges Kodali||Minister for Civil Supplies Kodali Venkateswara Rao (Nani) on Saturday held the Opposition leader, N. Chandrababu Naidu, responsible for the gas leak tragedy in Visakhapatnam, arguing that the permission for industrial operations and for expansion of the unit had been given to LG Polymers during the TDP rule. Addressing the media here, the Minister launched a scathing attack on the TDP president accusing him of “politicising” the tragedy. Knowing that the plant was surrounded by residential colonies, Mr. Naidu had given permission for its expansion in 2017. In 2018, he had given permission to the company to expand and start operations for the next five years, he said, alleging that the TDP chief was now trying to shift the blame on the YSRCP. The Minister asserted that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy was doing all he could to ensure that the situation was brought back to normal at the earliest. Within hours of the incident, the situation was brought under control. Ex gratia of Rs. 1 crore to the kin of the deceased and Rs. 10 lakh to those who were seriously ill had been announced, he pointed out.
10 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Keep vigil on workers coming back to State, CM tells officials||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has called upon officials to keep a close tab on migrant workers returning from other States due to the possibility of some of them being carriers of coronavirus and contributing to a spurt in the infections which seem to be just about plateauing. He exhorted the doctors to do their best to prevent further deaths due to COVID-19 while the government spared no effort in arresting the spread of the disease. In a high-level review meeting on COVID-19 containment measures at his camp office on Saturday, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy stressed the need for screening all persons suspected to be infected by the virus. State tops in testing Officials told the Chief Minister that with 3,091 tests, Andhra Pradesh (A.P.) continued to be on top in the number of tests per million population (Tamil Nadu stood second with 2,799 tests per million) and 1,65,069 tests had been done so far. The positivity rate in A.P. was 1.17% compared to the national average of 3.92%. The Chief Minister appreciated the fact that the number of patients being discharged was increasing and the number of positive cases was slowly coming down. The officials said the condition of the farmers who went to Koyambedu in Chennai was being watched as the number of cases in Chittoor and Nellore was going up due to those who had returned from that market place in the southern metropolis. They stated that about 700 workers gained illegal entry into the State without any screening and the process of identifying them and doing necessary tests was under way.
10 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Set up expert panel to probe vapour leak, Naidu urges PM||TDP president N. Chandrababu Naidu wrote a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi requesting him to constitute an expert committee to inquire into the gas leak tragedy at LG Polymers factory in Visakhapatnam. Mr. Naidu raised doubts over the company’s claim that the gas that had leaked from the massive storage tanks at its facility at R.R. Venkatapuram was styrene, and cited conflicting reports thereof. He suspected that there could be some other toxic gases involved in the incident. The long-lasting impact of the health of those undergoing treatment was of serious concern, Mr. Naidu stated, apprehending permanent damage to the health of the victims. The TDP chief insisted that the ambient air quality in and around Visakhapatnam should be closely monitored. He also suggested that national and international experts be roped in for making an assessment of the health of the people exposed to the poisonous gas by generating electronic health records. Mr. Naidu observed that Mr. Modi’s quick response brought solace and confidence, and acknowledged his prompt instructions to the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) to airlift para-tertiary butyl catechol inhibitor components from Gujarat, which helped in containing the damage.
10 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Congress is ready to foot bill for passage of migrants’||APCC president S. Sailajanath on Saturday said that following instructions from national party president Sonia Gandhi, the Congress party started making arrangements for the safe passage of migrant workers stranded in Andhra Pradesh to their respective States. Addressing the media here, Mr. Sailajanath said that a help desk had been set up to enable the workers held up in the district to contact the party. “We will bear their rail fare and send them back home,” he added. Referring to the LG Polymers incident in Visakhapatnam, he said the unit was amidst residential localities. He said the government should do all it can to help the families of the deceased and ensure the safety of the ones undergoing treatment in hospitals and the residents of five villages in the vicinity. Later, a team of Congress leaders, led by Mr. Sailajanath, met COVID-19 Task Force Committee Chairman M.T. Krishna Babu and urged him to approve two Shramik Specials - one from Anantapur to West Bengal and the other from Nellore to Nizamuddin. Mr. Krishna Babu responded favourably to the proposal, and said he would talk to officials. The team that met Mr. Krishna Babu comprised AICC secretary Gidugu Rudraraju, vice-president Gangadhar, and general secretary Rajiv Ratan.
10 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kanna seeks judicial probe||BJP State president Kanna Lakshminarayana wrote to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy demanding an inquiry into the gas leak by a sitting judge of the High Court and sought issuance of permanent health cards to the affected people to facilitate treatment for possible long-term illnesses. He stated that all the victims were poor and could not afford medical expenses. He quoted experts as saying that the inhalation of styrene gas could have lifelong health complications. The disaster was man-made as the company failed to comply with safety protocols, he said.
10 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Situation under control’||Minister for Industries Mekapati Goutham Reddy said on Saturday that the situation was under control at R.R. Venkatapuram where styrene gas leak from LG Polymers factory killed at least 12 persons and left scores hospitalised. He said that normalcy could be restored after 48 hours and a door-to-door survey was launched to identify victims who were unattended to. Mr. Goutam Reddy said the number of liquor shops was decreased from 4,380 to 2,934. The government was committed to making the State liquor-free, he added.
10 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Paid’ quarantine to those who can afford||Principal Secretary, Transport and Roads and Buildings and COVID-19 Task Force Committee chairman M. T. Krishna Babu on Saturday said 60% of the nearly 20,000 Telugu people living in different countries and who were expected to return to their homes in Andhra Pradesh were skilled and unskilled labour from the Gulf nations. He said the government was making free quarantine arrangements for people coming from other nations, but for those who could afford, it would offer ‘paid quarantine” in hotels of three categories — normal category from Rs. 1,500 to Rs. 2,000, medium category from Rs. 2,000 to Rs. 3,000 and in luxury hotels, the payment would range from Rs. 3,000 and above, he said. He said according to the information given by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, around 30,000 Telugu people had registered for returning to their homes but around 15,000 to 20,000 of them may actually come back.
10 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Webinar on COVID impact on education||Acharya Nagarjuna University, in association with A. P. State Council of Higher Education (APSCHE), will organise a webinar on “The New Face of Higher Education after COVID-19” on May 10 at 10 a.m. There is no registration fee. There will be a panel discussion on “Precautions to be taken in education institutes”.
10 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||15 fresh cases detected in Vijayawada||As many as 15 fresh positive COVID-19 cases were detected in the city which has turned into one of the hotspots. On Saturday, Krishna district reported 16 fresh cases and 15 of them were detected in the city while the other one was detected in Machilipatnam. So far the district has reported 338 cases, of them more than 280 cases are from the city. Among the fresh cases in city, eight are from Krishnalanka, two from Ajith Singh Nagar. Other cases were detected in Tikkle Road, Moghalrajpuram, Kandrika, Gollapalem Gattu, Wynchpet and others. Meanwhile, authorities have imposed a fine of Rs. 10, 000 on Walmart’s Best Price store near the city for violation of social distancing rules. They found that some of the customers, store manager and other staff were not wearing the mandatory face masks. Also, they reportedly found the presence of children and senior citizens in the store.
10 May 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Light rain, thunderstorms likely in next four days||The State is likely to receive light to moderate rain accompanied by thunderstorms in the coming four days due to the cyclonic circulation in the Bay of Bengal. IMC sounds warning The India Meteorological Centre at Amaravati has also warned that the State may witness isolated thunderstorm and lightning accompanied by gusty winds during the coming days up to May 13. Cyclonic circulation The weather inference for the State says that the cyclonic circulation over the south Andaman Sea and adjoining Sumatra coast extending up to mid-tropospheric levels persists and under its influence, a low-pressure area is very likely to form over southeast Bay of Bengal and adjoining Andaman Sea around May 13.
10 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Leak from storage tank led to accident: LG||Three days after a gas leak at its plant in Visakhapatnam claimed 12 lives and left over 300 persons admitted to hospital, LG Polymers India on Saturday said that its preliminary investigation prima facie suggested that the leakage of gas from the styrene monomer (SM) tank caused the accident. The company expressed sincere condolences and apologies to all who had been affected by the accident. “We would like to assure everyone that the company is committed to working closely with the authorities concerned in India to investigate the cause of the incident, prevent recurrence in the future, and secure the foundation for care and treatment,” a statement issued by company said. “We are happy to confirm that the situation at the plant was brought under control on Saturday morning,” it claimed. “While focusing on stabilising the plant, we assure you that we are doing our best to extend all possible support to ensure people and their families who have been affected are taken care of. Our teams are working day and night with the government to assess the impact of the damage caused and create concrete measures to deliver an effective care package that can be implemented immediately,” the release stated. Special task force LG said it has set up a special task force to help the victims and their families resolve any issue and provide assistance to bereaved families. The company said it would contact all the affected families soon. The team was tasked with providing every support to the next of kin of the deceased, and medical supplies, household goods, and emotional management to all injured and victims. The Andhra Pradesh government, in the wake of the accident, has announced that it would pay a compensation of Rs. 1 crore to the family members of each deceased person, in addition to the ex gratia to those injured and all the affected persons living in the vicinity of the factory. The company said it would also actively develop and promote mid to long-term support programmes that could help the local communities, and thanked all the authorities, the police and government officials who worked hard to rescue and recover the victims.
10 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Minister promises all help to gas leak victims||Minister for Tourism Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao has assured the LG Polymers gas leak victims of all help on behalf of the government and appealed to them not to get agitated as the government is committed to their welfare. Mr. Srinivasa Rao along with Labour Minister Gummuluri Jayaram and R & B Minister Dharmana Krishna Das visited the LG Polymers plant at RR Venkatapuram in the city on Saturday. The Ministers went to the burial ground at RR Venkatapuram and spoke to the family members of those who died in the mishap. Assuring them of all help on behalf of the government, they said there was no room for any apprehensions in this regard. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy was reviewing the situation from time-to-time and all care was being extended to those undergoing treatment at various hospitals. Appealing to the public not to believe rumours, Mr. Srinivasa Rao said that medical camps would be conducted in the five villages, surrounding the company, and appealed to the people to get themselves examined to rule out the possibility of getting side-effects due to the gas leak. He said that the Chief Minister has already announced Rs. 1 crore as compensation to each of the bereaved families. The government has already appointed a high-level committee to conduct a probe into the mishap and action would be taken based on its report. Mr. Srinivasa Rao pacified the relatives, who staged protest with the bodies, in front of the company premises, and assured them that justice would be done to them. Earlier, the Ministers held a review meeting with representatives of the company from South Korea and also spoke to the experts, who came from Nagpur and Gujarat. The experts told the Ministers that pollution was under control and soon the total situation would be brought under control. They dismissed social media messages that styrene gas was still leaking as ‘rumours’. They also held a review meet on the situation with DGP Gautam Sawang. Later, the Ministers went to the relief camps at Sujata Nagar, where the residents of colonies surrounding the plant, were accommodated and inquired about their welfare. The residents wanted to know when they would be sent back home, to which the Ministers replied that it would be decided by the officials after situation returned to normalcy at the plant. Pendurthy MLA Adeep Raj, ex-MLA Malla Vijay Prasad and officials were present.
10 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Disaster could have been of a greater magnitude: experts||The tragedy that struck RR Venkatapuram here on Thursday could have been of a greater magnitude, experts said on Saturday. A storage tank at the plant behaved like a pressure cooker of sorts due to a variance in temperature, and had the safety valves not functioned at the right time allowing the gas to leak, the tank would have eventually exploded due to the high pressure killing many more people, it is learnt. Experts said that the plant was closed for over 40 due to the lockdown, causing a variation in temperature between the bottom and upper parts of the storage tank. This variation in temperature led to self-polymerisation inside the tank, due to which vapours were formed. The 2,400 MT tank contained 1,800 MT of styrene monomer, indicating that some portion of the tank was empty which gave enough room for the formation of vapour. As the quantity of vapour began to increase, the tank started to behave like a pressure cooker used in kitchens. When the pressure rose beyond control, the safety valves opened, allowing the vapour to find its way into the atmosphere, said an expert, who is leading a team in the containment operation. “Had the vapour not escaped through the safety valves, there might have been the possibility where the tank would have exploded and that could have been disastrous,” he said. However, the biggest question is how the vapour leak went undetected by the plant employees. Situation under control Most of the liquid has solidified and thus the formation of vapour has been contained, said NDRF 10th Battalion Commandant Zahid Khan. According to R. Karikal Valaven, Special Chief Secretary of Industries & Commerce, who is on the five-member committee constituted to probe the incident, the temperature which shot over 140° C has also been brought down considerably. “The boiling point of styrene monomer is 145° C, and at one point it reached that temperature. Now, inside the tank, it has dropped to around 95° C while outside, it is around 75° C. In the next 24 hours, we expect the temperature to drop to below 30° C, which is the ideal storing temperature for styrene monomer,” Mr. Valaven told The Hindu .
10 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Discharged patient tests positive again||Probably for the first time in the State, a COVID-19 patient who was discharged from the hospital after testing negative, tested positive again in Visakhapatnam. According to officials from the Health Department, the 30-year-old man from Railway New Colony area who had a travel history to Mumbai had tested COVID-19 positive in March. Subsequently, four of his close contacts also tested positive. In April, he was discharged from the hospital, so were the other members gradually. On Friday, he along with one of his close contacts, a 18-month old baby, tested COVID-19 positive in the rapid tests. “It is yet to be ascertained how this man had got infected with coronavirus. Earlier, when the Health Department officials conducted tests, the 18-month old baby was tested negative. Now the baby and the man tested positive. It is yet to be known whether the baby had infected the man or the man was infected by coming in contact with any other person,” said an official. He also said that the doctors had earlier discharged the person only after he tested negative thrice.
10 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Emission of vapour has been contained’||Director General of Police D. Goutam Sawang has said that everything is under control and there is no scope for further danger at the LG Polymers factory located at RR Venkatapuram in the city. Interacting with the media after visiting the plant here on Saturday, Mr. Sawang said that the emission of vapours had been contained and safety measures were in place. “We have also checked the status of other storage tanks and reactors in the plant and everything is normal, and there is no reason for panic,” he said. “The containment is being done under the watchful eyes of scientists from the NEERI and NDRF. As per their reports, danger has been averted and containment is on in full swing. It will take another 48 hours to get back to normal, and then it will be under observation for another 24 hours. It is only after that we can ask people to return,” said Mr. Sawang, and hinted that everything should be in place by Monday. ‘More experts coming’ A couple of more expert teams would be arriving soon from New Delhi to assess the situation, he said. Referring to a question on whether action would be taken against the company, the DGP said that cases had been booked against it under the relevant sections and a high-power committee had been formed to investigate the matter. On the cause of the accident, he said it was too early to give any concrete reason. “It is being probed by different agencies. We will be able to comment only after the probe is completed,” said Mr. Sawang.
10 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Shift or close factory, MLA urges Chief Secretary||Visakhapatnam West MLA P.G.V.R. Naidu has appealed to Chief Secretary Nilam Sawhney to either get the LG Polymers plant at RR Venkatapuram closed or shifted to an industrial area as the company management had violated all norms and caused extensive damage to nature, public and the country. In a letter to the Chief Secretary, the MLA noted that the harmful chemical styrene could have long-term side effects beyond the immediate symptoms. There is no safe limit for exposure to it, he said referring to reports. While appreciating the immediate announcement of compensation to the affected persons, he appealed to the Chief Secretary to keep in mind that thousands of people would have to suffer long-term side effects of exposure to the leak. They all need to be generously compensated and taken care of. He also demanded a probe into the negligence on part of the plant officials and fix the culpability forthwith in order to do justice to the bereaved families. He noted that allowing the plant to continue in the same location even after the ghastly incident is tantamount to allowing people to sit on a tinder box. The factory, located in the limits of the GVMC, also houses other chemicals (pentane C5 H12) in tankers in the same facility. The area, surrounding the industry, has a domestic water supply reservoir and a small scale dairy. Two other similar manufacturing plants in India, are not located in residential areas and hence this plant should be shifted to an industrial cluster and land could be used as a public zone for tram/metro parking.
10 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Accommodate Keralites in return special trains’||The Visakhapatnam Malayalees Association has sought accommodation of Keralites, stranded in various States of the country, on the special trains being operated to different States from Kerala, to ferry migrant workers, on the return special trains. In letters to the Prime Minister, Railway Minister and the Kerala Chief Minister, VMA secretary N. Dhanapalan noted that a large number of Keralites, visitors, students and patients, who had gone to other States before the lockdown, were stuck there due to the cancellation of public transport to check the spread of COVID-19. A number of trains were being operated from Kerala to different parts of the country to provide transportation to migrant labour, who were stuck in Kerala. Mr. Dhanapalan said that the return trains should accommodate people from Kerala stuck in other parts of the country.
10 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||18-month-old baby among five new cases in Vizag||An 18-month-old baby tested COVID-19 positive among the five new cases which were reported in Visakhapatnam on Saturday. The baby is reported to be the youngest COVID-19 case in the city so far. With this, the total number of cases in Visakhapatnam district will be 62 in which the active cases will be 38. While 23 persons have been discharged after testing negative, there was one death. According to officials from the Health Department, among the five new cases, three cases are from Dandu Bazaar. The three cases, include a 53-year old woman, 10-year-old girl and a 40-year-old man. Apart from them, a 60-year old woman from Pithapuram Colony and 18-month old baby from Railway New Colony tested positive.
10 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||No truth in statement of company, says CITU||The official announcement made by LG Polymers on Styrene leak from its plant was non-transparent and dishonest, the CITU said on Saturday. A mere apology would not do after loss of 12 lives and the management must be punished, CITU State president Ch. Narsinga Rao and general secretary M.A. Gafoor said in a statement. ‘Silent on alarm’ Styrene leaked from a manhole and from the tank at a time, they alleged and said the management was silent on why no alarm went off and villagers were not alerted. They alleged the management had tried to cut costs by not replacing the old molasses tank in use since 1961 and used it for Styrene as a new tank would cost Rs. 25 crore. CITU demanded that the permission given to double the production be withdrawn and the plant shifted away from habitations.
10 May 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Helpline||A helpline number (94409 01061) has been opened by the District Legal Services Authority to provide assistance to the victims of the gas leak from the LG Polymers plant at RR Venkatapuram in the city.
10 May 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||5 more COVID hospitals in the pipeline: Minister||Minister for Medical and Health Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas on Saturday said that five more private hospitals were designated as COVID-19 hospitals in Vizianagaram district as a precautionary measure. Along with Deputy Chief Minister Pushpa Srivani and Minister for Municipal Administration Botcha Satyanarayana, Mr. Krishna Srinivas reviewed the preparedness in Vizianagaram. Later, speaking to media, he said in addition to Vizianagaram Government Hospital and Maharaja Institute of Medical Sciences, five more hospitals would be ready with all equipment and safety protocols for the staff. He assured the family of an elderly woman, who succumbed to the infection in Chilakalapalli in Visakhapatnam, all help and added that the test results for all 16 family members were negative. Allaying fears, the Minster said that the situation was in control in the district and urged people to cooperate with the officials to not let the number increase.
10 May 2020||adilabad,TELANGANA||Two children drown in well||Two children drowned in an agricultural well at Kannepally village of Dandepalli mandal on Saturday. Four children, including eight-year-old Dumalla Harshith of Kannepally and nine-year-old Motapalkula Swamy of Badampally in Jannaram mandal were playing near the well. Harshith and Swamy were thought to have jumped into the well to retrieve a ball.
10 May 2020||ADILABAD,TELANGANA||As liquor sale starts, accident cases pile up||The trauma ward at Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (RIMS) here has become busy once again what with accident cases piling up after liquor sale commenced. The number of accident cases reported at the hospital in the past three days stands at eight, just one more than the seven cases during the nearly 50 days of suspension of liquor sale in the State. The first accident case was brought to the hospital on the night of May 6 when retail liquor shops reopened. Doctors at RIMS place their finger on drunk driving as the cause of accident. The next two days saw injured persons from the remaining seven accidents being brought to the trauma centre. There have been no more accidents until now Saturday evening. Scenes of drunk persons sleeping on the roads are also witnessed.
10 May 2020||ADILABAD,TELANGANA||Appeal for purchase of jowar through MARKFED||Chairman of Jainad Primary Agriculture Cooperative Society, B. Goverdhan Reddy on Saturday appealed to the State government to purchase jowar through MARKFED similar to Bengal gram purchase. In a memorandum submitted to Additional Collector G. Sandhya Rani, he said the area under jowar was 14,000 acres and all produce has been harvested by farmers but they have no storage space.
10 May 2020||ADILABAD,TELANGANA||Essentials distributed at old age home||Nirmal police on Saturday distributed essential commodities among inmates of an old age home in Somwarpet in view of the difficulties faced by them due to COVID lockdown-related restrictions. Superintendent of Police C. Shashidhar Raju expressed dismay over parents being abandoned in the present times. Additional SPs Srinivas Rao and Venkat Reddy, DSP Upender Reddy, Special Branch Inspector Venkatesh and Town CI John Diwakar attended.
10 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Promote superfine paddy varieties on 35 lakh acres’||The State government has initiated steps to encourage cultivation of superfine varieties of paddy on about 35 lakh acres during the coming Vaanakalam (kharif) agricultural season by asking officials concerned to position the required seed varieties in advance. Minister for Agriculture S. Niranjan Reddy held a meeting with agriculture officials, including Secretary B. Janardhan Reddy and Vice-Chancellor of Professor Jayashankar Telangana State Agricultural University, here on Saturday on the preparedness for pushing cultivation of the superfine paddy varieties. As suggested by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao, the focus should be on encouraging farmers to take up varieties which have demand in market rather than the ones which are not consumed much. Mr. Niranjan Reddy said of the 40 lakh acres covered under paddy during the last Vaanakalam season, the superfine varieties were cultivated on 23 lakh acres. It should be increased to about 35 lakh acres as the total extent of paddy was expected to go beyond 40 lakh acres this year, he noted. He sought a report from the officials on the superfine paddy seed varieties available within the State. He also instructed the agricultural university authorities to extend necessary advisories to the farming community from time to time for the cultivation of superfine varieties. Chairman of Telangana State Seed Development Corporation K. Koteshwar Rao and Managing Director K. Keshavulu were among those who attended the meeting.
10 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Don’t stop being virus wary: Eatala||The number of COVID-19 cases in the State are on the decline but people should still be careful and not ease their guard, cautioned Health Minister Eatala Rajender on Saturday. He thanked doctors, nurses and other medical and health staff, for rendering their services round the clock for the last two months. The State government has succeeded in conveying the message that at a time of crisis, government alone would come to the rescue. It became successful in creating confidence among the general public in government hospitals. Addressing a video conference with health officials here on Saturday, Mr. Rajender said that till Friday, the entire government machinery was working on COVID, but with the relaxation of lockdown norms, all departments would be busy with their own work. This would increase the burden on the health department. Therefore, every employee right from ASHA workers to tertiary care staff, should work for some more days with the same dedication. They should take personal precautions to remain healthy and not catch infection. All those working at the field level were given masks, sanitisers, chloroquine tablets that should be used without fail, he said. As per the new guidelines of the Indian Council for Medical Research (ICMR), the number of people to be tested would come down and those with mild symptoms could be treated at their homes itself. If these were implemented, the number of COVID patients in Gandhi Hospital would further come down, he said. He reviewed the measures taken to curb the transmission of coronavirus and treat positive cases. Health officials informed the Minister that for every 1,000 people, one ASHA worker was allotted and each one was given a responsibility of 100 households. They were visiting houses allotted to them daily to check temperatures of people by a thermo scanner, screen them for coronavirus symptoms and get those with symptoms tested. Mr. Rajender told district level officials that it was their responsibility to ensure that ASHA workers did their job sincerely. If there were pregnant women in containment zones, they should be tested for COVID-19. Patients who come for emergency medical care should not be subjected to hardships, he said.
10 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Publicise helpline number for the differently-abled: HC||Telangana High Court has instructed the State government to examine if it is possible to earmark exclusive funds to support physically challenged persons facing difficulties during the lockdown. Hearing a PIL petition filed by lawyer Ganesh Karnati on the plight of differently-abled persons in lockdown, the HC underscored the importance of providing adequate funds to redress their grievances. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy said “...the best efforts of the government cannot succeed while tackling the difficulties and problems of physically challenged persons without proper funding”. The petitioner’s lawyer K. Pavan Kumar, during the previous hearing, sought a direction to government to comply with ‘Comprehensive Disability Inclusive Guidelines’ issued by the Centre following the lockdown for the protection of differently-abled persons. The government filed a compliance report after the bench gave an interim direction. Citing the report, the lawyer said the helpline created by the government for physically challenged persons received only 59 calls in the densely populated Rangareddy district. This proved the helpline number was not known to many physically challenged persons, the lawyer said. He urged the court to instruct the government to provide adequate funds to officials looking after the welfare of differently-abled persons. Advocate General B.S. Prasad sought time to inform the court if the government was in a position to create separate funds for them. The bench said its earlier direction to government was to provide wide publicity of the helpline number meant for physically challenged persons. The matter was posted to May 18 for next hearing.
10 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Conduct health test for sanitation workers: KTR||Municipal Administration Minister K.T. Rama Rao has asked municipal commissioners to conduct health test for all sanitation workers every week. He said the municipal commissioners would be responsible for ensuring that all people involved in sanitation works in their areas wore masks and gloves while on duty. The Minister, who addressed the municipal commissioners and Additional Collectors, said they should be prepared for the monsoon and particularly take measures to contain dengue. Anti-larval operations should be taken up at all the identified spots reviving the weekly spraying of infecticide taken up earlier. A calender on the vector-borne diseases had already been decided and the commissioners should follow it strictly. The Municipal Administration department would start a special programme from Sunday, involving people for anti-malaria and anti-dengue measures. The Minister said until the vaccine was made for coronavirus strict safety measures would continue and the Health department would soon issue the guidelines to be followed by municipal employees. Maintaining physical distance, use of sanitisers and wearing mask should continue at any cost even after the lockdown was lifted totally in phases by the government, he said. KTR said the government had released Rs. 830 crore for municipalities so far and the municipal department should submit a report on the activities taken up with these funds.
10 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Demented woman treated and restored to family||In a heartening instance of humanitarian response, GHMC officials have rescued and restored a lost mother to her sons in Kukatpally during the lockdown. The aged woman in question, Mahbub Bi, was spotted by Moosapet circle officials lying unconscious on the roadside. The officials led by zonal commissioner Mamatha and deputy commissioner Prashanthi were on a special drive to identify the homeless and shift them to shelter homes, when they found her. Upon enquiry, it was revealed that the woman had been there for the past two days without food and water. Though the local people had tried to feed her, she had refused to eat. The woman in a demented state of mind was immediately shifted to a rehabilitation centre close by, where health checkup was conducted, and treatment was given. Within 10 days, her health improved phenomenally, and she began to assist the centre’s organisers in serving the other inmates. She also recollected her name and the past within 42 days of being shifted to the shelter, and told the organisers that she had lived near a temple. GHMC officials took her around various streets in the Moosapet and Kukatpally circles, to help her recognise her home. She could spot her sons on a street in Kukatpally during the trip, and was handed over to her family. Family members said they had given up on her, when a missing person complaint lodged in the Kukatpally police station could not trace her. They thought she might have died of hunger, and expressed joy and gratitude when GHMC officials brought her back, a statement by the GHMC said.
10 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||IDA Bollaram civic vice-chief arrested in sex racket||The vice-chairman of IDA Bollaram Municipality in Sangareddy district and his techie friend were caught red-handed while they were engaged in sexual acts in Vanasthalipuram here on Saturday. The police also booked, Raghavendra Reddy, organiser of the sex racket and rescued three women. According to the police, Raghavendra, who is currently absconding, had been organising flesh trade at his house near Deer Park in Vanasthalipuram for the past several years. Based on the complaint lodged by his wife, Madireddy Roja, the police raided the house and found vice-chairman Anthireddy Anil Reddy and his friend Kona Dixit, a techie, with three women. “The complainant stated that her husband had been harassing her since marriage and also cheated her by having illicit relationship with another woman. He was also organising brothel and invited customers in her absence,” police said quoting Ms. Roja. Vexed by Raghavendra’s behaviour, she left him and had been staying at her mother’s place for the past one month, police said. A case under relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code (IPC) and Prevention of Immoral Trafficking was booked. 80-year-old booked An octogenarian was booked by the Banjara Hills police on Friday on the charge of sexually assaulting his 22-year-old niece. According to the police, the 80-year-old accused, who returned from the Gulf, had invited his niece and her alleged boyfriend to his house in Road No. 12 of Banjara Hills a few days ago and then they had consumed liquor. “After they got drunk, the accused raped the woman, a divorcee, and threatened her with dire consequences if she revealed the incident,” police said referring to the victim’s complaint copy. Following her complaint, a case under the Indian Penal Code was registered against the accused person. The police said that two weeks ago, the accused had approached them, stating that his niece and her alleged boyfriend had stolen his luxury watch, costing Rs. 20 lakh, when they had come to his house. “While we were questioning the woman and her friend, she lodged a complaint stating that the elderly man forced himself on her,” the investigators said.
10 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||HC sets aside order on the suspension of IT employee||Justice P. Naveen Rao of Telangana High Court set aside an order of a Labour Court which directed an IT company to pay all allowances to one of its suspended employees, observing that he was not given opportunity to defend his case. Legal remedies The judge, however, said the employee Pedda Appala Naidu, who earlier worked as project manager with Cognizant Technology Solutions, had right to seek legal remedies challenging “illegal termination” of his service. Mr. Naidu approached the Labour Court in Vikarabad following termination of his service by the company in 2013.  In an order issued four years later, the court held that inquiry against him was not conducted properly. He was not given ample opportunity to defend his case either, the order said. The court also directed the tech company to pay allowances to the employee from the date of termination to the day the order was passed. No jurisdiction Challenging this order, the company moved the High Court. Announcing the verdict, the judge said the company satisfied the parameters of Information Technology/Information Technology Enabled Services as per the guidelines issued by the then government in 2002. The Labour Court or the Appellate Authority established under the Shops and Establishment Act is empowered to adjudicate disputes involving an ‘establishment’. If the establishment is exempted from the Act by any order of the government, the Labour Court or the Appellate Authority had no jurisdiction to adjudicate disputes connected to that establishment. Exemptions In Cognizant Technology Solutions case, the government had given exemption to it under Section 73 (4) of the Act since it was an IT/ITES company. Hence, any disputes relating to that company cannot be addressed by the Labour Court or Appellate Authority, the verdict said. “The decision taken by the management of an establishment exempted from the purview of the Act was not amenable for challenge before the Labour Court or the Appellate Authority,” the order said.
10 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Minister visits site for relocation of Uddandapur reservoir oustees||Minister for Excise V. Srinivas Goud visited the site allotted for relocation of Uddandapur and Vallur villages to be displaced by a balancing reservoir being constructed as part of the Palamuru-Rangareddy lift irrigation scheme in Mahabubnagar district and assured villagers that the government would help them in every possible way. Along with Jadcherla legislator C. Laxma Reddy and District Collector S. Venkata Rao, the Minister said the process to speed up project works had been initiated and justice would be done to every person losing their lands in the reservoir construction. Stating that the people being displaced need not migrate to other places in search of livelihood, Mr. Goud said proper opportunities would be created at the relocated habitation for their livelihood activities. Once impounded with water, the Uddandapur reservoir with storage capacity of 16 tmc ft water would also be developed into a tourist sport besides encouraging the local communities to take up fish and shrimp farming in the reservoir. Mr. Laxma Reddy said levelling of land would be taken up before allotment of house sites to all displaced people in the two villages and a model township with school and temple would be developed. He also assured the people of Devunigutta thanda and Bandameedipalle farmers for sparing their farm lands for relocation of Uddandapur and Vallur in Jadcherla mandal and that they too would be taken care of appropriately by the government.
10 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Why fresh tenders worth Rs. 21,000 cr. for Kaleshwaram?’||Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Bhatti Vikramarka questioned the reason for the government calling for tenders worth Rs. 21,000 crore for Kaleshwaram project when finances would be in dire straits due to the pandemic. Speaking to reporters here, he said the State already was under Rs. 3.21 lakh crore debt and taking loans of Rs. 21,000 crore again shows how the government was handling finances. The retired engineers’ association has also strongly opposed the new loans, he said, adding that the State may be burdened with another Rs. 8,000 crore in the present circumstances. Mr. Vikramarka said the party would approach the Central Vigilance Commission on Kaleshwaram project to expose the corruption in it and unnecessary burden on the people. Former Minister D. Sreedhar Babu said COVID-19 may spread further with opening of sand mines as the government had not done any tests for the people engaged in sand mining. He added that corporate educational institutions have increased fee despite the Chief Minister directing them not to. Alleging that both the Central and State governments failed to infuse confidence in people on economy revival, he demanded that a financial package be announced taking the suggestions of Congress leader Rahul Gandhi, who had suggested that the governments pay Rs. 7,500 to every poor family.
10 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Pay for Gulf returnees, Congress asks TS govt.||The Congress has demanded that the State government bring back stranded Gulf labour free of cost, not just on humanitarian grounds but also due to Rs. 1,500 crore worth of foreign exchange remitted to Telangana from the Gulf workforce. At a press conference here, AICC spokesperson Dasoju Sravan said figures with the Central government reveal that there are about 12 to 15 lakh workers from Telangana in Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) countries. If not all, people who have lost employment due to the present crisis might want to return home and the government should pay for their air fare. Mr. Sravan welcomed the Centre’s efforts to arrange for flights but it was unfair to charge fare as the workers are already in a vulnerable situation without income. He suggested that the Telangana government persuade the Central government to pay for the flight charges. He also requested the government to make sure that after returning to Telangana, these workers be given ‘Return, Resettlement and Rehabilitation’ package to help them settle in their native places with dignity and have a decent quality of life. He said TPCC NRI Cell convener Nangi Devender Reddy has written an open letter to Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao requesting him to address the issue of Gulf workers.
10 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Migrant workers protest at construction site||A group of migrant workers employed at a construction site of a IT major in Gopanpally protested against living conditions and demanded that they be sent back to their home states at the earliest. The workers, approximately 600, said they wanted to return home and raised slogans and that the government send them back on the Shramik trains or any other mode of transport. The migrants allegedly indulged in vandalism. Gachibowli police rushed to the spot and pacified the workers. They assured them of the cooperation of the State and requested them to be patient. They assured them that they would be enrolled at the local police station so that they can return.
10 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Flight with 163 Indians from Kuwait lands at RGIA||An Air India evacuation flight that took off from Kuwait, under Vande Bharat Mission, landed in Hyderabad’s Rajiv Gandhi International Airport on Saturday night. The special flight brought 163 Indian nationals, including two infants, from Kuwait amid the novel coronavirus-induced lockdown. “The AI 988 plane of Air India landed at Hyderabad International Airport at 10.07 p.m.,” a senior security officer at the airport told The Hindu . He said that the flight was initially scheduled to land at 9.30 p.m. and later at 9.51 p.m., and it was further delayed due to bad weather. It took off to Kuwait from RGIA at 11 a.m. on Saturday.
10 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Eatala kicks off Ayush kit distribution programme||Health Minister Eatala Rajender inaugurated a programme for distribution of Ayush Raksha (protection) medicine kits at BRKR Bhavan on Saturday. He distributed the kits to Hyderabad Central Zone Joint CP Vishwaprasad, IGP Home Guards Bala Nagadevi and Saifabad ACP Venugopal Reddy to mark the inauguration of the programme under the aegis of the Department of Ayush. About 20,000 kits will be distributed to policemen and healthcare professionals and workers in red zone areas, in the first phase. Speaking on the occasion, Mr. Rajender said that Ayurveda is an ancient medical science and the Ayush department, under the aegis of commissioner Alugu Varshini, came up with this kit with five types of medicines to battle coronavirus. Congratulating the department, he said that India was extending this ancient Ayurveda medicine to the world. The Minister also said that India, compared to other countries, was tackling COVID-19 well.
10 May 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||COVID positive woman’s baby tests negative||The two-day old baby boy born to a COVID-19 positive patient at Gandhi Hospital, tested negative on Saturday. Both the mother and child are admitted to different wards. Superintendent of Gandhi Hospital M. Raja Rao said that a second test would also be conducted on the newborn. This was the first case in Telangana where a COVID-19 woman delivered a baby. After the birth, the newborn was admitted to the paediatric ward of the hospital. The mother continues to recover at the Obstetrics and Gynaecology department’s post operative ward for COVID-19 patients. Associate professor at the department Anita Siddu said that the mother was safe. She does not have any co-morbidities.
10 May 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||No limit for early bird scheme||The GHMC has said the ceiling of Rs. 30,000 under early bird scheme of property tax payment has been lifted. Now, tax payers, residential and non-residential, with a demand above Rs. 30,000 can also avail the scheme with 5% rebate.
10 May 2020||KARIMNAGAR,TELANGANA||Poor spare a ‘fistful of rice’ for the hungry||In what could be a shining example of people-to-people initiative to help deprived sections during the lockdown, some people below the poverty line (BPL) in Karimnagar district turned Good Samaritans for migrant labourers and others who do not have ration cards. After the announcement of the lockdown, the State government had announced distribution of 12 kg of rice and Rs. 1,500 to white ration cardholders in the State. The government had successfully distributed rice. Incidentally, majority of cardholders, who had earlier not collected rice, also collected rice during April, fearing that they may not get the help of Rs. 1,500 per month during the lockdown. During the period, the district authorities noticed that several migrant labourers were hit by lack of work. So, the authorities decided to launch ‘guppedu biyyam’ (a fistful of rice) at all fair price shops in the district by collecting rice as donation from cardholders. Overwhelming response Accordingly, the Civil Supplies department set up huge drums at the 487 fair price shops and the dealers were told to ask cardholders to donate rice as per their wish. Incidentally, there was an overwhelming response to the concept and people donated voluntarily for the cause of migrant labourers. Within one week, the authorities received 1078.06 quintals of rice from all the 16 mandals. Highest contributions were made by cardholders of Karimnagar urban mandal with 184 quintals, followed by Huzurabad with 176 quintals, Veenavanka (121 quintals), Karimnagar rural (120 quintals) and Ramadugu (115 quintals). The authorities also distributed 40.97 quintals of rice among migrant labourers and poor people did not have ration cards. The officials are expecting another 1,500 more quintals of donations from people. Officials are planning to conduct a mega event to distribute the collected rice later. Additional Collector G.V. Shyam Prasad Lal, the man behind the novel idea, said they would continue the programme to help poor people.
10 May 2020||Medchal,TELANGANA||No end to migrant woes||Police officials are caught in a cleft stick as thousands of migrant workers are making bespoke arrangements to travel to their homes in different parts of the country. “There was an accident in Indulwai near Devi Tanda in which one person was killed and five others injured. The truck was carrying workers. We don’t want to be blamed for such accidents,” said a policeman trying to bring some order to the chaotic movement of workers near Kondlakoya village. At the junction just beyond the ORR, hundreds of migrant workers from Hyderabad and from deep south waited to catch a vehicle to go north. Some were travelling to Bihar, UP, Chhattisgarh, MP and further north. “There are nearly 100 checkposts between this place and Patna. We have to cross all. About 10 vehicles like this have departed till now. It is taking 30 hours to Patna,” said Muhammad Rafi, who arranged a 10-seater to transport people. Each migrant worker shelled out Rs. 5,000 for the trip. Bhola and Shiv, two construction workers from Bengaluru, bought a passage in a truck to Hyderabad. Now, they want to reach their home state of UP. “We are from Allahabad,” says Bhola. “We were working at a construction site. We paid Rs. 2,100 to come to Hyderabad. Now from here, lorry drivers are asking us for Rs. 2,000 to Allahabad. I don’t have that much money,” he says. There were hundreds of others like Bhola who were not working in Hyderabad but transiting. “My father died last night. I had registered myself at the police station in the morning and he died at night. What good is a son who cannot be at his father’s funeral? There are 55 people in the lorry. Could you please talk to the driver and tell him to accommodate us?” says Digeshwar Prasad, who wants to go to Chhattisgarh. Women, children, aged men, and babies in cradle were part of the massive exodus that showed no sign of ending on NH-44 that leads to Nagpur and beyond. While some migrant workers sit down in a cooped up space, others have to stand during the 9-hour journey to Nagpur.
10 May 2020||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Farmers burn sweet lime||A group of farmers from various villages in Peddavoora mandal in the district burnt a bag of their sweet lime produce demanding immediate procurement by the government on Saturday. While a tonne of sweet lime fetched between Rs. 25,000 and Rs. 45,000 last year, the local buying price for the same was about Rs. 8,000 now, with markets in north India closed due to the lockdown, they said. They demanded that the government buy the fruit at MSP.
10 May 2020||NIZAMABAD,TELANGANA||Leopard ‘strays’ into village||Residents of Ambam (Y) and its neighbouring villages in Yedapally mandal are frightened to come out of homes in the wake of news of a leopard straying into the village outskirts since Friday. The big cat attacked and wounded a stray dog in the village. However, no one has seen the wild animal till now. Forest officials rushed to the village with a cage, tranquilliser guns and other equipment to catch the leopard alive.
10 May 2020||PEDDAPALLI,TELANGANA||RFCL donates Rs. 5 lakh to Ramagundam police||Ramagundam Fertilizers and Chemicals Limited (RFCL) has donated Rs. 5 lakh to the Ramagundam Commissionerate of Police for procurement of masks, gloves and sanitisers for frontline COVID-19 warriors. RFCL general manager V.K. Bangar, Chief Manager-HR Somnath Sanka, Sainath and Vamshi met Ramagundam Commissioner of Police V. Satyanarayana in his chambers on Saturday and presented the cheque to him.
10 May 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Have to live with corona: Harish||Finance Minister T. Harish Rao said that coronavirus would be there for some time and people should take all precautions. Participating in several programmes here on Saturday, Mr. Harish Rao said people should not be negligent as the district was in green zone. A penalty of Rs. 1,000 would be imposed if mask was not worn by the public. He gave away grocery kits for 1,400 poor persons.
10 May 2020||YDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘10 minutes at 10 a.m. every Sunday’||The GHMC is taking up a novel initiative to eradicate mosquitoes and larvae ahead of the monsoon, whereby every Sunday, citizens will be encouraged to empty stored water in their households. A campaign is being taken up towards this, by calling upon people to spend 10 minutes every Sunday at 10 a.m. to empty stagnant water which could help the mosquitoes causing dengue to breed. To begin on May 10, the campaign will run for 10 weeks, a statement by Greater Hyderabd Municipal Commission said. Commissioner D. S. Lokesh Kumar asked all zonal and circle level officials to conduct the programme by partnering with people and corporators, as part of the plan of action against seasonal diseases such as dengue and malaria. Even water drained from plant urns into the saucers underneath were found to be potential source of mosquito breeding.
10 May 2020||May 10 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Police, not judges, award ‘punishment’||Pawan (name changed), skinny and in his early 20s, had already moved the metal barricade some 200 times till 12.45 p.m. that day. He and his four friends were told to reach the Andhra Pradesh-Telangana border at Vadapalli by 8 a.m., only to follow the order – “move the barricades” for the next 12 hours. Each time a vehicle approached the check post, they walked up to the passengers to find the whereabouts, occasionally carried documents to and fro to the tent and moved the barricades left and right. The sun was directly overhead, thanks to the limestone-rich geography, the asphalt road and cement factories around, and the mercury level was well over 40 degrees Celsius, they said. Neither Pawan nor his four friends are home guards or constables of the Nalgonda police, but, reportedly, accused under Section 319 in the Miryalaguda rural police limits for their alleged involvement in an altercation that led to simple injuries to another party. On May 5, when this correspondent was at Vadapalli to interact with check post officials, sub-inspector B. Sudheer Kumar said the men were involved in a case and did not belong to the department. Sitting next to Inspector A. Ramesh Babu in the khaki tent, another official, who checked documents and recorded entries, explained further. “Every day five petty case accused are brought from various stations under the rural police limits. It is the fourth day. These men are involved in simple hurt case. Moving the barricades in the sun is their punishment, they should not rest when the police are working hard. Even the SP and DSP appreciated the inspector’s initiative,” he said, as the other two officers nodded with a smile. Miyalaguda DSP Venkateswara Rao, when contacted, said, “The men were voluntarily helping. Like many who are giving food and masks, can’t they move the barricades? It’s the same. Anyone can help the police.” Local sources confirmed that the five accused men left Vadapalli on their two motorcycles around 7 p.m.
10 May 2020||May 10 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Man arrested||Jubilee Hills police on Saturday arrested a 30-year-old man who vandalised the security room of a TV news channel. The accused, Chiranjeevi, works as a film sets wielder. “He is mentally unsound and was drunk when he damaged ventilators of the security room,” the police officers said.
10 May 2020||Greater Noida,||‘We don’t need trains, just let us walk home’||It may have abated for a while but the exodus of migrant workers from across the National Capital Region on Day 69 of the national lockdown is not only still going on but is seemingly underlined by more desperation than before.  A week after the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) allowed the movement of stranded individuals, especially migrant workers, to their home States on interState buses or special trains, visuals and news of others like them had renewed their hope before they realised there is more than one catch.  For groups of on-foot migrant workers, the possibly endless wait for more passengers headed their way on one hand and the certainty of two weeks’ quarantine on the other side of their journey in lieu merely of “free travel” arrangements by governments, they complain, is too steep a price to pay.  Even facing and contending with police batons on the way did not matter, they said, as long as they were able to inch as close to home as possible. “It is better if they just put us in jail and be done with it,” complained Om Prakash, a resident of Faizabad who undertook a nine-hour journey, mostly on foot, from Ballabhgarh in Haryana before landing up below the Yamuna Expressway.  “The police have told us that they will take us to a shelter camp where we will be required to stay till the administration is able to find more people headed along our route. Some of our relatives who have recently been able to make it home have told me that we will need to stay in quarantine for 14 days in a school outside the village. Are we supposed to spend our lives waiting?” he demanded.  One from a group of nine former factory workers from Ballabhgarh and Faridabad headed to their hometowns in Lucknow, Agra and Faizabad among others, Mr. Prakash said he and the others began their journey from Haryana at 3 a.m. on Saturday. Prem Kumar, who was employed as a security guard at a wardrobe manufacturing unit, said the first installment of the national lockdown was announced on the eve of his first day at work. “The supervisor took care of us for as long as possible; for over two months. Then we thought we would try and make our way home. We tried to register ourselves on the U.P. government’s online portal but couldn’t. So we decided to start walking and get as close as we could on our own,” he said.  Seeing the group of nine from Uttar Pradesh waiting below the elevated highway encouraged close to two dozen people from Bihar, mainly construction workers, to position themselves on the other side of the street from them.  After a four-hour-long wait for food and arrangements for travel which they had hoped for, however, the gradually swelling number of migrant workers could only procure disappointment before setting out on foot for their destinations hundreds, and in the cases of some over a thousand, kilometres away.  “Did you hear about what happened in Nanded? The workers who were run over by the train? Why were they not on that train instead of below it? I am even ready for that kind of death if it happens near home. At least people will remember and talk about me. That will not happen if I stay here,” said Prabhas Kumar, a construction worker who wanted to travel to Saharsa in Bihar.  “We don’t need special trains; even tractors will do. If not tractors, just let us walk. We just want to go home,” he said.
10 May 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi govt. reports less COVID-19 deaths than hospitals||The total number of COVID-19-related deaths in the city reported by the Delhi government is less than the number of deaths reported by just two city hospitals. While the government’s statement says 68 virus-related deaths have occurred in the Capital till Friday, the number of such deaths in just two city hospitals that The Hindu accessed was 107. ‘No interference’ The government “strongly denied this allegation”. “This is completely false and politically motivated. There is an audit committee of doctors that investigates every death incident reported by COVID hospitals and ensures that every death is reported. There is no interference of any kind in the work of this committee,” it said. “Each and every death reported by hospitals has to be certified by a death [audit] committee and only then it is reflected in the health bulletin [official statement],” a government spokesperson said. According to the Delhi government, 26 COVID-19-related deaths have taken place at Dr. Ram Manohar Lohia Hospital till Friday, but the hospital medical superintendent Minakshi Bhardwaj said 52 such deaths had occurred. “We have raised the issue multiple times. Even the total number of positive cases reported by them of our hospital is less. Every day, we are sending fresh data and I have no idea why are they are reporting less [number of] cases,” she said. Similarly, five deaths occurred in Lok Nayak Hospital till Friday, according to the government administration, However, the hospital reported 55 COVID-19 positive deaths. Director of Lady Hardinge Medical College, N.N. Mathur, said that there were three COVID-19 deaths in the hospital, but the Delhi government data shows “zero” virus-related deaths at the hospital. When reached out, AIIMS, Max Hospital, Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital (RGSSH) and Safdarjung Hospital did not provide data of COVID-19 deaths. “We can only share [the data] with the government,” a Max Hospital official said. “We are not authorised to share data on the number of deaths,” a RGSSH spokesperson said. The “death audit committee” was formed by the Delhi government only on April 20. The spokesperson did not clarify how the data on the number of deaths were released by the government before April 20.
10 May 2020||New Delhi,||City reports 224 new cases, no death||The Capital has reported 224 new COVID-19 no, taking the total number of cases to 6,542, according to a health bulletin by the Delhi government. Of the 6,542 cases, 2,020 people have recovered and there are 4,454 active cases. Though a total of 68 deaths have been reported in the city so far, no new death was reported. The fresh cases were reported between 4 p.m. on Friday and 12 a.m. on Saturday, according to the bulletin. The Delhi government said that they have decided to change the period for which they are releasing the data. Three more healthcare workers, including a nurse, working at Delhi government-run Dr. Baba Saheb Ambedkar Hospital tested positive on Saturday, taking the total number of workers infected by the virus to 106, according to hospital officials. “We have changed the cycle of health bulletin from 12 midnight to 12 midnight as per ICMR time cycle. Earlier we were following 4 p.m. to 4 p.m. From tomorrow, we will be releasing health bulletin in the morning,” the government said in a statement. The Delhi government has so far conducted 84,226 COVID-19 tests, the statement said. Also, a total of 937  COVID-19-positive patients have been placed under home isolation.  Three more hospitals  The Delhi government on Saturday declared three more hospitals — Fortis Hospital, Shalimar Bagh, Saroj Medical Institute, Rohini, and Khushi Hospital, Dwarka — as designated hospitals for COVID-19 treatment. A total of 150 beds, 50 in each hospital, will be kept for isolation. While only a part of Fortis Hospital will be turned into a COVID-19 treatment facility, the whole of the other two hospitals will be converted into such facilities.  In a separate order, the Delhi government also ordered District Magistrate (East Delhi) to make arrangements for 50-100 rooms in one of the three hotels, it had selected, for the accommodation of doctors on COVID-19 duty at Rajiv Gandhi Super Speciality Hospital.
10 May 2020||New Delhi,||BJP expresses concern over govt.’s ‘negligence’ towards health facilities||BJP State unit president Manoj Tiwari and Leader of Opposition in the Delhi Assembly, Ramvir Singh Bidhuri, in a Facebook Live session on Saturday, expressed concern over the alleged negligence of the Delhi government towards health facilities despite a spike in COVID-19 cases in Delhi. Citing newspaper reports regarding the Delhi government “hiding” statistics of deaths due to COVID-19 in Delhi, Mr. Tiwari has questioned Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal’s “intent”. “Since yesterday we are seeking answers from the Chief Minister... we want him to make public the real death toll but so far we have not received any reply. There has been the burial of 86 bodies at a cemetery exclusively for those dying due to COVID-19, near ITO, but it [government] still says that the death toll is 66. The Delhi government is putting the lives of people of Delhi at risk,” Mr. Tiwari alleged. Mr. Bidhuri alleged that testing of samples was not being done on time at city hospitals nor were the patients getting proper treatment leading to loss of life of both the common man as well as the “COVID-19 warriors”. Due to lack of facilities, many hospitals refused to give treatment to Delhi Police constable Amit Rana, which led to his death, Mr. Bidhuri alleged. “After this sad incident, the state of treatment of common people at the hospitals of Delhi can be easily guessed. The Delhi government has failed to protect the people of Delhi from the virus. Instead of doing press conferences, the Chief Minister should work to strengthen the health system. This is the time to deal with the crisis and not to shine through TV channels and advertisements,” he said.
10 May 2020||New Delhi,||Migrants’ train fare: BJP, Congress slam AAP govt.||The BJP and Congress on Saturday attacked the Aam Aadmi Party-led Delhi government over its statement to the effect that it had sponsored the train fare of 1,200 migrant workers from Muzaffarpur in Bihar after their State government allegedly refused to do so. This was after a letter from Principal Secretary, Social Welfare Department, P.K. Gupta, who is the nodal officer for the movement of migrant workers to their home States, asking his counterpart in Bihar for the reimbursement of the fare to the Delhi government, surfaced here earlier during the day. “Railways has stated many times that the Centre is giving 85% of the expenditure for sending labourers to their State and 15% is by the State government, but in this too, the Kejriwal government is engaging in propaganda,” Delhi BJP chief Manoj Tiwari alleged “On one hand, the Delhi government writes to the Bihar government, demanding money spent on the train fare of labourers and on the other, the it is saying that it’s paying the fare,” he said. Delhi Congress chief Ch. Anil Kumar said that it was “shocking” that the Delhi government, which “takes false credit” for paying the train fare of migrant labourers, had demanded reimbursement from the receiving States of the migrant labour. “There was no need to indulge in such a charade by the Delhi government as the Delhi Congress had written to Kejriwal and the Chief Secretary, expressing its readiness to pay for the train fares of the migrants,” he said.
10 May 2020||New Delhi,||‘Release Tablighis who served quarantine period’||The office of the Divisional Commissioner on Saturday ordered government officials concerned to release and make arrangements for the inter-State movement of individuals related to the Tablighi Jamaat centre in Nizamuddin here who had served the requisite quarantine period. A little over 2,300 such individuals had been rescued from a congregation in south-east Delhi’s Nizamuddin till April 1. Out of a total of 4,000 people related to the centre, over 1,800 were placed under quarantine and over 500 were admitted to hospitals. All of them have completed the mandatory quarantine period. The order “I am directed to convey that out of total 2,446 COVID-19 suspects related to the centre and others… belonging to various States staying in quarantine facilities, those who have turned negative and can be released… be returned to their respective States… as per prescribe guidelines,” the order stated. While the District Magistrates concerned were directed to explore the possibility of sending these individuals to their home States in buses, 567 individuals foreign nationals would be handed over to the Delhi Police.
10 May 2020||New Delhi,||BJP MLAs to meet CM to submit memorandum||BJP MLAs will meet CM Arvind Kejriwal on Monday and submit a memorandum to draw his attention to increasing cases of COVID-19, the alleged poor condition of Delhi government hospitals, a heavy increase in petrol and diesel prices and “faulty” distribution of free ration to 72 lakh people in Delhi. “Despite Delhi being identified as a ‘Red Zone’, the AAP government decided to open liquor shops. It is known to all how social distancing norms were violated after that,” said LoP in the Delhi Assembly, Ramvir Singh Bidhuri.
10 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Missing woman found dead inside AIIMS||A 23-year-old woman who was reported missing on Wednesday was found dead inside All India Institute of Medical Sciences on Saturday morning, the police said. No note left behind by her has been recovered, they said DCP (South) Atul Kumar Thakur said that the woman’s mother had died of cancer and she had been upset since. “The body of was found inside the hospital premises. Her mother was a cancer patient. She was being treated at the hospital and died during treatment on Wednesday,” he confirmed. The police said that she was reported missing since Wednesday. Inquest proceedings have been initiated.  Suicide prevention helpline: Sanjivini, Society for Mental Health : 011-4076 9002, Monday-Saturday, 10 a.m. -7.30 p.m.
10 May 2020||May 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Second COVID-19 death in Gautam Buddha Nagar||Gautam Buddha Nagar reported the second death due to COVID-19 in 24 hours on Friday night, an official release has said. Official sources said that the deceased, a resident of Sector 66, was lodged at Galgotia University hostel, a quarantine facility. He was brought dead at around 10.45 p.m., said Rakesh Gupta, Director, Government Institute of Medical Sciences (GIMS). The 62-year-old’s sample was taken on Thursday and his report came out on Friday evening. He was found unconscious in his room in the evening and was rushed to GIMS. “The cause of the death is cardio-respiratory attack,” said Sunil Dohre, District Surveillance Officer. On Thursday night, a 60-year-old resident of Sector 22 died due to respiratory issues after contracting COVID-19. He was admitted to a private hospital in Sector 11 on Monday and was shifted to GIMS after he tested positive for the virus on Thursday. With one more positive case on Saturday, Gautam Buddh Nagar now has 216 COVID-19 cases. Out of these, 93 are active cases. In a related development, Chief Medical Officer Deepak Ohri informed that the 42 samples whose test reports were found to be inconclusive at GIMS on May 5, were sent for re-test to the National Institute of Biological Sciences and all of them were found to be negative on Saturday. Questions were raised about the quality of testing at GIMS and the integrity of officials after a number of reports were found to be inconclusive. “We are working with complete transparency and people should not pay heed to rumours,” said Dr. Ohri.
10 May 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha govt. defends move to bring back migrants||The Odisha government on Saturday sought to dismiss criticism on its decision to bring back migrant workers as the State’s tally of COVID-19 cases doubled since their return. The State reported 24 new COVID-19 positive cases, taking the to 294. Highest 89 cases were reported from Ganjam district. Since April 29, when the first bus-load of migrants arrived in Ganjam from Surat, the State’s total number of positive cases doubled from 143 to 294. “The pandemic in Odisha should be seen in four phases. First, infected persons from abroad arrived before lockdown. Their number was 7. Subsequently, 41 people linked with the Delhi event tested positive. Then, more than 100 people who returned from West Bengal were found to be infected. In the fourth phase, people from other States are returning in large number,” said Subroto Bagchi, Chief Spokesperson on COVID-19. “Many question if the decision was correct. Every citizen has a legal right to return to their home for which the Union Ministry of Home Affairs allowed inter-State movement from May 1,” he added.
10 May 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab to give Rs. 50 lakh ex gratia to govt. staff||The Punjab government has announced an ex gratia of Rs. 50 lakh to the dependants of government employees who die while on duty fighting the novel coronavirus. The Finance Department in an order on May 8 said “... the government of Punjab, after careful consideration, has decided to put in place special provisions with regard to ex gratia admissible to dependant/legal heirs of employees who die in harness while on government duty during the fight against Coronavirus pandemic”. The order shall be applicable to all categories of regular government employees including those recruited on or after January 1, 2004, and covered under the new pension scheme. Punjab recorded 31 fresh COVID-19 cases on Saturday and reported two more deaths, taking the tally to 31, according to an official statement. The number of positive cases has reached 1,762 on May 9. The patients who died were from Ludhiana and Hoshiarpur districts. The Health Department said majority cases, 17 and five, were reported from Jalandhar and Fatehgarh districts respectively. The active cases are 1,574 and 157 patients have so far recovered, it added. Contact tracing Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu said that across the State, 11,078 persons were identified who came in contact with COVID-19 patients; of these cases, 11,056 have already been traced by the department — 99.9% contact tracing. In Chandigarh, 23 new cases surfaced, taking the tally to 169.
10 May 2020||May 10 2020 00:00 IST,||A tailor’s long journey from Jaipur to Farrukhabad to be with family||The following narrative is based on an interview conducted on April 15 with a tailor who walked most of the way from Jaipur to his home in Farrukhabad district of Uttar Pradesh after the announcement of the nationwide lockdown. In 2018, he moved to east Delhi with his wife and three children. Initially they were quite happy in Delhi and found the schools relatively good. When communal tensions rose in 2019, the family moved back to the safety of their home. He started work again in his father’s shop but there was not enough work to meet school and household expenses. His sister invited him to come to Jaipur where there was more work. The lockdown was announced after he had been in Jaipur for three months. His story illustrates that there are no stereotypical migrants — they come from many different walks of life. Their shared experience is their loss of livelihood and the traumatic separation from their family during a life-threatening crisis.  Setting out I saw the news of the lockdown on my mobile phone on the night of March 24. I had been staying with my sister in the Idgah neighbourhood of Jaipur for over three months and working in a tailoring shop in the area. Four of my relatives also worked in the same shop. My wife and three boys were at our home in Farrukhabad. I spent the first day of the lockdown indoors. The following evening, a van came to the road crossing near us with packets of food from a local NGO. A group stood with large sticks and took control over the food packets. Some claimed they were policemen, but no one was in uniform. The next morning, we saw some of those packets (empty or half-eaten) strewn by the rubbish dump and in the drains. I was well-provided for at my sister’s house but my co-workers were hungry. I carried food for them and we decided we should somehow leave for home. While there was no dearth of necessities at my sister’s house for now, there was no telling what would happen if the lockdown continued and my nephews lost their tailoring jobs. I could not bear to burden my sister’s family or beg from others. My employer owed me Rs. 3,000 but he said he could not pay me until the situation improved. We set out after nightfall on April 27. My sister handed me a packet of food and Rs. 1,000, adding to the Rs. 500 of my own. We started walking, three or four metres apart, afraid to be recognised as a single group. We saw others coming in from all directions, and by the time we reached the police barricade, about 3 km away, we were a large number, too many to control or hold back. There were all sorts of people in the crowd. They let us pass. We must have walked 50 km towards Agra before we lay down by the side of the road, and slept fitfully for a couple of hours. We got to our feet as the sun rose. The eldest among us turned back saying, “It is a long road, I will not manage it.” The rest of us continued. We felt death at our heels and had to somehow get home. There were villages along the way. At the first village, there was a religious reading going on in a tent. They let us in to rest, brought us buttermilk. We kept receiving bits of food. In the small towns, there were sometimes food packets, chips and bottles of water. Neither the travellers nor the villagers cared about class or religion. They wished us well, took video clips of us on their phones and gave us faith in humanity and confidence that we would reach our destination. We finally reached Bharatpur and found a tractor that gave us a ride for about 30 km. Then we walked again until we reached the Agra bus station later that night. At a police outpost, 25 km from Agra, we were told we would be quarantined in schools if we went ahead, but we kept moving. In Agra, I called a relative who said we were welcome if we could make our way there. They had omelettes waiting for us and we stayed the night. The curfew-like conditions in Agra were much worse than Jaipur. We left at 8 the next morning when people were allowed out of their houses for essentials. We walked to Tundla, where an autorickshaw driver took us 50 km for Rs. 1,500. From there we walked to Etah. Luckily, we found a matador van carrying vegetables and scrambled in the back until its destination in Aliganj and another tractor carrying wheat harvest to Karimganj. I then called my sister who sent an e-rickshaw to take us the remaining 10 km. We reached home on April 29 night, a little over two days after leaving Jaipur. Waiting to exhale It has been over two weeks but still feels as if I have just entered my house and sat down with my family. When I see news of crowds of workers at bus stations, I feel their pain — our story is one. Stuck far away, one does not think of food or belongings, just a desperate longing to reach their family and a place they belong. I am not quite sure what the future holds. The police are taking bribes from labourers wanting to work and from grocery shops, which are supposed to be open. My father’s tailoring shop is closed for now. My wife usually works from home on embroidery and stitching accessories on fashion garments for city shops. There is no work these days because the sequins and other accessories are mostly from China and there are also no customers. We will manage something provided the lockdown ends soon.  (Rohini Somanathan is professor of economics at the Delhi School of Economics and Bhavishya Mehta a student in his final semester of the M.A. Economics programme.)   Stuck far away, one does not think of food or belongings, just a desperate longing to reach their family and a place they belong
10 May 2020||Moscow,||Russia virus surge mutes V-Day celebrations||Rising coronavirus infections forced Russia on Saturday to curtail its celebrations marking the end of Second World War, as deaths from the pandemic surged past 270,000 worldwide and the global economy reeled from the disease and lockdowns. Economic figures point to the most acute downturn in nearly a century — the U.S. being particularly hard hit with 20.5 million jobs lost in the month of April. The figure was the highest ever reported and represented the biggest percentage increase since the Great Depression of the 1930s. Despite the dire news, President Donald Trump insisted next year would be “phenomenal” for the economy in a country where the virus has killed more than 75,000, telling reporters: “I think it’s going to come back blazing”. He is determined to reopen the U.S. economy even though the virus has reached the White House’s inner circle. Some European countries are attempting to manage an easing of their lockdowns — German Chancellor Angela Merkel planning an almost complete return to normality within a month. taly and Denmark both plan to reopen some public buildings soon and Britain is expected to offer a roadmap out of lockdown on Sunday. ‘Unity and endurance’ The pandemic, which has already infected almost four million worldwide, continues to wreak havoc on cultural calendars with celebrations to mark the end of Second World War in Europe being the latest to fall victim. Across Europe, events marking 75 years since Nazi Germany’s surrender were due to be held on Friday, but were cancelled or scaled down. Russia, which usually hosts grand military parades for the event a day later than the rest of Europe, finds itself at the centre of the pandemic crisis. A Red Square parade was postponed and President Vladimir Putin instead gave a speech outside the Kremlin walls on Saturday, making no mention of the coronavirus. “Our veterans fought for life, against death. And we will always be equal to their unity and endurance,” Mr. Putin said, highlighting the sacrifices made by the Soviet Union in what Russians call the Great Patriotic War. “We know and firmly believe that we are invincible when we stand together.” Russia is now the fifth-hardest-hit country with nearly 200,000 confirmed infections and its caseload is rising rapidly with more than 10,000 new ones confirmed every day this week. Parades elsewhere Elsewhere in the former Soviet Union, parades were held only in Turkmenistan and Belarus — where President Alexander Lukashenko said he had “no choice” as “the eyes of those Soviet soldiers who perished for our freedom are watching”. As many Americans and Russians faced up to an intense barrage of deaths and new cases, Brazil also emerged as a potential global concern. The country is the centre of the outbreak in Latin America and announced a record number of deaths on Friday, with 751 deaths bringing its toll to almost 10,000.
10 May 2020||May 10 2020 00:00 IST,||The bid to review the 18th Amendment||While attending a talk show, Asad Umar, Minister for Planning, Development and Special Initiatives, was asked about the speculation on changing the 18th Constitutional Amendment. Mr. Umar said there were certain flaws in the amendment pertaining to administrative matters between the federal and provincial governments that should be removed. The country passed the 18th Amendment in April 2010 when the Pakistan Peoples Party (PPP) was in power. The amendment brought Pakistan’s 1973 Constitution back — in a way — to the original intent of its framers and was hailed as a historic move. It addressed the grievances of the smaller provinces that had been demanding autonomy. “All I said was that there have been debates about the 18th Amendment in the past and there is nothing new about it — this debate has been going on for almost five years now,” Mr. Umar told The Hindu . “What I did say was and still maintain is that while dealing with COVID-19, we saw that there are some gaps due to health being a provincial subject. When the 18th Amendment was implemented, we found some lacunae and that are what I pointed out. Such gaps exist in other fields like education and industry. It does not mean that the government is thinking of changing it or not. The discussion came up and my response was regarding a question I was directly asked.” Other PTI leaders had also made critical comments on the 18th Amendment in the past. On April 26, PTI legislator Faizullah Kamoka had said the provinces had failed to deliver after devolution of powers under the amendment. More federalism Opposition parties responded sharply to Mr. Umar’s comments. Miftah Ismail, a former Finance Minister and senior leader of the Pakistan Muslim League-Nawaz, said there were many issues between the provinces and the Centre and the solution to such issues was more federalism and democracy. “There are issues that need to be resolved and issues would come up from time to time that need to be amicably resolved but there is no going back on either giving the President of Pakistan more power vis-a-vis Parliament or the PM or circumcising the powers of the provinces. I believe that true federalism means that provinces not only have the power to act in various areas but they also have transferred responsibility in those areas. It would be good if the provinces raised more revenues and not relied on the federation so much,” he told The Hindu . “If there is any need, I think the PML-N will be forthcoming but the ruling party has absolutely not demonstrated any need to amend any constitutional amendment.” The PPP said the amendment put to rest the simmering discontent against the Centre. “To revisit it at a time when provinces require more resources to face the challenges posed by COVID-19, this move will not go down well and will surely make the Centre look like an aggressor bent upon stripping hard-earned rights,” said Senator Mustafa Nawaz Khokhar, spokesperson to PPP Chairman Bilawal Bhutto-Zardari. The Imran Khan government has dismissed criticism and has vowed to uphold the “spirit of federalism”. “The PTI government appreciates and recognises the importance and benefits of the 18th Amendment. At present, there is no legal draft which is proposing to alter the changes made vide the 18th Amendment, nor is now the appropriate moment to make any changes,” Barrister Maleeka Bokhari, Parliamentary Secretary for Law and Justice, told The Hindu . However, she added that all provisions of the Constitution and laws are evolving and may be subject to amendment. “The PTI government is presently of the view that the 18th Amendment and NFC [National Finance Commission] Award requires a review and reconsideration in accordance with the lacunae and flaws identified during our term in office. Any constitutional amendment would require a two-thirds majority as set out in the Constitution, and consensus of political parties.” According to Salman Zaidi, director programmes at Jinnah Institute, there has been a consistent effort since August 2018 to sell a presidential system to the public or centralise powers and resources. “The 18th Amendment came after years of hard labour and grave lessons learnt in governance. The Opposition is right to criticise any moves to revoke the 18th Amendment, as it will reverse a decade of gains made in social service delivery, accountability, democratic empowerment and capacity built over time.”
10 May 2020||May 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Familiar disruption, uncertain future||This is not the first time that their livelihoods are being disrupted or destroyed. From the nearly three decade-long civil war until 2009, to the invasive Indian trawlers that reigned their seas soon after, to conflicts with locals operating powerful mechanised boats, to migrant fisherfolk competing for their catch — Sri Lanka’s northern fisherfolk have seen it all. After struggling through the post-war decade, to cope with the aftermath of the devastating war, and against the Indian trawlers’ destructive fishing in Sri Lanka’s waters — which prompted Sri Lanka to introduce tougher laws — things were just beginning to look up. And then the COVID-19 pandemic hit them. On March 10, Sri Lanka reported its first local case of COVID-19, when a tour guide tested positive. Ten days later the government imposed a nationwide curfew, forbidding travel from one district to another. As of Saturday evening, Sri Lanka had reported 824 cases, 240 recoveries and nine deaths. Despite the stringent curfew, the Sri Lankan government allowed fisherfolk to continue fishing. “We were very relieved they never stopped us from going to sea,” said Annalingam Annarasa, a fisher leader in Kayts island, off Jaffna peninsula. “But even that didn’t eventually help us,” he said. COVID-19 not only pulled the shutters down on all major markets they relied on to sell their fish, but also severely affected exports and domestic pricing. Sea food exports fetched Sri Lanka over $250 million in the last few years and ensured a steady demand for fish production in the north. With the adverse impact on the export market, where northern fisherfolk usually sold their expensive fish varieties, crab and exotic prawns, fisherfolk are having to sell their catch for a fourth or a fifth of the actual price in the domestic market. “Normally, crab would go for about LKR 1,000-1,200 per kg in the export trade market, but now we are selling it for LKR 200 locally. Prawn sold for LKR 1,850 is now being sold for LKR 850. Our fishermen have no incentive to get into the deep sea because with this sort of pricing, we can’t even recover the cost incurred on fuel for our boats,” explained Mr. Annarasa, who heads the Federation of Fisher Cooperative Societies for Jaffna district. The losses are severe. On an average a fisherman who earlier sold 15 kg of fish for LKR 1,000 per kg, would make a profit of about LKR 8,000 a day. But now, the same fish is being sold for some LKR 5,000, resulting in losses day after day. Further, middlemen buying fish to be sold in other parts of the country made more money than the fishermen, according to small-scale fishers in Jaffna. Tricky balance “A tricky balance between lives and livelihoods.” That is how Mullaitivu-based fisher leader Thirugnanatheepan Anthony Alfred described the current challenge. “We can’t expect everything to go on as usual, these are very peculiar circumstances,” he said. While the main markets are shut, some fisher cooperative societies have taken permission from local authorities to auction their catch at a common venue. “Of course, we strictly enforce health safety measures like physical distancing. We don’t allow people to crowd around the stall. These are tough times and we have to find ways to sustain our livelihood in whatever way possible,” said K. Rajachandran, a fisher leader in Karainagar, Jaffna. The district reported seven cases. The impact of COVID-19 might have been less severe, had the fisheries sector been given some attention in the post-war years, according to Mr. Annarasa. “All governments make promises, but nothing gets done. If different governments had invested in the fisheries sector, helping us modernise fishing, we could have increased production over the years and secured livelihoods.” Not all fisherfolk qualify for government assistance or loans, he added. “If you ask me, I will say fisherfolk are like daily wage labourers now. We earn something to eat and survive that day. That is all. We can't think much about the future.” Some are also questioning Sri Lanka’s fisheries policy that has been oriented more towards exports, based on low-volume, high-margin catches by the fishermen, of crab or costly fish that most locals can’t afford. Fisher leaders also point to the irony of the island nation importing seafood, worth nearly $200 million in 2018, for local consumption. “Whether it is UN agencies or our local authorities, their projects are all oriented towards exports. Now, our own food has become a question mark,” a leader said.
10 May 2020||May 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Taliban reaches out to Shias||The Taliban insurgency seems to be pulling all the stops it can to gain political legitimacy in Afghanistan ahead of the intra-Afghan peace talks. In a new video message from the Taliban, released on April 22, the group seeks the support of the Hazara Shias and wants to recruit from the long persecuted minority. The poorly edited video features the insurgency’s newly appointed northern district Governor Mawlawi Mahdi Mujahid, an ethnic Hazara, Shia cleric, who incites his brethren to fight against the “Jewish and Christian invaders” alongside the Sunni-majority Taliban. “Weren’t you holding our flags alongside the Sunni brothers in jihad against Soviets? How can you forget that history? Why are you silent against these invaders led by the Americans?” he sermonises, with the use of dramatic gestures. Prisoner swap The video appeal comes ahead of a much-anticipated peace talks between the Afghan government and the Taliban. The insurgent group has already signed an agreement with the U.S. administration, which paved the way for a possible peace deal with the Afghan government. Already, negotiation teams have been finalised, and prisoner releases from both sides are under way. In this fragile period, by bringing members like Mahdi to the forefront, the Taliban may be attempting to refashion itself into a political entity to gain legitimacy, say experts. “My initial thoughts were that the Taliban are trying to reach out to other sects and ethnicities in Afghanistan to score legitimacy now and perhaps after when and if they return to power,” Sabir Ibrahimi, a researcher at New York University’s Centre on International Cooperation, said. “The Taliban are perhaps being practical and making preparation for their return to Afghan politics. If and when they return to power, in whatever shape or form, they would need to work with the Shias.” While little is known of Mahdi, the new Hazara Taliban leader finds his roots in the very district he now controls — Balkhab in Sar-e-Pul. “He is a former Wahdat party affiliate, responsible for a number of attacks, abduction and extortion,” shared Mr. Ibrahimi, referring to the Hezb-e Wahdat party founded by Abdul Ali Mazari, a prominent Shia leader who was incidentally killed by the Taliban in 1995. Mahdi, who has served six years in prison on criminal charges, allegedly controlled the mine-rich district as a strongman for Mohammad Mohaqeq, the former Deputy Chief Executive of Afghanistan. In October 2018, people of Balkhab, fed up with Mahdi, rose up against him — he then fled the town. Mahdi returned a year later, allied with the Taliban. “Mahdi sounded educated in religious studies and referred to Quranic verses. His messaging was in line with the Taliban’s anti-West narratives,” said Mr. Ibrahimi. The Iran factor In his appeal, the Shia Taliban leader also addresses the “Shia brothers and religious scholars in Qom”, underlining the Iran factor in the Taliban’s strategy. The Taliban, in recent years, has warmed to Tehran. “Iran has ties with the Taliban, although Iranians do not want a complete return of the Taliban to power like in the 1990s. It is more of a political alliance with Iran than sectarian harmony. To add, Shia communities of Balkhab, Hazaras and Sayyeds, have close religious ties with Iran,” Mr. Ibrahimi added. In the video, Mahdi also reiterates several times that the Taliban is an inclusive force devoid of racism, trying to portray a different picture of the insurgency which is known for its attacks on minorities and women. While the Taliban did have few Hazara officials working for its regime in the 1990s, Mahdi is its first known Hazara Shia commander and district Governor. “Historically, the Taliban have marginalised Shias. They banned Shia rituals in Kabul during Muharam in the 1990s and when the group captured Mazar-e-Sharif, their commander Abdul Manan Niazi said that ‘Hazaras either should fully convert to Islam or pay attributions (like non-Muslims living under the Islamic states in the past)’. Similarly, in Herat, the Taliban had occupied a Shia mosque and named it after Mahawiya, who was an adversary of Imam Ali, Shia’s first Imam. During those years, the Taliban massacred Shias in Hazarajat and in Mazar-e-Sharif,” Mr. Ibrahimi said. Given the past of the Taliban’s treatment of minorities, it may have to do more than appointing a Shia commander and releasing his videos if it wants to acquire the trust of the country’s religious sects.
10 May 2020||May 10 2020 00:00 IST,||A shooting that made U.S. blacks fear running||The killing in February of an African American man in Georgia and the graphic video of it that emerged this week have brought to the fore a unique anxiety that has long troubled countless runners — running while black. People across the country took to the streets Friday to honour Ahmaud Arbery, the 25-year-old black man fatally shot February 23, by running or walking 2.23 miles, sharing their journeys by using the social media hashtag #IRunWithMaud. Racial profiling For many black runners, the killing and its aftermath have shed light on simmering fears of being attacked or racially profiled while running, an anxiety largely undiscussed in the wider running community but one that is now causing runners of colour to think even harder about the decisions they have to make when they go out for a jog. The killing brought to life what Tianna Bartoletta said she faces during a split second of pause — “Is it worth it?” — when she steps outside to go running. The three-time Olympic gold medalist, a black woman, said the activity that has brought her immense joy and professional success is paired with fear. Arbery was killed not far from where he lived in Satilla Shores, Georgia, a quiet middle-class enclave. His family said he was out exercising when two men — who later said they believed he resembled someone wanted for a series of burglaries — followed him in their truck while armed with a shotgun and a handgun, then confronted Arbery and shot him. The killing gathered public awareness after cellphone footage showing the confrontation was released this week. Arrests over killing On Thursday, Gregory McMichael, 64, and Travis McMichael, 34, were arrested and charged with murder and aggravated assault, more than two months after the killing. The case has caused runners of colour to be even more vigilant than usual, spending extra time deciding where they run, what they wear, even what they sound like while they are running to try to avoid any confrontations. As runners laced up their shoes Friday to run — an act they described as one of protest, defiance and mourning — there was another layer of anxiety because of the face mask recommendations brought on by the COVID-19 pandemic. Da’Rel Patterson, 36, who lives in Atlanta, said he feels safe on the running trails and paths of his city, but if he runs through more residential and predominantly white neighbourhoods, he makes sure to wear brightly coloured clothing and sneakers so people can easily identify him as a runner. Because he tends to breathe quietly and has a soft step, he intentionally makes additional noise if he sees someone approaching, yelling “hello” or “excuse me” long before it would be necessary. “It’s to disarm them,” he said. “Those moves are instinctual; it’s now a natural part of what I might do.”   Runners stated the obvious. No, their fear is not new or unfounded. But this latest killing — and the familiarity of the movement that brought Arbery joy in the moments before his death — cracked the sense of security some had developed while running.NY Times
10 May 2020||Washington,||Trump praises Texas Governor for rolling back restrictions||President Donald Trump was continuing his push to get States reopened as he praised another Republican Governor for rolling back State coronavirus restrictions while welcoming that Governor, Greg Abbott of Texas, to the White House. That reopening comes despite Texas failing to meet the administration’s recommended benchmarks. Mr. Trump also held a National Day of Prayer service in the Rose Garden on Thursday, praying for frontline workers and the families of those who have fallen sick. “Texas is opening up and a lot of places are opening up. And we want to do it, and I’m not sure that we even have a choice,” Mr. Trump told reporters. “I think we have to do it. You know, this country can’t stay closed and locked down for years.” Just hours before appearing with Trump, Mr. Abbott removed jail as a punishment for flouting virus safeguards still in place in Texas amid an outcry over a Dallas salon owner who was jailed for keeping her business open in defiance of Mr. Abbott’s restrictions. Guidelines breached Texas is among a long list of States that have been gradually allowing business to reopen despite failing to reach the guidelines spelled out by the White House last month. Those guidelines recommend that States wait until they have seen a two-week decline in documented cases before beginning phased reopenings. Texas has had more than 34,000 confirmed cases of COVID-19 and more than 940 deaths. And cases have been creeping up. The State has averaged 1,043 new cases a day in the seven days since stay-at-home orders expired May 1, up from an average of 846 new cases daily during the seven days prior. That’s a 23% increase. Mr. Trump has taken a hands-off approach to the reopening process, insisting that decisions be left to the States. “The Governors have great power as to that given by us,” he said. The President has not spelled out what authority he is referring to. During a visit to deliver protective gear to a nursing home in Alexandria, Virginia, Vice President Mike Pence brushed off States’ disregard for the federal guidance, saying he was “very confident that Governors are moving in a responsible way.” “It appears to me that states are taking a phased approach,” he told reporters.
10 May 2020||Cairo,||Sisi grants himself additional powers||Egypt’s President Abdel-Fattah el-Sisi has approved amendments to the country’s state of emergency that grant him and security agencies additional powers, which the government says are needed to combat the COVID-19 outbreak. The new amendments allow the President to take measures such as suspending classes at schools and universities and quarantining those returning from abroad. But they also include expanded powers to ban public and private meetings, protests, celebrations and other forms of assembly. Prosecution of officials The amendments, which Mr. Sisi signed off on Friday, also allow military prosecutors to investigate incidents when army officers are tasked with law enforcement or when the President orders it. The country’s chief civilian prosecutor would have the final decision on whether to bring matters to trial. The amended law would also allow the President to postpone taxes and utility payments as well as provide economic support for affected sectors. Egypt has been under a state of emergency since April 2017, and the government extended it late last month for another three months. The government said the amendments were needed to address a legal “vacuum” revealed by the COVID-19 outbreak. Egypt, with a population of 100 million, has reported at least 504 deaths among around 8,500 confirmed cases.
10 May 2020||Washington,||Pence’s spokeswoman tests positive||The U.S. Vice President’s spokeswoman became the second White House staffer this week to test positive for COVID-19 officials said on Friday, even as President Donald Trump continued to go mask-free at a Second World War commemoration with veterans in their 90s. News that staffer Katie Miller had fallen ill boosted fears that the White House is at risk of becoming a viral hot spot just when Mr. Trump is leading efforts to wind down nationwide quarantine measures that have devastated the world’s biggest economy. Ms. Miller is spokeswoman for Vice President Mike Pence, giving her frequent access to high-level meetings. She is married to top Trump aide Stephen Miller, the speech writer behind the administration’s hard-line immigration measures. President’s confirmation A senior administration official initially said only that a member of Mr. Pence’s staff had been tested and found to have the coronavirus. Mr. Trump, speaking later at an event with Republican lawmakers, identified the person as “Katie,” saying she works with Pence as a “press person.” This confirmed multiple U.S. media reports that Katie Miller was the person in question. On Thursday, a Trump spokesman said the President’s valet, a member of the military who is in close contact with the President, had tested positive. Mr. Trump and Mr. Pence were tested and confirmed to be negative. Both are tested daily. White House Press Secretary Kayleigh McEnany said there was no risk of a White House outbreak or threat to Mr. Trump. Earlier this week, Mr. Trump made his first long-distance trip since the nation’s lockdown began, visiting a Honeywell mask-making factory in Arizona.
10 May 2020||Caracas,||Venezuela charges two former U.S. soldiers with terrorism, conspiracy||Venezuela has charged two former U.S. soldiers with terrorism and conspiracy for allegedly taking part in a failed bid to topple President Nicolas Maduro, the Attorney General said on Friday. Luke Alexander Denman, 34, and Airan Berry, 41, were among 17 people captured by the Venezuelan military, which said it had thwarted an attempted invasion by mercenaries in the early hours of Sunday. Attorney General Tarek William Saab said they had been charged with “terrorism, conspiracy, illicit trafficking of weapons of war and (criminal) association,” and could face 25-30 years in prison. Eight attackers were reportedly killed in the incident. Mr. Saab said Venezuela had requested arrest warrants — as well as inclusion in the Interpol system — for the capture of former U.S. Army medic Jordan Goudreau, who allegedly organised and trained the mercenary force. Trump rejects claims Mr. Maduro has accused President Donald Trump of being behind the alleged invasion — and Mr. Saab said on Friday that the Venezuelans involved would be tried for “conspiracy with a foreign government.” Mr. Trump has roundly rejected the accusation, telling Fox News on Friday: “If I wanted to go into Venezuela I wouldn't make a secret about it.” The U.S. Army has confirmed they were former members of the Green Berets who were deployed to Iraq. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said the U.S. government would “use every tool that we have available to try to get them back.” On Friday, Mr. Saab said arrest warrants had also been requested for U.S.-based Venezuelans Juan Jose Rendon and Sergio Vergara.
10 May 2020||Beijing,||China admits ‘shortcomings’ in response||The COVID-19 outbreak exposed “shortcomings” in China’s public healthcare system, a top health official admitted on Saturday, saying that reforms are under way to improve the country’s disease prevention and control mechanisms. China has faced criticism both at home and abroad for downplaying the virus and concealing information about the outbreak when it first emerged in the central city of Wuhan in December. Beijing has insisted it has always shared information with the World Health Organization (WHO) and other countries in a timely manner. But on Saturday, Li Bin, Deputy Director of China’s National Health Commission, made a rare admission when he said the healthcare system had not been adequately prepared, which had left holes in China’s response. “The novel coronavirus outbreak was a big test that revealed China still has shortcomings in its major epidemic prevention and control system, public health systems and other aspects of responding (to an emergency),” Mr. Li told reporters at a press briefing in Beijing. Better system China’s health authority will build a “centralised, unified and efficient” leadership system that would allow it to respond more quickly and effectively to any public health crisis in the future, Mr. Li said. Officials were also discussing how to “modernise” the disease control and prevention system by using big data, artificial intelligence, cloud computing and other technologies that will help to predict outbreaks more accurately and enhance preparedness, Mr. Li said. The commission was also considering ways to revise public health laws, strengthen international exchanges and “actively participate in global health governance,” Mr. Li added. On Friday, Beijing said it would support a WHO-led review into the global response to the outbreak — once the pandemic is over.
10 May 2020||London,||U.K. to mandate 14-day isolation for visitors||Britain plans to introduce a 14-day mandatory quarantine for international arrivals, media reports said on Saturday, sparking alarm among airports and airlines already suffering from the COVID-19 pandemic.  The Times newspaper reported that anyone coming into Britain by plane, train or boat will be required to self-isolate for a fortnight.  The BBC reported that the measure would be introduced from the end of May.
10 May 2020||Tehran,||Tehran, May 9, 2020 (AFP) -||Iran warned on Saturday that coronavirus infections were rising in the southwest despite falls in other regions, as it announced more than 1,500 new confirmed cases. “All provinces are showing a gradual drop in new infections... except for Khuzestan, where the situation is still concerning,” Health Ministry spokesman Kianoush Jahanpour said.AFP
10 May 2020||Washington,||Legislation introduced in Congress to give Green Cards to foreign nurses and doctors||U.S. lawmakers have introduced a legislation in Congress to give unused green cards to nurses and doctors to meet the urgent needs of the healthcare sector in the country. The move is likely to benefit a large number of Indian nurses and doctors, who are either on H-1B or J2 visas.PTI
10 May 2020||CHENNAI,||‘International exposure vital’||Joshna Chinappa and Harinder Pal Singh Sandhu, India’s leading squash players, have been role models for their longevity and dedication to the sport. Speaking at a webinar organised by the Squash Rackets Federation of India (SRFI) on Saturday, Joshna and Harinder, who have won 11 PSA tour titles each, offered young players plenty of information and guidance. They said youngsters should play more international tournaments, especially the British Open, which features competitors from Egypt, Malaysia and the USA. “I played in the Singapore U-13 Open when I was 11 years old,” said Joshna, the reigning Asian champion. “That I think is an appropriate age.” Area of concern According to Harinder, it is important for juniors to work around the ball and not whack it when they play at the international level. Chipping in, former national coach and SRFI secretary Cyrus Poncha, who conceptualised the webinar, said: “Our juniors don’t volley enough, it is an area of concern.” Asked whether they changed their strategy midway through a match, Harinder recalled his South Asian Games contest against Pakistan’s Farhan Mehboob in Kathmandu last year. “He being an attacking player, I had to attack more and not rely only on fitness — my strength,” he said. To the same question, Joshna said she discusses her strategy for a particular player with her coach before the match. “The first thing is, we don’t play to their [opponent's] strengths, adapt to the situation and constantly change the game-plan. The key thing is to play a simple straightforward game,” said the 18-time National women's champion.  On the mental makeup required to compete at the Commonwealth Games and Asian Games, Joshna and Harinder said representing the country and winning medals served as motivation. “It’s a huge platform where you play for your country, nerves and pressure play a big part,” she said. Harinder said: “I play from my heart. That [CWG and Asian Games] is where you are there for your teammates. These are the moments I live for.” Both stressed that being mentally strong and positive were very important.  The key thing is to play a simple straightforward game Joshna   CWG and Asian Games is where you are there for your teammates Harinder
10 May 2020||New Delhi,||‘You innovate and exercise’||Neeraj Chopra was forced to return from his training base in Turkey on March 18 because of the COVID-19 outbreak. Stuck at NIS Patiala since then, with the imposition of the lockdown, the javelin thrower admits there is no training and no holding of the javelin. “But it’s ok. Frankly, there is no other option. So what is the point worrying or cribbing about it,” Neeraj said in an interview with The Hindu . The only concern is the slipping fitness levels. “SAI is taking care of the diet, but strength and stamina have gone down a bit. I am not worried about it. Once proper training starts, do hafte me wapas fitness le ayenge (I can be back to optimum fitness in two weeks’ time),” he said. Saving graces With the grounds at NIS out of bounds, the saving graces are the staggered visits allowed to the gym and the small open space at the elite athletes’ hostel. “This phase has not been too difficult except for the training part, which is important for an athlete. Other than that, it’s ok. Food is fine, it’s safe here and the little space we have is used for staying active,” he said. “There is theraband in my room for strength training. I do other exercises, core strengthening and abs exercises. You innovate and find ways to train. There is always something to do to stay fit,” he added. The 22-year-old agreed there could be no planning ahead unless the domestic and international calendars are confirmed. “We will have to restart our training but can do so only after confirmation of the calendar. “The AFI is hoping to start competitions in September, but before that the lockdown has to end and everyone given time to train. We will have to wait and see when that happens.”
10 May 2020||HYDERABAD,||A dual challenge for Lakshmi||For P. Lakshmi Gopi Chand, the first woman Olympian from the then united Andhra Pradesh representing India in badminton in the 1996 Atlanta Games, it is a dual challenge in lockdown now. The first is to keep her badminton-playing children — Sai Vishnu and Gayathri — fit, and also ensure continuity in husband Gopi’s efforts as chief National coach. “We are glad with the way the children are playing right now and don’t want to put pressure by setting any goals. We ensure that they maintain discipline at any cost,” said the 45-year-old Lakshmi in a chat with The Hindu on Saturday. “Gopi setting up his academy here is the biggest thing to have happened to Indian badminton as the results suggest. Our primary objective was to ensure minimum training facilities without any break in daily schedule,” she said. “We didn’t set goals like producing a World champion or an Olympic medallist,” she added. “I never thought badminton would reach this level in India. I remember when my fellow players were content if they crossed the first round in a National,” said Lakshmi, while recalling that her father Krishna Rao was her coach when she won a ‘triple’ in the junior Nationals before moving to Hyderabad from Vijayawada in 1993 to join Dronacharya S.A. Arif. And how does she feel when Gopi is criticised? “Initially I used to get agitated, thought he should respond to that. Soon I realised his philosophy that if we don’t harm anyone, there is no need to worry is the right one.” Trial and error On her own playing days, Lakshmi said, “Our training was more of a trial and error method, unlike the present scientific training. But, we were no less hard-working.”  Reflecting on the postponed 2020 Olympics, Lakshmi said it is extremely hard on those seniors who were close to making the cut. “One year is a long, long time in an athlete’s career. The training programme has to be re-visited and started afresh, with new Olympics qualifying norms likely.”
10 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Wimbledon visit made me take up the game: Zeeshan Ali||It was the taste of Wimbledon that made Zeeshan Ali commit to tennis for life. “I was the Don Bosco school cricket captain and used to play table tennis and other games. “After my dad [Akhtar Ali] took me to Wimbledon, I decided that tennis was what I wanted to do,” said Zeeshan, India's Davis Cup coach, during the webinar hosted by SAI and AITA. Akhtar was the coach of the Davis Cup team which had Ramanathan Krishnan, and was also the travelling coach of Vijay Amritraj on the professional tour. Early years Zeeshan, who won the men’s National title when he was 16, was once ranked No. 126 in the world. “I lost the National junior championship in Jaipur as I was overconfident about being the No. 2 junior in the world. It was a jolt. The following week I won the men’s title,” recalled Zeeshan, who had won the National men’s doubles title with Mark Ferreira when he was 14. While Zeeshan received a lot of sound advice from his father and uncles, another National champion Ashutosh Singh, also from a family of tennis players, recalled how his father Balram Singh would hardly tell him anything! “We learnt by following his discipline. Getting up on time, preparing well etc.,” said Ashutosh, who has also taken up coaching. Getting the basics right “We learnt the technique and basics very well. They were drilled into us," said Zeeshan. "You need to have correct footwork and meet the ball right. So, wood or graphite, we connected the ball at the centre of the racquet." Owing to a back injury, Zeeshan had to quit when he was 25, after winning seven National singles titles, including five on grass. Ashutosh remembered how he learnt a lot playing on red clay in Bulgaria for four weeks even though he didn't win even a practice set. “When I came back, I was a different player. All my best results came after that stint”, said Ashutosh.
10 May 2020||New Delhi,||Vishnu and Saketh on their dissimilar paths to success||They are two of the best students of coach C.V. Nagraj from The School of Power Tennis in Secunderabad. Davis Cuppers and multiple Asian Games medallists Vishnu Vardhan and Saketh Myneni took different paths to success, as they explained to hundreds of coaches around the country in a webinar. Preparing for life While Vishnu stayed at home and pursued the sport, Saketh chose collegiate tennis in America, which prepared him well for life, as he was out of his comfort zone, doing everything himself. “I didn’t give up education because it does teach you a lot of things,” Saketh said. Both serve big, a speciality of the trainees of Nagraj, but play different styles. Vishnu recalled how his game hit a different level once he was chosen to partner Leander Paes for the 2012 London Olympics. “Leander’s dad Dr. Vece Paes made a three-month training plan for me, which included a stint in the US. I was really sharp when I reached Wimbledon for the Olympics. “Leander helped me get the best out of myself and taught me how to deal with pressure,” said Vishnu. While Vishnu won silver with Sania Mirza in the mixed doubles at the 2010 Asian Games, Saketh won gold with her in the 2014 edition. “I was nervous playing with Sania, but he was relaxed,” said Vishnu. “Each person is different. Some are vocal and some silent. There are no rights and wrongs. You decide what works for you,” said Saketh. Focus on fitness A crafty player, Saketh conceded that he could have gained more by focusing on fitness at an early age. “I was growing tall and was injury-prone. With the height, the mechanics of strokes also change,” recalled Saketh. For Vishnu, the transition from juniors to the big league was tough. “I started focusing on men’s tournaments when I was around 16. “For the first couple of years it was depressing as I was losing a lot. But it certainly helped me develop,” said Vishnu.
10 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||China overcomes India||India fought hard but could not deny top seed China a 2.5-1.5 victory in the ninth round of the FIDE Chess.com Online Nations Cup on Saturday. On a day when Europe outwitted USA 2.5-1.5 and brightened its prospects of joining China in Sunday’s Superfinals, and Rest of the World (RoW) held Russia 2-2, Adhiban’s third loss in four games hurt India. For India, Anand and Humpy took a drop while China rested Ding Liren, but chose to field top-ranked woman Hou Yifan. Vidit, Harika play draws Vidit drew with Wang Hao in just 28 moves in the first game, while Harika showed better time-management and defended well against Hou. Adhiban, playing white, lost to Yu Yangyi and Harikrishna held Wei Yi. Late on Friday, India came close to upstaging Europe before Hari’s loss made it 2-2. After Anand proved equal to Maxime Vachier-Lagrave, Humpy chose to draw while a struggling Vidit did his confidence a world of good by beating Levon Aronian. Leading 2-1, India had reasons to hope for a win with Hari looking good to hold Jan-Krzysztof Duda. But Hari faltered in his bid to enlarge his advantage and Duda’s victory gave Europe an important match-point.  The results:   Ninth round: India lost to China 1.5-2.5 (Vidit Gujrathi drew with Wang Hao; P. Harikrishna drew with Wei Yi; B. Adhiban lost to Yu Yangyi; D. Harika drew with Hou Yifan); Europe bt USA 2.5-1.5; Russia drew with RoW 2-2.   Eighth round: Europe drew with India 2-2 (Maxime Vachier-Lagrave drew with Viswanathan Anand; Levon Aronian lost to Vidit; Jan-Krzysztof Duda bt Harikrishna; Anna Muzychuk drew with K. Humpy); China bt Russia 2.5-1.5; USA bt Rest of the World 3-1.   Standings (after nine rounds): 1. China (17 match-points), 2. Europe (12), 3. USA (11), 4. Russia (6), 5. India (5), 6. RoW(3) .
10 May 2020||BENGALURU,||TCS World 10K run postponed to Nov. 22||The TCS World 10K run has been postponed to November 22, organisers announced on Saturday. The Gold Label Race has been rescheduled twice now, on account of the coronavirus pandemic. Inputs from Association of International Marathons & Distance Running (AIMS), World Athletics (WA), Global Sports Communication (GSC), AFI, and the Karnataka government helped organiser’s take the decision. Online registrations for rescheduled event will commence on 8 Sept. 2020, on https://tcsworld10k.procam.in.  For runners who have already registered, their entries will be automatically transferred to the new race date at no additional charge. Registered runners who choose not to take part in the rescheduled event can fill the online bib surrender request form. The application fees paid will be refunded, with a deduction fee of Rs. 150 as processing charge.
10 May 2020||KOZHIKODE,||Top stars for Steinitz memorial tournament||In the 134-year history of the World chess championship, there have been only 16 undisputed champions. Wilhelm Steinitz of Austria was the first: he reigned from 1886 to 1894. May 17 marks his 184th birth anniversary. On the occasion, FIDE, in association with chess24.com , will organise a star-studded online tournament in his memory. The 10-player round-robin blitz tournament — the FIDE Online Steinitz Memorial — will be held from May 14 to 17 and carry a prize fund of €30,000. World champion Magnus Carlsen of Norway, three-time World blitz champion Alexander Grischuk of Russia, 2013 World blitz champion Le Quang Liem of China are those in the fray. In the women's section, Kateryna Lagno of Russia, a former World rapid and blitz champion, and former World champions Alexandra Kosteniuk of Russia, Antoaneta Stefanova of Bulgaria and Tan Zhongyi of China are among the main stars. “Steinitz was a revolutionary and his historic 25-game winning streak, or his 32 years undefeated in match-play speaks of his calibre,” said FIDE president Arkady Dvorkovich. Women's World rapid champion Koneru Humpy told The Hindu, “I haven't received an invitation yet.”
10 May 2020||Chandigarh,||Hockey legend Balbir Singh Sr hospitalised in critical condition||Hockey legend Balbir Singh Sr, a triple Olympic gold medallist, was admitted to a hospital in a critical condition on Friday after complaints of pneumonia. The 96-year-old was on a ventilator but in a better condition than on Friday, his grandson Kabir said.PTI
10 May 2020||NEW YORK,||Rock ‘n’ roll pioneer takes a final bow||Little Richard, whose outrageous showmanship and lightning-fast rhythms intoxicated crowds in the 1950s with hits like Tutti Frutti and Long Tall Sally , has died. He was 87. Citing the rock ‘n’ roll pioneer’s son, Rolling Stone magazine said on Saturday that the cause of death was unknown. Tributes quickly poured in, with co-founder of Chic Nile Rodgers calling it “the loss of a true giant”. With a distinctive voice that ranged from robust belting to howling falsetto, Richard transfixed audiences and became an inspiration for artists, including The Beatles, as he transformed the blues into the feverish new style of rock ‘n’ roll alongside Fats Domino and Chuck Berry. His raunchy 1955 song Tutti Frutti , even with its gay sex theme toned down for radio, became a sort of opening salvo of rock ‘n’ roll’s entry into American life, starting with his nonsensical but instantly thrilling first line: Awop bop a loo mop/Alop bam boom. But if his contemporaries kept the respectabilities of old-time musicians, Richard stunned buttoned-down post-Second World War America with an otherworldly look of blindingly colourful shirts, glass-embedded dinner jackets, a needle-thin moustache and a 15-cm-high pompadour haircut. A consummate entertainer since his childhood, Richard would play piano with one leg hoisted over the keys and, in one legendary concert in Britain, played dead on stage so effectively that the venue sought out medical help before he resurrected himself to an astounded crowd. Richard was one of rock’s most torn personas and he never became an obvious icon for the African-American or gay communities. Once open by the standards of his time about his attraction to men, Richard became a born-again Christian and renounced homosexuality, treating it as a temporary choice in a manner that is anathema to the modern gay rights movement and psychologists. And a younger generation of black DJs had little interest in an artist seen as embedded in the white mainstream.
10 May 2020||New Delhi,||Study finds ‘heat wave’ like conditions in cars||The ambient temperature inside cars could shoot up to as much as 65°C and induce conditions akin to a heat stroke, says a study that measured temperature and relative humidity levels. The objective of the study, led by researchers at the Postgraduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (PGIMER), Chandigarh, was to assess “thermal comfort” (the degree of warmth that people deem as comfortable) in cars. Along with the temperature and humidity, the study also evaluated people’s experience of thermal comfort in sedans, sports utility vehicles and hatchbacks, in Chandigarh. “The predicted mean vote (PMV) was observed to be the worst for sedans... the percentage of persons dissatisfied (PPD) was observed to be 100% in all cases, showing dissatisfaction for all car models. The concentration of carbon dioxide and carbon monoxide ranged between 113-1,127 parts per million and 0–3.9 ppm, respectively, for the front of the car,” the authors Ravindra Khaiwal, Neha Agrawal and Suman Mor, note in their paper. The PMV and the PPD are metrics to measure thermal comfort. “Understanding how thermal comfort varies during extremely hot and cold conditions in the micro-environment of a car could help auto industries improve thermal comfort and minimise the associated health risks,” Mr. Khaiwal told The Hindu. “This could mean designing new materials that absorb heat better, or improving the air flow system in vehicles.” The measurements showed that the front of the car showed a higher maximum temperature than the back, while relative humidity was observed to be lower in the front than the back for all models. The temperature recorded in a sedan was higher than in a SUV and in a hatchback. The higher temperature was due to ambient conditions on different days and also due to the colour of the car, the researchers found. “The higher temperature in a sedan may also be due to its black colour, which is a good absorber of heat while the SUV and hatchback were white, which has higher reflectance,” the study notes. Mr. Khaiwal said conditions akin to a heatwave could manifest and — given changes in climate and higher average temperatures — would lead to several more ailments such as heat stress, heat strokes and fluctuation in blood pressure. Understanding heat waves in micro-environments is also important given warming trends. Last year was the seventh warmest since record-keeping commenced in 1901. The annual mean surface air temperature, averaged over the country, was 0.36°C above average. The average is defined as the mean temperature from 1980-2010. The highest warming observed over India was during 2016 or 0.71°C above the mean. Temperature during the year 2018, which was the sixth warmest, was 0.41°C above the mean.
10 May 2020||May 10 2020 08:31 IST,||Sudoku - May 10, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
10 May 2020||May 10 2020 00:00 IST,||The Pompeii Indians||Naples in Italy has a history stretching back almost three millennia, and lots to show for it. Hellenic pottery left behind by its Greek founders who named it Neapolis — ‘new city’ in Greek — followed by a multicultural Roman epoch when locals continued speaking Greek while contributing to Italian culture by, for example, inventing makaria, which we recognise as the origin of macaroni. It also has unmatched historical continuity. Its archaeological museum holds Europe’s finest collection, not merely because this is where Pompeiian finds are stored: there are Greek and Egyptian antiques too, and a gemstone hall where I spot finely engraved carnelians — an Indian-made product since Harappan times, still produced in Gujarat. The mezzanine gallery has mosaic portraits of folks once living in Pompeii who presumably perished when their homes were buried by the eruption of Mount Vesuvius in 79 CE. At the rear of the gallery, I notice steel gates that earlier barred entry to the Gabinetto Segreto, “secret cabinet”, but today they’re open. Indian Aphrodite Shut two centuries ago, in 1819, with three padlocks (the keys safeguarded by different officials), it’s been accessible only since 2000. This is where all the cheeky artworks — fertility symbols, brothel frescoes — were hidden by Victorian-era archaeologists to prevent the corruption of women and children. There, I stop short before an ivory carving, its sign stating ‘ dea Laksmi, Afrodite indu ’, identifying it as an Indian equivalent of the Greek goddess of fertility. It’s an exquisite piece, displaying the classic Indian craftsman’s virtuosity — a 24-cm tall, sumptuously bejewelled but otherwise scantily garbed, boldly voluptuous lady with two dwarf attendants carrying cosmetic items. The museum declares that this is “an important testimony of the commercial relationships that already existed in the first century AD between the countries of the western Mediterranean and the East through the port of Puteoli”. The Romans loved ivory knick-knacks like fancy combs and papyrus scroll winders. So, there’s really nothing strange about an Indian artwork finding its way here. Mortimer Wheeler, director-general of archaeology in the last years of the Raj in India, observed, in Rome Beyond the Imperial Frontiers (1954), that material relics of Indian trade in the West are “very few, for the good and obvious reason that most of them were of an impermanent kind” before arguing that this “ivory statuette of Lakshmi” is one of the best extant samples and “may well have found its way out of India through Barygaza,” present-day Bharuch in Gujarat. But it’s strange that both the Naples museum and Wheeler insist the statuette depicts Lakshmi, considering that already in 1940 archaeologist J.Ph. Vogel had cast doubt on it. “There is no indication whatever that the central personage is meant for Lakshmi or for any other goddess,” he said in Annual Bibliography of Indian Archaeology . Even I, an amateur, recall photographing in Sanchi’s second stupa a similar-looking 1st century BCE relief, labelled as a yakshi in the ASI guidebook. To cut a long story short, the statuette might rather be a Satavahana-era depiction of a yakshi , a nature spirit. The emperors of this great South Indian dynasty were patrons of the arts and, as primary trading partners of the Romans, the Satavahana rule ushered in what historians have described as the Golden Age of the Konkan. Many Roman artefacts have been unearthed at Satavahana cities such as Kolhapur, where a bronze statuette of the sea god Poseidon was found along with fragments of a Pompeiian-style wine drinking set; at Ter — known to Mediterranean merchants as Tagara — an ivory statuette resembling the one from Pompeii was discovered. Hence, the goddess statuette was most probably manufactured at a Satavahana ivory workshop in the village of Bhokardan in Maharashtra, where many ivory pieces, both finished and unfinished, attest to its craftsmen’s past glory. Of special interest is the discovery of the lower half of a statuette nearly identical to the one at Pompeii, which could in fact have been carved by the same artist. Roman holiday Only a few days earlier, I had seen another Indian connection when I walked through Piazza Navona in Rome and saw the grand Fontana dei Quattro Fiumi or ‘Fountain of Four Rivers’ featuring the Ganges. Designed by Bernini in 1648-51, it attests to the Roman fascination with India. Now, deciding to visit Pompeii and discover more, I hop on the Circumvesuviana, a tramline that circumambulates the volcano. Pompeii’s only some 23 km away but it takes nearly an hour, and should Vesuvius erupt again, I’d be a roasted poppadum. The last major eruption was in the 1940s, and the average eruption rate has been once every 20 years, so the next is highly overdue. The quietude is seen as the build-up to an explosion that’s expected to kill half a million people in this densely populated area. Getting off at the Pompei Scavi station, I know the Indian deity was found somewhere nearby, but when I ask at the information office, they have never heard of it. I refer to the site map, which reveals a warren of streets, well-organised in a Greek-style grid. It’s a huge area — alongside Hampi in India, probably the world’s largest open-air museum — and I confusedly poke around the forum square. This is Pompeii’s municipal, spiritual and commercial hub where, in stalls under its colonnades, goods from India and elsewhere were once sold: 13g of Malabar pepper was worth 1g of silver in those days. They also sold Spanish olive oil (sometimes scented with Indian spices like cinnamon), and other luxurious things such as ivory artefacts. Leaving the forum, I see the bath houses with their indoor waterfalls and bawdy frescoes and an attached brothel which — according to the guidebook — was manned by Oriental slave girls. Here, it seems, pepper was used as a precursor to Viagra, mixed with honey and rubbed onto the relevant male body part, which explains perhaps why pepper was so important to Romans. House hunting I pass homes with painted walls and mosaic floors, glimpsing pre-catastrophe lives. One prominent Pompeiian was evidently a theatre-lover: his house has a fresco of the Greek playwright Menander, whose comedies were performed at the town’s 5,000-seater theatre. Perhaps he invited actors home for fancy dinners, for from this house were recovered two silver pepper pots attesting to spicy cravings. Today, the street reminds me more of the middle-class Bengaluru area where I live, with its low, two-storied homes, cafés and shops. I have my eyes peeled and am reasonably sure there’s no signage whatsoever for the Indian house, but eventually I google and find an online index of all Pompeiian houses and this enumerates the ‘house of the Indian statuette’ as I.8.5. In technical terminology, Regio I is one of the eight divisions of the site as determined by archaeologist Giuseppe Fiorelli in the late 19th century and it is further subdivided into insulae or blocks. Its 8th insula has several medium-sized homes — and one of these must be No.5, the one I’m searching for. By comparing the numbering on signposted tourist sights, I arrive at an unlabelled house approximately 600 metres from the forum square, near the corner of Vicolo dell’Efebo. And I recognise from online photos the atrium courtyard with a white stone bench by a shallow travertine pool or impluvium . It’s fronted by small shops, akin to kirana stores, and apparently some neighbouring house was dealing in textiles and dyeing — wealthy Pompeiians dressed in Chinese silks, Egyptian linen and Indian cottons, rather than cheap Italian sheep’s wool. Indigo dye, of course, was a costly product from India, perhaps imported by the merchant who owned the Indian house. Incidentally, another house a few streets away is known as the ‘house of the Europa ship’ due to the graffiti drawing of a cargo ship named thus. Might it have carried the Indian statuette here? According to a report, a crude graffiti sketch of a ship was found in this Indian house too, scratched into a wall in the small bedroom, cubiculum, in the southwest corner — though I can’t see it today however much I peer. Possibly the family owned their own ship; indeed, many of Pompeii’s inhabitants had business interests abroad. Rectangular in shape, this possibly Indian house sprawls over much of its block, about 40 metres from street-front to back wall, way bigger than any 3 BHK in Bengaluru — something like 8,000 sq. ft. carpet area on the ground floor alone. Built in the mid-50s CE, it is a fairly typical example of how a reasonably prosperous family enjoyed Pompeiian living. The tiny back garden, viridarium , has a flowering tree and is enclosed by a colonnaded courtyard, peristylum , where the inhabitants would dine, semi-al fresco. Rather unusually, they had a proper stove, hinting at an interest in home cooking, while most Pompeiians ate out or took home delivery, and this block too has a small cook-shop and boozer right next door for takeaways. Who lived here? To the right of the viridarium is a ruined portico that seems to have been turned into auxiliary sleeping chambers of a crude kind, maybe for visitors who overstayed their welcome. This is where archaeologists dug up a wooden chest containing the ivory statuette, along with 39 glass items, many bronze utensils and one glazed ceramic vase from Alexandria. Although Italian scholars thought the statuette was a broken-off mirror handle or a toiletry article, “ probabilmente per un oggetto da toletta ”, modern researchers feel it would make for a very impractical handle, and have found indications — such as small drill holes that may have served to fix it to another object — that it was possibly one leg of a low three-legged table. But who lived in this house in the shopping street of Pompeii? We don’t even know his exact title, though epigraphists have deciphered a scribbled list of names from a wall: Daphnus, Felix, Agele and Attice. The last name has a distinctly Greek ring to it, hinting at a person with Athenian manners and a certain refined elegance. Was the homeowner one of those Greeks who had sailed to India? He was most probably a trader in foreign products — considering clues like the ship graffiti and the Indian statuette. Popular Indian imports in those days ranged from rice, sesame oil, cane sugar and spices to iron, gemstones, eunuchs (importing them attracted a special luxury tax), and, of course, ivory. I would like to imagine that one of the cornershops out front was an Indian-style spice emporium. And instead of wine by the amphora, maybe they sold arrack? Arrack that originated in Kerala is, as research shows, one of the world’s oldest hard drinks. And after a few pegs, as guests were getting increasingly plastered, maybe a Satyricon-like scene played out. The sketch known as Cena Trimalchionis (Trimalchio’s Dinner) is set about the same time, in 60s CE, in Pompeii’s vicinity. The evocative text fills in the gaps in my imagination: the host flaunts his wealth as he tries to impress guests with cooked storks, honey-dipped dormice, eggs stuffed with live birds, bees from Athens to make Greek honey, and even “mushroom-spawn” from India. Likewise, might this homeowner have pulled out his beautiful oriental Aphrodite and told wild stories about how he got it during his adventures in Asia? The travel writer lives to eat strange things and poke his nose in antique potholes.  Many Roman artefacts have been unearthed at Satavahana cities such as Kolhapur where a bronze statuette of the sea god Poseidon was found and fragments of a Pompeian style wine drinking set   This is Pompeii’s municipal, spiritual and commercial hub where, in stalls under its colonnades, goods from India and elsewhere were once sold: 13g of Malabar pepper was worth 1g of silver in those days
10 May 2020||May 10 2020 00:00 IST,||With eyes wide open||Early on in Sicario , a 2015 action thriller film, we meet Kate Macer (Emily Blunt), a young, by-the-book FBI agent, as she uneasily navigates the war on drugs. Kate questions Alejandro (Benicio del Toro), a shadowy Colombian figure, as she misinterprets their mission. “Nothing will make sense to your American ears,” he slowly replies, “but in the end, you will understand.” Many of us may be locked down, unable to travel freely, but we continue to explore the lives of others. Be it the timely resonance of Contagion or the stranger-than-fiction docuseries, Tiger King, our Netflix queues are depleting, inviting us to revisit films we may have overlooked. As Proust famously said, “The real voyage of discovery consists not in seeking new landscapes, but in having new eyes.” Sicario demands exactly this. When I saw it at the 2015 Toronto International Film Festival, I knew it would have staying power; I just didn’t know why . Around this time, interest in the war on drugs was at its apex, heightened by the Netflix signature series Narcos , Don Winslow’s Cartel trilogy, and President Trump’s interest in the U.S-Mexico border, “a zone of anxiety and often violent transformation,” as Los Angeles Times’ Mark Olsen writes. Borders are something I am familiar with. My father is a Canadian immigrant medical examiner, and I had heard tales of fear and insecurity growing up, something he confronted when he migrated from India, and my mother from Pakistan. Steeped in our cultural community, I searched for answers on how geography shaped our destiny. The human cost reverberates in Sicario , as the terrain expands from Mexico to Colombia and the American Southwest. Savvy thriller With its award-winning cast and direction, the film has drawn comparisons to Michael Mann, the Coen Brothers and, most notably, Steven Soderbergh’s Traffic , with one journalist calling Sicario “arguably the savviest, smartest, and most exhilarating crime thriller to hit American cinemas in years.” But the film’s greatest strength is not what is present, but what is purposely absent. Characters leave things unspoken, which builds complexity while leaving the viewer unbalanced; that is how Kate and Alejandro’s dialogue creates “the kind of creeping tension that coils around the audience like a snake suffocating its prey,” writes Variety’s Scott Foundas. Most American action thriller films champion the great man theory: that direct action and muscular dialogue by individual actors lead to a resolution. But Sicario leaves things uncertain, without moral absolutes, conveying that information and relationships often exist, purposely, in a grey zone. “The film portrays the so-called war on drugs not as a battle to be won but as an existential minefield,” writes Olsen. Much of this is designed by the film’s director, Denis Villeneuve, a master of slow-burn thrillers, with characters seeking answers, both in the physical and the interior. If Sicario is a morality play for the astute observer, part of why it has lingered with me is its origin story. I watched the film with my brother, a logical and discerning surgeon, who was left unsatisfied. Our mutual admiration in the thriller genre was undone by his view that this film had just “three amazing scenes” — the action parts — and “the rest was hella slow and boring,” as he texted me. “You didn’t really know who the enemy was or what exactly they were doing... and you’re left feeling unsure what the point of the entire plot and exercise was.” Simmering questions Maybe that is on purpose. “My job isn’t to answer any questions, my job is to ask them,” says actor-turned-screenwriter Taylor Sheridan, who reviles the “idea that everyone in the audience has got to fully understand what’s going on at all times.” He prefers “leaving things to simmer as long as possible, in allowing characters to be everything that they might be — not just good or bad... An audience has to do some of the work.” Sheridan’s distaste for the familiar is shaped by his own journey. Texas-born and farm-raised, he struggled with loneliness when moving to Hollywood. He sought solace, unsuccessfully at first through the Catholic Church and the Krishna Center, and more fruitfully by reading Cormac McCarthy and later, through his own critically acclaimed American Frontier Trilogy, with Sicario as the lead. Sheridan’s films show men in pain using a rugged individualism to operate outside the rules of engagement, in vast, lawless, disparate lands. Set far from Hollywood, Sheridan shows “a portion of this world that they don’t know exists... and hopefully it makes people ask questions about themselves.” My own introspection about foreign lands took me to Mumbai, a few months after watching the film. The comforts of an American Beauty- blueprint of a corporate job, mother-subsidised meals and weekend warrior sports, satiated my needs but not my soul. Working in human resources in a developing country for the past four years has been a course in cultural psychology. In one interview, I sat across the broad-shouldered, six-foot-one ‘Kris’, who came equipped with a slim-fitting suit, an American accent, all the right answers and, most notably, a steely resolve. Personal struggles But only after I began to observe him deeply did I learn of Krishna’s precarious background — his years in a call centre, his father’s struggle as a rickshaw driver, and his family’s residency in Dharavi, one of the world’s biggest slums. I had interviewed hundreds of people sitting just two feet across from me, but how much of their world did I really understand? Perhaps Sicario ’s effect is more visceral, more personal for me. Sheridan and his characters evoke memories of my misunderstood youth, with fits of precariousness and rage, hardening my belief in stoicism, moral flexibility and adaptability in uncertain times — ever-present in Sicario. In these fragile times, when we see loss of life and find ourselves without answers, maybe the film’s teaching is on the nature of catharsis and how we “move on from tragedy without getting closure,” as Sheridan says.  Sicario is a meditation on transporting us, without the physicality. Travel “is a leap in the dark. It’s like a metaphor for life... you discover a different world and you discover yourself,” says famed travel writer Paul Theroux. “It brings the unknown. A journey awakens all our old fears of danger and risk.” Yet with limited mobility, isn’t Proust’s request of us to view the world with “new eyes” — in an age where we are rethinking how we work, think and see the world — more timely than ever? The writer is an HR and Strategy Consultant based in Mumbai, and can be found at rolandm.com.  Sheridan’s films show men in pain using a rugged individualism to operate outside the rules of engagement, in vast, lawless, disparate lands
10 May 2020||May 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Interplay of state and religion||Is India a secular state? Did it become secular only after the 42nd constitutional amendment when the word was included in the preamble? Is the interference of the Indian state in temple management antithetical to secularism? There are a series of false notions about secularism in India that have come to penetrate our consciousness so deeply that slaying them becomes significant, especially in these times. To do so, though, it’s important to marshal our facts carefully. To that end, Abhinav Chandrachud’s fine new book,Republic of Religion: The Rise and Fall of Colonial Secularism in Indiaoffers an excellent resource. Three assertions Republic of Religionmakes three core assertions: one, that the British colonial government introduced a version of secularism that was quite distinct from what the government practised in its own homeland; two, that this colonial secularism was softened after India became independent; and three, that the destruction of colonial secularism pre-dated the rise of India’s Hindu right. He makes these claims not through linear argumentation, but through a telling of the interplay between state and religion on six different subjects: cow slaughter, conversions by Christian missionaries, separation of electorates and reservation for Muslims, administration of Hindu temples, personal laws and the creation of a uniform civil code, and the taking of oath by public officials. The journey The book by itself doesn’t aim to dispel any existing shibboleths on Indian secularism. Instead, it is an effort at giving us the facts to help make our own minds up about how we might want to regard the relationship between state and religion in India, how we went from colonial secularism to soft-colonial secularism to our present-day constitutional model. What Chandrachud means by colonial secularism comes through best in his chapter on the temple and the State. He shows us how when the East India Company began to capture control over territories in the subcontinent, England was not a secular nation. There was at the time no strict wall of separation between church and the state. Indeed, it could be said that there was really no wall at all, exemplified best perhaps by the Act of Supremacy enacted in 1534 that declared that the British monarch would be the “Supreme Head of the Church of England.” This arrangement, as he argues, wasn’t altogether dissimilar from how pre-colonial rulers acted in India, where kings through their local bodies managed and controlled temples and mosques. When the East India Company first began to wrest control, it followed this norm. As Chandrachud points out, much like the monarch appointed the Archbishop of Canterbury the colonial government now appointed senior priests at the Jagannath Temple. But this mingling of state and temples came to pique the Christian missionaries, who then put pressure through the clergy to bring these practices to an end. The consequences, the book shows, were felt in a letter of instructions issued by the “Court of Directors” of the East India Company to the government in India. “All religious rites and offices,” the letter observed, that were “harmless” in that they were not “flagrantly opposed to rules of common humanity or decency... ought to be tolerated, howsoever false the creed by which they are sanctioned.” But the letter cautioned the government against taking part in the “celebration of idolatrous ceremony,” and in the provision of assistance and “systematic support” to such practices. Knotty issue Slowly, the colonial government ceded control over temples. But when it began to constitutionalise its power, through the creation of local governments in the provinces, those legislatures found this colonial version of secularism knotty. They found that in relinquishing control the colonial authority had created different kinds of power structures, where dominant communities within the Hindu fold virtually appropriated religious foundations and trusts. The Madras Legislature, therefore, in 1926 enacted a Hindu Religious Endowments Act that sought to re-introduce state control over temples. Amid a movement When the Constituent Assembly deliberated over what kind of secular state India would be, and on what limitations ought to be placed on the right to freedom of religion, it was this history of colonial secularism and the history of the prejudices wrought by practices such as untouchability that they had before them. All of this is important because today we find ourselves once again in the midst of a movement that seeks to delink the state and the temples. When we read Chandrachud’s book, and as we try to understand Indian secularism, we might want to ponder over this question: when people campaign for a renunciation of state interference in temples who exactly do they regard as the state’s successor? The reviewer is an advocate practising at the Madras High Court.  Republic of Religion: The Rise and Fall of Colonial Secularism in India Abhinav Chandrachud Penguin Random House India  Rs. 599
10 May 2020||May 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Thus spake Pei Mei||If there is one principle I’ve followed all my adult life, it’s this: flatten the curve. As a teenager, I spent two years at a monastery in Japan’s Kumamoto prefecture, learning the White Lotus School of Zen-Wushu. My teacher was the great Kittaka Waradada, a disciple of the legendary Pei Mei. You may have seen Pei Mei in a famous Hollywood film whose name I’m forgetting. It was Pei Mei who invented the Five Point Palm Exploding Heart Technique, using which you can flatten the curve of an enemy’s life line with a single fatal blow delivered to the heart. It is one thing to flatten the curve of an immoral human’s life line, and another to flatten the curve of an amoral virus’s infections and aspirations. One of the first things you learn in Zen-Wushu is that no creature in the universe is redundant, or as Kittaka-san would say, dispensable. Annihilate them The virus wants the same thing you do: a life of meaning. It doesn’t want to die thinking its existence has been pointless. And novel coronaviruses, Kittaka-san tells me, are more ambitious than their predecessors such as H1N1. They have the resilience, mental toughness, and the seven habits of highly effective viruses. That’s how they have the self-control to lie low and infect a great number from a single host before their presence could be detected via symptoms. If you’ve seen the Hollywood film whose name I’m forgetting, you might remember that Pei Mei was invincible. He could get his immune system to defeat any virus that challenged him. How did he do it? That’s right, he flattened the damn curve. The good news is you could do it, too — if you know basic Zen-Wushu. Though it’s not easy to master, it’s not impossible if you have the will. In fact, all you need to do is awaken the White Lotus inside you. To do so, you must first practise mindfulness. When you are mindful, you become present to every single breach of your body’s defences. As you gradually attain intra-cellular self-awareness, the White Lotus will open itself to you, and then something miraculous happens: you will find the curve flattening itself, as it were. Your consciousness will penetrate your immune system. Instead of watching helplessly as frightened, overwhelmed antibodies commit collective hara-kiri in a cytokine storm, you will, as your body’s commander-in-chief, directly take on the novel coronaviruses ravaging your body and annihilate them with your Zen-Wushu. Close your eyes Zen-Wushu, unfortunately, takes time to master. Given the COVID-19 crisis, how does one quickly access the White Lotus? Well, there are shortcuts. You could clap. You could bang plates. Or you could light candles at an opportune moment when the portal to the White Lotus is open. I know you’ve tried them all and nothing worked. Without prior training, they rarely do. But do not despair. Kittaka-san taught me a little-known curve-flattening hack that anyone can learn and perform in the comfort of their own quarantine. First, get into some loose, comfortable clothes, preferably made of cotton, linen or modal. Find a quiet, cool and dry place, away from direct sunlight, similar to where your store your medicines, but not the refrigerator. Sit down, in the lotus position, obviously. Take an egg. While a regular chicken’s egg would do fine, the best results have been observed with a peacock’s egg — technically, of course, it would be a peahen’s egg, but you get my point. Now place the egg at the centre of your left palm. One part of the egg’s bottom should touch your life line while another part should touch the heart line. Your arm must be fully stretched. Close your eyes, and with the palm of your right hand, flatten the curve of the egg. When you flatten the egg’s curve without causing it to break, it becomes a straight line, instantly killing all novel coronaviruses within a 56-metre radius. You may not be able to do this the first time, but don’t give up. Most people can flatten the curve by 1-2% in their 100th attempt. Of course, that also means 99 broken eggs. If you are vegetarian and feel uncomfortable in the presence of an egg, you may use golgappas (also known as ‘paani puri’ in some parts). But the golgappas have to be fresh and crunchy. In case you’re wondering if you can use an idli, the answer is no. True, idlis have fantastic curves. But idlis don’t break, and there is nothing to be gained by flattening the curve of a flexible idli. I’m aware that some people are either born to or married to people who make idlis that are theoretically breakable — idlis so hard you can’t flatten their curve even with a hammer. But I’m sorry. Pei Mei said no idlis, and that’s the line we follow at the White Lotus School of Zen-Wushu. People say it’s a curvy line. But then, people who are successful don’t get bothered by what people say.  Find a quiet, cool and dry place, away from direct sunlight, similar to where your store your medicines, but not the refrigerator. Sit down, in the lotus position, obviously
10 May 2020||May 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Vanishing wizards of the night||A round flat-faced head with a pink nose and blazing eyes stared down from a tree hollow. Nandini Rajamani and her assistant gazed up at this dark-coloured creature illuminated by their headlamps in the Anamalais, Tamil Nadu. “Mayappoonai [magic cat],” murmured the assistant in Tamil. The ‘cat’ was actually a rodent. Ignoring the two earthbound humans it saw daily, the animal jumped out of the hollow. It stretched its legs and spread a parachute-like flap of skin, assuming the shape of a large rectangular pan with a long handle. Rajamani, as always, felt wonder at the spectacle of such moonlit glides. Creative canvas As it sped through the air on that still night, the billowing membrane sounded like the flapping of a canvas sheet. When the house cat-sized creature alighted with a loud ‘thunk’ on the trunk of a wild durian tree, it resumed its original appearance, that of the Indian giant flying squirrel. The voluminous sheath folded against the body on landing where the animal remained motionless for a moment, its mottled greys and browns becoming one with the bark. The flying squirrel’s Tamil name may either refer to this ability to vanish or its shape-shifting talent. Perhaps it hints at the acrobatic animal’s long-drawn calls that rend the still night air, making villagers’ hair stand on end. The scream is unlike the typical sharp, repetitive staccato sounds made by other squirrel species. “It’s a cross between a wail and a croak,” says Rajamani. “Like a baby’s cry. They can keep calling for more than half an hour.” The spooked people imagine a terrifying creature of supernatural powers haunting the forest. They’d be surprised the shriek belongs to a nondescript squirrel. Eager to gorge The animal humped up the trunk, the enormous folds of skin along its sides slowing its progress. Rajamani watched expectantly as it approached a cage trap strapped to a branch and looked inside before skirting around and walking on towards the clusters of flowers. It settled down to gorge, with its fluffy tail curled up against its back, looking like an ordinary garden-variety squirrel. Favourite foods For Rajamani, it was yet another failed night. She had been trying hard to catch a few to collar with radio transmitters. Every evening for seven months, with the help of interns trained in climbing, she hoisted nine cage traps 15 metres up and strapped them in place. Each was baited with one of the squirrels’ favourite foods: peanut butter, jackfruit or coconut. Like the one she watched avoid the contraption, not a single flying squirrel succumbed to temptation. She even tried to set a trap right outside a hollow so the resident would have no choice but to walk into it. But the canny rodent glided away as soon as it spotted her at the base of the tree. It was almost as if ‘the magic cat’ had the ability to see through her ruse. Accident-prone An opportunity presented itself when she came upon one on the ground. Flying squirrels often have accidents, since gliding at night can be challenging without the benefit of landing lights. Rajamani saw a carcass impaled on bamboo and others hanging from power lines. So it wasn’t uncommon to find one that had crash-landed. She took off her jacket to throw over the dazed squirrel. But the researcher was uncertain of herself and asked her assistant to do the deed. He was just as reluctant. As they stood debating, the animal sat up on its haunches. Afraid of missing the chance, Rajamani approached, holding the jacket open, a matador of flying squirrels. But the knee-high creature hissed and spat, holding its sharp long claws at the ready. It might look cute nibbling on fruits and flowers, but it turned feisty at the sight of the stalking researcher. The humans backed off, taken aback by this aggressive behaviour, and it bounded away. The villagers were right: The ‘magic cats’ can be terrifying indeed.
10 May 2020||May 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Unspooling the days of celluloid glory||In times of trouble, reliving nostalgic moments provide comfort. At a time when going to theatre was a rarity, I had the privilege of watching a film every week as my father was tasked with running the cantonment theatre in Palampur town in the lap of the majestic Dhauladhar mountains. I learned the supply chain of film distribution and screening as aluminium cans carrying film spools arrived by road from the railhead at Pathankot. Four such spools were glued in a sequence to run the film in four segments, with three intermissions, on a towering Westrex projector. A message on now-obsolete telex machines would convey the film title in advance, helping in drawing the screening schedule for the troops. Once, nobody could figure out the title, and the onerous task of decoding the scrambled message fell on me. Playing around with words, I confidently pronounced the title as “Banke Bihari”. Embarrassingly, the first screening revealed it to be the 1969 film Bank Robbery . I had to live with this indignity for long. Palampur had turned out to be the poor filmmakers’ Kashmir. Jugal Kishore from a nearby village had captured the scenic beauty of the place in most of his two-dozen low-budget films. An award-winning producer, he would descend every other spring with newcomers for outdoor shooting. I would bunk classes to throng the location, but it would turn out to be boring as a perfect shot would take days to complete. But it didn’t deter newcomers like Shatrughan Sinha, Anil Dhawan and Yogita Bali from throwing star tantrums. This compelled Jugal to make serious compromises with the script. He repeated his motorcycle daredevil sequence from Lal Bangla in Munimji . He had local support, which too carried some intangible costs. I recall one sequence in which a villain pushed the hero into a small pool. The pampered lad of the local MLA insisted on being in the pool, and after long deliberations, was let in with instructions to swim at a distance. After the film’s release, the boy became the laugh of the town. Open talk For me, conversing with supporting actors was more meaningful. Relaxing in an easy chair under a garden umbrella for his shot was actor Chandrasekhar, and I expressed surprise that he was playing the role of a police inspector in Sabak after having played the lead in many films including Street Singer . Towards the end of the 1970s, Chetan Anand descended with his Heer Ranjha troupe to Palampur to shoot just a line from Kaifi Azmi’s lyrics on a Madan Mohan composition to be rendered on screen by the iconic Raaj Kumar — Ae parbat rasta de mujhe, ae kaanto daman chhod do . It took no less than a week to shoot the small portion of a memorable song sequence. That was perhaps the last major outdoor shooting schedule around Palampur. The town is not a favourite location of present-day filmmakers. But those years had shaped my sensibilities a great deal, letting my interest in studying various aspects of film-making flourish no end. As I relive those moments during the ongoing lockdown, I find my past connected to the present through aspects of film appreciation. sudhirendarsharma@gmail.com
10 May 2020||May 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Like an ideal in the sky||Reading Indian-American author Amit Majmudar’s novel Soar during the lockdown, with the pandemic being given nationalist and communal turns in the U.S. and India, was strangely cathartic. It served as a buoyant reminder of the pettiness of every kind of division.  Soar has a fantastic premise — it follows the fortunes of two “good-for-nothing” soldiers from Junagadh — a Gita - carrying Bholanath and a Quran-carrying Khudabaksh, both fighting for the British-Indian army in Europe during World War I — as they drift over the continent in a hot air balloon, in a surveillance mission gone awry. Given the unconventional setting, it takes time to settle into the story. But the reader is helped by a lucid, picturesque style supported by strong imagery. The narrative often lapses into 70s’ Bollywood clichés — our heroes are saved from bullets by the Gita and Quran in their pockets — but you end up enjoying it. Khudabaksh and Bholanath’s bromance gives us hope and you root for them. The two soldiers are accompanied by a scripture-eating squirrel aptly named Kabira; a wounded pigeon who gets a paper wing; caterpillars in the process of becoming butterflies; two sticks that take root to become trees in the basket of the balloon — all metaphors for man wrecking nature and for how the earth is not the domain of mankind alone.  Soar uses its absurd happenings to make a searingly satirical commentary on war, nationalism and religion. The witty conversations between the two soldiers are based on keen observations — you are reminded how followers of all religions talk to god in a language they often don’t understand, how you cannot tell salt apart from sugar when they are mixed together but they can be reason enough to create two countries, Saltistan and Sugaristan, with the people of the two waging a war on each other. The balloon that soars in the sky becomes an escape from the madness raging below, the floating utopia we want to take shelter in.  Soar Amit Majmudar Penguin Viking  Rs. 499
10 May 2020||May 10 2020 00:00 IST,||A difficult birth||Guruprasad Kaginele has brought to Kannada fiction a new world of experience — that of a Kannadiga doctor in the U.S. who negotiates a labyrinth of identities. Hijab is his third novel and the first to be translated into English. The novel revolves around three doctors from Karnataka, practising at a hospital in the small town of Amoka in Minnesota. As they bide their time to get green cards, an unexpected series of events places them in the middle of a storm of identity politics. A young ‘Sanghaala’ (an imaginary African-Muslim nation) immigrant woman’s refusal to deliver her child through C-section, going against doctor’s advice, unveils stubborn religious and cultural differences and racial prejudices that do not quite lose themselves in the so-called ‘melting pot.’ The process also shakes the doctors’ rather smug notions of their own selves. The novel is interesting for the way it uses the C-section controversy to bring multiple issues — of race, class, religion, gender, medical ethics and role of new media in opinion-making — into focus. In its best moments Hijab raises some very sharp and uncomfortable questions on identity and assimilation. For instance, a Sanghaali immigrant — once an American soldier in Afghanistan and then a drug peddler — tells the protagonist-doctor in the emergency room: “Back home if you are poor you are hungry. Here it is poverty without hunger. America gives us food stamps, but no decent jobs.” But Hijab also reveals how hard it is to represent a culture without slipping into easily available stereotypes. In the second part, the novel tries to hurriedly pack in too much and is left with no time to flesh out characters and issues. For instance, the episode of the black man’s killing or the portrayal of the ‘Gulab gang’ Sanghaali women remain mere tropes. A particularly curious aspect of the translation is that while the African immigrant community is from Somalia in the original Kannada, it is an imaginary nation in translation. Was this choice made to get around questions of cultural representation and stereotyping that can become particularly fraught when the readership is the whole wide world?  Hijab  Guruprasad Kaginele, trs Pavan N. Rao  Simon & Schuster India  Rs. 499
10 May 2020||May 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Off with his head||It is the job of a writer of historical fiction to put the reader in ‘the moment’, even if the moment is 500 years ago. So says Hilary Mantel, who does exactly that in The Mirror and the Light , the third in the series after Wolf Hall and Bring up the Bodies, both of which won the Man Booker (2009 and 2012). I lapped up those two books . Who wouldn’t?  Henry VIII keeps giving and Mantel is an extraordinary storyteller. It is rare enough finding a book you can’t put down, and then to find a sequel that you can’t keep away from is extraordinary. So when the big fat copy of the third in the trilogy, The Mirror and the Light (882 pages), turned up for review, it seemed like the perfect lockdown read. The delicious anticipation heightened with its opening lines: “Once the queen’s head is severed, he walks away. A sharp pang of appetite reminds him that it is time for a second breakfast, or perhaps an early dinner...” The ‘he’ is Thomas Cromwell, the protagonist, who has just successfully overseen the beheading of Henry VIII’s second wife, Anne Boleyn. Sense of dread History may not love Cromwell, but Mantel does — enough to write three books about him. The Mirror and the Light follows the last four years of his life. Everyone knows the story won’t end well for Cromwell, but that doesn’t stop one from rooting for him, willing him somehow to win the day, like he has so many times before. But, as the story progresses, the reader is all too aware of his vulnerability. The book plunges one straight into the bloody gore of spilt guts, burning flesh and festering wounds of Tudor England. Henry VIII still thinks that he is “the mirror and the light” of all other kings and princes in Christendom and it is in Cromwell’s interest to let him continue thinking that. But Cromwell knows that his position in the Royal Court is tenuous and that he sheds “no lustre of his own, but spins in a reflected light. If the light moves, he is gone.” His many high-born enemies don’t ever forget his lowly origins; he has to constantly watch his back. And so, the uneasy sense of dread never leaves, even when he seems unassailable. Drama, drama Not for nothing is this commoner from Putney, son of a blacksmith, the King’s fixer and henchman, a rising star in the royal firmament. Henry only needs to wish, and Cromwell makes it come true. The breaking away from Rome and the Pope, so that Henry can divorce his first wife, Katherine of Aragon, and marry Anne Boleyn, is masterminded by Cromwell. When Anne fails to produce a male heir and Henry tires of her, Cromwell arranges for her to be charged with adultery and treason. He spearheads the dissolution of hundreds of monasteries, churches and abbeys, which are dismantled, and their wealth and land taken over by the state. Henry shows his approval by making Cromwell his Viceregent in Spirituals, then the Baron of Wimbledon, and finally the Earl of Essex. But the triumph is short-lived: in a few days Cromwell will fall from grace and lose his head. There are passages in the book that brilliantly bring alive Tudor England — its magnificent courts, costumes, jousts and pomp along with the back alleys and the underbelly of London. There are vivid descriptions of England’s sounds, sights and smells and a particularly amusing account of Hans Holbein agonising over how to paint the now bloated and far-from-attractive Henry VIII in a flattering light. (In an interview, Mantel speaks of how Holbein’s portraits of both Cromwell and Henry VIII stayed with her as she wrote her three books.) There is all the high-intensity drama and action one would expect from Mantel. But once the business of executions, seductions, marriages and treason is over, somewhere around the halfway point in the book, the narrative starts to sag. The accounts increasingly take on a chronicle-like quality, fabulous for a history buff, but not so much for someone who wants a fast-paced Tudor thriller like Wolf Hall and Bring up the Bodies .  The Mirror and the Light doesn’t somehow build up to a nail-biting climax. There is too much meandering for a lay reader whose arms have begun to ache from the weight of the book. And alas, attention slips from Thomas Cromwell’s unfolding saga to how many more pages there are left to read.  The Mirror and the Light Hilary Mantel Fourth Estate  Rs. 799    There is a particularly amusing account of Hans Holbein agonising over how to paint the now bloated and far-from-attractive Henry VIII in a flattering light
10 May 2020||May 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Fish in a satin slipper||In these troubled times, Salvador Dalí’s 1922 painting, ‘Still Life with Aubergines’, resembles my vegetable basket. There are two brinjals in the image, an orange cut in two and two partially peeled potatoes. But these three ingredients can make for a good dish: cut the potatoes and the brinjal into strips, simmer in orange juice. Season and serve. But I don’t think a recipe this simple figures in Dalí’s 1973 book, Les dîners de Gala , dedicated to his wife and muse, Gala. When a friend informed me that the book has been reissued, I decided that I would — one day — get a copy of it, and pore over each fabulous recipe. How else would I get to know about dishes such as frog cream prepared with 30 frog legs (and cauliflower), veal cutlets stuffed with snails, and frog pasties? All cooked up One recipe is Dalí in a nutshell. It is called ‘Bush of Crawfish in Viking Herbs’. You may try it out if you have lobsters of a certain size and enough liquor at home. You need crawfish of 2 ounces each. Prepare a broth of fish, consommé, white wine, vermouth, cognac, salt, pepper, sugar and dill. Poach the crawfish in this for 20 minutes. Cool it for 24 hours and arrange the crawfish in a dome. Strain the broth and serve in cups. I shall also spend some time deciphering his surreal paintings in the book, analysing the significance of, say, a skirt made of lobsters draped around an armless woman who stands on dead bodies. The painter once said that when he was six, he wanted to be a cook. It has been pointed out that his Catalonian heritage ensured that food was always present in his imagery. If Dalí’s menu was a list of exotic dishes, all that Picasso, who also spent considerable time in Barcelona, wanted was eel soup and omelette tortilla niçoise. He shared his recipes with Vogue in 1964. The omelette is fairly simple, or so you’d think. Gently heat 6 tablespoons of olive oil in a flat-bottomed frying pan. Add one large onion, cut into rings, and, after five minutes, 4 seeded and diced green and red peppers. Cook for a few minutes, and then add 2 seeded and diced tomatoes. Let it simmer over a low flame for an hour. Make sure the veggies don’t stick to the pan. Uncover the pan, pour in 2 tablespoons of wine vinegar, and cook until the liquid is reduced. Beat 8 eggs in a bowl. Pour over the vegetables, stir, and let the omelette cook gently. Don’t touch it. When set, put a big plate over the pan and flip the omelette on it. Frog for dinner You think you’re done? Not if you are Picasso. Put it back into the pan and cook over a higher flame till golden. Cut it and serve with garlic aioli. But Picasso is a baby compared to Dalí. Take Dalí’s avocado toast: surely it would be just that? Wrong. Dalí’s recipe has poached lamb brain mixed with avocado pulp. To that you add minced almonds, salt, cayenne pepper and tequila, and spread it on toasted slices of rye. I have been reading the recipes on the Internet and thinking about the man who could imagine the unimaginable. The book is not just full of exotic dishes and jaw-dropping pictures but contains some valuable advice too. There is one delicate dish that he insists should be prepared only in Brussels. There is a wonderful little video of a party hosted by the Dalís. Gala is dressed like a unicorn and feeds what looks like a baby leopard. Fish is served to actor-performer Bob Hope in a satin slipper. And the main course — a covered dish — startles Hope and actor-comedian Jackie Coogan: when the lid is opened, live frogs jump out. Did someone say surreal? The writer likes reading and writing about food as much as he does cooking and eating it. Well, almost.  It has been pointed out that Dalí’s Catalonian heritage ensured that food was always present in his imagery
10 May 2020||May 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Why empowerment means the die won’t be caste||“Democracy,” writes Amit Ahuja, “rests on the tantalising prospect that political equality can be leveraged to remedy social and economic inequality.” But how do the marginalised go about ‘leveraging’ their political equality (one person, one value) to remedy their social exclusion and economic exploitation? By mobilising, of course. In modern democracies, such mobilisation has taken two forms: social movements, directed at the state and society; and electoral mobilisation, aimed at capturing power. Dalits in India — the marginalised community picked by Ahuja for his research study — have resorted to both, raising several questions for political scientists: what is the relationship between social and electoral mobilisation? Which is better from the perspective of social transformation? Do they aid or undermine each other? Ahuja, a political science professor at the University of California, Santa Barbara, offers unexpected answers in Mobilising the Marginalised . Eye on four States This volume is based on fieldwork, surveys, and interviews conducted in four States: Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh (U.P.) and Bihar. Ahuja’s logic for picking these four: not only do they account for a significant chunk (43%) of India’s Dalits, they also contribute 40% of the Indian Parliament. Dalit politics in these States are consequential for national politics. The selection is significant also for another reason: analytically, Tamil Nadu pairs up with Maharashtra, and U.P. with Bihar. Bihar and U.P. have successful Dalit parties — the Lok Janshakti Party (LJP) and the the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) respectively. Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra don’t, despite substantial Dalit populations. While in Tamil Nadu, the Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi (VCK) has failed to capture the Dalit vote, the BSP (unlike in U.P.) has failed similarly in Maharashtra. And yet, it is Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra — not U.P. or Bihar — that have a long history of Dalit social movements. Ahuja’s counter-intuitive insight is that Dalit social mobilisation undermines Dalit electoral mobilisation. Put crudely, the more empowered Dalits are, the less likely they are to vote their caste — to vote as a bloc. That’s bad news for an ‘ethnic’ Dalit party, such as the BSP, for whom bloc voting is a prerequisite for success. Two features work against Dalit parties in States such as TN and Maharashtra: thanks to prior social movements, they have more ‘mobilisers’ (community workers) and ‘mobilisation frames’ (symbolic resources). These are hardly visible in states (such as UP and Bihar) where Dalit social mobilisation is low. Come election time, any party, including multiethnic ones, can draw on these mobilisers and mobilisation frames to attract the Dalit voter. In other words, political competition for the Dalit vote is more in states that have witnessed Dalit social mobilisation. Result: Dalits are less likely to vote as a bloc. Absence of bloc voting For a marginalised group, therefore, the absence of bloc voting is a sign of greater democratisation. India’s two greatest social schemes — the Mid-Day Meal scheme and the Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme — originated in States with the strongest history of Dalit/anti-caste movements: Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra respectively. Ahuja would argue that this is no coincidence, for these are States where Dalits, who constitute the bulk of the poor, do not vote as a bloc. It was only because they already enjoyed a measure of agency that they were able to successfully demand from the state, and obtain, material goods above the symbolic good of social recognition. The ‘politics of recognition’ promoted by Dalit/OBC parties in U.P./Bihar are yet to translate into a ‘politics of redistribution’, a must for the marginalised. Ahuja’s study demonstrates that social mobilisation between elections empowers the marginalised at the time of elections too — not by aiding an ethnic party of the marginalised, but by forcing every major party to accommodate the interests of the marginalised. This is often the precursor to a long-term transition — from a politics of recognition (U.P./Bihar) to a politics of redistribution (Maharashtra/Tamil Nadu).     Mobilising the Marginalised: Ethnic Parties without Ethnic Movements  Edited by Amit Ahuja Oxford University Press  Rs. 550
10 May 2020||May 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Easy like Sunday morning||1On May 10, 1752, this polymath did his most famous experiment. Till then the connection between electricity and lightning was not fully understood and he wanted to prove that a lightning bolt discharged electricity. He stepped out during a storm and did something dangerous which at other times would be fun. Who was this and what did he do? 2The Bedford Level experiment was carried out along the Old Bedford River on the Cambridgeshire Fens in England in the late 19th century. The initial observations by Samuel Rowbotham led to an inference that went against common scientific knowledge. But 40 years later, Alfred Wallace realised that Rowbotham had not taken atmospheric refraction into account and redid the calculations which proved the opposite. This river was chosen because of its uninterrupted straight line for 9.7 km and still waters, which meant the horizon could be calculated. What was proven, thanks to this river, which we now take for granted? 3In 1586, Simon Stevin and Jan Cornets de Groot conducted an experiment which proved that objects of identical size and different weights fall at the same speed. They did this by dropping lead balls from a church tower in the Dutch city of Delft. This was based on an earlier thought experiment by a famous Italian scientist who wanted to use a particular monument (which still exists) because of its weird angle. Who was this scientist and what was the monument? 4In 1801 Thomas Young demonstrated a revolutionary theory with a relatively simple experiment. Called as a ‘double-slit’ experiment, he focused a laser beam on a plate which had two parallel slits and the light passing through the slits was observed on a screen behind the plate. Alternate bright and dark bands were seen but it was also found to be absorbed as individual particles at discrete points of the screen. What did this prove which is an integral concept of Quantum mechanics? 5Hippolyte Fizeau and Léon Foucault were two friends who used to take images of the Sun and studied the infrared spectrum of sunlight in the 1800s. They had a falling out and went on to do the same experiment but with different instruments. Subsequently both were used to establish the same entity accurately. What was established which, as far as we know right now, is the fastest thing in the Universe? 6French physicist Léon Foucault conceived of a simple experiment to provide evidence of the Earth’s rotation. In 1851, he debuted his experiment at the Panthéon in Paris. All he needed was a 67-metre-long wire and a 28 kilogram lead ball. What is this simple device that one can now see in many museums around the world (including one at the Panthéon till this day)? 7Heron’s fountain is a hydraulic experiment from the 1st century by physicist Hero of Alexandria. Without any outside power it forces water from a pool into a fountain within the pool. This experiment has been also thought to explain a certain geological phenomenon which is known for its well-timed occurrence. Which phenomenon is this that is also powered by geothermal energy? 8German scientist and mayor of the town of Magdeburg, Otto von Guericke had designed the world’s first vacuum pump and on May 8, 1654, he created a vacuum between two hemispheres and got two teams of 15 horses each to pull it apart, which couldn’t. This dramatic experiment proved the power of the same entity that helps you drink your juice through a straw. What was this experiment about? 9American physicist Robert A. Millikan was awarded the 1923 Nobel Prize for his work in measuring the charge of an electron. He did this by observing tiny electrically charged droplets of a liquid dropping between two plates. What nondescript liquid did he use to earn his Nobel Prize? 10The Allassonic effect, is a phenomenon of wave mechanics which was first documented by Frank Crawford in 1982. It refers to the fact that the pitch heard from tapping a cup of hot liquid rises after the addition of a soluble powder. The other name given to this effect refers to the original beverage Crawford was apparently making. What is the name of the effect that should remind you of something to have during a cold evening?  A molecular biologist from Madurai, our quizmaster enjoys trivia and music, and is working on a rock ballad called ‘Coffee is a Drink, Kaapi is an Emotion’. @bertyashley
10 May 2020||May 10 2020 00:00 IST,||The long road home||The path stretches, the mind stills and astride a bike, it’s always about the ‘here’ and ‘now’. Nicholas Evans wrote in The Horse Whisperer : “I guess that’s all forever is... Just one long trail of nows.” Motor-cycling evokes a similar air as it’s all about the current heart-beat and the thump of a revving engine finding expression through a rider chasing the horizon. In his book Riding Towards Me , Jay Kannaiyan pursues that eternal dream of urban dwellers: quit the rat-race and travel. Working in the technology sector at Chicago and seeking solace from The Motorcycle Diaries and Robert Pirsig’s Zen and the Art of Motorcycle Maintenance , Kannaiyan decides to do an overland trip to Delhi. With his Suzuki sanDRina for company, the techie-turned-author has a moment of epiphany: “At home in Chicago, I felt my life was on pause. Out on the road, chasing down a distant destination, I felt at home.” Camping in the Andes Most dreams wither but Kannaiyan swung into action, left his job and commenced his version of ‘around the world’. This wasn’t done in 80 days as it was all about the slow-easy. Riding days together, staying overnight in his tent when there were no hotels in sight, and then at times, dropping anchor in a town for months and even having the time for romance and heart-break. Kannaiyan wasn’t just traversing different continents and nations, he was also letting his inner-voice whisper its philosophies, be it while camping in the Andes, near the Nile or during the crossing of the seas with the bike resting inside a ship. There was intense joy and mild sorrow culled equally from his trips and the perspectives that strangers offered. Kannaiyan covered a mind-boggling distance — nearly one lakh kilometres over three years right from Chicago to Delhi via South America, Africa and Chennai. The last-named being his home-town but he also had the fortune to visit his childhood base in Zambia besides doing a hill-run to Kodaikanal in a bid to revive his boarding school memories. Riding on kindness And all through this life-altering experience, the writer offers insights be it the devastation of the Amazon forests or the futility of international borders and the resultant sabre rattling. However, largely this is a book of hope as it highlights the kindness of humanity. It could be a bed for the night, an impromptu breakfast, a backyard tap for a late night shower or a few drinks on the house. Above all Kannaiyan also becomes a brand ambassador for the good old Indian chicken curry, which he whips up a few times while hosting new friends on the road. At one stage, he questions the rationale behind the drive but when Kannaiyan finally says ‘we are home’, the sense of relief that washes over him, percolates to the reader too. If there are quibbles, it has to do with the recurring typo ‘Telegu’ while referring to his mother-tongue Telugu and the absence of a route-map pertaining to the landscapes he blitzed his bike through.     Riding Towards Me Jay Kannaiyan HarperCollins  Rs. 499
10 May 2020||May 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Thinking instead of bidding||Another highly competitive auction as is so typical in today’s tournament world. Everyone had a dandy time and the fun finally stopped when North-South reached five spades. Five spades is an excellent contract and would make most of the time. West, however, started thinking when he stopped bidding. West reasoned that, at unfavourable vulnerability, his partner was likely to have a singleton to justify his bid of four clubs. Where was it? Surely not in a black suit. South had bid diamonds in the auction, so West thought East’s most likely shortness would be in diamonds. He backed his judgment by leading the six of diamonds. South won with dummy’s ace and ran the jack of spades to West’s ace. West could have defeated the contract by two tricks if he led a diamond right away, but he had second thoughts. For partner to have started with a singleton diamond, South would have to have a sixcard diamond suit. This would be most unusual after the opening bid of one spade. West hedged his bets by cashing the ace of clubs before leading a second diamond. This resulted in down one instead of two, but it was still an excellent result. Nice lead!
10 May 2020||May 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Just sip and flip||Respected Madam/ Sir,  Everything is ok? Ok. Here also everything is ok. Madam/ Sir, I will tell you something. Maybe you will get so much shock you will immediately expire. Be careful and read slowly. Inside the bedroom there is one almirah. Inside the almirah, on the first level, if you look in the corner, behind the old medical certificate and X-Ray from jambuvan era you will find one small box. What is inside the box, whether you can tell me? Is it perfume given by some NRI type? Totally, totally wrong answer. All the one thousand perfume bottles is in Mrs. Mathrubootham’s personal almirah. She is having unopened perfume from 1995 onwards. How many times I have told Kamalam, Kamalam, Kamalam why you are not using this perfume? Some perfumes are older than this flat itself. How many years you will wait? Whether it is perfume or some ancestral property? Whether she will listen? One big zero. Better to throw chicken into paddy field and then wait for biryani. Madam/ Sir, have you guessed what is inside the box? Guess guess. Let me see. Is it Ganga water we purchased during Leave Travel Allowance trip to Benaras in 1991 period? Once again error error total error. Ganga water bottle and all other LTA items are kept inside showcase under the TV. Ganga water, seashells from Kanyakumari, ten colour sand from Rajasthan, snake boat from Trivandrum, plastic Taj Mahal, and then from Delhi we have small wooden Parliament House. But due to some problem, during moving and packing after transfer from Indore branch, now Qutb Minar is stuck inside Parliament. Nothing doing. It will not come out only. Okay you please give up. What is inside the box? It is one bottle of VAT 69 Scotch whisky. Madam/ Sir, whether you got heart attack or no? Maybe you are thinking this is some mistake. How it is possible Mr. Mathrubootham is having whisky and all at home? Maybe some mistake during e-commerce purchasing of items? Never. It is my personal bottle only. I am having since last 4 or 5 years. Every six months I will buy one soda and have one small peg. Aha. And then relax and watch Guns of Navarone . Just one entertainment. Today what happened? Two-three members of Ladies Association came for evening coffee. Everyone is sitting and eating and drinking as if aetho some United Nations meeting. I thought what I will put gossips with ladies, better to watch TV. Suddenly news came that liquor shop is now open, and all over India people are standing in queue. Immediately ladies started talking nonstop nonsense. Whisky is bad. Gin is bad. Rum is bad. All drunkards only. One lady said my husband has not even touched alcohol in his whole life. Then other lady said touching and all forget it, my husband will not even enter hotel that is serving drinks. I secretly looked at Kamalam. She secretly looked at me. Immediately I knew what she is going to do. Using only the eyes I said okay no problem please proceed. Then Kamalam said what you ladies are talking, my Mathrubootham is so much against drinks that even plain soda is giving him stomach upset and vomiting sensation. Other ladies looked at me as if Kokila Mohan. After they are leaving, Mrs. Mathurbootham came and said thank you for cooperation. I said, “Kamalam, whether any soda is there in the kitchen? I am thinking of having one whisky.” She said, “Very good idea I will bring two glasses.” How is the shock? Yours in relaxation, J. Mathrubootham
10 May 2020||May 10 2020 00:00 IST,||The thief that was not to be||Our flight touched down at an airport in South India on a November night in 2018. When the seat belt sign was off, the passengers hurriedly got up to take out their carry-on luggage from the overhead bins. As I stepped out of the aircraft and onto the aerobridge, the glass panels on either side gave a glimpse of the quietness of the night. I arrived at the baggage claim area and found that the carousel was already moving. Soon, the place became crowded. All eyes were fixed on the moving belt, and a sudden elation went up in me at the sight of a familiar-looking bag immediately only to be followed by a sigh of disappointment. The cycle got repeated until my first dark green bag arrived. I waited for the second. Initially, my eyes searched for only dark green, but after some time, they looked for every shade of green and then all colours until they got tired. The “last bag” sign flashed on the screen and the belt stopped its merry-go-round game. I thought a co-passenger must have taken my bag, and after realising his mistake, left it somewhere. I went to the customer service desk to complain and even before I finished my sentence, the woman at the desk pulled out a form and gestured with her hand to fill it up. I handed over the form and walked out of the airport and stood on the pavement looking for my brother’s car. Another passenger stood next to me with his luggage. My eyes opened wide with fury when I spotted the green bag he was holding. It looked just like the one I lost. Luckily for him, I noticed the tag of another airline on it. I still eyed him with suspicion. Next day, I called the airline but to no avail. As I remembered the man with the green bag, my rage returned. However, after a series of phone calls and a long wait, the bag arrived one fine morning. Only after examining it and its contents did I forgive the so-called thief. slakshmi.nandyala@gmail.com
10 May 2020||May 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Fuel hike||Rather than pass on the 60% decline in crude prices to customers, India announced major fuel tax hikes. There’s a Rs. 8 per litre hike in road cess to go to the Centre, and a Rs. 2 hike in excise duty on petrol and Rs. 5 on diesel to go to the States. Barclays estimated this would raise Rs. 1.4 lakh crore for the Centre annually, with only a “modest” rise in retail prices, given the massive drop in crude oil costs.
10 May 2020||May 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Gas disaster||At least 11 people died, with hundreds taken ill and rushed to hospital, due to a styrene gas leak at the LG Polymers plant in Venkatapuram, Visakhapatnam. The gas spread into the nearby residential area on the morning of May 7, causing people to collapse in their homes and on the streets. LG claimed the leak had been brought under control while CM Jaganmohan Reddy announced compensation for the victims.
10 May 2020||May 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Booze tax||The reopening of liquor outlets as the lockdown was relaxed saw huge crowds, queues and chaos. Police broke up one crowd in Delhi with a baton charge. Delhi imposed a 70% tax on alcohol to deter crowds, while Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh followed suit. Mumbai closed all liquor shops. TN opened them everywhere except in Chennai.
10 May 2020||May 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Cov aid||As the global death toll from the pandemic passed 2.5 lakh, with nearly 37 lakh infected, an online summit saw world leaders from more than 30 countries, the U.N. and other organisations, plus individuals, including pop singer Madonna (in pic), pledge $8 billion towards vaccine research and production. Japan gave more than $800 million. The U.S. was conspicuously absent.
10 May 2020||May 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Conjure Women||Afia Atakora  Random House $15.76 (Kindle price) The old way of life has changed in the plantation: freedom has come, the master’s Big House lies in ruins. Miss Rue – midwife, healer, crafter of curses – finds herself the focus of suspicion as sickness sweeps across her tight-knit community adjusting itself to a new life.
10 May 2020||May 10 2020 00:00 IST,||The End of October||Lawrence Wright  Knopf $28.60 A thriller for our paranoid times, this is about a hemorrhagic fever which leaves 47 dead in Indonesia; an infected man on his way to join worshippers on the annual Hajj to Mecca; quarantine and fraying nerves. Global relations begin to snap, one by one, in the face of a pandemic.
10 May 2020||May 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Three Impossible Wishes||Anmol Malik  HarperCollins India Rs. 184.53 (Kindle price) Nineteen-year-old Arya Mahtani from Delhi gets accepted in the University of Westley. Does she really deserve the honour? Arya juggles self-doubt, an impossible crush, an ego-crushing father and the high social demands of South Delhi while trying not get deported.
10 May 2020||May 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Swimming in the Dark||Tomasz Jedrowski  William Morrow $14.95 (Kindle price) Set in early 1980s’ Poland against the decline of communism, this is a love story of two young men who eventually find themselves on opposite sides of the political divide. Their political differences slowly begin to tear them apart as both men struggle to survive the regime.
10 May 2020||May 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Cricket 2.0: Inside the T20 Revolution||Tim Wigmore and Freddie Wilde  Penguin Books Rs. 499 Two writers take readers on a tour of T20, the format that has taken the world by storm. From its inception, when T20 was accepted by a narrow vote of the Marylebone Cricket Club, to its current popularity, they explain how T20 has changed the game.
10 May 2020||May 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Recollections of my nonexistence||Rebecca Solnit  PRH Rs. 1,520 In her memoirs, Solnit describes her formation as a writer and as a feminist in 1980s San Francisco, in an atmosphere of gender violence on the street and throughout society and the exclusion of women from cultural arenas. She writes how the city became her great teacher.
10 May 2020||May 10 2020 00:00 IST,||The Minority Conundrum: Living in Majoritarian Times||Edited by Tanweer Fazal  Penguin Books Rs. 399 (kindle) The second volume in theRethinking Indiaseries explains what it means to be a minority in majoritarian times. The essays deal with education, employment prospects in a liberalised economy, possibilities of equal opportunity, and violence of the state.
10 May 2020||May 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Pandemic: COVID 19 Shakes the World||Slavoj Zizek  OR Books Rs. 1,139 The Slovenian philosopher tries to uncover the pandemic’s deeper meanings and speculates on the consequences. According to Žižek, a new form of communism may be the only way of averting a descent into global barbarism.
10 May 2020||May 10 2020 00:00 IST,||The Sunday Crossword No. 3099||Across  1 According to Spooner, conveniences for pets are symbols of the working class (4,4) 5 Church music: where to be seated (5) 9 So, an African country, a nation of Africa (7) 10 What’s caused by cold weather? I see, I see: son’s skipping lesson (7) 11 Respected figure among midfielders (5) 12 A pony went bananas: that’s seen all the time (3-1-5) 13 Use your wits: plunge into water and plunge into water (4,3,4) 17 Trail guides displayed technique with axe (5,6) 20 To ridicule the French, Trump recalled battle they lost (9) 22 NY sportsmen filled with energy for fixtures (5) 23 Consume some buckwheat in tortilla (3,4) 24 Hastily ‘reunited’ with North excluded – very clever (7) 25 Neuroses involving money (5) 26 In Yorkshire you will enter hostelry, with a little drink sooner or later (2,3,3)  Down  1 Believer during Ramadan getting more resolute (6) 2 Primarily, ancient Royal Marines’ adversaries Drake annihilated? (6) 3 Between mountain pass and narrow elevation, English versifier (9) 4 Corpulent sags I cut up! (7,7) 5 Junk food firm (5) 6 What can be seen in book of maps? Not this island, for starters! (8) 7 Filthy location left amid tall grass given new appearance (8) 8 Countries getting along swimmingly? She might not agree (6,8) 14 Fly south, taking minutes, not seconds, to coastal town (9) 15 A model? The Observer is, in a way (2,2,4) 16 Type of movie where star dies surprisingly? (8) 18 City, European, very pleasant to go around? (6) 19 Wasted, stoned in European city (6) 21 Unionist soldiers surrounding female family members (5)
10 May 2020||May 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Locker crime||An Instagram group called ‘Bois Locker Room’, in which boys from several prominent schools in Delhi shared sexually explicit images of underage girls and discussed gang rape, was exposed when some girls shared screenshots on social media, prompting mass outrage. The Delhi Police lodged an FIR, apprehended two teenaged boys, and questioned several others in an ongoing investigation.
10 May 2020||May 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Space Cruise||In a Hollywood record, Tom Cruise is to work on a feature film shot in outer space. The 57-year-old star, famous for his wild on-screen stunts, will work with NASA aboard the International Space Station for the action film, as yet untitled. “It’s not aMission: Impossiblefilm... But this is real, albeit in the early stages of liftoff,” saidDeadline, which first reported the story. NASA Administrator Jim Bridenstine confirmed the news on Twitter.
10 May 2020||May 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Off the rails||Controversy erupted over rail fares for migrant workers returning home. The Centre claimed they weren’t being charged, but a Railways notification said otherwise. Then, the Centre said it would bear 85% of the cost, with States instructed to cover the rest. There has been much confusion since. Meanwhile, the Congress has said it will foot the entire bill.
10 May 2020||May 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Homeward bound||India announced a mass repatriation effort to bring back 15,000 Indian citizens stranded in 12 countries in the global lockdown. Citizens will be brought back from the U.A.E., Saudi Arabia, Bangladesh, the Philippines, Singapore, Malaysia, the U.K. and the U.S. by air and sea. As many as 64 flights will run. Citizens have to pay for their ticket, and will be quarantined for two weeks.
10 May 2020||May 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Plane pain||Wrestling with unprecedented losses following the collapse in demand, airlines around the world initiated massive job cuts. Qatar Airways announced “substantial” redundan-cies among its 46,684 staff, while Virgin Atlan-tic said it would cut 3,000 jobs in the U.K. With related industries also heavily impacted, engine manufacturers General Electric and Rolls Royce cut as many as 13,000 and 8,000 aviation jobs, respectively.
10 May 2020||May 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Now, a mobile app predicts COVID-19 incidence days in advance||By repurposing an existing mobile application used for personal nutrition studies, a multinational collaboration — the COronavirus Pandemic Epidemiology (COPE) — has developed a COVID-19 Symptom Tracker mobile app. The mobile app, which allows for epidemiologic data collection and analysis, was launched in the U.K. on March 24 and in the U.S. on March 29. It already has 2.8 million users as on May 2. Not only do incidence, disease severity and outcomes vary with age, sex and underlying conditions, even symptoms vary widely. Even as COVID-19 has spread to over 200 countries and infected over 3.5 million people, the full spectrum of clinical presentation is yet to be characterised in the general patient population, leave alone patient subgroups.  The COVID-19 Symptom Tracker enables people to self-report data related to novel coronavirus exposure, symptoms and infections. According to a paper published in Science, among the first 1.6 million users (mean age 41 and 75% females) in the U.K. over the first five days of use has confirmed the variability of symptoms in people with suspected infection. The most common symptoms were found to be fatigue and cough, followed by diarrhoea, fever and loss of smell. Shortness of breath was relatively rarely reported. “Only 0.4% (1,176) of individuals reporting possible COVID-19 symptoms reported receiving a RT-PCR test for COVID-19,” says the paper. Predicting incidence The researchers subsequently developed a weighted prediction model based on the symptoms of more than two million individuals who used the app. And they found that the app can predict the dynamics of COVID-19 incidence a few days in advance of traditional measures, such as positive tests, hospitalisations or mortality. For instance, in Southern Wales, two spikes in COVID-19 cases were reported by the authorities five to seven days after individuals using the app reported symptoms. Conversely, a decline in reports of symptoms preceded a drop in confirmed cases by several days. Based on the predictive value of the app, the researchers are planning to validate the symptom-based modelling of COVID-19 incidence by carrying out additional studies using representative sample of individuals who will undergo uniform COVID-19 testing. The predictive power of the app highlights the “potential utility of real-time symptom tracking to help guide allocation of resources for testing and treatment as well as recommendations for lockdown or easement in specific areas” they note. Definitive symptoms Among those who got themselves tested, it became possible to know which symptoms commonly lead to testing, and which symptoms better correlated with a positive test result. For instance, while cough and fatigue did lead people to get themselves tested, the symptoms do not seem to be particularly suggestive of an infection as revealed by the test results. Similarly, nobody who had diarrhoea alone tested positive. But people who had cough and/or fatigue and at least one additional symptom — including diarrhoea and loss of smell — were more likely to test positive, the researchers found. They found that loss of smell was a more sensitive symptom that even fever. But a greater number of people with a fever tested positive when fever was accompanied by other symptoms. Need prioritising “These findings suggest that individuals with complex or multiple (three or more) symptomatic presentation perhaps should be prioritised for testing. Concerningly, 20% of individuals reported complex symptoms (cough and/or fatigue plus at least one of loss of smell, diarrhoea, or fever) but had not yet received testing, representing a substantial population who appear to be at greater risk for the disease,” they write. The researchers are hoping to “release” the app as fair-use open source software to facilitate translation and development in other regions. They have already begun working with their counterparts in Canada, Australia, and Sweden to implement the app in these countries.
10 May 2020||May 10 2020 00:00 IST,||‘COVID-19 death is a wake-up call to improve surveillance in the area’||Even after more than six weeks of national lockdown, there is no sign of any flattening of the curve but instead the number of new novel coronavirus cases reported each day continues to increase. Expanded and increased testing alone cannot be the reason. Gridhara R. Babu,Professor, Head-Lifecourse Epidemiology, at the Public Health Foundation of India, Bengaluru, and Intermediate Fellow, Wellcome Trust DBT India Alliance says in an email that States should look for active cases through house-to-house search using the syndrome approach and isolate every person who has two COVID-19 symptoms.    What is the reason why we see thousands of cases each day despite India being under a lockdown since March 24? In absolute numbers, India’s case burden has increased by 1.8 times (180%) in the last two weeks alone. However, considering the infection period of 14 days, the Ro [the number of people one person can infect] has decreased from 2.13 to 1.82 from April 24 to May 8, with doubling time increasing from 6.59 to 7.69 days. The increase in absolute numbers is due to States with higher population reporting cases. Apart from small States, the greatest increase in reporting is seen in Punjab (5.9 times), Tamil Nadu (3.2 times), Bihar (3.1 times), West Bengal (3 times); these have increased more than three times in last two weeks. Increase in testing alone cannot explain such an increase. Similarly, Delhi, Odisha and Jharkhand have around 250% increase in cases. It is also possible that the surveillance systems in these states might have missed a cluster or two of infections in the earlier phase of the outbreak, which has resulted in a large number of cases detected now. How valid is the government’s version that more cases seen now is due to increased testing? I agree partly; India’s expanded testing (including random testing in red zones and surrounding areas) has indeed resulted in a spike in cases, as earlier, the testing criterion was centred mostly around people with symptoms. However, if lockdown was successful and containment measures were also successful, we could have picked up these cases earlier on. When you increase testing, you will not get many positives if there is no extensive spread of infection. When you expand testing, you get more new cases only when more people are infected around you, only when the infection has spread either in clusters or beyond. I am concerned about the increase in Bihar and West Bengal, which have a relatively poor healthcare system to cater to the surge in cases. Let me repeat for clarity — it is only improved surveillance measures that will get us to minimise casualties. Countries that had gone under lockdown, including Italy, saw a flattening of the curve in about three weeks. Why is India not seeing any flattening even after six weeks of lockdown? It is wishful to think that lockdown alone will flatten the curve. For flattening to occur, the Ro should be less than 1. To achieve that, the focus of the surveillance system should be to find every case. Lockdowns are necessary only to mount the health system’s response and accomplish successful containment. We have not done a great job in surveillance in some States and some districts of every State. Even now, the focus is to identify every case in this country and isolate. We should have a success story; that success comes with hard work of finding every case and isolating the person. Each State is a different country with different level of preparedness and varied response. But it is the States with weak surveillance systems which will have more deaths and will result in spreading the infection to other States. Kerala did well because of its humane approach to isolation and quarantine due to a strong surveillance system. Our future depends on reflecting and reviewing the underlying surveillance system. Also, we should look at the right metric. It is straight forward and intuitive. States/Union territories that have higher ILI/SARI reporting and a higher number of contacts traced per confirmed case should guide future reviewers. Better quarantine measures coupled with identification and isolation of all cases is the only vaccine we have for now.  Should India restrict itself to testing contacts and SARI AND ILI cases alone? No, it is also imperative to treat every person with a particular symptom complex in a syndromic approach. In my view, anyone who has two of these symptoms should be isolated as COVID-19 unless otherwise proved — fever, cough, shortness of breath or difficulty breathing, chills, muscle pain, sore throat, new loss of taste or loss of smell. Since a vast majority of the infections are mild or asymptomatic, we should develop plans for home isolation of cases, wherever possible. It is essential to review regularly the performance of districts and States based on the syndrome-based surveillance. What different strategy should India adopt to make testing more targeted? A good surveillance system is like a great surfer, one which goes in search of the tide to take control over it. The reality is that in the absence of strong district-level planning, we will get caught, and [it will] make us a sitting duck. We need to decide whether to tame the tide or be a sitting duck. We should find active cases through the house-to-house search using the syndrome approach and isolate every person who has two COVID-19 symptoms. Governments should use the tests judiciously to test people who have symptoms and their contacts. After the contacts are quarantined, test between five-seven days from the day of onset of the symptoms in people who they were in contact with. Besides, it is essential to offer testing to health workers. Like pulse polio programme, door-to-door surveillance to check the health status of the public is needed. This requires a lot of workforce, which the government should pay heed to. Without health workforce and active testing we cannot say the curve will flatten anytime soon. District-level task forces should be formed to plan and improve surveillance and testing, and step up preparedness. We still see many States, including Madhya Pradesh and Karnataka, reporting fewer cases each day. Is it because there truly is less virus spread? Test positivity in Madhya Pradesh and Karnataka is 5.58% and 0.79% respectively. It varies from zero to 8.29% across the States in India. Decreasing test positivity rate can indicate many things. First, there is less virus spread in the State, which is an implausible scenario. Second, it suggests that we are not testing the right kind of people and randomly testing. In many districts, the number of SARI and ILI cases tested are very few. Through improved surveillance, all the high-risk persons need to be tested. For now, we can think at our peril that the epidemic is over, given that there is a huge cohort of susceptible persons throughout the country.  What is the reason we see a high case fatality rate in Maharashtra and Gujarat? The possible reasons for the high fatality in these two States might be due to different reasons. The disease can worsen fast, sometimes within a few hours to one day. People might reach health facility late by which time their condition already could be serious. Further, a higher proportion of co-morbidities like diabetes and hypertension might lead to fatalities. Reporting late to health system can also indicate stigma. Improving communication to reach people and addressing their fear and stigma can resolve some of these challenges. On the other hand, if surveillance is poor, we might miss cases in the initial phases and only deaths occurring later will draw the system’s attention. By then, the infection would have spread wider, resulting in more deaths. Death is an unfortunate wake-up call to improve surveillance in that area.
10 May 2020||May 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Using NFHS for population surveillance for coronavirus||Governments worldwide have been testing for COVID-19 in high-risk individuals, such as those with symptoms, close contacts of those tested positive, health-care professionals and those with travel history to an affected region. But this does not give an accurate number of those affected, making it impossible to understand the true prevalence in a population. A comment recently published in Lancet Global Health proposes the use of the Demographic and Health Survey (DHS) framework to ascertain the prevalence of COVID-19. S.V. Subramanian, Professor of population health and geography at Harvard University, and K.S. James, Director, International Institute of Population Sciences suggest that the scientific and logistical infrastructure of India’s National Family Health Survey (NFHS) be leveraged to conduct a random sample-based population surveillance to track coronavirus. Used earlier The article gives the example of how India used NFHS for HIV surveillance — India was projected to have 25 million HIV-positive individuals, with a 3-4% prevalence in adults, but when a random-sample-based population surveillance was conducted to test for HIV in the general population, the estimates sharply reduced to 2·5 million, with a 0.28% prevalence in adults. They note that “layering a COVID-19-focused data-collection effort on to the NFHS infrastructure would keep operational costs low, with the major expense being laboratory costs for testing samples.” Prevalence and testing They estimated that if COVID-19 anticipated prevalence is under 0·5%, it needs a sample of about 3,000 individuals to be tested. “The minimum required sample size increases to just over 15,000 under a rarer scenario of 0·1% prevalence.” If a disease is widespread, meaning there is higher prevalence, its detection is easier, needing only a smaller sample. Conversely, if it is rare, it is harder to find and a larger sample should be tested to detect that. This sampling approach could be implemented at the State or district levels. “India and about 90 countries with established DHS sampling frames can implement this surveillance system. The idea is that population-based testing is important for any decision making with some repeated cross-sectional testing of the same,” notes Dr. Subramanian, in an email to The Hindu . “It is my understanding that the Government of India is considering a random-sample based sero-prevalence survey. I would recommend that the latest NFHS district-sampling frame be used and not invent a new one. Indeed, one needs to be cognizant of the availability of the testing kits and other logistical matters related to the testing itself.”
10 May 2020||May 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Sal forest tortoise habitat stretches over unprotected areas||The sal forest tortoise is widely distributed over eastern and northern India and Southeast Asia. However, it is not common in any of this terrain. In fact, 23 of the 29 species of freshwater turtle and tortoise species found in India come under the threatened category in the IUCN red list and are under severe existential threat due to human activities. Also known as the elongated tortoise (Indotestudo elongata), the sal forest tortoise, recently assessed as critically endangered, is heavily hunted for food. It is collected both for local use, such as decorative masks, and international wildlife trade. A recent study by ecologists in the Wildlife Institute of India, Dehradun, finds that the area designated as a protected area network has only a small overlap with the actual habitat it roams around in. According to the authors of the study published in the journal Herpetological Conservation and Biology, over 90% of the potential distribution of the species falls outside current protected area’s network. Also, in northeast India, the representation of the species in protected areas is least, and there is little to no connectivity among most of the protected areas where the species is present. The study also found that 29% of the predicted distribution of the species falls within high occurrence fire zones or areas where there is management burning. “This includes Uttarakhand State which is the “westernmost” distribution limit of the species and where field surveys were conducted with the help of Uttarakhand forest department,” says Abhijit Das, an author of the study, from the Wildlife Institute of India, Dehradun, in an email to The Hindu. According to him, especially in northeast India, which is a suitable habitat for the species, they experience jhum fire. Such an intervention may not only directly kill the animals but also open up habitats, which, in turn, increases the chance of people finding the tortoise easily. Forest fires also perturb soil moisture which may impact forest floor thus changing the whole community on which the reptiles depend. According to the IUCN the population of the species may have fallen by about 80% in the last three generations (90 years). Monitoring needed Dr. Das says: “We need to realise that tortoises are no less threatened than tigers. Thus, they should be part of regular monitoring effort. In summer days, these tortoises select moist patches such as dry stream beds. Such areas should be protected from the spread of forest fire.” The study covers not only parts of India but also Bangladesh, Bhutan and Nepal. Dr. Das observes: “It is not difficult to go to these countries for research or even in having collaborations. However, transboundary research has not picked up in our countries. For tigers, yes, there are some efforts in this line, but not for many other species which are equally threatened globally.” There is for tigers, the “Tiger Conservation Unit” and transboundary conservation reserves such as Manas for the Indo-Bhutan region, the Sundarban for the India-Bangladesh region. “However, there are many species such as our study species which have very large distribution but it is rare and overexploited throughout its range. The critically endangered brackish water turtle (Batagur baska) distributed in India and Bangladesh also needs such support,” he adds. There is little information on the population sizes of the sal forest tortoise, or any such species, mainly because they are so rare, live in remote areas of the forest and funding opportunities to study them are few. Species having large distribution may suffer myriad problems. “Protected areas are designated in a largely mammal-centric way. Many reptiles and amphibians which are equally threatened live outside protected areas where exploitation risk is more,” says Dr. Das.
10 May 2020||New Delhi,||Life in the lockdown||Faced with fear, uncertainty, and doubt – FUD, usually used as a destabilising marketing tactic, but very real today – Delhiites have found surprising ways to turn a bad situation into a blessing. Contrary to the city’s get-up-and-go attitude that seeks noise and distraction, the lockdown has helped residents find solace in quiet spaces within homes. Realigning routines For people who are working full time, days are longer, but also filled with interstices that give valuable breaks, reflecting the work style of the future. Sundreysh Sarup, a Gurugram resident, who heads Logistics Plus India Pvt. Ltd, a U.S.-based company that operates in 26 markets across the world, says it’s like a throwback to the time he was growing up in the 1970s and ‘80s. “I eat all three meals with my family – my wife, son, and mother,” he says. He’s able to catch a short nap on occasion, play with his dog, and engage in a game of carom with his family in the evening. “I remember my parents and grandparents would sit together and play bridge and I learnt the game early because of this,” he says, recalling the good-natured banter that would go with the evening ritual. Work days that begin at 9 a.m. can sometimes extend for 13 hours, because Mr. Sarup tackles calls and does meetings from both the East and the West. While his job profile hasn’t changed, he feels there seems to be more work and employees are putting in more hours. “It’s probably because in office we were able to solve things faster – the EQ is higher when you’re face to face.” He leaves unarticulated the fact that people could be nervous about losing a job, hence are looking for ways to express the indispensability of their roles. Looking at little things At the other end of the spectrum is Sweety Shalini Guria, whose day begins at 3 p.m. with cleaning the house and then some college work. A student at JNU, in the department of international relations, she couldn’t make it home to Ranchi, and misses her family. “We have three dogs, and one has just given birth to four pups; I wish I could be there,” says the 23-year-old, who shares an apartment in Katwaria Sarai with two friends. To pass time, “We take videos of random things, and a lot of black and white photographs. We have four guitars and my friend tries to show me how to compose music.” The boys and she are in the process of setting their lockdown videos about everyday life at home, to music. It’s the little things that seem to make sense she says, echoing Mr. Sarup, though their lives couldn’t be more different. “One day it was raining and I walked to Mother Dairy early in the morning. I saw a man riding his scooty with a dog on the footboard. It made me happy.”  Rediscovering connections  Many in Delhi run their own businesses, and Viraj Mahajan is one of them – he manufactures furniture and has an interior design firm. A single father of two sons, 7 and 6, his day has become all about the kids: their morning Zoom classes (“I’m running between two rooms”) with The Shri Ram School, an afternoon ritual of drawing the curtains and putting on a movie, and an evening of badminton. At their home off MG Road, they cook together daily, a life skill Mr. Mahajan feels is a necessity but wasn’t possible in the earlier go-go-go time. “We’ll make pesto from the basil in the garden, or pizzas from scratch; we bake bread every other day,” though they haven’t yet got into the sourdough territory that’s all the rage on social media. “Yesterday we made an orange-chocolate cake and the boys read the recipe and measured the ingredients out,” he says, as he instructs his sons on homework, while on the phone. “The teachers are doing a wonderful job.” For instance, they’re recreating stories with background music and animal sounds. Starting something A few people are alone though, with work only in the interludes. Namrata Joshipura, a fashion designer with her own label, says she does have team meetings online, and they try and develop artworks and layouts, but “our stores and factory are shut. The lockdown started on a very disappointing note with multiple cancellations internationally.” To add another layer of what is already a stressful situation, Ms. Joshipura’s husband Vivek, and her daughter, Ananya, are stuck in Vancouver, Canada, where the latter goes to school. “I haven’t seen her since January,” says Ms. Joshipura, who chats with her twice a day. With a great deal of time on her hands, she has taken up baking, and she’ll often do a tea party for one. She’s tried variations of chocolate-chip cookies, tea cake with buttered cinnamon glaze infused with Grand Marnier, and more, with suggestions from her daughter. “I have never baked in my life, because I didn’t have the time, and I thought it needed some special skill, though I did cook a lot.” She’s enjoyed learning to make a moist cake and tweaking recipes. “It’s about small, meaningful successes,” she says, adding that she delivers the goodies to neighbours often, and to hear people fighting over a last cookie is what gives her joy. Staying engaged For Ms. Joshipura and Mr. Sarup, fitness, in the form they were used to, has taken a hit. Both are endurance athletes, used to running long distances. Determined not to let the lockdown push them onto the couch Ms. Joshipura, who doesn’t own a television, decided to practise doing a headstand. Mr. Sarup, as the co-founder of the Delhi Runners Group, is part of a WhatsApp team of about 186 members who decide on a distance to run within the home. “It’s more fun than a run; we don’t want people to get injured inside the house,” he says. The day they got their 186th member, for instance, they decided to do 1.86 km inside the house. They also have squat and lunge challenges. Anupriya Kapur, who lives with her father and son in Gurugram, is also putting her CrossFit training to use during the lockdown, with on-the-mat workouts. A social media influencer and also a small business co-founder of Imbue, a personal hygiene company that makes products for women, she likes the flexibility of being able to exercise any time anywhere at home. “I wear a sports bra and shorts all the time,” she says, to normalise the comfort of it in the hot summer months, something she never did before. She also finds time to connect with people on matters of intimate hygiene to further her brand’s social connection and to engage with her close to 1 million following on Instagram. She does live sessions with experts, or organises small groups of women over Zoom. “We recently had a group from Purulia, Bengal, who were using the medium for the first time,” she says. With brand work almost coming to a standstill – she has in the past worked with Airbnb, Amazon, Jeep, and several others – she is now on TikTok, experimenting with the potential of making fun content. With the lockdown, “I have let my inhibitions go in every way,” she says.
10 May 2020||May 10 2020 00:00 IST,||A market and Tamil Nadu’s biggest cluster||The story so far: Koyambedu, Chennai’s popular wholesale market, is now the epicentre of the largest cluster of the novel coronavirus disease (COVID-19) in Tamil Nadu. Keeping the large, sprawling market open in the midst of an epidemic, with little or no precautionary measures, has proved costly for the State. Cases from the cluster started to emerge during the last week of April. The infection has now reached far and wide, quietly spreading to erstwhile less-affected districts of the State as labourers from the market made their way back to their hometowns. As of Friday, May 8, 2020, 1,589 cases of the State’s total COVID-19 count of 6,009 are linked to this market. What turned the bustling Koyambedu market into a hotspot? Overcrowding and congestion are nothing new to the Koyambedu wholesale market. The scenario was no different after the first phase of the lockdown. The rush of people to the market only grew whenever the State government announced a lockdown or imposed restrictions on its working hours as a precautionary measure against the spread of COVID-19, much in contrast to the aim of the government authorities. From day one of the lockdown in March, the market received a steady flow of visitors — retailers who relied on the premises for supply, and individual customers. Even though the lockdown was in place, the market witnessed a rush a day ahead of Tamil New Year that falls on April 14 for purchases. From then on, the same situation persisted as people resorted to panic buying. Various government agencies swung into action to control the crowds visiting the market in order to prevent disease transmission. By the end of April, the Koyambedu market — there was scant regard for physical distancing — turned into the largest hotspot for COVID-19, with several districts in the State witnessing a spillover of cases. The market has been closed since May 5 but the cluster continues to trigger a spike in COVID-19 cases. Why is the Koyambedu wholesale market different from any other urban market in the country? Conceived to decongest the core parts of the city, the Koyambedu wholesale market complex was established at what was then a peripheral area to bring the city’s wholesale and retail perishable goods trade under one roof; there were facilities for truck terminals. Much of the trade from what was the city’s traditional wholesale fruits and vegetables market, in Kothawal Chavadi, was shifted to Koyambedu. An area of 295 acres was earmarked and allotted to set up the market complex. Established in 1996, the Koyambedu market complex is one of Asia’s largest hubs for perishable goods. Spread over 65 acres, the wholesale fruits, flowers and vegetables market receives a staggering number of visitors every day — one lakh. During the festive season, this number may go up to two lakh visitors. On an average, the market receives 400 truckloads of vegetables alone every day. Besides individual customers from a radius of 10 km visiting the market for its variety and affordable rates, retail vendors from a minimum radius of 100 km, including Arakkonam, Gummidipoondi and Villupuram, use the market to pick up fresh produce. It now houses a wholesale food grains market too. The sheer size of business and the large variety of goods available and bustling market in a confined space make Koyambedu different from other markets. How did the large-scale spread happen? The Koyambedu market has nearly 3,750 licensed shops which sell fruits, flowers and vegetables, wholesale and retail. The market begins to receive fresh arrivals from the southern States as well as beyond including Maharashtra, from 10 p.m. and sales continue well into the next day. The nature of the market is such that people and vehicles from various parts of the State and across the country visit the market during different hours of the day. There are about 10,000 labourers in the market. During the lockdown, physical distancing norms were affected as people attempted to purchase produce during the restricted hours. Though measures were taken to close sections of the market in phases and restrict the crowds during the lockdown period, the damage had already been done and the market beacme conducive for transmission. As the retail market closed in April-end, many labourers who did not find enough work, shelter and food left the city for their home towns in the trucks that had arrived at the market. Till then, they had turned the marketplace into their temporary homes, sleeping in vehicles and on platforms within the market. In the last one week, the infection has spread to at least half of Tamil Nadu. The World Health Organization defines clusters of cases as countries/territories/areas experiencing cases, clustered in time, geographic location and/or by common exposures. This holds true for the Koyambedu cluster. As vendors began to test positive in Chennai, market labourers including loadmen were infected in many districts of the State such as Ariyalur, Perambalur, Cuddalore, Villupuram, Chengalpet and Tiruvallur. While the government managed to trace and test all index cases, what marked the beginning of a challenging process was contact tracing. The cluster was different owing to the massive crowds involved. In a normal situation, a person who tests positive for COVID-19 will have 20 to 30 contacts. But, public health officials pointed out, this was not the case with the Koyambedu cluster where some who tested positive had roughly 200 to 250 contacts. Will the lessons learnt from this pandemic help to shape the future of urban markets? Urban planning experts note that markets where there are daily activities that are large scale in nature with huge congregations need more attention. According to A. Srivathsan, professor, CEPT University, Ahmedabad, the Koyambedu market, with its confined spaces and shops that are packed closely, was denser than a shopping mall in the city. Instead of one large central unit, there is a need to establish multiple markets in the city that is growing in the periphery. Experts note that the design of the market should be decided after taking into account various factors that include sanitation. More options for sourcing and the delivery of goods need to be thought of in order to reduce crowding in one place.  Normally, a person who tests positive for COVID-19 will have 20 to 30 contacts. But for the Koyambedu cluster, some who tested positive had roughly 200 to 250 contacts, say public health officials
10 May 2020||New Delhi,||Our families are the real heroes: doctors||The lives of healthcare workers and their families have undergone a sea change in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. While many hospital employees have opted to stay in hostels or hotel rooms far away from their families, others who still go back to their home after duty undertake extraordinary sanitisation measures and make sure they never come in physical contact with their loved ones. Worry is writ large on their faces but the families of doctors that The Hindu spoke to said they are ready to take on any novel challenge and are proud to support their frontline COVID-19 warriors.  The new normal Kulsaurabh Kaushik, who works in a critical care ward of a private hospital in Delhi, said he constantly worries about going back home to Gurugram and interacting with his parents. “We do what we have to do in any case, but our families, they are the real heroes,” he said, adding: “My parents worry about me and whether I have eaten food.” “Everything is normal,” said Ishan Tayal (21), who has to had to shift from the room he shared with his sister Prerna Tayal since the start of the pandemic. Prerna is a doctor at the ‘COVID-19 suspect’ OBGYN ward at Lady Hardinge Hospital. “When she comes home, she leaves her bag and other things outside, puts her clothes in an antiseptic bucket, sanitises her phone, and takes a bath. She mostly keeps to her room and takes her meals there as well. Everyone wears a mask,” said Ishan. “I am very attached to my parents which is why I have not opted for a hostel room... even though we are in the same house we have to speak and play games over the phone,” said Dr. Prerna, coming home after a 24-hour shift on Saturday. ”We are worried about Prerna’s safety of course, but she has to serve the nation,” said her father. A family of doctors Ravi Mittal’s sons and daughter-in-law are doctors. While one works at the orthopaedics centre at RML hospital, the other works as a microbiologist. “We are always worried... after all there is no sign of COVID-19,” he said, referring to the often asymptomatic nature of the virus. “We tell them to take precautions, bathe and change clothes before touching their [two-year-old] child or interacting with the other family members,” he added. Challenging times ahead In the coming week, Sonali Melhotra will start her duty at the COVID ward in Lady Hardinge Hospital for the first time. She was earlier working in the emergency ward and had to isolate herself from the rest of her family whenever she got home. Her duty at the COVID-19 ward will last for a week during which time she will be staying at a hostel. After Dr. Melhotra’s shift ends, she will have to go into quarantine before returning home. “My parents are scared. The situation is stressful and a cause for concern but I have no choice... I am just trying to keep calm and not worry,” said Dr. Melhotra. Her father Sanjeev Melhotra compared his daughter’s work to that of a solider in the Army — like a form of duty, “You can be called up any time and you cannot say no.” Like her colleagues, Dr. Melhotra keeps to her room while at home and takes her meals there too. “We talk to her over the phone or just shout through the door,” said Mr. Melhotra. Before she left for her week-long duty, Mr. Melhotra had some words of encouragement for his daughter: “Have faith in god. Have faith things will be okay.”
10 May 2020||May 10 2020 00:00 IST,||How can inter-State workers be protected?||The story so far: On Friday, May 8, 16 migrant labourers who were trying to return to Madhya Pradesh, their home State, on foot were killed when a goods train ran over them between Jalna and Aurangabad districts in Maharashtra. Following the novel coronavirus pandemic, the nationwide lockdown announced on March 24 at short notice has caused immense distress to migrant workers around the country. Hundreds have been seen trying to walk home to Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, West Bengal and Odisha from their places of work in Rajasthan, Delhi, Maharashtra, Gujarat and so forth. Questions are being raised about their welfare and the lack of legal protection for their rights. Those working in the field of labour welfare have recalled a 1979 law to regulate the employment and working conditions of inter-State migrants, but feel that the lack of serious implementation has led to their rights being ignored. As part of the present regime’s efforts towards consolidating and reforming labour law, a Bill has been introduced in Parliament called the Occupational Safety, Health and Working Conditions Code, 2019. The proposed code seeks to merge 13 labour laws into a single piece of legislation. The Inter-State Migrant Workmen (Regulation of Employment and Conditions of Service) Act, 1979, is one of them. Activists fear that specific safeguards given to migrant workers may be lost as a result of this consolidation. What does the 1979 law envisage? The Act seeks to regulate the employment of inter-State migrants and their conditions of service. It is applicable to every establishment that employs five or more migrant workmen from other States; or if it had employed five or more such workmen on any day in the preceding 12 months. It is also applicable to contractors who employed a similar number of inter-State workmen. The Act would apply regardless of whether the five or more workmen were in addition to others employed in the establishment or by the contractors. It envisages a system of registration of such establishments. The principal employer is prohibited from employing inter-State workmen without a certificate of registration from the relevant authority. The law also lays down that every contractor who recruits workmen from one State for deployment in another State should obtain a licence to do so. What are the beneficial provisions for inter-State migrants in it? The provision for registration of establishments employing inter-State workers creates a system of accountability and acts as the first layer of formalising the utilisation of their labour. It helps the government keep track of the number of workers employed and provides a legal basis for regulating their conditions of service. As part of the licensing process, contractors are bound by certain conditions. These include committing them to providing terms and conditions of the agreement or any other arrangement on the basis of which they recruit workers. These terms include “the remuneration payable, hours of work, fixation of wages and other essential amenities in respect of the inter-State migrant workmen”. The wage rates, holidays, hours of work and other conditions of service of an inter-State migrant workman shall be the same as those extended to other workmen in the same establishment, if the nature of their work is similar. In other cases, it would be as prescribed by the appropriate government. In no case, shall the wages be lower than what is prescribed under the Minimum Wages Act. What does the proposed Code say on migrant workers? The attempt to consolidate laws relating to occupational safety, health and working conditions means that many separate laws concerning various kinds of workers and labourers will have to be repealed. The proposed law seeks to repeal 13 Acts such as the Factories Act, Mines Act, Dock Workers’ Act, the Inter-State Migrant Workmen Act, and other enactments relating to those working in plantations, construction, cinema, beedi and cigarette manufacture, motor transport, and the media. Regarding inter-State migrant workers, the Act includes them in the definition of ‘contract labour’. At the same time, an inter-State migrant worker is also separately defined as a person recruited either by an employer or a contractor for an establishment situated in another State. The Code has a chapter on ‘contract labour and inter-State migrant workers’, but the Parliamentary Standing Committee has recommended that the provisions relating to migrant workers be covered in a separate chapter “so that the safety, health and working conditions of the Migrant Workers be clearly spelt out for implementation, besides making special provisions for them, as has been done by the State Government of Kerala”. The Code contains provisions similar to the 1979 Act regarding registration of establishments, licensing of contractors and the inclusion of terms and conditions on hours of work, wages and amenities. Further, both the old Act and the proposed Code envisage the payment of a displacement allowance and a journey allowance to inter-State migrant workers. Is there a loss of benefits for inter-State workers if the Code comes into force? Even though the Code seeks to preserve many of the protections and rights given to inter-State workers, trade unions feel that it is always better to have a separate enactment. The unprecedented distress and misery faced by migrant workers due to the current lockdown has drawn attention to a beneficial legislation dedicated to their welfare. The Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) has highlighted the fact that both the States where they work and home States have obligations cast upon them in the existing law. Despite the fact that it has been poorly implemented, if at all, labour unions feel that preserving the separate enactment and enforcing it well is a better option than subsuming it under a larger code.  The Parliamentary Standing Committee has recommended that provisions relating to migrant workers be covered in a separate chapter ‘so that the safety, health and working conditions’ are clearly spelt out
10 May 2020||New Delhi,||AAP MLA arrested for doctor’s death||Two persons, including AAP MLA Prakash Jarwal were arrested on Saturday in connection with the death of a BAMS doctor in South Delhi’s Neb Sarai in April, the police said. Deputy Commissioner of Police (South) Atul Thakur said that Mr. Jarwal and Kapil Nagar were detained for questioning on Saturday. DJB project The 52-year-old BAMS doctor was found dead at his residence in Neb Sarai on April 18. The police said that in the note that they found, he has blamed Mr. Jarwal and Mr. Nagar and stated that they created problems for him in his business of water supply with Delhi Jal Board which he began in 2007. The deceased was also threatened by the accused persons, his family alleged. Based on the complaint by deceased’s son, the police had registered a case, on charges of extortion, compelling for suicide and threat for life, at Neb Sarai police station.  Suicide prevention helpline:Sanjivini, Society for Mental Health, 011-4076 9002, Monday-Saturday (10 a.m.-7.30 p.m.)
10 May 2020||May 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Funds and the PM||The story so far: On March 28, the Prime Minister’s Citizen Assistance and Relief in Emergency Situations Fund, or the PM CARES Fund, was set up to tackle distress situations such as that posed by the COVID-19 pandemic. In one-and- a-half months, the fund has raked in thousands of crores worth of donations including unlimited tax-free contributions from major corporates. Who may contribute to the fund? The fund receives voluntary contributions from individuals and organisations and does not get any budgetary support. Donations have been made tax-exempt, and can be counted against a company’s corporate social responsibility (CSR) obligations. It is also exempt from the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act, 2010, and accepts foreign contributions, although the Centre has previously refused foreign aid to deal with disasters such as the Kerala floods. The Prime Minister chairs the fund in his official capacity, and can nominate three eminent persons in relevant fields to the Board of Trustees. The Ministers of Defence, Home Affairs and Finance are ex-officio Trustees of the Fund. Does not India already have a fund with similar objectives? Yes. The Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund (PMNRF) was set up in January 1948, originally to accept public contributions for the assistance of Partition refugees. It is now used to provide immediate relief to the families of those killed in natural calamities and the victims of major accidents and riots and support medical expenses for acid attack victims and others. The PMNRF was initially managed by a committee which included the Prime Minister and his deputy, the Finance Minister, the Congress President, a representative of the Tata Trustees and an industry representative. However, in 1985, the committee entrusted the entire management of the fund to the Prime Minister, who currently has sole discretion for fund disbursal. A joint secretary in the PMO administers the fund on an honorary basis. As of December 2019, the PMNRF had an unspent balance of Rs. 3,800 crore in its corpus. Opposition leaders have questioned the need for a new PM CARES Fund, given that the PMNRF has similar objectives. States also have similar Chief Minister’s Relief Funds, and State governments have appealed for donations noting that they bear the major burden of implementing COVID-19 relief operations. Are donations pouring in? In its 45-day existence, PM CARES has attracted a large amount of donations. Within the first half hour after the PM’s tweet on March 28, donors as varied as the IAS Association and Bollywood actor Akshay Kumar had pledged to contribute Rs. 21 lakh and Rs. 25 crore, respectively, to the fund. In the first week, news reports suggested that publicly declared donations added up to at least Rs. 6,500 crore. In the month since then, lakhs of public and private sector employees have donated a day’s salary to the fund, with some claiming it was done without their permission or knowledge. Among major donations include Rs. 500 crore from employees of the Defence Ministry, Army, Navy, Air Force and defence public sector units, as well as Rs. 500 crore each from the Tata Group and Reliance Industries. Protests have been raised against companies such as Reliance which have made major donations to PM CARES even while cutting salaries of their own employees, as well as the Railways, which donated Rs. 151 crore to PM CARES, but could not provide free transport for destitute migrant workers. The Centre has not responded to queries on how much money is in the PM CARES Fund, or how and when it will be used to provide relief. A senior official told The Hindu that an announcement will be made “once a respectable amount of money” has been collected. What are some of the other concerns around it? It is not clear whether the fund comes under the ambit of the RTI Act or oversight by the Comptroller and Auditor General of India, although independent auditors will audit the fund. One RTI query to the PMO by activist Vikrant Tongad was refused, citing a Supreme Court observation that “indiscriminate and impractical demands under RTI Act for disclosure of all and sundry information would be counterproductive”, while other RTI queries have not received a response even after the statutory 30-day period. The PM CARES web page is opaque regarding the amount of money collected, names of donors, the expenditure of the fund so far, or names of beneficiaries. The PMNRF provides annual donation and expenditure information without any detailed break-up. The PM CARES Fund’s trust deed is not available for public scrutiny. The decision to allow uncapped corporate donations to the fund to count as CSR expenditure — a facility not provided to PMNRF or the CM’s Relief Funds — goes against previous guidelines stating that CSR should not be used to fund government schemes. A government panel had previously advised against allowing CSR contributions to the PMNRF on the grounds that the double benefit of tax exemption would be a “regressive incentive”.  The Centre has not responded to queries on how much money is in the PM CARES Fund. A senior official said an announcement will be made ‘once a respectable amount’ has been collected
10 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||JNU asks students to return by end of June||Jawaharlal Nehru University (JNU) on Saturday announced that students are expected to return to the campus between June 25-30 to complete their courses and that examinations will be conducted by July 31. In a statement, JNU Vice-Chancellor M. Jagadesh Kumar said, “The next semester for continuing students will start from August 1. Even if the examination results are not ready by July 31, students will have the opportunity to provisionally register and move on to the next semester.” The administration said that the registration process for the monsoon semester will be online. “The entire monsoon semester registration process will be completely online, making it easy for the students to register even from their homes. We have made sure that research scholars who have to submit their dissertations or theses, do not face any difficulty as the deadline for submission is shifted to December 31,” the statement read. The varsity added that the academic calendar announced was tentative.
10 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||Inebriated man held for creating ruckus, damaging police vehicle||A man was arrested for allegedly creating ruckus and damaging a police vehicle in an inebriated state in east Delhi’s Kalyanpuri, the police said on Saturday. The police said that the incident took place around 4.30 p.m. on Friday and the accused has been identified as Harkesh, a resident of east Delhi’s Trilokpuri. Video goes viral A video of the incident was recorded and shared widely on social media. In the video, the man can be seen hitting on the windows of the police vehicle and then standing in front of the vehicle. In the incident, the vehicle’s windscreen was damaged while people can be seen asking him to leave. The police have registered a case under Section 186, Section 332 and Section 353 for damaging public property at Kalyanpuri police station.
10 May 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Virus warriors’ of Sikh body to get Rs. 2 lakh cover||The Delhi Sikh Gurdwara Management Committee (DSGMC) on Saturday announced an insurance cover of Rs. 2 lakh for its employees who are involved in frontline jobs, in case of death due to COVID-19. The DSGMC said that the cover will be extended to its 2,500 frontline workers who are providing services across the Capital even after the outbreak of the pandemic, said its committee president Manjinder Singh Sirsa. He said, “The insurance will be extended to all workers who are providing langar, sanitation, transport and other services.”
