10 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||10 killed in blaze at COVID-19 care facility in Vijayawada||Ten patients died and another 20 suffered burns after a fire broke out at a private COVID-19 care centre in Vijayawada, Andhra Pradesh, early on Sunday. The fire broke out around 5 a.m. on the ground and first floors of Hotel Swarna Palace, which was leased by Ramesh Hospitals as a COVID care centre. There are about 40 rooms in the hotel, and patients were undergoing treatment in 30. Director General of Disaster Response and Fire Services Department Md. Ahsan Raza said one patient was charred to death and nine had died of asphyxiation. Three women were among the victims. “According to available information, 30 patients and 10 hospital staff were in the hotel-turned-quarantine centre. The police, the NDRF and fire services personnel rescued 28 patients, and shifted 10 bodies to the Government General Hospital mortuary. The particulars of two patients are not known,” said Police Commissioner B. Srinivasulu.  One person working at the hotel suffered severe injuries after he jumped out a window on the first floor to escape the blaze. A criminal case under Sections 304 (2) and 308 of IPC has been registered against the managements of Hotel Swarna Palace and Ramesh Hospitals. The State government set up two committees to conduct a probe into the exact cause of the fire and other lapses that led to the tragedy. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy announced ex gratia of Rs. 50 lakh each to the next of kin of the deceased. The State government said negligence on the part of the hospital management in running the Covid centre in the hotel since mid-July had been prima facie established. On August 6, in a similar incident, eight COVID-19 patients were killed in a fire at Shrey Hospital in Gujarat’s capital Ahmedabad.
10 August 2020||New Delhi,||Four BJP leaders quit in Kashmir||Leaders of the BJP in the Kashmir Valley announced their resignations on social media after a spate of attacks and killing of panchayat members in the past one week. On Sunday, BJP worker Abdul Hamid Najar was shot at by suspected terrorists in Budgam district. Hours later, four leaders of the BJP — Avtar Krishen, Imran Ahmad Parray, Wali Mohammad Bhat and Sameer Ahmad Shah — circulated pictures of their handwritten letters on social media that they have “no contact with the BJP”. On August 6, Sajad Ahmad Khanday, a sarpanch affiliated with the BJP, was killed by alleged terrorists in Kulgam. On August 4, another panch, Arif Ahmad, was critically wounded in an attack. Shafiq Mir, Chairman of the All Jammu and Kashmir Panchayat Conference, said the government was not serious about the safety and security of sarpanches and panches and it did not have a plan for them. He said many members were not able to visit the villages and were forced to live in police accommodations. “The panchayat members are the only elected representatives in Jammu and Kashmir right now who are playing the role of a bridge between the people and the government. The security agencies do not even come to know who will come under attack next,” Mr. Mir said on phone from Kashmir. The panchayat elections were held in the former State in 2018 and as many as 12,776 sarpanch and panch seats, particularly in south Kashmir, are still vacant as elections could not be held due to security concerns then. Modi’s assurance Mr. Mir said the members agreed to fight the elections on a personal assurance given by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. He said 20 panchayat members had been killed since 2012. “We are not able to work. We plan to meet the PM again if the need arises. We had shared our concerns with former Lieutenant Governor G.C. Murmu few days ago but then he was replaced.”
10 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||With 97 new deaths, toll mounts to 2,036 in State||The State reported 97 COVID-19 deaths in the 24 hours ending Sunday morning. It also witnessed 10,820 new cases, the biggest single-day spike so far. With these figures, the death toll crossed the 2,000-mark to reach 2,036 and the tally mounted to 2,27,860. Recovery rate up With the discharge of 9,097 patients, the number of recoveries went up to 1,38,712. The recovery rate, therefore, increased to 61% for the first time in two months. In the first week of June the recovery rate was more than 60%. In all, 87,112 patients are undergoing treatment at present. On the other hand, the positivity rate also increased by the day. As of Sunday, it was 9.16%. A total of 24,87,305 samples were tested so far. Of them, 62,912 were tested in the last 24 hours. The tests per million ratio is 46,579 and the mortality rate continues to be lower than 1% at 0.89%. Disturbing trend Meanwhile, four districts reported 10 or more deaths in a single day and three districts witnessed more than a thousand new cases. East Godavari reported 1,543 new cases and six deaths. It was followed by Kurnool (1,399 cases and 7 deaths), West Godavari (1,132 & 10), Visakhapatnam (961 & 6), Guntur (881 & 12), Anantapur (858 & 8), Chittoor (848 & 10), Kadapa (823 & 8), Nellore (696 & 4), Srikakulam (452 & 8), Krishna (439 & 4), Prakasam (430 & 11) and Vizianagaram (358 & 3). The tally of cases in East Godavari is 31,703 and 55% of them have recovered. The district-level tallies and recovery rates are as follows: Kurnool (27,431 & 65), Anantapur (24,107 & 70), Guntur (21,718 & 63), Visakhapatnam (19,493 & 56), West Godavari (18,147 & 78), Chittoor (17,097 & 58), Kadapa (13,437 & 51), Nellore (13,220 & 49), Srikakulam (10,979 & 58), Krishna (10,292 & 63), Vizianagaram (8,806 & 41) and Prakasam (8,535 & 62).
10 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||High-level committee to probe fire accident||As per the preliminary inquiry, negligence on the part of Ramesh Hospitals is the cause of the fire accident at Hotel Swarna Palace, which the former has taken on lease to operate a COVID-19 care centre, Deputy Chief Minister and Health Minister Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas (Nani) has said. Ten patients died and many others were injured in the blaze that erupted at the hotel early on Sunday morning. The Health Minister, along with Home Minister M. Sucharitha, I&PR Minister Perni Venkataramaiah, district Collector A.Md. Imtiaz, and Police Commissioner B. Srinivasulu, reviewed the situation arising out of the accident. “According to the district Collector and officials of the Medical and Health Department, the preliminary inquiry points to negligence on the part of the Ramesh Hospitals management,” Mr. Srinivas said. “A committee, comprising officials drawn from the Police, Medical and Health, and Fire departments and experts, has been constituted. It will submit its inquiry report in 48 hours, and action will be taken based on the report,” Mr. Srinivas said. The committee would also inquire into how Ramesh Hospitals took on lease the hotel and whether it provided ventilators, emergency equipment and necessary critical care units in the hotel rooms. “Instructions have been given to find out whether the hospital and the hotel managements followed the fire safety norms while turning the building into a quarantine centre,” the Health Minister said. Case booked The Vijayawada Central tahsildar (Mandal Revenue Officer) lodged a complaint with the Governorpet police following which a case had been registered under IPC Sections 304 (II) (Punishment for culpable homicide not amounting to murder) and Section 308 (Attempt to culpable homicide). Investigation is under way. “We are looking into the facilities being provided in other COVID-19 care centres across the State,” he added.
10 August 2020||New Delhi,||Defence Ministry to impose import embargo on 101 items||The Defence Ministry will “introduce import embargo on 101 items beyond given timeline to boost indigenisation of defence production”, Defence Minister Rajnath Singh announced through a series of tweets on Sunday. Speaking at a function later in the day, he said the government intends to reach a turnover of $25 billion through indigenously manufactured defence products and also expects to export products worth $5 billion. “Government has also decided that in any government contract over Rs. 200 crore, no foreign company can participate in the tendering process… We will help Indian defence manufacturers… This year Rs. 52,000 crore items [are] to be bought only from Indian companies,” Mr. Singh said in an online interaction. “In his address to the nation on August 15, Prime Minister Narendra Modi will present the outline for a self-reliant India,” he added. The policy change comes in the wake of Chinese transgressions and the build-up along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh. China has refused to pull back from several areas, where it has massed troops since May. Self-reliance “The Ministry of Defence is now ready for a big push to #AtmanirbharBharat initiative... The Ministry of Defence has prepared a list of 101 items for which there would be an embargo on the import beyond the timeline indicated against them... This is a big step towards self-reliance in defence. #AtmanirbharBharat,” Mr. Singh tweeted. He added that the government will push the Swadeshi movement started by freedom fighters and Mahatma Gandhi during the Independence Movement. He said the decision will offer a great opportunity to the Indian defence industry to manufacture the items in the negative list by using their own design and development capabilities or adopting the technologies designed and developed by the Defence Research Development Organisation (DRDO) to meet the requirements of the Armed Forces.
10 August 2020||HYDERABAD,||1,982 new cases in TS even as it inches towards 80K mark||The number of COVID-19 cases in Telangana is inching close to 80,000 as 1,982 more swab samples tested positive for coronavirus on Saturday, taking the total to 79,495. The toll reached 627 as 12 more COVID-19 patients died. The new 1,982 cases includes 463 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), 141 from Medchal-Malkajgiri, 139 from Rangareddy, 96 from Karimnagar, 93 from Jogulamba Gadwal, 71 each from Pedapalli and Warangal Urban. The cases are steadily increasing in a few more districts. The total 79,495 cases include 22,869 active cases, of whom 55,999 recovered and 627 died. On Saturday, 22,925 tests were conducted and results of 1,509 are awaited. Put together, 61,3231 tests were conducted till August 8. In case of beds, 3,154 oxygen beds and 889 ICU beds were available at 56 government hospitals on Saturday, and 910 oxygen beds and 495 ICU beds in private hospitals. Officials from the State Health department said that if anyone wants to lodge complaints against issues at private hospitals or laboratories, they can send them to Whatsapp number 9154170960, or dial 104. Though complaints were lodged over Whatsapp number, people said that they did not receive any response. They have also demanded refund from the hospitals which charged in excess.
10 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||27 health workers in 1,211 new cases||The State reported 1,211 new cases of COVID-19 on Sunday. With 87% of the new cases — 1,057 out of the 1,211 cases — being locally acquired infections, community transmission is more or less well established in the State. The authorities are yet to ascertain the source of infection in 103 of these new cases. Health-care workers continue to be extremely vulnerable with 27 of them reported to have tested positive. The number of recoveries reported on the day is 970. The cumulative case burden of the State ever since the outbreak began is 34,331, with 12,347 patients currently undergoing treatment in hospitals. There have been 21,832 recoveries so far. Two more deaths, one each in Kasaragod and Ernakulam, were reported, taking the toll to 108. Disease transmission continues to be intense in the capital district of Thiruvananthapuram. On Sunday, the district reported 292 cases, of which 284 were locally acquired infections. The State has quarantine over 1.49 lakh persons, of whom, 11,742 have been isolated in hospitals. The number of samples tested in the State in the last 24 hours is 22,745. With 34 new areas designated as hotspots and eight areas dropped from the list, the number of hotspots in the State at present is 524.
10 August 2020||MANGALURU,||Netravathi and Kumaradhara flowing close to danger level||The Netravathi and the Kumaradhara continue to flow close to the danger level in Dakshina Kannada on Sunday resulting in continued water-logging in some areas of Bantwal taluk and other places on the banks of the rivers. Water-logging in a few houses was reported from Kallapu and Bangera Lane in Ullal on the outskirts of the city. “When compared to Saturday, the water levels in the rivers were receding on Sunday,” said Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra. A few houses were affected in Someshwar because of sea erosion, he added. With tree trunks and other debris getting stuck at the check dam in Padnuru village of Bantwal taluk, water entered nearby farmland causing damage to standing crops. Similarly, farmland in Belthangady taluk too were damaged. With storm-water drains overflowing onto some bridges and culverts in the district, the police have placed barricades to stop the movement of people across such places, said Dakshina Kannada Superintendent of Police B.M. Laxmi Prasad. There was water-logging in Bangera Lane in Ullal after a compound wall collapsed on a storm-water drain blocking it. Ullal City Municipal Council personnel rushed to the spot with earthmovers to clear the block. Udupi district recorded an average rainfall of 94.3 mm during the same period. Kota received the highest of 160 mm, followed by Kundapur with 110 mm, Udupi, Karkala, Siddapura and Brahmavar 90 mm and Kollur with 40 mm. As strong winds with speeds reaching up to 60 kmph and high waves going up to four metres are likely till the midnight of Monday along the coastal region, India Meteorological Department has advised fishermen against venturing into the sea.
10 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||New policy to give a leg-up to MSMEs||The A.P. Industrial Development Policy 2020-23 is set to be unveiled by Minister for Industries Mekapati Goutham Reddy and A.P. Industrial Infrastructure Corporation chairperson R.K. Roja in the APIIC headquarters at Mangalagiri on August 10 (Monday). The new policy will lay emphasis on pharmaceuticals, textiles, automobiles, electronics, petrochemicals, aerospace and defence, food processing, machinery and precision equipment, leather and footwear and toys and furniture sectors. According to sources, due priority has been given to reducing the risk and cost of doing business, supporting MSMEs and empowerment of women entrepreneurs belonging to the backward communities in the new policy. It has laid down a roadmap for interventions in the areas of infrastructure, ease of doing business (EoDB), honing skills, labour availability and hand-holding of entrepreneurs. On the infrastructure front, the new policy envisages a risk-free mechanism for setting up industries and mitigating their possible impact on the environment, development of plug-and-play parks and common facilities for reducing the costs for MSMEs and provision of pre-cleared land parcels.
10 August 2020||LUCKNOW,||Opposition pulls out all stops to woo U.P.’s Brahmins||The 2022 Assembly elections in Uttar Pradesh are not yet in sight but Opposition parties have already started wooing the Brahmin community through caste symbols, in particular Parshuram, the axe-wielding warrior believed by the Hindus to be the sixth avatar of Lord Vishnu. If the Samajwadi Party has announced it would build a 108-foot-tall statue of Parshuram in Lucknow, Bahujan Samaj Party chief Mayawati on Sunday said its version of a Parshuram statue, to be built if it came back to power, would be much more grand than the SP’s. Parshuram was a “special symbol of Brahmin faith and self-esteem”, the four-time former Chief Minister said. This is not the first time Ms. Mayawati has tried to woo Brahmins through symbolism or representation. However, her latest overture towards the community comes in the wake of the Bikru ambush and subsequent killing of accused Vikas Dubey, a Brahmin, in an alleged encounter. A section of Brahmin leaders in U.P. and social media users had wondered if the community was being targeted, fuelling a perception of discontent among them. Since the Kanpur episode in July, Opposition parties have tried to link it with other incidents where Brahmins have been targeted or killed under the BJP government, headed by Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, a Thakur. Though they constitute just around 9% of the State’s population, as per the last caste census in 1931, Brahmins punch way above their weight in politics due to their strong social network and hold key positions in bureaucracy, economy, judiciary and media. SP national secretary Abhishek Mishra said a statue of Parshuram would be built in Lucknow under the banner of the Bhagwan Parshuram Chetna Peeth. The Congress, led by former Union Minister Jitin Prasada, has also launched a campaign to woo the Brahmins. Under the Brahmin Chetna Parishad, Mr. Prasada, himself a Brahmin, is highlighting incidents of alleged atrocities and neglect faced by members of the community. This involves underlining the caste of the victims in cases of violent crimes or police cases.
10 August 2020||Kolkata,||India’s deepest Metro ventilation shaft nears completion||Kolkata’s East West Metro Project, a mega infrastructure venture connecting the twin cities of Kolkata and Howrah through underground tunnels below the river Hooghly, will have achieved another engineering feat on Monday when it completes India’s deepest Metro ventilation shaft. The shaft goes 43.5 metres below the ground level, equivalent to a 15-storey building. The shaft will not only provide ventilation to the tunnels, but also an exit for evacuation during an emergency. The evacuation shaft is located at Strand Road near river Hooghly and is situated between the two tunnels. “This is a marvellous achievement, to successfully complete the 43.5-metre deep Metro ventilation shaft on the bank of river Hooghly. This is India’s deepest Metro ventilation shaft ever constructed by adopting a unique methodology... ,” said Satya Narayan Kunwar, Project Manager, Afcons. Afcons had been commissioned by the Kolkata Metro Railway Corporation Ltd ( KMRCL) to execute the underground stretch of the East West Metro Project from Howrah Maidan to New Mahakaran station, which includes the tunnels below the river bed. The projects have already achieved a number of significant milestones which are considered engineering marvels. Two tunnels running parallel to each other about 37 metres below the river bed were completed by mid 2017 followed by the Howrah Metro Station, which, at 30 metres below the earth surface, is the deepest metro station in the country. Afcons officials said the ventilation shaft was another such milestone. The shaft has a 10.3 metre inner diameter circular lining wall of minimum 500 mm thickness, and of concrete grade minimum M40 (a special construction material) circumscribed by 1 metre thick diaphragm walls all around. ‘Innovative techniques’ “The Metro shaft has been constructed adopting innovative engineering techniques and methodology to navigate geological challenges and overcome any impact on Kolkata’s circular railway track along river Hooghly,” Mr. Kunwar said. The 16.6 km East West Metro Project will connect Howrah on one side of the river Hooghly to New Town Rajarhat in the north eastern fringes of the city on the other side. About 10.8 km of the metro line is underground and the remaining 9.8 km of the project will be through an elevated corridor.
10 August 2020||KOLKATA,||COVID-19 cases in West Bengal cross 95,000 mark||West Bengal recorded 2,939 new COVID-19 cases on Sunday, taking the total number of cases to 95,554. The State recorded 54 deaths in 24 hours due to the viral infection, taking the total fatalities to 2,059. The number of active infections rose to 26,375, while the recovery rate in the State is 70.24%. The number of samples tested in the day stood at 26,242. Of the 54 deaths, 21 were recorded in Kolkata and 15 in North 24 Parganas. Of the total people who died of the viral infection, 88.5% were suffering from co-morbidities. Helpline for patients Meanwhile, the West Bengal government has started a helpline for COVID-19 patients, another one for ambulance services and a number for telemedicine services. The helpline numbers are prominently displayed on the website of the State Health Department. The State Health Department also issued an advisory saying that certain hospitals were discharging patients still in need of medical care. “It is hereby directed that all nursing homes/hospitals should not discharge COVID-19 positive patients requiring medical attention without assured admission in any COVID hospital, either government or private,” the advisory said. The State had earlier observed a complete lockdown on Saturday, with vehicular movement.
10 August 2020||Pune,||Maharashtra records highest single-day deaths, recoveries||Maharashtra on Sunday reported 12,248 new COVID-19 cases, taking its total case count to 5,15,332. The spike in cases is the State’s second-highest single-day jump till date, with the highest of 12,822 cases recorded on Saturday. A record-high surge of 390 deaths saw the State’s death toll rise to 17,757. However, with 13,348 patients being discharged — the State’s highest single-day recoveries — the cumulative recoveries have reached 3,51,710. State Health Department officials said the number of active cases had come down to 1,45,558 while the State’s recovery rate had risen to 68.25%. “Till date, of a total 27,25,090 laboratory samples, 5,15,332 (18.91%) have been tested positive with nearly 78,000 samples across the State tested in the last 24 hours,” State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate said, adding that the State’s case fatality rate stood at 3.45%. Mumbai city reported 1,066 fresh cases as its total cases reached 1,23,382, of whom only 19,700 are active. With 48 more deaths reported on Sunday, the city’s death toll has climbed to 6,799. As per State Health Department figures, Pune district reported more than 3,000 new cases and a record-high spike of 95 deaths, taking the total case tally to 1,13,004 and its death toll reached 2,728. The district administration, however, said the number of active cases was less than 27,000, with the recovery rate more than 72%.Jalgaon — a major hotspot in north Maharashtra — reported 28 more deaths, its highest single-day fatalities, to take its death toll to 611. With 330 fresh cases, the district’s total cases rose to 14,438, of whom 4,060 cases are active.Nashik district reported 14 fatalities and 972 new cases as its total tally rose to 20,597, of whom 7,407 are active. The district’s death toll has now climbed to 569.In the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, the Kalyan-Dombivli civic body reported 13 deaths, taking its death toll to 525. With 319 fresh COVID-19 cases, its total case tally has risen to 25,259. Thane district reported 10 fatalities, taking its death toll to 1,198. Navi Mumbai reported nine deaths, as its fatality count touched 500 while 348 fresh cases took its total cases to 20,273.
10 August 2020||Kozhikode,||No wide-bodied aircraft at Calicut||The Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) on Sunday suspended the operation of wide-bodied aircraft at the Calicut International Airport in the wake of the Air India Express (AIE) flight AXB 1344 overshooting the runway on Friday. Sources said that airline companies, as of now Saudia (Saudi Arabian Airlines) and Air India which are operating wide-bodied aircraft, were communicated to fly their big aircraft used for repatriation of stranded Indians abroad to reschedule them to Kochi airports. On Sunday, Saudi Airbus 330, which was scheduled to fly down at Calicut airport, was diverted to the Kochi airport. The sources said that the directive of the DGCA to suspend the operation could be temporary or even permanent. The operation of wide-bodied aircraft was banned at the Calicut airport from May 2015 after the Court of Inquiry report on the Air India Express Boeing 737 crash in Mangaluru in May 2010. After a protracted battle by the State government and various organisations, the DGCA allowed the resumption of wide-bodied aircraft Boeing 777-200 and Airbus 330-300 at the airport in August 2018. However, the airline companies and airport had been instructed to comply with stringent safety measures. This included the expansion of the Runway End Safety Area at the airport.  In a statement here, M.K. Raghavan, MP, said that the decision to suspend wide-bodied flights at the airport cannot be justified. The airport had complied with all the stipulations for the operation of big aircraft.
10 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||‘Hotel has no fire NoC’||The Hotel Swarna Palace, which was taken on lease by Ramesh Hospitals for running a COVID-19 care centre, does not have the No Objection Certificate (NoC) from the Fire Department. After a major fire broke out at the hotel in the early hours of Sunday, claiming ten lives; the fire officials found that the hotel had not obtained the NoC. The Ramesh Hospitals management, without verifying the compliance with the fire safety norms by the hotel, took the premises on lease, the fire officials said. “As per the National Building Code 2016, a G+2 building constructed in 500 square metres must obtain fire NoC,” A.P. State Disaster Response & Fire Services Department (APSDRFS) Director K. Jayaram Naik told The Hindu. Regional Fire Officer G. Srinivasulu said the hospital management should obtain an NoC separately from the Fire Department, when they turned the premise into a COVID facility, which was not done. “ The facility has no fire alarm, water storage and firefighting equipment in place,” he said. ‘Notices ignored’ Attributing the fire to the negligence of the hotel management and Ramesh Hospitals, Mr. Srinivasulu said, “The fire wing of the Vijayawada Municipal Corporation has served notices on the hotel management, but they have been ignored.” Mr. Jayaram Naik said they were also inquiring into the violation of building plan and other aspects with the VMC town planning officials.
10 August 2020||HUBBALLI,||When a marooned troop got a lifeline||Monsoon rains have displaced people in many areas but there was a different group waiting for rescue since Friday near Tungabhadra river in Karnataka. A troop of 50 monkeys had moved to a canopy of trees still above the overflowing river, near Rajanahalli in Harihar taluk of Davangere district. But strenuous efforts by personnel of the Fire and Emergency Services and the Forest Department to coax them on to rescue boats did not work. The 25-member team then threw a rope, which some bolder simians grabbed. But others baulked. Finally, it was a rope ladder snaking its way to the river bank that did the trick, encouraging all monkeys to move to firm ground. The operation concluded on Sunday afternoon with the last of the members moving to safety using the ladder. “On Saturday evening, five monkeys moved using the ladder. But many returned to the trees as it tilted, making them lose balance,” District Fire Officer, Davangere, Basava Prabhu Sharma said. Food provided The rescue exercise also involved arranging food for the hungry monkeys. With water levels rising, there was apprehension among the authorities whether the monkeys could be saved. The team stabilised the ladder by tying it to stones and dispersed a crowd on the river bank that was scaring the monkeys, thus aiding their move to safety. “By Sunday morning forty had moved to the river bank. There were ten more monkeys on another tree and we moved the rope ladder for them. By afternoon all reached the river bank”, Mr. Basava Prabhu said.
10 August 2020||Bengaluru,||Road accidents and fatalities drop by nearly half||The COVID-19 lockdown saw a decline in road accidents and fatalities in the State by around 48%. Data from the Karnataka State Road Safety Authority shows that between this April and June, there were only 5,724 accidents and 1,535 fatalities. Last year during the same period, there were 10,916 accidents, which claimed the lives of nearly 3,000 people. “During the lockdown, accidents and fatalities reduced by nearly half compared to the previous year,” said an official from the transport department Even before the nationwide lockdown was imposed, the State government in March ordered the partial closure of malls, cinemas, schools and colleges. The drop in accidents is more noticeable in April [there was a 77% reduction from the previous year] when the restrictions were the most stringent and drivers needed police permission to take their vehicles out. There were very few vehicles on the road and only 804 accident cases were registered, while fatalities stood at 214. In comparison, April 2019 saw 3,584 accidents across the State and 968 fatalities. “During the lockdown, especially in the last week of March and through April, there was not only restrictions in traffic, but also commercial and other establishments were closed. The authorities had even impounded thousands of vehicles of those who were unnecessarily venturing out of their houses,” said a transport department official. However in May, to revive the economy, the government partially relaxed the norms. Public transport, barring Namma Metro and passenger train services, resumed from May 19. Traffic on roads increased and the data, too, reflects a rise in accidents. The number of accidents in May touched 2,259 and fatalities increased to 597. However it was still noticeably lower than the same period last year [3,732 accidents and 985 fatalities in May 2019]. In June, as the number of vehicles increased, the number of accidents touched 2,661 and fatalities rose to 727. Data for July is still being collated, but officials say that with most restrictions lifted, there is likely to be a further increase in accident and fatalities.
10 August 2020||CHENNAI,||CISF to probe ‘Are you Indian?’ taunt at MP||The Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) on Sunday ordered an inquiry into DMK MP Kanimozhi’s complaint that a woman officer of the paramilitary agency at the Chennai airport had asked her if she was an Indian, after coming to know that she couldn’t speak in Hindi. “It would not have been an issue had the incident taken place in Delhi. Surprisingly, it occurred at Chennai airport,” Ms. Kanimozhi told The Hindu . Soon after the incident, which occurred while the MP was proceeding to New Delhi, she tweeted, “Today at the airport a CISF officer asked me if I am an Indian when I asked her to speak to me in Tamil or English as I did not know Hindi. I would like to know from when being Indian is equal to knowing Hindi.” In its response, the CISF headquarters said, “We sincerely acknowledge your unpleasant experience. Kindly DM journey details; name of the airport, location, date and time of the incident for appropriate action.” Subsequently, the CISF informed her that it had ordered an inquiry.
10 August 2020||Belagavi,||Villagers defuse a potential law and order problem quickly in Managutti||Timely action by residents of Managutti and surrounding villages ensured that a minor incident in the village did not blow up into a full-fledged law and order problem. A few days ago, a recently-unveiled Shivaji statue in Managutti village was taken down by the villagers as they wanted to erect statues of some other national leaders in the village square. This led to a call by some Shiv Sena leaders in neighbouring Kolhapur district of Maharashtra to declare a protest on Sunday. Some local leaders warned that they would come to the State border at Kolhapur and protest against Karnataka for the alleged insult to the Shivaji statue. These developments provided fodder to some arguments on social media. Village elders of both Kannada and Marathi groups came together and held a meeting in the village on Sunday. They submitted a memorandum to Deputy Commissioner M.G. Hiremath that they had taken down the statue as they had to resolve some issues in the village. “Once these issues are resolved, we will put up the statue in the same place in a grand ceremony,” they said. They also issued a video statement calling for peace. In the message, they said that they were not under anyone’s pressure , nor were they acting under government directions. They also said that they did not need any politician from outside to interfere with the affairs of the village. Superintendent of Police Laxman Nimbargi said that the situation was peaceful and that there was no need to panic.
10 August 2020||MANGALURU,||Six COVID-19 deaths in Dakshina Kannada||Six COVID-19 patients with co-morbidities died, while 132 new poitive cases were registered in Dakshina Kannada on Sunday. According to a bulletin from the Dakshina Kannada district administration, two deceased persons each were from Mangaluru and Bantwal taluks, while one each were from Sullia taluk and outside the district. The total number of COVID-19 deaths in the district has now gone up to 220. Of the 132 who tested positive on Sunday, 68 persons had influenza like illness (ILI), 21 were primary contacts of COVID-19 patients and 11 had severe acute respiratory illness (SARI). With 282 new COVID-19 patients on Sunday, the active number of such cases in Udupi has now gone up to 2,697. Of the 282 cases, 132 were primary contacts, 69 had ILI and six persons each had SARI and a history of domestic travel. Contact tracing in 66 new COVID-19 patients is on. As many as 97 persons have been discharged.
10 August 2020||CHENNAI,||CISF to probe ‘Are you Indian?’ taunt at MP||The Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) on Sunday ordered an inquiry into DMK MP Kanimozhi’s complaint that a woman officer of the paramilitary agency at Chennai airport had asked her if she was Indian after coming to know that she couldn’t speak Hindi. “It would not have been an issue had the incident taken place in Delhi. Surprisingly, it occurred at Chennai airport,” Ms. Kanimozhi told The Hindu . Soon after the incident, which occurred while the MP was proceeding to New Delhi, she tweeted, “Today at the airport a CISF officer asked me if I am an Indian when I asked her to speak to me in Tamil or English as I did not know Hindi. I would like to know from when being Indian is equal to knowing Hindi.” In its response, the Central Industrial Security Force headquarters said, “We sincerely acknowledge your unpleasant experience. Kindly DM journey details; name of the airport, location, date and time of the incident for appropriate action.” “The message from CISF came when I was on the flight. When I reached Delhi, two CISF officers met me and promised action. They said it (the incident) should not have happened,” Ms. Kanimozhi told this correspondent. “The CISF DIG from Chennai also spoke to me on the phone,” said the DMK leader, who had gone to Delhi to attend meetings of the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Personal Data Protection Bill and the Standing Committee on Chemicals and Fertilizers. South officers She said that normally, officers from south India would be deployed at Chennai airport to avoid any inconvenience to the passengers. “But this time, a north Indian officer was there,” she added.
10 August 2020||Pune,||Pune college asks students to appear for exam after quarantine||Amid the rising novel coronavirus cases, a private dental college near Pune city has asked over 150 of its students to appear for examination in person next month, after getting quarantined there for two weeks. Students of the undergraduate and postgraduate dental courses of D Y Patil Dental College and Hospital in Pimpri town said they have been asked to take a COVID-19 test before leaving from their respective cities and reach college at least two weeks prior to the exam and get quarantined. The students and their parents have demanded that the exam be postponed in view of the COVID-19 situation. The college authorities, however, said all safety measures, screening, social-distancing norms, and sanitation will be followed during the exam. This exam was supposed to be held in the first half of the year. But due to the coronavirus situation, it had been postponed, they said. A relative of one of the students, who does not want to be named, said, “The management has asked the students to come to the college by the first week of September and get quarantined for two weeks before appearing for the exam in the third week of that month.” “Everyone knows the situation in Pune and Pimpri Chinchwad. Besides, there is a COVID-19 isolation facility on the college campus. Despite all this, the college is asking students to come and appear for the exam,” he said.
10 August 2020||LUCKNOW,||Mukhtar Ansari’s aide shot dead||The U.P. police shot dead an aide of jailed MLA Mukhtar Ansari from Mau in an alleged exchange of fire after the SUV he was purportedly travelling in along with four other suspects crashed into a tree in the early hours of Sunday in Lucknow. The family of the deceased Rakesh Pandey, however, accused the police of picking him up from home in Lucknow and then killing him. Pandey had been a co-accused in the 2005 murder of then BJP MLA Krishnanand Rai.
10 August 2020||August 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Bidding adieu||
10 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,||79-year-old goes ‘missing’ from VIMS||A 79-year-old COVID-19 patient has reportedly gone missing from Visakha Institute of Medical Sciences (VIMS). Alleging negligence of the hospital staff, family members of the patient claimed that they were clueless about his whereabouts. Ch. Srinivas, son of the missing man, said he had admitted his father at VIMS on August 1. Till August 5, he was in contact with his father over his mobile phone. However, after that there was no information regarding his health condition. “The hospital authorities are clueless about the whereabouts of my father. The CCTV cameras are not working in the hospital properly,” Mr. Srinivas alleged. VIMS officials are yet to react to the incident.
10 August 2020||IDUKKI,||Idukki landslip toll goes up to 43, many still missing||With the recovery of 17 more bodies from the landslip-hit estate area of Pettimudy, near Rajamala, on Sunday, the number of fatalities has gone up to 43. As per official sources, 23 people are still missing in the spot where a major landslip on Thursday buried four estate lanes (living quarters of estate workers). Despite rain and mist hampering the search operation in the hilly terrain, efforts to drain water from the area began on Sunday. Around 200 members of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) searched the nearly three-acre area which had come under debris. Seven earthmovers were engaged for the search operation, but manoeuvring them on the waterlogged terrain proved difficult. A dog squad of the district police joined the search operation. Two sniffer dogs helped trace many bodies from the accident site. Drones were also used to search the area widely. Eight bodies were found in a nearby stream to which the torrent of water from the landslip had joined. All the recovered bodies are being buried in a mass burial site at Pettimudy. A team of doctors are camping in the area and a mobile mortuary has been set up to conduct autopsies. Forest staff missing Forest Minister K. Raju who visited the spot said six Forest Department staff from the estate lanes were missing and the bodies of two staff had been recovered. He promised assistance to the families of the victims. Adverse climate and lack of electricity had hampered the search operation during night. District Collector H. Dinesan said the search would continue in the coming days. “The area is muddy and with rain continuing, search operation is difficult,” he said.
10 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Shreyams to file nomination on Thursday||Loktantrik Janata Dal (LJD) has nominated its Kerala unit president, M.V. Shreyams Kumar, as its nominee for the Rajya Sabha seat that has fallen vacant following the death of M.P. Veerendrakumar. The executive committee of the LJD, held through videoconferencing on Sunday and attended by 72 members, decided to field Mr. Shreyams Kumar for the Rajya Sabha elections scheduled for August 24. The Left Democratic Front (LDF) had already announced its decision to give the seat that had fallen vacant in May to the LJD. LJD State secretary general Sheikh P. Haris told a press conference here that Mr. Shreyams Kumar would file the nomination papers on Thursday as the LDF candidate. Mr. Shreyams Kumar, who was also present, said the LJD State committee had decided to back Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, who was being attacked by the Opposition UDF and the BJP on the gold-smuggling case.
10 August 2020||bengaluru,||(COL-1) Rain fury abates||Several parts of the State that have been witnessing rain fury for about a week got some relief as there was considerable reduction in the intensity of rainfall. The death of two more persons came to light as their bodies were recovered on Sunday.
10 August 2020||Bengaluru,||5,985 fresh cases, 107 deaths in State||A total of 5,985 new COVID-19 cases were reported on Sunday in the State. With this, the total number of cases stands at 1,78,087. A total of 107 deaths were reported on Sunday, taking the total number of fatalities to 3,198.
10 August 2020||Jodhpur,||11 members of Pak. Hindu family found dead||Eleven members of a family of Pakistan Hindu migrants were found dead at a farm in Jodhpur district on Sunday, police said. Kewal Ram, 35, of the family, however, was found alive outside their hut, an officer said.
10 August 2020||New Delhi,||COVID-19 situation under control: Kejriwal||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday said the COVID-19 situation in the Capital is under control and all the parameters are looking good. “However, novel coronavirus is an unpredictable pandemic and no one knows what might happen tomorrow,” he said.
10 August 2020||Kolkata,||Drive-in concept to combat COVID-19 crisis this Durga puja||With little over two months to go for Durga Puja, festival committees in the city are brainstorming ways to ensure the safety of pandal-hoppers amid the COVID-19 crisis. Three committees in south Kolkata, have joined hands to introduce a drive-in ‘darshan’ — an arrangement which would allow people to slow down their car to take a look at the pandal and the Durga idol without having to alight.PTI
10 August 2020||Kolkata,||State puts cap on advance deposit for private hospitals||Private hospitals in West Bengal cannot charge patients more than 20% of the estimated cost of treatment or a maximum of Rs. 50,000 at the time of admission, as per a new directive of the State government, a senior official said on Sunday. The West Bengal Clinical Establishment Regulatory Commission also said private hospitals should not refuse admission or treatment if payment was not made immediately.PTI
10 August 2020||Mumbai,||First nearby||Heavy to very heavy rainfall is likely in parts of Maharashtra due to a low pressure area formed over north-west and adjoining west-central Bay of Bengal, the India Meteorological Department said on Sunday. “Most places in Maharashtra received rain or thunderstorms on Saturday,” the IMD official said. Heavy rain is likely in the Western Ghat sections of Madhya Maharashtra and the coast starting Sunday.PTI
10 August 2020||Pune,||Second nearby||One person was killed and seven were injured when an LPG cylinder exploded in a flat and led to the collapse of a common wall separating two apartments in Pimpri-Chinchwad on Sunday. The police suspect the gas was leaking from the cylinder overnight.
10 August 2020||YADGIR,||293 new cases in Raichur and Yadgir districts||As many as 293 fresh COVID-19 positive cases were registered in Raichur and Yadgir on Sunday. Of these, 202 are from Raichur and 91 from Yadgir. With these fresh 202 cases, the total number of positive cases reached to 3,793 in Raichur. As many as 117 were discharged on Sunday. Two patients died, taking the toll to 40 in the district so far. In Yadgir, with 91 new cases, the total number of positive cases went up to 3,061. As many as 31 patients were discharged on Sunday. One patient died, taking the toll to 17 in the district so far.
10 August 2020||KALABURAGI,||Nine more die of COVID-19 in Ballari||Ballari district reported nine deaths due to COVID-19 and 380 new cases on Sunday. Kalaburagi recorded four deaths and 194 COVID-19 positive cases. Bidar district reported four deaths and 70 new cases on Sunday.
10 August 2020||Chennai,||Yet another legislator tests positive||More than one-tenth of the MLAs in Tamil Nadu have tested positive for COVID-19 till date. On Sunday, AIADMK’s Sholavandan MLA K. Manickam was hospital-ised after contracting the infection, taking the number of affected MLAs to 27.
10 August 2020||Chennai,||State records 5,994 new COVID-19 cases||Another 5,994 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu on Sunday. Chennai recorded less than a thousand cases for the third consecutive day. However, more than 100 patients died in the State for the seventh day in a row.
10 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||5,994 more persons test positive in Tamil Nadu||Andhra Pradesh on Sunday added another record number of COVID-19 cases at 10,820, and registered 97 deaths, raising the overall toll to 2,036 and case tally to 2,27,860. Kerala reported 1,211 new cases on Sunday, 1,057 of them locally acquired infections. The source of infection in 103 cases was unknown. Among health workers, 27 more tested positive. The cumulative cases were 34,331, with 12,347 patients under treatment in hospitals. There were 21,836 recoveries. Two more deaths in Kasaragod and Ernakulam were added to the State toll, taking it to 108. Thiruvananthapuram district, a month after containment activities and lockdown were imposed, had a daily average of new cases in the 250-400 range. On Sunday, it reported 292 cases. The number of samples tested in the State in 24 hours was 22,745. Another 5,994 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu on Sunday, with the northern districts accounting for the majority. For the seventh day in a row, the deaths of over 100 patients were brought on record, including a 11-year-old boy from Virudhunagar, taking the toll to 4,927. Chennai, however, recorded cases in three-digits for the third consecutive day. The medical bulletin registered the deaths of a total of 119 persons - 103 with co-morbidities and 16 without co-morbidities - across the State. Of this, 13 persons each died in Coimbatore and Virudhunagar, while 12 died in Chennai. There were six deaths each in Madurai, Tiruvallur and Thoothukudi. Telangana inched closer to 80,000 cases as 1,982 more samples tested positive on Saturday, taking the total to 79,495. The toll touched 627 as 12 more patients died. The fresh cases included 463 from Greater Hyderabad, 141 from Medchal-Malkajgiri, 139 from Rangareddy, 96 from Karimnagar, 93 from Jogulamba Gadwal, 71 each from Pedapalli and Warangal Urban. The tally of 79,495 included 22,869 active cases, of whom 55,999 recovered and 627 died. On Saturday, 22,925 tests were conducted and results of 1,509 were awaited. In Andhra Pradesh, the positivity rate as of Sunday was 9.16%. A total of 24,87,305 samples were tested, of which 62,912 were tested in the last 24 hours. Meanwhile, four districts reported 10 or more deaths in one day, and three districts added over 1,000 cases. East Godavari reported 1,543 new cases and six deaths, followed by Kurnool (1,399 cases, 7 deaths), West Godavari (1,132 & 10), Visakhapatnam (961 & 6), Guntur (881 & 12), Anantapur (858 & 8), Chittoor (848 & 10), Kadapa (823 & 8), Nellore (696 & 4), Srikakulam (452 & 8), Krishna (439 & 4), Prakasam (430 & 11) and Vizianagaram (358 & 3).  (With inputs from Chennai, Hyderabad, and Vijayawada bureaus)
10 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||PM launches farm infra scheme||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday launched a new financing scheme under the Rs. 1 lakh crore Agriculture Infrastructure Fund meant for setting up storage and processing facilities, which will help farmers get higher prices for their crops, according to the government statement. Mr. Modi launched the scheme via videoconferencing and interacted with farmers across the country. He also released the sixth instalment of funds under the PM-KISAN scheme, which amounted to Rs. 17,000 crore to about 8.5 crore farmers. The first Rs. 1,000 crore was sanctioned on Sunday to over 2,280 farmer societies under the Agriculture Infrastructure Fund, which was approved by the Cabinet a month ago, the statement said. “The scheme will support farmers, PACS [primary agricultural credit societies], FPOs [farmer producer organisations], agri-entrepreneurs, etc. in building community farming assets and post-harvest agriculture infrastructure. These assets will enable farmers to get greater value for their produce as they will be able to store and sell at higher prices, reduce wastage, and increase processing and value addition,” the statement said. During the launch, Mr. Modi spoke to representatives from three PACS from Karnataka, Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh, who are beneficiaries of the scheme. He later addressed the country. Mr. Modi said the scheme would give farmers and the agriculture sector a boost and “increase India’s ability to compete on the global stage”. Mr. Modi reiterated that “India has a huge opportunity to invest in post-harvest management solutions like warehousing, cold chain, and food processing, and build a global presence in areas such as organic and fortified foods,” the statement said.
10 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘LAC complicates India’s options’||The threat from China is pushing India into closer ties with the U.S. but is unlikely to yield a military ‘alliance’ at present, said experts in Delhi and Washington during a discussion on Indian Foreign Policy. In particular, former National Security Advisor Shiv Shankar Menon and academic Pratap Bhanu Mehta felt that India’s common boundary with China and “continental challenge” still complicates its choices, referring to the nearly four-month-long standoff at the Line of Actual Control (LAC). “India can build coalitions, the Quad [Quadrilateral with U.S., Australia and Japan], or an alliance of democracies. But geography matters, proximity matters and the implication of China in our neighbourhood matters... Given our limited options, it is good that the government has not acted in haste,” said Mr. Mehta, a professor at Ashoka University, who praised the government’s recent economic actions aimed at China, including the restrictions on FDI and imports and banning of 59 software apps. “We have a problem with China on land and the U.S. is not going to get involved in a continental war here. The [U.S.] is pulling out of Afghanistan. The landmass of Eurasia is being consolidated under China’s Belt and Road Initiative and by various other means, and even the Russians have decided they need to work with China. India needs to find a continental strategy that works for it as the relationship with China gets more and more adversarial,” said Mr. Menon. ‘Collective defence’ U.S.-based Carnegie Endowment expert Ashley Tellis, who served as a diplomat to India, said the U.S. would not seek an alliance with India unless both sides were “committed to a collective defence” of each other in both the continental and maritime spheres. “It comes down to a very simple question: why would it be in America’s interest to provide those capabilities to India if it doesn’t feel that the quality of the relationship it has with India warrants it? That is still a work in progress. But if we don’t answer that question I don’t think [the U.S.] will get the partnership that makes our contribution worth the money,” Mr. Tellis said, adding that apart from “putting boots on the ground”, the U.S. could help India with intelligence sharing, space technology and air power support. The experts were part of a seminar organised by the Indo-American Friendship Association..
10 August 2020||JAIPUR,||Gehlot calls on all MLAs to ‘stand by the truth’||Ahead of the crucial Rajasthan Assembly session which could witness a floor test, Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Sunday wrote a letter to all MLAs appealing to them to “stand by the truth” and defeat the attempts being made to topple his government. Mr. Gehlot sought the cooperation of all MLAs, cutting across party lines, in fulfilling the promises for the State’s development. “People’s mandate is the supreme command. I expect you to understand the sentiments of your family members and the electorate of your constituencies to ensure that the government elected by the people continues to work,” he said. “Victory and defeat are part of elections. You may be an MLA from any political party but you should stand by the truth and act in the larger interests of people,” he said, adding that Prime Ministers like Indira Gandhi, Rajiv Gandhi and Atal Bihari Vajpayee faced defeats but they never allowed democratic traditions to weaken. The Congress government is likely to seek a confidence vote during the Assembly session, beginning on August 14, amid the political turmoil caused by the rebellion of former Deputy CM Sachin Pilot and 18 MLAs supporting him. Though Mr. Gehlot seems confident of majority, the legislators supporting him have been sequestered at a resort near Jaisalmer. The Chief Minister said six BSP MLAs had joined the Congress last year by following all norms and in the interest of a stable government. While the merger was within the parameters of law, there was no justification for the attempts to destabilise the government by horse-trading of MLAs, he said. ‘Big split in the BJP’ Mr. Gehlot questioned the shifting of BJP MLAs to Gujarat and alleged that the party was ridden with factionalism. “I can see a big split in the BJP... They are setting the traditions which are dangerous for democracy,” he told. The BJP has sent 18 of its MLAs in the last two days to the party-ruled Gujarat.  On the Special Operation Group notices sent to some of the rebel MLAs in connection with the alleged horse-trading, Mr. Gehlot said the agencies just wanted to talk to them but it was projected as if a sedition case had been registered against them.
10 August 2020||New Delhi,||Confusion prevails over Sonia’s term||The confusion over Sonia Gandhi’s tenure as the president of the Congress continued, with some quarters calling for a more permanent arrangement and a section of the party insisting that there is no fixed tenure for an interim president. Ms. Gandhi’s tenure ends on Monday. At an online press conference, party spokesperson Abhishek Manu Singhvi said Ms. Gandhi would continue to be president till a procedure was implemented to bring in her successor. “Just like nature, political parties too can’t function in a vacuum. It is true that her tenure expires tomorrow, there is a laid-down procedure for elections. In the meanwhile, if anyone is suggesting that the Congress will become headless at the stroke of midnight on August 10, is that a fair interpretation?” he said. Lok Sabha member Shashi Tharoor said the party must have elections to the Congress Working Committee and to the post of president. “I certainly believe we should be clear about our leadership going forward. I welcomed Sonia ji ’s appointment as interim president last year but I do believe it’s unfair to her to expect her to carry this burden indefinitely,” he said. A senior party functionary told The Hindu that the tenure is not tied down by any deadline. The party constitution, he said, says if the elected president steps down, the senior-most general secretary or anyone that the Congress Working Committee selects can take over for an interim period. He also clarified that the party does not have to inform the Election Commission, because it is an internal matter. Rahul not in the race Sources indicate that Rahul Gandhi is not planning to return as president as the conditions which forced him to resign still persist. In his resignation letter on July 3 last year, Mr. Gandhi had called for accountability for the defeat of the party in the 2019 polls, and said “at times I stood alone”, referring to the Lok Sabha campaign. However, in the last few months, he has attended key meetings of the party, including chairing a strategy meeting on the upcoming Bihar Assembly polls.
10 August 2020||New Delhi,||Four BJP leaders quit in Kashmir||Leaders of the Bharatiya Janata Party in the Kashmir Valley have announced their resignations on social media after a spate of attacks and killing of panchayat members in the past one week. On Sunday, BJP worker Abdul Hamid Najar was shot at by suspected terrorists in Budgam district. Hours later, four leaders of the BJP — Avtar Krishen, Imran Ahmad Parray, Wali Mohammad Bhat and Sameer Ahmad Shah — circulated the pictures of their handwritten letters on social media that they have “no contact with the BJP.” On August 6, Sajad Ahmad Khanday, a sarpanch affiliated to the BJP, was killed by alleged terrorists in Kulgam. On August 4, another panch, Arif Ahmad, was critically wounded in an attack. A year ago, Parliament had removed the special status of Jammu and Kashmir and bifurcated the State into two Union Territories. Key role Shafiq Mir, Chairman of the All Jammu and Kashmir Panchayat Conference, said the government was not serious about the safety and security of sarpanches and panches and it did not have a plan for them. He said many members were not able to visit the villages and were forced to live in police accommodations. “The panchayat members are the only elected representatives in Jammu and Kashmir right now who are playing the role of a bridge between the people and the government. The security agencies do not even come to know who will come under attack next,” Mr. Mir said on phone from Kashmir. Jammu and Kashmir has been under Central rule since June 2018 and the 87-member Assembly was dissolved in November the same year. The panchayat elections were held in the former State in 2018 and as many as 12,776 sarpanch and panch seats, particularly in south Kashmir, are still vacant as elections could not be held due to security concerns then. A total of 27,281 panches and sarpanches were elected then. Some panches and sarpanches are still living under police protection in hotels in Srinagar. Modi’s assurance Mr. Mir said the members agreed to fight the elections on a personal assurance given by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. He said 20 panchayat members had been killed since 2012. “We are not able to work. We plan to meet the Prime Minister again if the need arises. We had shared our concerns with former Lieutenant Governor G.C Murmu few days ago but then he was replaced,” Mr. Mir said. They were yet to receive any formal invite from the new Lieutenant Governor Manoj Sinha for a meeting. He, however, added that there was a function of all panchayati raj institutions on August 12 where he hoped to convey the grievances to the Lieutenant Governor.
10 August 2020||LUCKNOW,||Aide of Mukhtar Ansari shot dead||The Uttar Pradesh police shot dead an aide of jailed MLA Mukhtar Ansari from Mau in an alleged exchange of fire after the SUV he was purportedly travelling in along with four other suspects crashed into a tree in the early hours of Sunday in Lucknow. The family of the deceased Rakesh Pandey alias Hanuman Pandey, however, accused the police of picking him up from home in Lucknow and then killing him. Co-accused in murder Pandey had been a co-accused in the 2005 murder of then BJP MLA Krishnanand Rai. However, in 2019 he along with MLA Mukhtar Ansari and six others was acquitted in the case by a special CBI court in Delhi. Around 4.20 a.m. on Sunday, an SUV carrying Pandey and four others was intercepted and followed near the Shaheed Path in Lucknow by STF teams from Varanasi and Lucknow on inputs by informants, police said. The U.P. STF said it received an input that along with his gang members Pandey was collecting weapons to execute a crime and intercepted him travelling towards Kanpur road. During the chase, the SUV crashed into a tree near Sarojini Nagar following which the suspects fired at the police team, said SSP STF Sudhir Singh. “In the cross-firing, one accused got shot,” Mr. Singh told reporters, adding that Pandey was declared “brought dead” at a hospital. However, in a statement issued later, the STF said an injured Pandey was rushed to the CHC Sarojini Nagar where he died during treatment. SSP Singh said Pandey was a “dreaded shooter of Mukhtar Ansari”. The STF said he carried a bounty of Rs. 50,000 in an attempt-to-murder case in Prayagraj. The other four suspects fled taking cover against a drain, said Mr. Singh. In the STF press statement, however, police said the other suspects took advantage of the dark and fled. They also did not state how many persons were in the car. The STF said Pandey had 12 criminal cases and was out on bail in a case. Police accused him of managing criminal and land-related activities for Mr. Ansari after alleged gangster Prem Prakash Singh alias Munna Bajrangi was shot dead inside the premises of Baghpat jail by another inmate in 2018. Baldutt Pandey, Rakesh Pandey’s father, said his son was pulled out of his residence by police in Lucknow around 3 a.m. Since Rakesh’s mother was unwell and getting treated at a Lucknow hospital, he had been in the city to take care of her. She was discharged only a couple of days ago and he was taking care of her, he said. While police said Rakesh had 12 criminal cases against him, his father said he had no [pending] cases as all had been decided. He also said he had never heard about any bounty being declared on his son.
10 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||As heavy rain continues, more shifted to camps in Kerala||Torrential rain lashed most districts on Sunday, prompting district administrations to evacuate more families to relief camps. Four deaths were reported in the State in rain-related incidents. Seven districts had been on red alert since Sunday morning with the India Meteorological Department (IMD) forecasting extremely heavy rainfall. In Kottayam district, a taxi driver, identified as Justin Joy, 26, of Manjapra, was swept away by floodwater along with his car in the early hours of Sunday near Manarcadu. His body was recovered in the afternoon. In Erattupettah, a man was electrocuted while cleaning a flooded shop. As many as 4495 people have been evacuated to 194 relief camps in the district. According to the State disaster control room, two persons drowned in Kannur and Kasaragod. Dam shutters raised In rain-battered Pathanamthitta, six shutters of the Pampa dam have been raised by 60 cm. More people have been evacuated to relief camps even as the swollen Manimala river continued to inundate low-lying areas. A person, identified as Rajan of Pramadam, has been reported missing in the Achencoil river. A total of 3,342 people have been shifted to 103 relief camps in the district. Kuttanad in Alappuzha district is facing the threat of another deluge with seven bund breaches occurring over the weekend and floodwater continuing to pour in from the east. As many as 327 people from Kuttanad have so far been shifted to relief camps. A large number of people in the flood-prone parts of Chengannur taluk also have been evacuated.  Floodwater has started receding from the highlands and midlands of Wayanad. The district reported a brief respite from the heavy rain on Sunday. Vehicle movement resumed on the Kozhikode-Kollegal national highway 766 after water receded from the low-lying banks of the Nugu river. Following heavy rain, 491 persons have been evacuated to camps in Kannur. In Palakkad and Malappuram, most of the rivers are in spate. In Kozhikode, around 700 people have been shifted to relief camps. Six houses destroyed Six houses were destroyed and 224 damaged in rain-related incidents in Ernakulam district. Most rivers in the district are in spate. Around 1,200 people have been shifted to 46 relief camps across the district. In Thrissur district, 126 families have been shifted to relief camps in Kodungalloor, Thrissur, Chalakudy, Mukundapuram and Chavakkad taluks. Coastal erosion continues to pose a major challenge in Thiruvananthapuram. As many as 583 people have been evacuated to camps in the district.
10 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Overseas support was crucial for Khalistan groups’||As more and more foreign governments, including the United Kingdom and Canada, refuse support for Khalistani demands of a “Referendum 2020” , a new book sheds light on operations of India’s external intelligence agency, the Research and Analysis Wing (RAW), in the face of earlier covert support by these countries for the Khalistani terror networks. The book, RAW: A History of India’s Covert Operations by journalist Yatish Yadav, goes into much detail on not just how Khalistani terrorists operated offshore but also how foreign governments turned a blind eye and, in some cases, offered covert support to such groups. “The RAW didn’t believe U.S. authorities’ assurances that it would investigate the role of Khalistani extremists in Washington and New York,” says the book. According to the book, a RAW operative — one “Dinesh Mathur” — managed to penetrate the networks in North America, and even managed to get to the terror movement’s leader Jagjit Singh Chouhan, and other top ranking members. “In November 1988, Mathur had recruited a key Khalistani figure, Chatar Singh, who was living on Fairfax Road in Maryland,” says the book, describing in detail the large cache of arms in Singh’s basement and his eventual recruitment by the Indian spy agency. “In a report in July 1989, based on information provided by Chatar, Mathur warned his top bosses in Delhi about the financial support extended to a few Panthic committees from the U.S.A and Canada. The leaders from the committees were operating from Pakistan and safe havens in Nepal. He described the U.S. and Canada-based leaders of the movement as the fountainhead of Punjab’s insurgency,” says the book. Recruitment of U.S. lobbyists, politicians for propaganda purposed by pro-Khalistani outfits abroad was also deemed very harmful to India in efforts to build a case in international fora against Khalistani terror groups. Mixed bag Lessons from the agencies’ mixed bag of success and failure in handling the Khalistani terror groups, are now being sought to be implemented as the hardsell over “Referendum 2020” has begun. A proposal has been moved by the government extending immunity to cyber decoys recruited to counter propaganda and criminal activities in the virtual world. A decision to set up a joint counter operations centre involving the R&AW, the National Investigation Agency (NIA), Intelligence Bureau (IB) and the Punjab Police, has been taken. Most important, in a meeting of top officials in 2019, hiring of retired officers and spies, who had served in Punjab during the the Khalistan movement, has also been approved. The events of the turbulent 1980s when the country was almost torn asunder due to separatist movements in Punjab and Assam is vividly described in the book.
10 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||CM’s press meet may get more intense||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan's COVID-19 news briefings could get more politically intense in the coming days. Mr. Vijayan said attempts by a section of the media to tarnish him and his office at the behest of their ‘handlers’ could compel him to use the widely watched news briefings about the daily pandemic situation to answer political charges. The Chief Minister had stated that nobody should accuse him of having shied away from answering questions by journalists. The tirade of "false charges" against the government had compelled Mr. Vijayan to review the stance that he would not discuss politics at COVID-19 news briefings. The Congress has attempted to counter Mr. Vijayan by making his "repeated assaults on journalistic freedom" a political talking point. KPCC president Mullappally Ramachandran set the ball rolling on Sunday by accusing Mr. Vijayan of having attempted to browbeat the media into submission. He said Mr. Vijayan's “assault on independent media” reflected the mindset of the CPI(M) which did not see any moral wrong in assassinating political opponents in cold blood. The Chief Minister was inherently disdainful of independent media. He had infamously shooed them away from government meetings. He did not want the press to reflect the truth. Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala criticised Mr. Vijayan "for using" the widely broadcast COVID-19 news conference as a high-profile platform to berate opponents and push political propaganda.  ‘Media cabal’ The war of words over journalistic freedom and reporting ethics came against the backdrop of Mr. Vijayan's repeated criticism of the "relentless attempt" by "some sections" of the media to unfairly tie his office with the gold smuggling case. Mr. Vijayan maintained that covert forces afraid to criticise the government straightforwardly had intrigued with a "syndicate" in the media to tarnish his office. A group that had vowed to commit suicide if a person of Mr. Vijayan's political background occupied the Chief Minister’s chair had recruited the media cabal, Mr. Vijayan had asserted recently. The group, through misleading television news scrolls, talk shows, and print headlines had attempted to draw an equivalency between the previous "scandal-tainted" Congress government and the LDF rule, he had said repeatedly. The Chief Minister had faced a barrage of questions from media persons over the past two weeks on the "close links" of his former Principal Secretary M. Sivasankar with Swapna Suresh, the second accused in the gold smuggling case, including her appointment as an employee in the Space Park project.
10 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Amid pandemic, India & Pak. spar over Indus water talks||India has refused a request by Pakistan to hold a meeting on issues around the Indus Water Treaty (IWT) at the Attari checkpost near the India-Pakistan border. In March India had suggested a virtual conference but Pakistan had insisted on a physical meeting, a senior official in the Ministry of Water Resources told The Hindu on Sunday. “Because of restrictions on movement in light of the COVID-19 pandemic, travelling to the border for a meeting isn’t advisable,” the official added. The last such meeting between the two countries was in October in Islamabad, and, as per the agreement in the Indus Water Treaty (IWT), a meeting was to be scheduled in India before March 31. The practice at the IWT meetings is that they are led by Indus Water Commissioners from both countries and a range of issues on construction of dams and hydropower projects concerning the Indus river system are discussed. However the COVID-19 pandemic led to the meeting being cancelled and this was followed up by discussions between representatives of the two countries on how discussions could be conducted. Among the key points on the table was evolving a procedure to solve differences on technical aspects governing the construction of the Ratle run-of-the-river (RoR) project on the Chenab in the Kishtwar district of Jammu and Kashmir. India has called for the appointment of a ‘neutral’ party while Pakistan favours a Court of Arbitration to agree upon a final resolution on the design parameters of this hydropower project. According to the terms of the IWT, India has the right to build RoR projects on the three ‘western’ rivers — the Chenab, Jhelum and Indus — provided it does so without substantially impeding water flow in Pakistan downstream. Pakistan believes that the project’s current design does pose a serious impediment and has told the World Bank that it wants a Court of Arbitration (CoA) set up to decide on the issue. India says this is only a technical issue and mutually solvable. It has agreed to a ‘neutral party’ since a CoA potentially could stall any construction on all Indus projects, the official said. The IWT has been in existence since 1960, and reached a flash point in the aftermath of the Uri attacks in 2016 with Prime Minister Narendra Modi declaring that “blood and water couldn’t flow together” and India would utilise the full hydropower capacity of its share of the Indus systems.
10 August 2020||New Delhi,||‘Rajnath Singh promised a bang, ended with a whimper’||The only importer of defence equipment is the Defence Ministry itself and any embargo is really an embargo on oneself, senior Congress leader P. Chidambaram said in a series of tweets, reacting to Defence Minister Rajnath Singh’s announcement on Sunday morning of stopping import of 101 items as part of the Centre’s ‘Atmanirbhar Bharat’ initiative. “The Defence Minister promised a ‘bang’ on a Sunday morning and ended with a ‘whimper,’ ” Mr. Chidambaram said. “Any import embargo is really an embargo on oneself. What the Defence Minister said in his historic Sunday announcement deserved only an Office Order from the Minister to his Secretaries!” Mr. Chidambaram said while “import embargo” was a high-sounding jargon, it only meant that India would try to make the same equipment in two to four years and stop the imports thereafter.
10 August 2020||HYDERABAD,||No compromise on share of Krishna water, says Minister||Minister for Industries, IT and Urban Development K.T. Rama Rao has stated that Telangana’s cordial relations with Andhra Pradesh would not hinder its fight for the rightful share of people in Krishna water. Mr. Rama Rao made the statement in response to a question posed to him as part of “Ask KTR” session on a social media platform where he responded to netizens’ questions on wide-ranging issues on Sunday. Replying to a question on the Telangana government’s stand on AP’s plans to divert huge quantity of Krishna water, he said there would be no compromise on the State’s interests and the government had already filed a special leave petition in the Supreme Court. Asked about the fleecing of COVID-19 patients by private hospitals in Hyderabad, making them frightened with huge bills for treatment, the Minister said the government had already taken action against a few hospitals indulging in unfair practices and promised more action. He, however, asked people “to respect and recognise the efforts of government sector professionals”. He stated that government hospitals across the State were offering services even when private hospitals were refusing treatment. “It’s the government healthcare professionals who are taking up such cases. Testing for coronavirus detection was being done at 1,200 centres across the State already and daily testing would be increased to over 40,000 a day from the present 23,000, Mr. Rao said adding that recovery rate of patients in the State was highest in the country at 72% and the mortality rate was just 1%. Asking people not to be part of the campaign being carried out against the government hospitals, he urged them to recognise their service as thousands of COVID patients had already been treated successfully. He also admitted that there was need to further strengthen the public health sector not only in Telangana but across the country in the wake of the corona crisis. The Minister pointed out that efforts of the State government had helped reduce the maternal and infant mortality rates. He explained that ICU units had been established in all Area Hospitals and free dialysis units had been set up in 40 hospitals. Besides, five new government medical colleges had been started at Nalgonda, Suryapet, Siddipet, Mahabubnagar, Adilabad and Bibinagar since formation of the State. Asked about the contribution of Telangana toward Ram Mandir construction at Ayodhya, Mr. Rama Rao said he would pray and hope for Ram Rajya where people of all faiths, castes and classes would be respected and treated equally as enshrined in the Constitution. Stating that ground-breaking for Eliminedu Aerospace Park would be done soon, he noted that the State was waiting for the Centre’s nod on resuming city bus, MMTS and Metro Rail services.
10 August 2020||HYDERABAD,||‘Design based on temple art’||The proposed new Secretariat complex, the design for which was approved by the State Cabinet recently, draws inspiration from a few major temples in the State. The ideas and inspiration of the domes on the façade of the imposing new complex are drawn from major temples — the Neelakanteshwara temple and Hanuman temple at Sarangapur in Nizamabad district, and the thousand pillars temple at Hanamkonda and the Wanaparthy Palace. The architecture firm, Oscar and Ponni Architects, which prepared the design for the new Secretariat, said the overall design philosophy and the exterior architectural character were fusion and synthesis of diverse cultures and heritage of dynamic history of Telangana. “We have extensively studied temple architecture and prepared the design with architectural styles predominantly of Deccan Kakatiya style,” Ms. Ponni Concessao of the Oscar and Ponni Architects told The Hindu . According to Ms. Ponni, the planning concept was entirely vaastu-compliant and the design inspiration was two-fold, the cultural and architectural style of Telangana and the other was Lord Siva with specific reference to the Neelakanteshwara temple. Opposition criticism The statement assumes significance in the light of the criticism mounted by the opposition Bharatiya Janata Party that the design was aimed at appeasing a particular section of society. Ms. Ponni said the thousand pillars temple was a statement of finest arts of the Kakatiyas. The dome and allied architectural features were inspiration from temples dedicated to Lord Siva and an example of Hindu Deccan Kakatiya architecture. The exterior podium cladding, according to Ms. Ponni, would be red sandstone and the central tower would be with Rajasthan’s beige Dholpur sandstone cladding. The beige color psychology was reliable, dependable and flexible while the colour beige was neutral, modern, urbane, calm and relaxing. Meanwhile, Oscar Concessao of the architecture firm has been holding discussions with officials, including senior police officers about the security aspects of the new complex. “We are in discussions with different departments and police over the security features that should be incorporated into the new complex. The government is firm that the latest in security and surveillance technology should be deployed for the complex,” he said.
10 August 2020||August 10 2020 00:00 IST,||‘We should be clear about our leadership’||Senior Congress leader and Thiruvananthapuram MP Shashi Tharoor has called for elections to the Congress Working Committee and the post of president to challenge the perception of the party being “adrift and rudderless, incapable of taking up the challenge of a credible national Opposition”.  Sonia Gandhi completes a year as Congress president. This was supposed to be an ad hoc arrangement. But so far there is no clarity on what the party will do on August 10. What are your personal views on the way forward for the party? I certainly believe we should be clear about our leadership going forward. I welcomed Sonia ji ’s appointment as interim president last year but I do believe it’s unfair to her to expect her to carry this burden indefinitely. My own personal view, which as you know I have been advocating for some time now, is that elections to the CWC and for the post of president would certainly have a number of beneficial outcomes for the party. A participatory democratic process would significantly add to the incoming leader’s credibility and legitimacy which, in turn, would be vital assets as they set about the significant organisational challenges associated with re-energising the rank and file of the party. You have repeatedly called for an open election within the party, a sort of public event, which you said would galvanise the party cadres. The history of the Congress, however, does not really stand by your proposition. The party has repeatedly picked the family over others. Your comments. I think the question mixes up two different issues. Obviously, the Nehru-Gandhi family holds a special place in the hearts of Congress party members — and with good reason too. Aside from the great legacy they have inherited from their illustrious forebears, they have consistently brought together the various groups, ideologies, geographies and communities that collectively make up the fabric of the Congress party. They also have a clear record of success and experience in leading the party, both when in government and during tough times in the wilderness, when they have still managed to rally the men and women of the Congress together. Let us not forget the magnitude of what they have achieved for the party — or the ultimate sacrifice paid by two former presidents from the family. So, if Rahul Gandhi is ready to resume the leadership, all he has to do is to withdraw his resignation. He was elected to serve till December 2022 and can just pick up the reins again. It would be a popular outcome among the rank and file of the party. But if he does not, we have to find another solution. That’s what I am talking about. How dangerous is it for the party to continue to coast along in this manner without a clarity about leadership? As I have often pointed out, the challenge is that there appears to be a growing public perception, fuelled by a dismissive media, that the Congress is adrift and rudderless, incapable of taking up the challenge of a credible national Opposition. That is precisely what we need to urgently address by expediting the process of finding a full-term president. Once this is done, we can also move towards identifying solutions to other areas such as organisational challenges, revitalising the party particularly in the States that we have not been performing well in recently, energising the rank and file of our membership and so on.  Should Rahul Gandhi return to the helm withdrawing his resignation? I, for one, would be delighted if he did. Just look at the active and dynamic leadership these last few months. Through his activities during this lockdown, whether it has been on the issue of the COVID-19 virus or Chinese transgressions, Rahul Gandhi has without a question and almost single-handedly done a remarkable job in holding the present government accountable for its actions and failures. He has also displayed tremendous foresight and vision, been a constructive voice that has offered critical inputs and has shown an impressive capability to really understand the aspirations of the people during these challenging times. I hope he will continue doing that, whether as president or in any other capacity of his choosing. I certainly think he has the mettle, capability and aptitude to again lead the party, given the widespread admiration and support he enjoys among the rank and file.  It’s unfair to Sonia Gandhi to expect her to carry the burden indefinitely
10 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Andaman and Nicobar will be a maritime hub: Modi||Prime Minister Narendra Modi said on Sunday the Andaman and Nicobar islands region, owing to its strategic importance, was going to be developed as a “maritime and startup hub” and highlighted his government’s development initiatives for it. He said this during a video link with BJP workers from the Union Territory a day before he is to inaugurate a submarine optical fibre cable between Chennai and islands. “The region will no longer face any problem in getting virtually connected to the outside world.” The BJP has projected the inauguration of the submarine optical fibre as the islands turning “digitally independent” on August 10. High-impact projects “The region will play an important role in our government’s self-reliant India project and the growth of new India,” Mr. Modi said highlighting the Andaman archipelago’s significance in the freedom movement. He said 12 islands of the archipelago have been selected for high-impact projects with an emphasis on boosting trade of sea-based, organic and coconut-based products of the region. He said the proposed transhipment hub in the Andamans will help the group of islands become an important centre of blue economy and a maritime and startup hub. Over 300 km of national highway is expected to be completed in record time, he said, adding his government is working to improve air connectivity within these islands and between them and the rest of the country. Noting that his government has brought in more education facilities, including law and medical colleges, to the region, Mr. Modi asked the BJP workers to inform the masses about the changes the Central government has ushered in and how things were earlier. BJP president J.P. Nadda, who also addressed the meeting, hailed PM Modi for his work in dealing with the pandemic. The daily testing has risen to five lakh from 1,500 earlier, he said. Andaman and Nicobar BJP leader Vishal Jolly highlighted the high COVID-19 infection rate among the local population.
10 August 2020||HYDERABAD,||Chennai stock of ammonium nitrate being shifted by Hyderabad explosive manufacturer||A private firm in Hyderabad into manufacturing of explosives has started the process of transporting in lots around 700 tonnes of the ammonium nitrate from near Chennai that it had purchased in an an e-auction by the Customs Department. “It is one of the key raw materials for manufacturing of explosives and we regularly handle (such material),” Shyam Sunder Reddy, managing director of Salvo Explosives & Chemicals told The Hindu on Sunday. Citing panic that will be “unnecessarily created”, he refused to mention the location of the godown in Hyderabad where the consignment will be delivered. Noting that the company was in the business of explosives for around two decades now, he said “not only ours, there are 20-30 such godowns in and around Hyderabad (of other companies as well).” The spotlight turned on ammonium nitrate following last week’s devastating explosion involving over 2,000 tonnes of the chemical stored in a warehouse in Beirut, Lebanon in which hundreds of people were killed and several thousands injured. Mr. Reddy said the company’s godowns have been approved by the Explosives Department. “They have given licence to store ammonium nitrate and we will be storing it in only those godowns (the consignment coming from Chennai).” The company, he added, purchases around 1500-2000 tonnes of the material every month. Following the Beirut incident, the Customs Department had fast-tracked the auction of the material that apparently was lying with them since a few years and stored in a container freight station located on the outskirts of Chennai. According to Mr. Reddy, Salvo had submitted its bid before the lockdown for COVID-19 and agreed to lift the product at the same price, though the international prices had subsequently crashed, after the authorities requested citing national security. The entire consignment of around 700 tonnes, which he said is being accompanied by Customs security, is expected to reach Hyderabad in a week to 10 days. The company had requested the authorities against sending the entire consignment at one go. On whether it had to apply for special permission from the authorities in Telangana, he said since the company has the licence for dealing in the material it was not required. “But we have intimated the Explosives Department (PESO) that we have purchased this much quantity and are the lifting the same from Chennai.” It is first time the company has purchased in auction, he said, adding usually its sources the product through the Visakhapatnam port.
10 August 2020||Jodhpur,||11 of Pak. Hindu family found dead||Eleven members of a family of Pakistan Hindu migrants were found dead at a farm in Jodhpur on Sunday, police said. Kewal Ram, 35, of the family, however, was found alive outside their hut at Lodta village of the Dechu area, over 100 km away from Jodhpur city, an officer said. “But he claimed to have no idea about the incident, which is believed to have happened in the night,” said SP (Rural) Rahul Barhat. “We are yet to ascertain the cause of death. They appeared to have committed suicide by consuming some chemical in the night,” Mr. Barhat said, adding that there was a smell of some chemical in the hut. There were no injury marks on any of the bodies or any evidence of foul play, he said. The family came to India in 2015. They had been living at the village farm for the past six months.
10 August 2020||HYDERABAD,||Plasma therapy not useful for critically-ill patients||In dire situations, family members of seriously ill COVID-19 patients are trying all means to get plasma from a COVID-19 recovered patients. However, senior officials from the Telangana Health department cautioned that some health facilities are exploiting people in the name of convalescent plasma therapy. State’s Director of Medical Education (DME) K. Ramesh Reddy said that the plasma therapy is in clinical trials stages, and it will not be useful for critically-ill COVID patients and those who are on ventilators. Neutralising antibodies Plasma collected from patients who recovered from the infectious disease would contain antibodies which neutralises the novel coronavirus. It is expected that the mortality rate might come down and patients will recover when plasma filled with the neutralising antibodies are infused into COVID-19 patients. Clinical trials are being conducted at Gandhi Hospital to test its effectiveness. However, of late, family members of patients admitted in private hospitals have requested for convalescent plasma from COVID recovered patients.  The DME explained who can donate plasma, and who might benefit from it. He said while vaccines trigger release of antibodies, plasma therapy is another means of sending antibodies into body. “Patients with moderate to severe symptoms can be given plasma therapy but not to those who are critically-ill and who are on ventilator support because viral load will be so high, the antibodies (in convalescent plasma) are of no use to them,” Dr. Reddy said. Not all COVID-19 recovered patients have adequate number of antibodies in plasma. The senior health official said that doctors at Gandhi Hospital have observed that adequate antibodies might not develop when infection is very mild. “Antibodies in very mild symptomatic patients might protect them from second infection. But it will not be enough to infuse and protect others. Around 85% to 90% of patients have mild symptoms and get cured. Patients with moderate symptoms have sufficient antibodies,” the DME explained.
10 August 2020||Mysuru,||Leopard dies after getting trapped in snare||A five-year-old leopard was found dead trapped in a snare laid outside a private farm at Muddanahalli village on the Hunsur-Thitthimathi road and abutting the Nagarahole tiger reserve, on Sunday. The leopard tried to extricate itself from the trap but died as the snare tightened its grip on the lower abdomen. It is suspected to have died on Saturday night or early on Sunday. Wildlife activists have expressed concern over the increase in the practice of laying snares to trap wild boars and deer for meat which also leads to death of other animals. Senior Forest Department officials reached the spot on receiving information and the carcass was burnt after post-mortem. Activists have called for educating the local community on the consequences of laying snares. They have urged the Forest Department to launch a combing operation to dismantle snares. In 2017, a similar drive was launched following two cases of tigers being snared outside the national park boundary.  Wildlife activists have expressed concern over the increase in the practice of laying snares to trap wild boars and deer for meat
10 August 2020||KALPETTA,||Sexual misconduct: priest stripped of duties||The Metropolitan Sulthan Bathery Malankara Orthodox diocese has initiated action against a priest who has been accused of sexual misconduct. Abraham mar Epiphanios, Metropolitan of the diocese, told the media on Sunday that Babu Varghese Pookottil, 37, who was the priest of St. George Tabor Orthodox church at Kammana in the district, had been removed from priestly duties because he had led a life not suitable for a priest and was arrested in a criminal case. The church had no connection with a de-addiction centre run by the priest at Kenichira in the district . Moreover, it was functioning without the permission of the church, the Metropolitan said. ‘Family counselling’ The Kambalakkad police arrested the priest on the charge of molesting a woman. The police said the priest was arrested as per the complaint of a woman at Kaniyampetta in the district, who was separated from her husband owing to family issues. The priest, who was also a family counsellor, convinced the woman that he would solve the issue through counselling. Later, the accused molested the woman after trespassing on her rented quarters, she said in her complaint.
10 August 2020||Hassan,||Dalit ‘assaulted’ for transporting bull||“Let them stop cattle fairs that are being held regularly in big cities, instead of troubling poor farmers in villages,” Jayaraj, of Hebbanahalli in Sakleshpur taluk, has rued. The 43-year-old was allegedly assaulted by Bajrang Dal activists on August 2 for transporting a bull without documents. Mr. Jayaraj, a Dalit, told The Hindu on Saturday that he was beaten up severely while he was taking a bull to his sister’s place near Halasulige in Sakleshpur taluk. His sister had purchased the animal for Rs. 20,000 and had asked him and his friend, Ningaraju, to take it to her place. “A group of people stopped us and forced us to tie the animal nearby. Later, they beat us up alleging that we were taking the animal to a slaughterhouse. We ran to save our lives,” he said. Mr. Jayaraj wanted to know who gave them power to stop and assault people for no reason. He named Raghuji, a leader of the Bajrang Dal, and Raghu, Shekhar Poojari and others in his complaint. The police have registered a case under The Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989, besides the relevant sections of the Indian Penal Code. Another complaint Meanwhile, Bajrang Dal activists argued that they did not assault anybody and claimed they were attacked by locals in Halasulige. Dileep, an activist of the outfit, told The Hindu, “We had stopped the two people taking the bull and asked them to show a letter to prove that they had purchased it from a farmer. They had no letter and we called the police. When we were waiting for the police, some of the locals reached the spot and attacked us.” Mr. Dileep filed a complaint naming Aseef, Rizwan and others of Halasulige village. This case was also registered under the SC and ST Act, as the complainant is also a Dalit. The police have not arrested anybody in either of the cases. Case based on FB post Meanwhile, Siddique, of Anemahal near Sakleshpur, had posted a statement on Facebook concerning the incident and the Sakleshpur police registered a suo motu case against him. The police issued him a notice and also seized his cellphone. Siddique, speaking to The Hindu , expressed surprise over the case. “There was nothing objectionable in my post,” he said. While many have objected to the police action on social media, B. Girish, Sakleshpur CPI, defended the police stating that the FB post could disturb peace and harmony.
10 August 2020||August 10 2020 00:00 IST,||10 killed in blaze at COVID-19 care facility||“Swarna Palace is a major fire hazard. It did not have proper exit points and that made the rescue operation very difficult; we had to use ladders to bring down the trapped people,” Mr. Raza said. PM expresses grief Prime Minister Narendra Modi who spoke to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy following the accident, conveyed his condolences to the bereaved family members. Union Home Minister Amit Shah, Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan and State Home Minister M. Sucharitha also expressed their condolences to the bereaved family members. Endowments Minister V. Srinivas, Director-General of Police D. Gautam Sawang, Collector A.Md. Imtiaz, A.P. State Disaster Response and Fire Services Director-General Hasan Reza and Director K. Jayaram Naik, and Regional Fire Officer G. Srinivas arrived at the spot to monitor the rescue operations. TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu, BJP State president Somu Veerraju, and CPI(M) leader Babu Rao expressed shock at the tragedy and conveyed their condolences to the bereaved families. Vijaywada Collector A Md. Imtiaz said safety aspects at the other quarantine centres were being verified and stern action would be initiated against the persons responsible for the accident. Fire Services Director Jayaram Naik said certain violations of fire safety norms were observed and the lease system was being verified.  (With inputs from PTI)
10 August 2020||August 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Idukki landslip toll rises to 43, many still missing||The deployment of the dog squad of the district police in the search operation helped trace some victims. Drones were also used. Eight bodies were found in a nearby stream into which the gushing waters from the landslip poured in. All the recovered bodies are being buried in a mass burial site at Pettimudy. A team of doctors are camping in the area and a mobile mortuary has been set up to conduct autopsies. Forest Minister K. Raju who visited the spot said six Forest Department staff from the estate lanes were among the missing while the bodies of others had been recovered. He promised assistance to the families of the victims. Adverse climate and lack of electricity have also hampered the search operation. District Collector H. Dinesan said the search would continue in the coming days. “The area is muddy and with rain continuing, search operation is difficult,” he said.
10 August 2020||Belagavi,||Man drowns in Karnataka||Even as a 19-year-old man died by drowning in Belagavi district on Sunday, the threat of a flood subsided in most places in North Karnataka because of low rainfall and reduced water release from Maharashtra. However, as a matter of precaution, officials have shifted around 150 persons from low-lying villages into a relief centre at Nippani. Water release into the Krishna and its tributaries has reduced to 1.6 lakh cusecs. The inflow and outflow at Almatti dam were stable at 1.8 lakh cusecs, officials said. Inflow into the Lal Bahadur Shastri reservoir at Almatti — the biggest dam across the Krishna river in Karnataka — has greatly reduced. The inflow and outflow were stable around 1.6 lakh cusecs. The dam, with the gross capacity of 123 tmcft, has around 92.4 tmcft of water now. Thanks to the let-up in rains for two days in Belagavi and Khanapur, the water levels in the rivers Hiranyakeshi and Markandeya and in the Ballari Nala stream were decreasing. The inflow into Malaprabha was at the rate of 8,000 cusecs on Sunday, down from 14,000 cusecs on Saturday. The outflow was reduced to the rate of 1,000 cusecs. The dam, of 37 tmcft gross capacity, now has only 28 tmcft of water. The inflow into Hidkal dam on the Ghataprabha river was at the rate of 42,000 cusecs, but there was no discharge. Irrigation officials in Belagavi said the water levels in the reservoirs in Maharashtra were low and there was no chance of release of large amounts of water immediately. Koyna dam is 70% full while Warna dam is around 85% full. Water release from those dams will increase if the water levels reach 90%, an officer said. Death The young man who died by drowning in the Ballari Nala was identified as Nagaraj Hebballi, 19. He had been washed away in the stream on Saturday night. State Disaster Response Force personnel fished out his body about 2 km from his village. This is the second death in North Karnataka in the flooding of waterbodies.
10 August 2020||August 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Defence Ministry to impose import embargo||He added that the government will push the Swadeshi movement started by freedom fighters and Mahatma Gandhi during the Independence Movement. “The Ministry of Defence is now ready for a big push to #AtmanirbharBharat initiative. ….Taking cue from that evocation, the Ministry of Defence has prepared a list of 101 items for which there would be an embargo on the import beyond the timeline indicated against them. This is a big step towards self-reliance in defence. #AtmanirbharBharat,” Mr. Singh said in his Twitter series. He said the decision will offer a great opportunity to the Indian defence industry to manufacture the items in the negative list by using their own design and development capabilities or adopting the technologies designed and developed by the Defence Research Development Organisation (DRDO) to meet the requirements of the Armed Forces. “The list is prepared by MoD after several rounds of consultations with all stakeholders, including the Armed Forces, public & private industry to assess current and future capabilities of the Indian industry for manufacturing various ammunition & equipment within India,” Mr. Singh said. He added that almost 260 schemes of such items were contracted by the Tri-Services at an approximate cost of Rs. 3.5 lakh crore between April 2015 and August 2020. It is estimated that contracts worth almost Rs. 4 lakh crore will be placed with the domestic industry within the next 6 to 7 years, he said. “Of these, items worth almost Rs. 1,30,000 crore each are anticipated for the Army and the Air Force, while items worth almost Rs. 1,40,000 crore are anticipated by the Navy over the same period,” the Minister said. The list of 101 embargoed items comprises of not just simple parts but also some high technology weapon systems like artillery guns, assault rifles, corvettes, sonar systems, transport aircrafts, LCHs, radars and many other items to fulfil the needs of the defence Services, Mr. Singh said. The list also includes wheeled Armoured Fighting Vehicles (AFVs) with indicative import embargo date of December 2021, of which the Army is expected to contract almost 200 at an approximate cost of over Rs. 5,000 crore. “The embargo on imports is planned to be progressively implemented between 2020 to 2024. Our aim is to apprise the Indian defence industry about the anticipated requirements of the Armed Forces so that they are better prepared to realise the goal of indigenisation. MoD has also bifurcated the capital procurement budget for 2020-21 between domestic and foreign capital procurement routes,” the tweet said.
10 August 2020||MALAPPURAM,||14 injured air passengers continue to be critical||The condition of 14 persons who were injured in Friday’s Air India Express B-737 flight crash at Karipur continued to be “extremely serious” on Sunday. They were being treated at hospitals in Kozhikode and Malappuram districts. District Collector K. Gopalakrishnan said that 115 continued to be under treatment in different hospitals. They included the 14 critical cases. As many as 57 injured persons left the hospitals for home on Saturday and Sunday. MIMS Hospital at Kozhikode had 32 cases and Government Medical College Hospital at Kozhikode had nine cases. Meitra Hospital, Kozhikode, had 10 cases; Baby Memorial Hospital, Kozhikode, 22 cases; Iqra Hospital, Kozhikode, five cases; Government Beach Hospital, Kozhikode, seven cases; MES Medical College Hospital, Perinthalmanna, three cases; Moulana Hospital, Perinthalmanna, two cases; MIMS Hospital, Kottakkal, five cases; Al-Shifa Hospital, Perinthalmanna, 16 cases; Almas Hospital, Kottakkal, two cases; and Malabar Hospital and Manjeri Hospital, Manjeri, one cases each. Eighteen persons, including the two pilots and four children, were killed when the from Dubai fell off the runway into a valley while landing at Karipur airport at 7.45 p.m. on Friday. One of the victims tested positive for COVID-19. There were 184 passengers and six crew members on the flight. Police begin probe Meanwhile, the police have begun an investigation into the accident. A special investigation team under the supervision of Additional Superintendent of Police Sabu G. was set up. Dy.SP Haridas P.C. will lead the 30-member investigation team. Assistant Superintendent of Police Hemalata, Inspectors K.M. Biju, Shibu, Sunish P. Thankachan, and cybercell experts are part of the team. A case was registered at Karipur Police Station under IPC 337, 338, 304 A, and Section 11 of the Aircraft Act.
10 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Interim order on contempt case today||The Supreme Court will pronounce on Monday its interim order in a decade-old contempt case against noted civil rights lawyer Prashant Bhushan for his remarks about judicial “corruption” in an interview to Tehelka magazine in 2009.  Tehelka magazine editor-in-chief Tarun Tejpal is a co-respondent with Mr. Bhushan. A three-judge Bench, led by Justice Arun Mishra, had reserved the case for orders on August 4 after an almost day-long hearing that was not accessible to the media. Viddeo and audio links were snapped during the hearing. A two-page judicial order published later in the day said the court was yet to receive the “explanation/apology submitted” by Mr. Bhushan and Mr. Tejpal. The Bench had noted in its order that it would go on to hear the contempt case if “we do not accept the explanation/apology”. A communication released by Mr. Bhushan’s office late on August 4 said the Bench had talked to the lawyers in the case via a WhatsApp call. It said Mr. Bhushan had refused to apologise and said the word ‘corruption’ was used in the interview in a wide sense to mean “lack of propriety”. He had not meant that the judiciary was financially corrupt.
10 August 2020||August 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Vyasa advises Arjuna||The incident of Arjuna realising the loss of his renowned prowess and powers as an invincible warrior is narrated by Suta in the Devi Bhagavata Purana. Though it is difficult to believe this truth, and still more difficult to accept it, he is enlightened about his self by Vyasa, pointed out Sri K. Srinivasan in a discourse. The Pandavas are steeped in untold grief on learning of the departure of Krishna and Balarama from this world. Yudhishtira asks Arjuna to go to Dwaraka to console the aged parents of Krishna, and His consorts. Since Dwaraka is in imminent danger of getting submerged in the seas, Arjuna makes arrangements to move the people out of Dwaraka. He plans to take them to Hastinapura. But on the way, the caravan is attacked by dacoits who take away gold, jewellery and even the women. Arjuna is unable to stop the plunder. He finds that his gandibha of unfailing prowess is no longer so. Arjuna feels most frustrated and disappointed at the pale reflection of his hitherto invincible self. Vyasa explains to him the truth that he and Krishna are Nara and Narayana, the ancient divine gods. Arjuna’s powers are owing to Krishna and since the avatar is over, the powers have left him. He tells him that whenever Nara and Narayana are to incarnate the powers will automatically be with them. Nara and Narayana are very powerful and unconquerable in battle. They are also the best of the ancient rishis. Yudhishtira and the Pandavas understand the inevitable effects of time where change alone is the most abiding factor in the universe. The old order changes to give place to the new. After thirty six years of rule, Yudhishtira makes Parikshit the king and leaves for the Himalayas along with Draupadi and his brothers to undertake the final journey.
10 August 2020||Hyderabad,||Rana Daggubati married||Actor Rana Daggubati and interior designer Miheeka Bajaj got married in an intimate ceremony here over the weekend.The duo, who had three-day nuptials starting from haldi and mehendi ceremony, tied the knot on Saturday in the presence of family and close friends. Bajaj wore a cream and golden lehenga, designed by Anamika Khanna, for the ceremony. The fashion designer posted a picture on Instagram describing the garment and wrote that it was embellished with hand done zardozi work, which took close to “10,000 manhours” to make. The couple made their relationship official in May.
10 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Nepal, India in war of words over Buddha||Nepal is the land of origin of Lord Buddha, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Kathmandu asserted on Sunday after External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar described the founder of Buddhism as one of the greatest Indians ever. Former Prime Minister Madhav Kumar Nepal said Mr. Jaishankar’s comments about Lord Buddha were “objectionable”. “It is a well-established and undeniable fact proven by historical and archaeological evidence that Gautama Buddha was born in Lumbini, Nepal. Lumbini... is one of the UNESCO world heritage sites,” said the official spokesperson of the Ministry.
10 August 2020||New Delhi,||Rahul hits out at Modi govt. over job losses||Nearly 14 crore people have been rendered unemployed because of the “ill-conceived policies” of the Narendra Modi government, Congress leader Rahul Gandhi said in a video message, launching the Indian Youth Congress’s campaign, ‘ rozgar do’ (provide employment) on Sunday. He urged unemployed youths to raise their voices and “awaken the government from its slumber”. “When Narendra Modi ji became PM, he promised that he would give employment to 2 crore people every year. He sold them a very big dream. The truth is 14 crore people have been made jobless,” he said. Mr. Gandhi blamed three policies — Demonetisation, faulty implementation of GST and extended lockdown — for “destroying” India’s economy.
10 August 2020||HYDERABAD,||Heavy flood to Jurala continues, water discharge steady||As the Jurala reservoir continued to receive over 2.2 lakh cusecs flood from the upstream all along on Sunday, the discharge of flood to Srisailam was also steady in the same measure. With the Central Water Commission (CWC) forecasting either steady or falling inflows into all the major reservoirs in the Krishna basin in Maharashtra and Karnataka, the flood to Jurala is also expected to recede proportionately from Monday. Against the release of over 2.2 lakh cusecs of flood from Narayanpur on Saturday, it came down to 1.8 lakh cusecs on Sunday evening with an equal amount of flood discharge at Almatti in the upstream. A bulletin issued by the Central Water Commission stated that rainfall in the catchment areas of Krishna and tributaries in Maharashtra and Karnataka has reduced but is likely to continue further with lesser intensity. Only Augumbe in Karnataka, the catchment of Tungabhadra river, had over over 9.4 cm rain in the 24 hours preceding 8.30 a.m. on Sunday. In other stations, it was less than 5 c.m. According to the Central Water Commission forecast, the flood to Almatti is expected to be nearly 1.7 lakh cusecs till Monday morning from 1.8 lakh cusecs at 6 p.m. on Sunday. Although nearly 1.17 lakh cusecs of flood was reaching Tungabhdra dam as on Sunday evening, the chances of its spillway discharge are remote as it still has a flood cushion of about 34 tmc ft water. However water storage in Srisailam is expected to cross 100 tmc ft by Monday morning in spite continuous release of flood in the measure of about 40,000 cusecs after power generation in the Left Bank power house by Telangana. At 9 p.m. on Sunday, inflows into Jurala were 2.2 lakh cusecs and discharge of flood was over 2.2 lakh cusecs with release of nearly 1.98 lakh cusecs from the 28 spillway gates and another 22,000 cusecs after power generation. Similarly, Srisailam was getting over 2 lakh cusecs flood with its storage measured at 96.04 tmc ft against its capacity of 215.8 tmc ft at 9 pm on Sunday. Storage of water in Nagarjunasagar was 231.22 tmc ft against its capacity of 312 tmc ft on Sunday night. Flood at Laxmi (Medigadda) barrage across Godavari was over 1.2 lakh cusecs on Sunday night but it was receding.
10 August 2020||Bengaluru,||Sriramulu in Bowring after testing positive for COVID-19||Unlike other politicians in Karnataka who made a beeline for private hospitals, Health and Family Welfare Minister B. Sriramulu, who tested positive for COVID-19 on Sunday, got himself admitted to the State-run Bowring and Lady Curzon Hospital here. The Minister took to Twitter to state that he developed fever and decided to get himself tested on Sunday. Results revealed that he had tested positive for COVID-19. He said that under the leadership of Chief Minister B. S. Yediyurappa, officials of his department and those in others were working on the frontline risking their health to fight against the disease. He said that he had travelled across all 30 districts and tried to ensure that people got the required treatment. “It is testing time for me and I will have to be hospitalised,” he said. Scores of people hailed the Minister’s decision to get admitted to a government-run hospital. Many doctors said that although it was a small step, it would help in improving the image of State-run hospitals and encourage citizens to visit and get treated there. Hospital authorities said that the Minister’s health was improving.
10 August 2020||hyderabad,||EFLU VC appointed UGC member||English and Foreign Languages University (EFLU) Vice-Chancellor E. Suresh Kumar has been appointed a member of the University Grants Commission (UGC), according to a notification issued by the Ministry of Human Resource Development (MHRD). Prof. Suresh Kumar will be in the position for three years or till further orders, whichever is earlier. The VC said he would strive to ensure that education policies reached all to fulfil the aspirations of the Prime Minister.
10 August 2020||MANGALURU,||Man held for pronouncing talaq over social media post||The Shirva police in Udupi district have arrested a person on the charge of pronouncing triple talaq to his wife through Facebook. The police gave the name of the arrested as Sheikh Mohammed Saleem (39) of Shirva. The police said Saleem had married Swapnaz in Shirva in September 2010. The two had a daughter and they stayed in Dammam in Saudi Arabia. On August 3, Saleem left Ms. Swapnaz and their daughter in Dammam and flew to Mumbai along with a woman. He then used his smartphone to post on his Facebook profile an audio addressing Ms. Swapnaz and pronouncing talaq thrice. Later, Ms. Swapnaz filed an online complaint from Dammam. The Shirva police registered her complaint under Section 4 of The Muslim Women (protection of rights on marriage) Act 2019. Following a tip-off about the visit of Saleem to his house in Shirva, the police arrested him on Friday.
10 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Trade unions oppose ‘anti-worker’ policies||Central trade unions (CTUs) on Sunday held protests across the country against the Centre’s “anti-worker, anti-farmer, anti-people and anti-national” policies, including the planned privatisation of some PSUs and commercialisation of some sectors, including coal mining, a statement by the joint platform of CTUs said. Workers’ associations of different sectors joined the demonstrations held under the banner, “Save India Day,” it said.
10 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Plea to permit use of homoeopathic drugs for COVID-19||Homoeopaths have urged the Supreme Court to direct the Centre to allow the administration of homoeopathic medicines for mild cases of COVID-19 and as an add-on to allopathic drugs in severe cases. The petitioners said they had given a representation to the Prime Minister, proposing the “development of ‘noso-CoV’, which they had introduced as a homoeo prophylaxis to prevent COVID-19.
10 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Invite applications for conferment of “senior advocate” designation, SC urged||Senior advocate Indira Jaising has urged the Supreme Court to brush off its ‘inertia’ and invite applications from lawyers for conferment of “senior advocate” designation. In an application filed in the court, Ms. Jaising, who was the country’s first woman Additional Solicitor General, suggested that the court could initiate the designation process online during the pandemic. It could conduct virtual interviews of the candidates.
10 August 2020||BODI,TAMIL NADU||Pepper and plantain crops damaged||Gutsy winds, which lasted for about an hour four days ago, destroyed a huge extent of pepper, plantain and other horticulture crops at Kottakudi here. Collector M Pallavi Baldev visited the village and interacted with farmers. Farmers said that wind had uprooted plants and crops at Salaparai, Muduvakudi and Muttam villages near Kottakudi. The officials said that a survey had begun in Gudalur, Cumbum, Thevaram and Pannaipuram where the damage was said to be heavy. The district administration formed teams comprising officials from revenue and agriculture departments for inspection. On receipt of reports, they would be sent to the government for compensation.  A group of women representing a self-help-group in the village said banks were exerting pressure to repay EMIs. Bank representatives were sending reminders and insisting on repayment. The Collector assured to take it up with the bank concerned and sort it out by giving them ample time as announced by the government.  Ms. Pallavi Baldev, who found a few dwellings built on banks of river, instructed the Tahsildar to ensure that they were evicted. They were asked to move away in 15 days and she assured them of alternative dwelling in safe locations as per their eligibility. A few shops, which were found open on Sunday at Kurangani, were advised to shut shops.
10 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Do not ignore early symptoms, doctors warn city residents||COVID-19 cases may be slowly declining in Chennai but there should be no room for complacency among the people, doctors say. Government doctors on COVID-19 duty continue to see sick patients with severe hypoxia and respiratory distress, raising the need to seek medical help at the earliest. According to them, awareness of timely diagnosis is better now, but they see instances of people ignoring early symptoms and delay seeking medical help. A senior doctor at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital said if a person has fever, cold or cough, the first thing to be checked and ruled out should be COVID-19. “Seeking medical advice at the earliest is crucial. People should not delay due to stigma or fear of being discriminated against. Many still fear swab tests but early identification is important for prompt initiation of treatment and easy recovery,” he said. Respiratory distress The hospital sees at least 40% to 60% of patients with hypoxia and respiratory distress. “This is because people come three to four days after the symptoms manifest. One of the many reasons is fear of discrimination and isolation,” he said. At another government medical college hospital, a physician said they were receiving patients with severe hypoxia. “The reasons are old age, underlying conditions such as diabetes and late presentation mostly after seven days of fever. Breaking the chain is important and so, prevention is the key. People should not avoid testing, thinking it to be an ordinary viral fever. Report to a doctor or hospital in case of fever. Earlier the diagnosis, better the chances of survival,” he said. Monitoring of oxygen levels at home with finger pulse oximeters was the best way to avoid late presentation, he added. Another assistant professor said from their experience, 95% of the patients recovered if they sought medical help early. “Late presentation is resulting in complications and mortality,” he noted. A number of government doctors said there were many patients whose swab tests returned negative but CT chest scans showed signs of the infection. At least 20% to 30% of cases had such presentations in a government hospital. Doctors said the sensitivity and specificity of tests mattered as well as the proper collection of samples. “Timing of the CT scan is critical. If taken early, it is usually normal. It should be done five to eight days after the onset of symptoms. Then we can pick up on the findings better,” a doctor added.
10 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||5,994 more persons test positive in State||Another 5,994 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu on Sunday, with the northern districts accounting for a majority of the fresh cases. For the seventh day in a row, the deaths of more than 100 patients were recorded in the State, including that of an 11-year-old boy from Virudhunagar, taking the toll to 4,927. Chennai, however, recorded cases in three-digits for the third consecutive day. The medical bulletin registered the deaths of 119 persons — 103 with co-morbidities and 16 without any. Of this, 13 persons each died in Coimbatore and Virudhunagar, while 12 died in Chennai. There were six deaths each in Madurai, Tiruvallur and Thoothukudi. The 11-year-old boy was admitted to the Government Rajaji Hospital in Madurai on August 3. However, he died due to COVID-19 and T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia on August 7. Besides, a 23-year-old man from Tiruppur with non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma died at a government hospital in the district on August 7 due to COVID-19 pneumonia. He was admitted on August 2 with complaints of fever and cough for two days. Of the State’s tally of 2,96,901, 53,336 persons are still under treatment. Another 6,020 persons, including 1,061 in Chennai and 431 in Kancheepuram, were discharged. With this, a total of 2,38,638 persons have been discharged in the State. Chennai’s daily count stood at 989, staying below the 1,000-mark. The city’s neighbouring districts had 300-plus cases — Chengalpattu 397, Tiruvallur 396 and Kancheepuram 393. Among other northern districts, Tiruvannamalai had 221 cases, while Ranipet and Vellore recorded 219 and 149 respectively. There were 146 cases in Cuddalore.  The surge continued in many of the southern districts. Though cases remained stable in Madurai, with 107 persons testing positive for COVID-19, 360 persons tested positive in Theni, and 250 in Thoothukudi. Virudhunagar had 193 new cases, while Tenkasi had 173. Dindigul had 131 cases and Kanniyakumari 127. A total of 217 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Coimbatore, while Salem and Thanjavur had 163 and 155 cases respectively. There were 139 cases in Pudukottai. Twenty returnees also tested positive for COVID-19. In the last 24 hours, a total of 70,186 samples were tested in the State. So far, a total of 32,25,805 samples have been tested.
10 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Copious inflow seen in Mettur, Bhavanisagar and Mullaperiyar||With the Cauvery river being in spate, the Mettur dam, the primary storage point of Tamil Nadu, on Sunday night recorded an inflow of 1.3 lakh cubic feet per second (cusecs). The water gauging site in Billigundlu, on the border of Karnataka and Tamil Nadu, also registered a similar inflow. At 4 pm on Sunday, the inflow to Mettur was 1 lakh cusecs. This was for the first time that the dam recorded the six-digit figure of inflow during the current water season. According to information reaching here, the Karnataka authorities, at 8 pm, let out 70,000 cusecs from the Krishnaraja Sagar (KRS) and 16,000 cusecs from the Kabini. Four hours earlier, an amount of 30,000 cusecs was released from the latter with the outflow from the former remaining at 70,000 cusecs. Inflow to the KRS was 97,000 cusecs and to the Kabini, 30,000 cusecs. On Sunday night, Mettur’s water level stood at 81.1 ft (full level – 120 ft) and the storage was 43.061 thousand million cubic feet (93.47 tmc ft). An outflow of 1,000 cusecs was being maintained from the dam. As regards the State’s second largest dam, Bhavanisagar, the water level at 6 pm stood at 99.87 ft, a bare six feet below the full level (105 ft). The storage was 28,625 tmc ft against the storage of 32.8 tmc ft. The reservoir received an inflow of 7,517 cusecs and the discharge, 1,000 cusecs. A Public Works Department official said the average inflow continues to be at 7,300 cusecs. The official said that due to drop in inflow, the water level that was 99.49 feet at 8 am slowly increased to 99.87 at 6 pm. “If the inflow continues to be at the same level, water level could touch 100 feet by 12 am on Monday”, the official said. Likewise, the Mullaperiyar dam, whose catchment in Kerala had received heavy rainfall last week, registered an inflow of 5,240 cusecs this evening. The level of the dam stood at 135.85 ft against the permissible level of 142 ft. The reservoir’s storage was 6.075 tmc ft. The discharge was of the order of 2,010 cusecs. A senior Public Works Department (PWD) official said that a warning has already been issued to urging people of Kerala and Tamil Nadu living along the river banks to move to safer areas, due to higher discharge of water from the dam. In Vaigai dam, the water level increased to 37.66 feet (71 feet) as at 6 p.m. on Sunday. PWD officials said that there was an average inflow of 1,500 cusecs. The total storage in the dam was 774 mcft. An average rainfall of 11.82 mm was recorded in Salem district on Saturday. According to officials, 20 mm rainfall was recorded in Thammampatti, 17 mm in Veeraganoor, 9.4 mm in Edappadi, 2 mm in Vazhapadi, 53.6 mm in Yercaud, 25 mm in Sankari, 4.2 mm in Omalur, 26.8 mm in Attur.  (With inputs from reporters in Madurai, Erode and Salem)
10 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Fever camps around city get fewer visitors on Sunday||The average number of visitors at fever camps fell by 37% on Sunday owing to the restrictions on movement of people during the complete lockdown. The average number of people visiting fever camps was 57 over the past three months. The total number of attendees on Saturday was 24,208, with an average of 48. However, the number fell to 14,445 on Sunday with an average of 36 persons, officials said. As many as 1,072 influenza-like illness (ILI) cases were identified on Sunday, compared to 1,505 on Saturday, they added. Kodambakkam registered 54 persons per fever camp and Ambattur registered 47. Kodambakkam recorded the most fever camp visitors for the day. But the highest number of ILI cases was reported in Thiru Vi Ka Nagar., officials said. The largest number of fever camps were conducted in the Teynampet and Tondiarpet zones. Many camps on Sunday reported fewer visitors in areas such as Anna Nagar and Ambattur, where about 30 camps were held. Civic workers said residents did not visit the camps because of the complete lockdown. Also, the number of fever camps fell from 501 to 401 on Sunday. This is expected to increase on Monday. The civic body collected swab samples of 92,485 individuals for testing between May 8 and August 9, when as many as 30,152 camps were conducted, screening a total of 17.1 lakh residents. Officials said 98,009 ILI cases had been identified in the city so far. The percentage of symptomatic cases has been high in zones such as Tondiarpet, Royapuram and Tiruvottiyur. The highest number of swabs was taken from Tondiarpet in the past three months. Civic officials said fever camps would be conducted based on the number of COVID-10 cases in a neighbourhood.
10 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Lessons to be aired in sign language on Kalvi TV||To make televised lessons onKalvi TVmore accessible, the School Education Department will telecast lessons for Class 10 in sign language as well from Monday. “We are working with the Department for the Welfare of Differently-Abled Persons to ensure that students with disabilities can also benefit from televised lessons. There are 72 special schools in the State and educators from those institutions will interpret these lessons in sign language, which will be featured as part of the telecast,” said P.A. Naresh, Joint Director of the School Education Department and special officer,Kalvi TV. The video in sign language will be embedded as a smaller frame and will be simultaneously shown along with the lesson. The video lessons are being prepared for students of all classes by faculty from the District Institutes of Education and Training (DIETs) as part of the ‘Veetupalli’ or school at home initiative, to ensure that learning continues for students. While this will start with lessons for Class 10, the department is planning on extending it to other classes as well.  At present, a bridge course is being telecast for students from Classes 2-7, since their academic year ended abruptly in March and schools have remained shut for the last four months. Refresher course “Through short video lessons, we want to offer these students a refresher of the concepts they learnt during the previous academic year, and this will be telecast till August 15,” Mr. Naresh said. To give students of Classes 10 and 12 an opportunity to ask questions and clarify doubts, the department also has a dedicated special show onKalvi TVon Saturdays. Students can ask doubts, based on the lessons broadcast through the week, by mail or WhatsApp messages and teachers will answer them on the show.  There are 72 special schools in the State and educators from those institutions will interpret these lessons in sign language P.A. Naresh Joint director, School Education Department and special officer,Kalvi TV
10 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Over 10% legislators have contracted infection in State||More than one-tenth of the MLAs in Tamil Nadu have tested positive for COVID-19 till date. DMK legislator J. Anbazhagan, who had co-morbidities, succumbed to the virus. On Sunday, Sholavandan MLA K. Manickam, from the ruling AIADMK, was admitted to a hospital after contracting the infection, taking the number of affected legislators to 27. Besides, Manachanallur legislator M. Parameshwari, also from the AIADMK, was admitted to a private hospital in Tiruchi after experiencing COVID-19 symptoms. District Collector S. Sivarasu said, “A nasopharyngeal swab has been lifted and sent to the lab for testing. The results are awaited.” Most MLAs contracted the infection while on the field — distributing aid, attending official functions or public hearings — where physical distancing was compromised. “I am asymptomatic and have no other trouble,” said Mr. Manickam. With the Assembly election due in about eight months and people reeling under the adverse economic impact of the pandemic, elected representatives are compelled to be in their respective constituencies, meeting people. Mylapore MLA and retired IPS officer R. Nataraj insists on safety protocols. “Sometimes, people become complacent in taking precautions and some partymen are offended when they are told that they cannot come closer,” said the AIADMK MLA. “I tell them very strictly, for their good and my own. I may have it [COVID-19] or they may have it and be asymptomatic. So, I tell them, let us maintain distance,” he added. This is also a time people come to meet MLAs seeking help in admissions to educational institutions and scholarships, Mr. Nataraj said.  Multiple challenges Dharmapuri MP S. Senthilkumar of the DMK, known for actively helping the needy through social media, said he connected with friends, well-wishers and representatives to reach out to those in need, if their locations were closer to them. Essentials can be mobilised at one place where people can come and collect them. “When I visit a village, I ensure there is no crowd as we inform about my visit only to those who should be informed,” he said. He acknowledges that there is a difference between campaigning on social media and meeting people in person. “People want to meet their representatives or take photos with us. But we take precautions,” he added. How challenging is it to meet people? “As for the DMK, we have been on the ground since day one. Be it the pandemic or otherwise, our leaders are on the ground, and are working for the people,” he said. Manidhaneya Jananayaga Katchi leader and Nagapattinam MLA M. Thamimun Ansari, who voluntarily quarantined himself since July 28 after four persons tested positive for COVID-19 in his area, said he was coordinating with officials and the people over phone. “Some people, when told to follow physical distancing norms and wear masks, don’t understand the importance of the precautions,” he said. There are other challenges too. “Even drivers are apprehensive of coming for work, and hence, we are not able to go for visits. With the election just a few months away, our visits are crucial,” he added.
10 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||WRD begins preliminary work on check dam at Ullavur||The Water Resources Department has started preliminary work on building a check dam across the Palar at Ullavur in Kancheepuram district. This is the third of seven such structures proposed across the river. The Rs. 42.16 crore project envisages the construction of a 840 metre-long check dam near Thirumukkudal and Ullavur villages. Officials said its height would be 1.5 m and it would help recharge groundwater and augment water supply. Besides catering to irrigation, the surplus water will help with Chennai’s drinking water needs. “We estimate that the check dam will store about 290 million cubic feet (mcft) per year. The structure is expected to yield nearly 22 million litres of water a day that could be supplied to the surrounding villages and Chennai,” an official said. Two check dams have been constructed in Vayalur and Esoor-Vallipuram as part of the project announced by Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami in 2017. Spell of rain The structure in Esoor-Vallipuram has been brimming with water after the recent spell of rain. “We plan to complete the Ullavur check dam by May next,” said an official. Five locations across Palar river — Esoor-Vallipuram, Vayalur, Palur, Ullavur and Udayambakkam — have been identified to build check dams. The department estimates that these check dams could be alternative sources for Chennai’s drinking water needs and provide 3-4 tmcft every year. “We are yet to finalise modes of drawing water to the city’s supply network. Various proposals to construct collection sumps and lay pipelines to transport water to the Sikkayapuram quarries or link it to Kolavai lake from where water can be pumped are under consideration,” the official said. The department is awaiting approval for construction of a check dam along with the sub-surface dyke in Palur and a barrage with a bridge linking Udayambakkam and Padalam.  We estimate that the check dam will store about 290 million cubic feet (mcft) per year Water Resources Department official
10 August 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Four T.N. students drown in Volga River in Russia||Four students from Tamil Nadu, who were pursuing medicine at the Volgograd State Medical University in Russia allegedly drowned in River Volga. Their families have appealed to the Central and State Governments to flow down their bodies back home. One of the victims was R. Vignesh, a native of Thittakudi in Cuddalore district. A pall of gloom descended on the house of Vignesh at Middle Street in Thittakudi as his mother Amutha was inconsolable. Vignesh’s father Ramu is working in Dubai while his sister Dhanalakshmi is studying in a college in Coimbatore. R. Sabarinathan, friend of Vignesh, said that he had come to Thittakudi three months ago and returned to Russia after his vacation. “Vignesh along with three others studying medicine in the Volgograd State Medical University had visited Volga. He died when they attempted to save a person from drowning in the waters, according to reports,” he said. Vignesh’s family will be meeting the Cuddalore Collector Chandra Sekhar Sakhamuri on Monday at the Collectorate seeking the government’s help to bring back the body home, he said. Another student has been identified as Mohammed Ashiq (22) from Dharapuram in Tiruppur district. Mohamed Rafi, the deceased’s father, appealed to the State government to take steps for bringing his son's body back at the earliest. He told mediapersons at his residence in Chokkanathapalayam in Dharapuram on Sunday evening that pursuing medicine was his son’s ambition. Dharapuram Sub-Collector Pavankumar G. Giriyappanavar told The Hindu on Sunday that Ashiq’s body was expected to reach his home town in about two days. “So far, there has not been any concrete information regarding the body’s arrival,” he said. The family of another student Manoj Anand petitioned Chief Minister Edapaddi K Palaniswami in Salem on Sunday requesting him to take measures to bring the mortal remains back to the country. Manoj Anand is the son of A.Anandhan, an Special Sub-Inspector at Veeranam Police Station, Salem. Hearing the news, Mr.Anandhan met the Chief Minister at his residence and requested him to take measures to inquire what actually happened and help bring back the mortal remains of the student. Another victim is believed to be a resident of Chennai. However, details about him could not be established at the time of filing this report. Expressing condolences to the bereaved families, Manithaneya Makkal Katchi leader M.H. Jwahirullah, in a tweet, appealed to Foreign Minister S. Jaishankar and Mr. Palaniswami to help bring back bodies of the four students.  (With inputs from Correspondents in Chennai, Cuddalore, Salem and Tiruppur)
10 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Idol makers of Kosapet stare at a bleak festive season||Idol makers at Kosapet, a suburb of Chennai which serves as a hub for potters and artisans, have indicated that they expect a 40% fall in business during the upcoming festivals of Krishna Jayanthi and Vinayaka Chaturthi due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Families residing here, who have been in this business for several decades, said orders were few and far between, and they had never witnessed a gloomy scenario like this before. Festival orders S. Manikandan, an artisan who has spent 15 years in this line of work, said he and many others working from their small, 200 sq ft houses were waiting for clarity from the government on how the festivals would be observed this year. “I have been getting orders for Krishna Jayanthi as people celebrate it in their homes. But Vinayaka Chaturthi is celebrated outdoors in a grand manner,” he added. Mr. Manikandan has made only 100 idols this year, compared to 500 last year. “Usually, around this time, people from various associations and localities come to place orders. But now, the numbers have dropped,” said S. Nagarajan, another artisan. Last year, he managed to sell over 8,000 idols. But this year, he has received confirmed orders for only 2,000 idols. Raw materials costlier Both Mr. Nagarajan and Mr. Manikandan pointed out that the cost of raw materials had escalated due to the lockdown. But A. Mohan, a clay artisan, was a little optimistic. “I have been honouring all the orders I have received. I have even agreed to send consignments on credit to those with whom I have a long-standing trade relationship,” he said. According to the idol makers and artisans of Kosapet, over 400 families were in this business a decade ago. But now, the figure has shrunk to less than 100. Of them, only a few dozen make idols throughout the year. The others cater only for regular clients. “The current generation doesn’t want to do this. They have all moved to white-collar jobs,” said an artisan, who has been in this business for four decades. The artisans fear that if they miss the upcoming festive season, they may have to struggle to make ends meet as most are dependent solely on idol making for their livelihood.  We are waiting for clarity from the government on how the festivals will be observed this year S. Manikandan Artisan
10 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||At Rs. 37,500 cr., State’s market borrowings double this fiscal||Tamil Nadu’s market borrowings thus far in the 2020-21 fiscal (April 7-August 4) have doubled to Rs. 37,500 crore from Rs. 16,615 crore during the comparable period last fiscal. “State governments have increasingly been raising funds through the issuance of State Development Loans (bonds) in the current fiscal to tide over the revenue shortfall due to the COVID-19 lockdown in place since late March. There has been a notable increase in borrowings across States in the current fiscal when compared to 2019-20,” said CARE Ratings, a credit rating agency. Twenty-five States and a Union Territory have cumulatively raised Rs. 2.28 lakh crore during the current fiscal, with Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra emerging as the biggest borrowers, accounting for 30% of the total, it added. “States, including Tamil Nadu, are facing a situation of lower revenue receipts and an increase in expenditure on health and social security amid the pandemic,” Jayanta Roy, senior vice-president and group head, Icra Ratings, said. “Another major challenge is that the States are going to receive less devolution from the Centre amid a falling revenue situation, and there is also uncertainty over GST compensation,” he added. Revenue deficit “Tamil Nadu has been facing a revenue deficit situation over the years. Ultimately, it has to cut or defer capital expenditure [spending on projects like infrastructure] to remain within the fiscal deficit/borrowing threshold for FY2021,” Mr. Roy said. The Centre has increased the net borrowing limit of the State governments for FY2020-21 from 3% of the Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) to 5%. However, only a 0.5% increase is unconditional, and the rest is subject to the fulfilment of certain conditions. Tamil Nadu’s fiscal deficit could touch Rs. 85,000 crore this year due to the pandemic if the existing trend of revenue shortfall continues, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami had said recently. The State Budget had projected a fiscal deficit of Rs. 59,346.29 crore for 2020-21. The State would sustain a revenue shortfall of around Rs. 12,000-Rs. 13,000 crore a month, as per the Finance Secretary’s projections, the Chief Minister had said. Tamil Nadu has been raising money through the issuance of both short-term and long-term bonds, with 33% of its borrowings having a tenure of two to five years and 28% having a maturity period of 30 to 35 years, according to CARE Ratings.  States including Tamil Nadu are facing a situation of lower revenue receipts and an increase in expenditure on health and social security amid the pandemic Jayanta Roy Senior vice-president and group head, Icra Ratings
10 August 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Two-language policy affecting rural children: Balagurusamy||Former Anna University Vice-Chancellor and Union Public Service Commission member E.Balagurusamy on Sunday contended that children from poor and rural families were being denied an opportunity to learn an additional language, particularly Hindi, due to Tamil Nadu’s two-language policy. In a letter to Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, circulated to the media, he expressed anguish over the former’s opposition to the three-language formula proposed in the National Education Policy (NEP 2020). “By favouring the two-language formula, only the poor and rural students studying in government schools are deprived of learning an additional language, while the rich and urban joining CBSE, central and private schools have the freedom to study any language they wish,” Prof. Balagurusamy said. According to him, the Chief Minister was “very well aware that the children and grandchildren of the leaders who oppose the three-language formula are all studying (or have studied) Hindi happily. Not only this, many of these leaders are running CBSE schools where Hindi is compulsory.” He asked “what do we lose by learning an additional language?” Prof.Balagurusamy said, “Ours is the only State in the country that has been denying its students an opportunity to learn any other Indian language other than Tamil for more than five decades now. I am one of those who were badly affected by the two-language formula.”  The Hindu asked Prof.Balagurusamy how he was affected by the two-language policy considering that he had successfully held high offices in Tamil Nadu, New Delhi, and a few other States. He said, “When I left Tamil Nadu (for higher education and on work), I found it difficult to communicate. Tamil Nadu government says English is a bridge. But for day-to-day communication, such as in markets or while travelling, you have to communicate in the local language. Even in Hyderabad you can manage with Hindi, if you do not know Telugu.” He sought to know how a government could deny its students the right to learn what they want. Though the NEP does not insist on learning a particular language, he felt learning a widely spoken language like Hindi was better, as it would facilitate mobility across States, for employment, trade and business and satisfy the needs of people joining Central services. In his view, it would also “promote patriotism, national harmony, unity and integration.” Contending that much water had flown under the bridge since 1968 when Chief Minister C.N.Annadurai introduced the two-language formula, the academic felt, given the present scenario, even the DMK founder “would have certainly changed his view, had he been alive today.” The time has come for Tamil Nadu to change and move forward with other people and States.
10 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Containers with ammonium nitrate leave for Hyderabad||A total of 10 containers, carrying around 180 tonnes of ammonium nitrate that were earlier stored at a private facility in Manali left for Hyderabad on Sunday. The remaining loads would be transported one after the other, sources said. The containers carrying the chemical left the city around 3 p.m. on Sunday, and will reach Hyderabad by Tuesday morning. Illegally imported by a Karur-based company, the consignment was lying idle for five years at a facility on the outskirts of the city. The Customs Department e-auctioned 697 tonnes, whereas 740 tonnes were originally seized. The whereabouts of the remaining quantity of the chemical remain unclear. Customs officials could not be reached for comment. The containers were accompanied by guards, and the trailers were equipped with dry chemical powder fire extinguishers. The Petroleum and Explosives Safety Organisation had authorised the vehicles to carry the substance. The drivers and cleaners are not allowed to smoke or cook inside their cabin. They cannot pick up other passengers while en route to their destination either.
10 August 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||4 T.N. students drown in Volga river in Russia||Four students from Tamil Nadu, who were pursuing medicine at the Volgograd State Medical University in Russia, allegedly drowned in Volga river. Their families have appealed to the Central and State governments to bring their bodies home. Three of the students were aged 22 and were doing their MD while the fourth, Stephen Lebaku, was 20 years old. A resident of Perambur in Chennai, he was in the second year of the undergraduate medical programme.  One of the victims was R. Vignesh, a native of Thittakudi in Cuddalore district. Vignesh’s father, Ramu, is working in Dubai, while his sister, Dhanalakshmi, is studying in a college in Coimbatore. R. Sabarinathan, a friend of Vignesh, said that he had come to Thittakudi three months ago and returned to Russia after his vacation. “Vignesh, along with three others studying medicine in the Volgograd State Medical University, had visited Volga. He died when they attempted to save a person from drowning, according to reports,” he said. Vignesh’s family will be meeting Cuddalore Collector Chandra Sekhar Sakhamuri on Monday, seeking the government’s help to bring the body home, he said. Another student has been identified as Mohammed Ashiq, 22, from Dharapuram in Tiruppur district. His father, Mohamed Rafi, appealed to the State government to take steps for bringing his son’s body back at the earliest. Dharapuram Sub-Collector Pavankumar G. Giriyappanavar told The Hindu on Sunday that Ashiq's body is expected to reach his hometown in about two days. “So far, there has not been any concrete information [regarding the body's arrival]," he said. SSI’s son The family of another student, Manoj Anand, petitioned Chief Minister Edapaddi K. Palaniswami in Salem on Sunday, requesting him to take measures to bring the mortal remains back to the country. Manoj Anand is the son of A. Anandhan, a special sub-inspector at the Veeranam police station in Salem. Mr. Anandhan met the Chief Minister at his residence and requested him to take the necessary measures to enquire into what actually happened.  Expressing condolences to the bereaved families, Manithaneya Makkal Katchi leader M.H. Jwahirullah, in a tweet, appealed to Foreign Minister S. Jaishankar and Mr. Palaniswami to help bring back the bodies of the four students.  (With inputs from Correspondents in Chennai, Cuddalore, Salem and Tiruppur)
10 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||678 kg of ganja seized since the start of July||The police have seized 678 kg of ganja and a tonne of chewable tobacco products in the crackdown against drug peddlers and those stocking tobacco products illegally. Acting under instructions from Police Commissioner Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal, special teams conducted raids across the city since July 1. Additional Commissioner of Police, North, A. Arun said, “So far, we have booked 36 cases and arrested 65 persons who were involved in ganja smuggling and selling.” As many as 111 cases were booked and 118 suspects arrested for manufacturing, stocking, and selling gutkha products in several parts of Madhavaram and Ennore. In Ennore, the police seized over a tonne of gutkha products in a single day.
10 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK plans to have a 70,000-strong IT wing||The AIADMK, which is making efforts to tackle the perception battle that the party is lagging behind its arch rival, DMK, on the social media front, is planning to have a 70,000-member-strong information technology (IT) wing in place by the end of this month. Right now, the work of identifying right candidates for the posts at all levels of the party – regional, district, urban local body, panchayat union and village panchayat – is going on in an “aggressive way.” District secretaries of the party have been put on the job. Some of them have even submitted the lists of nominations, according to veteran leaders. The whole exercise is seen as part of the party’s preparations for the Assembly polls, slated for April-May next year As per a plan, each regional secretary will have a team of 13 persons immediately under him. Each party district unit will have 14 office-bearers. As the party is keen on having well-oiled machinery for the IT wing in rural areas too, office bearers are going to be appointed at the levels of panchayat union and village panchayat. The broad idea is to have presence of IT wing at the level of every electoral booth of the State, another key office bearer explains. Once the infrastructure is set, the members of the IT wing will have to disseminate the content that gets cleared by a panel of experts and senior leaders. Political consultant Sunil Kanugolu, who is functioning as an advisor to the party informally, will be associated with the exercise indirectly. Training After the job of posting the members to the IT wing is over, possibly by this month end or in a month, a training programme will be held for them next month. By September end, the IT wing members will start working vigorously, the office bearer adds. Likewise, steps are underway to strengthen four other wings - Amma Peravai, MGR youth wing and those for young men and women, a senior leader points out.
10 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Munnar landslide: T.N. assures Kerala of help||Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami spoke to his Kerala counterpart Pinarayi Vijayan over the Munnar landslide and promised to help in rescue operations. “I spoke to Hon @CMOKerala today morning about the tragic loss of lives and damage caused due to heavy rain and landslides at Munnar. I promised to provide necessary support in rescue and relief operations,” Mr. Palaniswami tweeted. Meanwhile, Information Minister Kadambur C. Raju said in his tweet that the government was arranging e-passes for the people to visit the district as some of those affected in the landslide hailed from Kayathar in Thoothukudi district.
10 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Karur student makes it to Tokyo University||Proficiency in Japanese and academic excellence gets a Karur-based student admission into a university in Japan to pursue a course in environmental science. When the travel restrictions ease, Swetha Sundararajan will fly to Japan to begin her undergraduate programme. Ms. Sundararajan started learning Japanese at her school as an additional subject since 2016. In 2018, she was a topper in Class X and also cleared the Level 5 and Level 4 of the Japanese course. Her proficiency and performance in school enthused Ashok Sankar, school’s correspondent, to broach the idea of studying in Japan. Mr. Sankar’s connection with Japan began when he worked there for an Indian IT company. For personal reasons, he returned to India and started a school in Karur in 2009. At school, he introduced Japanese to students. “In 2019, after a visit to Japan for Sakura science programme, I started searching for universities. I am interested in biology and science courses. During the application process, my correspondent explained about the courses,” said Ms. Sundararajan. She applied for four universities of which two responded. The universities analysed her Class X marks and conducted an interview through Skype. She was given conditional admission by the University of Tokyo in March based on her performance. The CBSE announced the Class XII results on July 13. Ms. Sundararajan had scored 473 marks. On July 21, the Tokyo University sent her the letter of acceptance. She will be pursuing a degree in Environmental Science at the University. “The course work will be in English but I must know Japanese to survive outside the University,” she said. Mr. Sankar said Ms. Sundararajan would be the first CBSE student to join the Tokyo University. “I learned from the university that till now only students from ICS and IB from the country have made it. Factors like high academic qualification, keen interest in studying in Japan, Japanese language proficiency and participation in Sakura Science Exchange programme were an advantage for her,” he explained. Her father is looking at avenues to fund her education. She has applied for several private scholarships. The annual fee for the programme is around Rs. 3 lakh. If the current pandemic situation eases, she might start the course in the University else she would start online classes from September 1 and later leave for Japan, she added.
10 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Action on intermediaries promising loans’||Strict action will be taken on intermediaries promising to get loans under the Kisan Credit Card (KCC) scheme for fishers. The Fisheries Department is taking a serious view on the issue of people collecting forms and promising large sums of money as loan. “The application forms are free of cost and fishers need not pay anything for it. I am hearing that some people are promising loans of up to Rs. 3 lakh for all categories. If we get complaints, we will take action,” said Fisheries Minister D. Jayakumar. He added that all categories of fisherfolk, including fish and dry fish vendors, can avail of loans without surety. If they repay within a year, the interest would be only 4%. So far, 45,000 applications had been collected from fishers across the State and submitted to banks. The department had set a target of 75,000 forms.
10 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Time will tell if more DMK leaders join BJP: L Murugan||BJP Tamil Nadu president L. Murugan on Sunday said it would be too premature to say if other leaders from the DMK would join the BJP. Mr. Murugan claimed that the party would definitely have its MLAs in the State Assembly in 2021. “Everyday people are joining the BJP. Thousands are coming and joining our party. Many are coming from other political parties as well. We will have to wait and see who else(other political party leaders) will come and join. Time will tell,” the BJP leader said. Slams Karuppar Kootam Mr. Murugan was speaking to reporters after the party cadre held a ‘vel puja’ and a recital of theKanda Sashti Kavasamon Sunday across the State, to condemn the Karuppar Kootam for denigrating the religious song and Lord Muruga. When asked if the party’s alliance with the AIADMK will continue, he said that they were still part of the alliance and the AIADMK was in the NDA fold. “It is continuing as of now,” Mr. Murugan said.
10 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Mobile phone snatchers held in Avadi||The Avadi police on Sunday arrested two suspects for allegedly snatching mobile phones from walkers in Avadi and the surrounding areas. Police said Maheskumar, 28, of Lazar Nagar, was walking near Govardhanagiri when two bike-borne suspects snatched his mobile phone and fled the spot. After investigation, police arrested Jaiganesh, 19, and Gopi, 21, of Chinna Nolambur, and recovered seven mobile phones and a bike from them.
10 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘India must ensure rights of Tamils are protected in Sri Lanka’||PMK founder S. Ramadoss on Sunday said that India must safeguard “whatever rights have remained for the Tamils in Sri Lanka” after Mahinda Rajapaksa’s party won a thumping majority in the recently-concluded elections. In a statement, he said Mr. Rajapaksa had mobilised voters based on Sinhala ethnic pride, to garner a majority, which is seemingly difficult in Sri Lanka, as it follows a proportional representation. ‘Repeal amendment’ Sri Lankan media has reported that the Rajapaksa brothers plan to repeal the 13th Amendment to the Sri Lankan Constitution, which was a result of Indo-Sri Lankan Accord, 1987. “Safeguarding whatever rights that remain for the Tamils in Sri Lanka and their protection is the responsibility of the Indian government. The Centre should take steps to speed up the war crimes investigation and ensure that the guilty, no matter the posts they hold in the [Sri Lankan] government, are held accountable,” Mr. Ramadoss said.
10 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Plea for CB-CID probe into death of couple||Tamil Nadu Untouchability Eradication Front, affiliated to CPI(M), has demanded a CB-CID enquiry into the deaths of an inter-caste couple — P. Kumar and R. Kavitha — whose bodies were found near a temple in Eriyur in Kallakurichi on Thursday last. The Front suspected that this could be yet another case of a Dalit and non-Dalit being killed for falling in love.
10 August 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Postal grievances redress meeting||The Department of Posts, Tiruppur Division, has appealed to pensioners to submit by post or email their grievances for hearing at the regional-level pension adalat. According to a release, due to COVID-19 restrictions, personal hearing of the grievances will not be possible. Hence, all the subjects that are mailed will be examined and replied by post to the pensioners. The pensioners should represent only pension-related grievances that could not be settled at the divisional level, with the reply of the divisional heads. The grievances can be sent by email to bgt.coimbatore@indiapost.gov.in or by post to Senior Accounts Officer (Budget), Office of the Postmaster General, Western Region, Coimbatore - 641002 with pension adalat super scribed on the cover. The last date for receipt of the grievances is August 18.  The pensioners should represent only pension-related grievances that could not be settled at the divisional level
10 August 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Elephant escapes after brushing against goods train near Coimbatore||The Forest Department has tracked a juvenile male elephant that brushed against a moving goods train near Madukkarai in Coimbatore district on Saturday. Officials with the department said the elephant did not have external injuries and frontline staff were monitoring the animal continuously. The incident happened on track ‘B’ between Madukkarai and Walayar stations around 5.45 a.m. on Saturday. Goods train “The goods train bound for Kochi was moving at a low speed. The loco pilot saw the elephant and applied brakes. The elephant brushed against the train and walked into the forest. The loco pilot informed the railway authorities about the incident who passed on the information to us,” said D. Venkatesh, District Forest Officer, Coimbatore Forest Division. A Forest Department team, including the DFO, visited the place and traced the elephant, going behind its footprints. “The male elephant was found grazing with two other elephants. It did not have any external injuries. The elephant was active and a team was tasked to monitor it,” said Mr. Venakatesh. He said that five frontline workers of the department had been monitoring the movement of elephants round-the-clock on tracks ‘A’ and track ‘B’ that passed through reserve forest since 2016 after an elephant was mowed down by a speeding train. A watch tower was also constructed for the staff to monitor elephants and other animals. According to the DFO, the elephant brushed against the goods train on track ‘B’ when the staff were on track ‘A’, close to which five elephants were spotted. He added that the solar-powered early warning system, which senses movement of elephants on tracks and triggers alarm, was not working for about a week due to heavy rains.  Female   elephant collapses  The department started treatment for a female elephant aged between 10 and 12 that had collapsed within the limits of Pooluvapatti forest range on Saturday. The ailing elephant was found at Vellapathy section of the forest range during a patrol. Forest veterinary officer A. Sukumar and veterinarian Prabhu from the Government veterinary dispensary at Vadavalli examined the elephant. Extremely weak They found that the elephant was extremely weak. The doctors gave 21 bottles of intravenous fluids, antibiotics, vitamins and minerals to the elephant. A team was monitoring its condition.  The male elephant was found grazing with two other elephants   D. Venkatesh  District Forest Officer, Coimbatore Forest Division
10 August 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||16 women police trainees of PRS test positive||As many as 16 women trainees of the Police Recruit School (PRS), Coimbatore, were hospitalised on Sunday after they tested positive for COVID-19. Swab samples of nearly 90 persons, including other trainees, were collected for COVID-19 test. The test results were expected to be out by Monday. Sources with the police said that other trainees were asked to go on quarantine. Several facilities on the PRS campus, including quarters of the trainees, were fumigated as part of containment measures. Precautions Sources with Coimbatore city police said that police personnel and families staying in quarters on PRS campus were advised to take precautionary measures.
10 August 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Man held for son’s murder||The Periyanaickenpalayam police on Sunday arrested a 67-year-old man on charges of murdering his son. The accused, U. Palamalai, was a resident of Sri Bharathi Nagar near Gudalur Kavundampalayam. He was living with his son P. Dhanapal (37), a painter. Dhanapal’s wife left him 12 years ago allegedly due to his alcoholism and irreconcilable differences between them. Dhanapal use to quarrel frequently with his father and neighbours under the influence of alcohol, police said. On Saturday night, Dhanapal picked a quarrel with Palamalai after the latter refused to give money to buy liquor. The quarrel continued till 2 a.m. on Sunday and Palamalai hit his son on the head with an wooden log. Dhanapal died on the spot. The murder came to light in the morning and the police arrested Palamalai.
10 August 2020||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||Fishmonger feeds starving monkeys at Hogenakkal||A tribe of monkeys gathered around Raman as he scooped out fists full of cooked rice and dotted the ground with little rice mounds. Spotting Raman lugging his vast aluminium container with cooked rice to the open spot a little away from his fish stall in Hogenakkal, the tribe swung about from the branches and the protective railings to gain his attention. “It is striking how they come out of nowhere and gather around me the minute they see me carrying the container. I give them morsels sometimes in their hands or leave them on the ground, they take their share and leave,” he says. Vying for the food that Raman cooks almost every day are the stray dogs. The monkeys at Hogenakkal had lost the ways of the wilderness, thanks to the tourists who fed the animals all and sundry. Cooked fish and rice, snacks were thrown around for the monkeys to feed on. But with the pandemic shuttering the tourist spot that otherwise saw a steady influx of tourists for its picturesque waterfalls, the monkeys were left to starve. “It is very hard to see them loitering without a speck of food in sight,” says Raman, who sells raw fish in his stall-cum-house in Hogenakkal. With the ban on tourists, I take the fish to the villages in Pennagaram to sell them, he says. Setting aside his own daily livelihood struggles, Raman took upon himself to cook a vast container full of rice for the monkeys. “Sometimes, it is 5 kg or 10 kg of rice, depending on the availability,” he says. Raman has been sourcing rice from neighbouring shops and houses. “They may have some spare rice from the rations (Public Distribution System) and I use them to feed the monkeys,” he says. Each day, he cooks the rice, lets it to cool down and then he lugs his container to the spot to feed the monkeys.
10 August 2020||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||A great struggle to get community certificates||Social workers, who conducted a study in tribal hamlets in Kodaikanal, Vedasandur and Palani and other places, have found that many students could not get community certificates, said Samam Kudimakkal Iyakkam state president C J Rajan here on Sunday. The study in villages in Kodaikanal taluk including Savarikaadu, Karuvelam and other hamlets revealed that 546 applicants including 208 students had not received the certificates. Some people said that they had been visiting the offices concerned since last September. Officials, who used to deny the certificates under the pretext of some administrative or technical reasons, now blame it on the pandemic. So, students could not pursue education in government run ITI as they would not be eligible for hostel accommodation without the community certificates. Schools in most of the tribal villages had classes up to fifth standard only with a single teacher. The plight of tribals in Palani, Oddanchatram and other pockets was worse, the team said. The students were missing online classes too with no power supply to their dwellings at Karuvelampatti and Gandhi Nagar. Women too could not benefit from TAHDCO or get loans. Tribals accounted for 5 % of the population in the State as per the last census. The government should consider their demands and issue community certificates, Mr. Rajan said.
10 August 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||‘Smart roads’ work resumes in Erode||The ‘smart roads’ work that was halted due to COVID-19 lockdown resumed with minimum workers here recently. Under the Smart City Mission, the Erode Corporation had proposed to develop the Kalaimagal School Road (ward 43), Jeevanandam Road (ward 52), Periyar Nagar Chidambaram Colony Road (ward 44) and the Old Poondurai Road in ward 45 at a total cost of Rs. 41.30 crore. Upgrading footpaths Works taken up include redesigning roads, upgrading footpaths, providing underground utilities such as cables and pipelines, provision for pedestrian pathways and cycle tracks, smart pole for covering energy efficient and remotely controllable LED street lights, Wi-Fi hotspot services, surveillance cameras for safety and information display for advertisement. A total of 4.375 km-long-stretch was planned for conversion and work began earlier this year. However, the work was halted in March due to lockdown. Since normalcy is restoring in the district, the civic body had asked the contractors to resume work. Corporation Commissioner M. Elangovan told The Hindu that 90% of the earlier workers were North Indians and they had returned to their native. Contractors have started arranging buses to bring them back and efforts were also on to arrange workers locally. “Availability of workers will decide on the completion of the works,” the Corporation Commissioner added.
10 August 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Pest attack hits jasmine growers in Sathyamangalam||Pest attack on jasmine by blossom midge has affected farmers in Sathyamangalam and Bhavani Sagar blocks in the district as the infestation reduced the cultivation area by over 1,000 acres in the past one year. Jasmine is widely cultivated in about 5,000 acres in these two blocks and the flowers are hand-plucked and sold in markets in the state and nearby states and are also exported. However, due to infestation, output declined in the past years and farmers sought the help of ICAR Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK), Myrada at Gobichettipalayam to solve their problem. A team led by P. Alagesan, Senior Scientist and Head, ICAR KVK-MYRADA, interacted with the farmers who said that the lucrative crop had fetched them good income in the past years as more farmers cultivated the crop making huge investments. “But the pest attack caused extensive damage to the flower resulting in poor yield”, said Nataraj of Siviyarpalayam village. He said that he was earning around Rs. 3 to Rs. 4 lakh per acre annually and due to pest attack, his income dropped to less than Rs. 1 lakh per acre annually now. Muthusamy, president of Sathyamangalam Flower Market Association, said that due to the infestation, flower price dropped by 75%. “Since flowers are in poor quality, very little quantity of flower is exported”, he added. The team suggested spraying of micro nutrients and decided to take up the issue with Director of Extension Education, Tamil Nadu Agriculture University in Coimbatore.
10 August 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Farmers asked to take up organic farming||The State government is providing subsidy for cultivating vegetables, spinach, banana and turmeric through organic farming and farmers in the district were asked to utilise the opportunity, said Collector C. Kathiravan here. He said that the Department of Horticulture and Plantation Crops is encouraging farmers to take up natural farming without use of pesticides and fertilizers and subsidy is provided to the farmers for carrying out farming. “Organic products get recognition and the profit margin is also high. Also, export opportunity is abundance”, he said and asked farmers to utilise the opportunity as incentive is also provided. Interested farmers should contact the office of the Assistant Director of Horticulture at each block by August 21 and register themselves. Contact details of officers in each block were T.N. Palayam – C. Thiyagarajan (80721-02951), Chennimalai - C. Sindhiya (97870-45557), Talavadi – C. Muthukumari (88386-51565), Perundurai – M. Gurusaraswathi (97906-11101), Kodumudi – P. Brindha (96005-69830), Nambiyur – R. Santhi (94867-94383), Bhavani – S. Malliga (95437-89894), Ammapettai – J. Gunavathi (97507-51385), Sathyamangalam – V. Priya (90959-50500), Erode – T. Jegan (94455-12170), Gobichettipalayam – S. Sasikala (93621-19780), Modakurichi – P. Megala (96266-62333), Bhavani Sagar – R.P. Karthick Kumar (98427-28398) and Anthiyur – P. Maragathamani (63799-17277).
10 August 2020||Karaikal,TAMIL NADU||Union Health Ministry takes note of complaint against JIPMER||The Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare has taken cognisance of a complaint forwarded by Karaikal unit of India Against Corruption alleging ‘medical negligence’ by JIPMER (Jawaharlal Institute of Postgraduate Medical Education and Research), Puducherry, in conducting outpatient camps in the Neravy Campus. A senior official of the Ministry has forwarded the complaint sent by IAC Karaikal unit president S. Anandkumar to the Director of JIPMER, Puducherry, for further action. In the detailed representation to the Lieutenant Governor Kiran Bedi that was forwarded to the Union Health Ministry, Prof. Anandkumar called for CBI investigation into the ‘medical negligence’. Citing public complaints, Prof. Anandkumar said the outpatient camp conducted by specialists in cardiology, endocrinology, urology, nephrology, oncology, neurology and other specialisations since 2009 had been gradually reduced since 2017, and ‘now completely closed’. The act of JIPMER was detrimental to public interests. An investigation by CBI was needed as infrastructure created with investment of crores of rupees have not been put to public use. The outpatient camps used to be of immense utility to a large number of economically poor patients who used to receive medicines and spectacles free of cost. Even critical cases were shifted to Puducherry for intensive care and surgery to the best satisfaction. The JIPMER administration must have recruited permanent specialists’ professionals in various fields of medical sciences to cater to the healthcare needs of residents of Karaikal, Prof. Anandkumar said in his petition. Medical professionals cannot cite COVID-19 pandemic as the cause for their absence. Economically backward people in Karaikal cannot be expected to travel to Puducherry to receive specialised treatment. It is the responsibility of JIPMER administration to show its commitment to residents of Karaikal, he said, emphasising that JIPMER must be directed to resume the outpatient camps at the Arasalar campus or the Dr. APJ Abdul Kalam Campus in Karaikal.
10 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Positive cases dip in 80 wards in Madurai||A total of 80 wards within Madurai Corporation have witnessed a dip in the number of COVID-19 positive cases recorded from July 29 to August 7, when compared to the previous 20 days, reveals the data obtained from Madurai Corporation. According to Corporation officials, around 2,500 tests were conducted every day in the city during the period. They say that it was premature to identify a trend and that public cooperation in strictly following safety precautions was essential to further bring down the new COVID-19 positive cases. Wards like Ponmeni, Chinna Anupanadi and Kochadai, which had earlier registered the highest number of positive cases, have seen a decrease in the 10 days ending on August 7. In a total of six wards, COVID-19 positive cases were stabilising in Sathamangalam, Alwarpuram, Sellur, Chokkikulam, Ismailpuram and Mannar College. All these wards had 10 or less cases recorded from July 29 to August 7. Corporation Commissioner S. Visakan said that steady work of officials had helped to witness the dip in cases- early identification of influenza-like-illness (ILI) cases, aggressive testing, contact tracing and strict containment measures. So far, around 47,000 ILI cases had been identified by Madurai Corporation, he added. He said that wards were categorised based on the number of positive cases that were recorded- with high priority given top 30 wards which had the highest number of cases. “A peculiarity in Madurai city was that there were no clusters or wards that were hotspots. Of the 30 top wards, currently cases have reduced in 26 wards and in the rest, cases are stabilising,” he said. Sellur, Chinna Anupanadi, Ponmeni and Solai Alagupuram were some of the wards that had higher number of cases, but have shown a reduction. “Special monitoring teams were formed for all the wards to continuously monitor the cases,” he added. The data shows that a total of 14 wards had a rise in the number of COVID-19 positive cases from July 29 to August 7, when compared to the previous 10 days. These include wards like Shanthi Nagar, Koodal Nagar, Mela Ponnagaram, Melamadai, Viswasapuri, Visalatchipuram, Goripalayam, Loordu Nagar, Avaniapuram, Sappani Kovil and Balaji Nagar. City Health Officer N. Kumaraguruparan said that the current strategy of aggressive testing and isolation of positive cases will be continued to bring down the cases. He said that around 80% of the public are using face masks in the city. “But, we want people to come forward for getting tested if they display any symptom or have a fever,” he said. People must also mentally prepare to isolate themselves if they test positive. “This is an area that we need public cooperation to bring down the cases in the entire city,” he added.
10 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||‘Arittapatti has so much to be declared a heritage village’||Tamil Brahmi stone inscriptions, dating back to the second century BCE (Before Common Era), are found in Kalinjamalai at Arittapatti near here. This village, which has Jain vestiges, natural waterbodies and eighth century rock-cut temple of Lord Siva, has the potential to be declared a heritage village, according to V. Vedachalam, former senior epigraphist, Tamil Nadu Archaeology Department. He was speaking during an online heritage walk organised by Dhan Foundation, INTACH, Travel Club of Madurai and Melur Vattara Kalanjiam on Sunday. Renowned historian G. Sethuraman and Siddha practitioner N. Ganapathy also spoke during the online meeting. Mr. Vedachalam said an inscription found at Arittapatti indicated that earlier the village was called ‘Paathirikudi’. During the Pandya reign, the village was part of ‘thenparappu nadu’ (an ancient territorial division of Pandya kingdom.  Natural caverns Kalinjamalai was one of the important heritage spots in the village. It had natural caverns and the second century BCE Tamil Brahmi inscription. “The inscriptions indicate that two persons - Nelvazhi Sizhivan and Ilanji Imayavan - had given shelter to Jain monks at this cave,” he said. Near the cave, a sculpture of a Jain Thirthankara is found. A 10th century CE vattezhuthu inscription found under the sculpture says Kalinjamalai was earlier called as ‘Thiruppinaiyanmalai’. The other important heritage spot was the eighth century rock-cut temple of Lord Siva with a rare sculpture of Lakulisa, said Mr. Sethuraman. An inscription belonging to Sadayavarman Vikaramapandiyan period was found at another structural Siva temple. It said around 700 years back Arittapatti had been an important trading centre. Mr. Vedachalam also said 52 waterbodies were found in the village. “This village nurtures biodiversity and many rare bird species can be spotted here,” he added. The speakers stressed that this village which has rich heritage spots need to be declared a heritage village. Mr. Ganapathy said the villagers extensively consumed highly nutritious moringa leaves and seasame seeds in their everyday diet.
10 August 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Courses translated into Tamil||Madurai Kamaraj University’s Education and Multimedia Research Centre (EMRC) is translating content available for 13 courses from English to Tamil to aid professors teaching in regional languages online. This is part of an initiative by the Ministry of Education to create more content for courses already available on the online portal, ‘Study Webs of Active Learning for Young Aspiring Minds’ (SWAYAM), in regional languages. 3 varsities involved Assistant engineer, EMRC, S. Murali said three universities, including MKU, were translating content for 40 courses in Tamil. Vice-Chancellor of the university M. Krishnan had earlier said that faculty in need of technological assistance must approach the EMRC for aid. Easing the burden Mr. Murali said several members of the teaching staff had approached the centre for help while teaching online, particularly while handling Google Meet or uploading audio and video content. He said that such visual and textual aid for subjects in regional languages would ease their burden. This was the need of the hour too, as students would have the option to choose the language and learn, he said. He added that the centre was offering 40 undergraduate and nine re-run credit-based courses. “We had at least 15,000 people signing up for the computer science course in the semester between January and April. Re-run of these courses will help students gain extra credits,” he said. Professors can also come forward to create e-content as part of the Massive Open Online Courses in various subjects, including six new courses like sociology and political science, he said. “This would be a major plus to the points under the career advancement scheme for professors and will also provide them additional remuneration. Professors can come forward with their proposals to the university administration and get them approved,” he said.  Several members of the teaching staff have approached the centre for help while teaching classes online S. Murali Assistant engineer, EMRC
10 August 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Full lockdown helps reduce case load||Deserted streets, empty markets and police patrolling marked the second complete lockdown of the month of August, here on Sunday. Apart from the occasional two-wheelers on the streets, there was no public movement. Collector T. G. Vinay said that the complete lockdown on Sundays had particularly aided the district in breaking the chain of COVID-19 cases. “When the lockdown is intensified on Sundays, movement is restricted. This helps in preventing the spread of the disease and reducing the case load. Another major advantage of the lockdown on Sundays is that more people come and get themselves tested at fever camps. The fever camp model has evidently worked,” he said. He added that the drop in the number of cases from a high of over 450 cases each day to around 100 cases was an important indicator of stabilisation. “We have only been seeing cases being scattered. There is no clustering at the moment but we are vigilant,” he said.
10 August 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Stir against ‘dilution’ of labour laws||A federation of workers from different associations protested outside the Collectorate here on Saturday alleging watering down of labour laws by the Central and State Governments during the time of the COVID-19 pandemic here on Saturday. Centre of Indian Trade Unions State Vice-President R. Devaraj, who addressed the press, said that workers are being made to work for a minimum of 12 hours every day of their work week. “The COVID-19 pandemic has proved that all employees are being made to work overtime without any dues. We are treated in a disposable manner,” he said. He added that the Central government had chosen this time to privatise railways, thus allowing corporate companies to determine price and quality of travel.
10 August 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Typewriting institutes association moves HC||Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has directed the State to file a status report on a public interest litigation petition filed by Tamil Nadu Typewriting-Computer Institutes Association, which sought permission for the members to operate the institutes. A Division Bench of Justices M. Sathyanarayanan and P. Rajamanickam sought to know if the relief provided to restaurants, gyms and TASMAC shops to function could be extended to typewriting institutes. The court was hearing the petition filed by L. Senthil, State president of the Association. He said the institutes had many women employees who depended on their income to make ends meet. Due to the COVID-19 lockdown, they had been put to much hardship. The petitioner said he had sent a representation to the State seeking permission to reopen the institutes. He had also given an undertaking that sanitation and physical distancing norms would be followed at the institutes, he said.
10 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Pat for Chamber||Revenue Minister R. B. Udayakumar said that the Tamil Nadu Chamber of Commerce and Industry had contributed to fight COVID-19 by providing food at COVID-19 care centres through the Amma Kitchen. At a press meet in the Chamber on Sunday, the Minister said the institution through its Amma Kitchen initiative had helped ease the burden on the State Government by providing quality food for those undergoing treatment.
10 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||SRMU against move to privatise railways||Members of Southern Railway Mazdoor Union on Saturday conducted a demonstration protesting against the Centre’s attempt to privatise Indian Railways. The protest was held on August 8 to coincide the launch of “Quit India” movement by Mahatma Gandhi on this day in 1942. Secretary of Railway Running Staff wing, N. Alaguraja, led the protest in the presence of union assistant secretary V. Ramkumar. The protesters wanted everyone to unite to stop the privatisation move in the interest of the poor and the country’s economy. The centre has proposed to let private trains on109 profit-making routes across the country. They also flayed the Centre for freezing increment of dearness allowance. Giving up 2,500 diesel locomotives will render 15,000 employees of the diesel sheds.
10 August 2020||Nagapattinam,TAMIL NADU||They take to innovative measures to encourage healthy eating||Authorities at Vaitheeswaran Koil Town Panchayat in Mayiladuthurai have devised innovative ways to encourage healthy eating. Following a discussion with hotel owners, a menu with nutritious food has been fixed and hotels across the town are to follow it from Saturday onwards. The initiative stemmed from the idea that during the lockdown, people must consume healthy food despite being forced to stay indoors, said Executive Officer, K. Kuhan. The residents of the town had earlier taken part in various healthy cooking competitions and prizes were distributed to those who prepared the most innovative and nutritious food. The authorities noticed that even amidst the lockdown, bachelors, workers and families consumed food from hotels. To ensure that food at the hotels are healthy, too, a menu was created, he said. The menu consists of pepper and cumin powder, dish made of leafy vegetables, sambar with all vegetables, thoothuvalai or solanum trilobatum and lemon rasam , ginger buttermilk and pickled gooseberries. “These items were specially selected based on local availability, and their health benefits,” said Mr. Kuhan. Further, Himalayan salt, which has more health benefits than regular salt, will be used in all the dishes, Mr. Kuhan added. “The hotel owners were glad to be part of this healthy eating initiative. They welcomed the move and actively took part in the planning. We did not fix a price for the food, but a ceiling of Rs. 50 per meal is required to be maintained,” he said. The town panchayat office has been converted to a ‘Cook from Office,’ model, in an attempt to follow the advice said Mr. Kuhan. “Since we are required on the field, we cannot work from home. To encourage healthy food habits even in the office, we decided to cook food for ourselves,” he said. Staff on a rotation basis cook nutritious lunch for all those who are unable to bring food from home. The food is made at the office with organic rice and in clay pots to further increase its health benefits, Mr. Kuhan added. The office has also done away with tea and coffee during breaks. In the morning, a drink made using lemon, ginger and turmeric is consumed while in the evening turmeric milk with pepper is given to all.
10 August 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Seven more COVID-19 deaths in Puducherry||Seven more deaths took the COVID-19 toll in Puducherry to 87, while the cumulative total went past 5,000 with 264 new admissions on Sunday. With the Union Territiory recording 17 deaths in the last three days, the case fatality rate increased to 1.6% from 1.4%. The 264 new cases were identified from testing 958 samples, showing a positivity rate at 27.5%. S. Mohan Kumar, Director of Health, said almost all the patients, including four women, died of severe COVID pneumonia and were in the age group of 38-80 years. The IGMCRI recorded three deaths, JIPMER one, Karaikal GH two and Yanam GH one. The overall tally of infections reported so far in Puducherry was 5,382, of which 2,094, including 712 home quarantined patients, were active cases. The total number of patients treated and discharged so far is 3,201, including 131 who were discharged during the last 24 hours. So far, 46,878 samples have been tested and 40,575 returned negative. At a meeting convened by Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy, it was decided to immediately engage additional staff, ramp up the stocks of medicines and improve overall cleanliness at the IGMCRI.
10 August 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Bedi appeals to elected representatives||Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi on Sunday appealed to elected representatives to set an example in the adoption of COVID-19 safety norms. Pointing to a few photographs and reports in the media showing violation of social distancing norms by public figures, Ms. Bedi said this happened after some people’s representatives had tested positive. Unless the political leadership shows respect for whatever they want the public to do, the war against COVID-19 would be a case of taking two steps forward and three steps backwards, she added. “It is the need of the hour that every single public representative takes responsibility for his own area and observes personal discipline,” the Lt. Governor said.
10 August 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Admissions open for law courses||The Dr. Ambedkar Government Law College has invited applications for law courses for 2020-21. The courses on offer are LL.B. (three years), LL.M. (two years) and Post Graduate Diploma in French Law (one-year evening course in town centre). The application forms will be available, in person or by post, at the college campus in Periya Kalapet from August 10. Interested can contact 0413 2656550.
10 August 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Salem GH successfully conducts deliveries of 47 COVID-19 positive mothers||The Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital has successfully conducted deliveries of 47 mothers, who tested positive for COVID-19, from April to the beginning of August. Both the mothers and the newborns were doing fine, said P.V. Dhanapal, Medical Superintendent of the Hospital. According to authorities, the Hospital handled one delivery in May, nine in June and 37 deliveries in July. Among the births, 11 were natural deliveries and c-section had to be conducted in 36 cases. R. Balajinathan, Dean of the Hospital, said all safety measures were being taken during deliveries and while taking care of the newborns. A separate ward had been set up to handle delivery cases and for nursing newborns of mothers affected with COVID-19. The babies were fed with breast milk and all precautionary measures were being taken to ensure that the newborns did not contract the disease from the mothers. He added that no newborn tested positive on birth. Dr. Balajinathan said a team had been formed to monitor and nurse the newborns and there was sufficient stock of milk at the milk bank in the Hospital. Dr. Gopinath from Paediatrics department said the mothers were advised to wear masks and the babies were wrapped in disposable towels to prevent babies from contracting the disease from the mother. S.S. Subha, Head of Obstetrics and Gynaecology department, said doctors were provided with Personal Protection Equipment kits and other safety gadgets while handling COVID-19 patients and they were sent in quarantine in rotational basis. Besides, the hospital also handled more number of deliveries between March and May when lockdown was stricter. According to authorities, the GH handled 868 deliveries in March, 977 in April and 1,082 deliveries in May.
10 August 2020||TENKASI,TAMIL NADU||Water level in dams rising steadily in Tenkasi district||Surplus water from Ramanadhi reservoir is being released into the river following incessant rain in the district for the last seven days. People living close to the riverbed have been asked to move away to safer places. Collector Arun Sundar Thayalan on Sunday held a meeting with Revenue, PWD, Rural Development Department officials to review the situation in the wake of south-west monsoon. PWD engineers started releasing water into the river as a safety measure since Saturday as the level in Ramanadhi reservoir had gone up to 82 ft against its maximum level of 84 feet. Many other reservoirs too were fast filling up and most of them had almost touched the maximum level. In the event of more rain, officials may be compelled to release more water into the river, Mr. Thalayan said. The pockets close to the Western Ghats had been witnessing heavy rainfall while other places were experiencing widespread rain. Catchment areas too were in the thick of rain. Falls in the Courtallam had been receiving good flow since the beginning of August. However, tourists have been prohibited from entering into the falls. PWD engineers said that 37 mm rainfall was recorded in Gundar dam followed by Shencottah (19 mm), Adaivinaynainarkoil dam (14 mm), Sivagiri (7 mm) and Ramanadhi dam (5mm) during the last 24 hours. With Gundar reservoir having touched its maximum level, surplus water was let into the river. The water level in Gadanadhi dam rose up by 4.5 feet in the last 24 hours and the storage level moved up to 74 ft (maximum level 85 ft) with an inflow of 484 cusecs and discharge of 10 cusecs. Likewise, Karuppanadhi reservoir received copious inflow in a day. With the maximum level at 72 feet, the storage level was 66.28 ft. Adaivinainainarkoil dam too had 4.5 feet increase taking the storage level to 125 ft (maximum level 132.22 ft). The Collector urged people to move away from the river side and ensure that their milch animals were in safe condition. A control room has been established at the Collector’s office. For any emergencies, public can contact 04644-290548, which would function round the clock. There was widespread rain in Kanniyakumari district too. The district administration has taken preventive measures and public have been told to cooperate by remaining indoors.
10 August 2020||THENI/VIRUDHUNAGAR,TAMIL NADU||Theni district’s COVID-19 tally goes up by 360||Theni registered 360 new COVID-19 cases on Sunday, when 194 people were discharged from hospitals in the district. A total of 131 fresh cases pushed Dindigul’s tally to 3,878. There were 327 discharges. Ramanathapuram reported 61 new cases, with which its tally rose to 3,646. The number of people discharged from hospitals was 47. Sivaganga had 49 new cases, which took the district’s case count to 2,936. Forty-seven people were discharged. Virudhunagar recorded 13 deaths, which raised its overall toll to 134. Among the deceased was an 11-year-old boy, the youngest victim in the district. Though this is the first time that a double-digit single-day toll has been recorded in the district, it included five deaths reported between July 31 and August 4 at Government Rajaji Hospital, Madurai. The others were reported on August 7 and 8. On two previous occasions, the district had registered nine single-day deaths. The district on Sunday recorded 193 fresh cases. With 338 people having been discharged, the number of active cases stands at 1,766. “It looks like the government has given up Virudhunagar district,” said Virudhunagar MP B. Manickam Tagore. H had already appealed to Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami to give special care to Virudhunagar as the number of positive cases was spiking, he added. CPI (M) district secretary K. Arjunan said, “Two days back, we had expressed concern over the way testing was done and the delay in releasing results. Our fears have come true.” However, an official said people were not cooperating with the officials even in testing in some places. Thoothukudi had 254 new cases, with which its tally rose to 9,159. There were 237 discharges. Tirunelveli registered 153 fresh cases and 255 discharges. Kanniyakumari reported 126 fresh cases, which took its tally to 6,348. A total of 268 people were discharged from hospitals. Tenkasi’s tally rose to 3,132 with the addition of 180 new cases. Thirty-nine people were discharged. In Madurai district, 107 persons tested positive, taking the case count to 12,005. A total of 463 people were discharged from COVID-19 treatment facilities. With six new deaths, the district’s toll stands at 288. There are 1,265 active cases.
10 August 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Tiruchi will soon get another COVID Care Centre||The Government College of Engineering, Srirangam, which was earlier being used as a quarantine facility for travellers will soon be made into a COVID Care Centre for asymptomatic patients. The college campus, located in Sethurapatti, had been used to quarantine travellers who had arrived at the district via the Vande Bharat Mission repatriation flights and the Shramik special trains. To accommodate asymptomatic patients in the district, the college is now being converted to a COVID Care Centre, similar to the one at Khajamalai. “The Khajamalai campus of Bharathidasan University had been prepared with 500 beds, of which only 215 were occupied. However, as a precautionary measure, the additional facility at the engineering college is being prepared with 550 beds,” District Collector S. Sivarasu told The Hindu . The additional facility will be equipped with attached restrooms, beds, and other essential amenities, while the district administration will provide meals to the patients. A team of health officials will regularly monitor the health of patients. A senior health official said that only those below the age of 60, and without any comorbidities would be admitted at COVID Care Centres. “As soon as a patient tests positive for the viral infection, if they are asymptomatic, a survey will be done at their residence. If they have room to isolate in, they will be advised home quarantine. Otherwise, they will be admitted to the COVID Care Centre. This also applies to inter-district travellers as they cannot get back to their hometown after testing positive,” the official said.
10 August 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Teachers of govt. colleges favour television for better reach||Teachers of government arts and science colleges who have been struggling for the last few days to conduct online classes for intermediate and final year students of UG students due to connectivity problems and inadequacy of gadgets see a solution in television medium for better reach in rural parts, as is being done for school students. A survey by the office of the Regional Joint Director of Collegiate Education has indicated that not more than 30 % of the students enrolled in the government colleges have access to smart phones for attending the online classes. “We are conducting classes with less than 20 % of the student strength. Considering the socio-economic backward conditions of the students enrolled in government colleges, it is not fair to expect even those who possess smart phones to meet the expenses towards data charges. The government must either think on lines of providing students with gadgets to attend the classes or put in place a mechanism to reach out to the students through television channels at the local level,” a senior teacher of a government arts and science college. Bharathidasan University is understood to have a plan to approach the Higher Education Department with a request for consideration of a suggestion put forth by the Principal of Meenakshi Ramasamy Arts and Science College, Ariyalur, S. Sekar that the Tamil Nadu Arasu Cable Television Network must be optimally utilised in the interests of students in interior rural parts where net connectivity was poor or even nil. Prof. Sekar had explained the travails faced by students in rural parts to keep pace with online classes at a recent meeting of principals and heads of university departments convened by Vice-Chancellor P. Manisankar. The university's idea is that the video contents posted by the teachers in its repository could be telecast through the local television channels, as a practical approach for fructification of the virtual mode of education. “The video material in the university's repository being open source content, it could be downloaded by students with access to Internet and the downloaded video lectures could be telecast through local channels for the benefit of students in rural parts,” S. Senthilnathan, Director In-Charge, UGC-Human Resource Development Centre and Professor, Department of Educational Technology, Bharathidasan University, said. Contrived learning experience through audio-video television output have for long been a proven method for effective remembrance and retention, Prof. Senthilnathan said.
10 August 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||E-pass applicants still face numerous hurdles||Claims by officials on following a ‘liberal policy’ on issuance of e-pass notwithstanding, applicants continue to face problems in getting permission to travel to inter-district destinations. During the initial stage of the lockdown, the National Informatics Centres (NIC) functioning in district Collectorates were entrusted with the task of receiving, processing and granting e-passes for the general public, who wanted to travel from one place to another for attending marriages, funeral and medical emergencies. A software of NIC was used for it. Subsequently, the State government handed over the responsibility of issuing passes to the Tamil Nadu e-Governance Agency. District Collectors were given powers to grant the e-passes. People, who seek passes, have to log on to the website at https://tnepass.tnega.org The portal is accessible through mobile phones as well. The website enables individuals and organisations to apply for e-passes for movement of people or employees. Organisations will have to upload their GST registration certificate/Udyog Aadhaar as proof and must follow the standard operating procedure as detailed along with any other orders issued by the government, and details of vehicles permitted for transporting employees. While tech savvy people find it easy to apply e-pass online, there are many, who find the procedure very tough. They have to depend on the younger generation to apply for e-pass. As per the portal, people can apply e-passes mainly for medical emergencies, marriages and deaths. The system does not permit for those intending to travel for other reasons. In the absence of other options, it is being speculated that the applicants are forced to mention false reasons while applying for e-pass. Many say that their applications are rejected invariably and only a few manage to get passes. “No one applies for e-pass without any valid reason. But, most of applications are rejected. There is no need for e-pass system when the public transport is completely off. Otherwise, life will come to a standstill. The ambit of e-passes should at least be increased,” says Ghouse Baig, a consumer activist in Tiruchi. However, senior officials in Tiruchi insist that a liberal approach is being followed on grant of e-pass. All genuine applications are approved, an official said. Tiruchi district on an average receives 1,600 to 1800 applications daily for general purposes. The number of applications for industrial purposes hovers between 700 and 800 a day. Though reasons cited for many passes are found to be incorrect around 600 to 700 e-passes are issued daily, a senior official told The Hindu . Since,April, the district had received 2,74,461 applications for e-passes. Of them, 93,954 were approved. As far as industry passes were concerned, out of 20,034 applications, 5,274 were approved until Sunday.  There is no need for e-pass system when public transport is completely off... The ambit of e-passes should at least be increased Ghouse Baig Consumer activist
10 August 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||620 new COVID cases and six deaths||The central region on Sunday recorded a slight dip in COVID-19 cases with 620 new patients testing positive for the viral infection. Six deaths - three in Thanjavur, two in Tiruchi and one in Ariyalur were recorded. In Thanjavur, two men aged 45 and 65 and an 84-year-old woman died of COVID-19 comorbidities including diabetes and hypertension. In Tiruchi, a 78-year-old woman and a 60-year-old man died of COVID-19 pneumonia and respiratory failure at the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital while in Ariyalur, an 80-year-old man with diabetes died at the Government Headquarters Hospital. Thanjavur recorded the highest number of COVID-19 cases among the central districts. Of the 155 patients one was a manager at a private hospital in Tiruvarur, three grocery shop owners, a radiographer at the Thanjavur Medical College Hospital, nine staff members of private hospitals, seven PWD workers, a Revenue Inspector at Pattukottai taluk office, a village health nurse at Thugili Primary Healthcare Centre, a staff nurse at the Papanasam Government Hospital and a postmaster at Nagakudi village in Kumbakonam. In Tiruchi, 96 patients tested positive. Patients in rural parts, including Manapparai, Musiri and Thuraiyur also tested positive. Meanwhile, 16 patients from the Tiruchi MGMGH and 54 patients from the COVID Care Centre in Khajamalai were discharged. Among the 139 patients who tested positive in Pudukottai, many were contacts of patients who tested positive earlier. Meanwhile, 51 new COVID-19 cases were recorded in Tiruvarur. Nagapattinam recorded 69 new cases, mostly in Sirkazhi and Thirumarugal Blocks. Meanwhile, four pregnant women, 26 contact cases, six healthcare workers - including four policemen and two health workers. Four inter-district travellers also tested positive. After some employees tested positive for the virus, Collector Praveen P Nair announced that the Collectorate would be closed on August 10 and 11. Sanitising of the campus and disinfection would be done, he said. A total of 46 patients tested positive in Ariyalur, further increasing the total number of COVID-19 cases in the district to 1,291. Of them, 995 cases are active while the remaining were sent home after recovery. Meanwhile, 144 new COVID-19 throat swabs were lifted at the Ariyalur GH and at various Primary Healthcare Centres. In Karur, 32 patients tested positive and have been admitted to the Karur Government Medical College Hospital for treatment. Perambalur too, recorded 32 new cases. Of the 32, three patients have been admitted to the Tiruchi GH and two have been admitted to the Ariyalur GH, while the rest of them are undergoing treatment at the Perambalur District Headquarters Hospital.
10 August 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Lockdown sees more workers enrolling under MGNREGS||The number of people seeking employment under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) has almost doubled in Tiruchi district due to the lockdown and the severe strain on employment in unorganised sector. As per the official data of the District Rural Development Agency (DRDA), about 80,000 workers had taken up jobs under MGNREGS in 404 village panchayats in 14 blocks in the district. The number would normally go down further during agricultural season. Only about 40,000 workers had taken up jobs under the scheme in August 2019 in the district. The sharp spike this year is said to be the fallout of huge job losses all around, particularly in the unorganised sector, where thousands of workers have suddenly become unemployed after various organised and unorganised industries and commercial establishments cease to function either partially or fully due to the lockdown. “There has been a sharp increase in number of people seeking rural job works for the last few months. We provide employment to all of those report for duty,” said Collector S. Sivarasu. He said that daily wage under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Job Scheme has increased to Rs. 254 from Rs. 234 a day. The increase of wage could be another reason for the rise in number of workers seeking employment. R. Shankar, Project Director, DRDA, Tiruchi, said that a sum of Rs. 175 crore was disbursed as wages to the MNREGS workers in 2019-20. About Rs. 60 crore has already been disbursed to the workers as wages during the last four months itself this year. It had been noticed that a section of rural people, who were confined to their homes because of lockdown, has been reporting for employment. They were involved in creating farm ponds, sunken ponds, drench cutting, deepening ponds, desilting inlet and outlet channels and material component works, Mr. Shankar added. Mr. Sivarasu said that several people had been demanding the inclusion of their names in the rural job scheme. New cards were being distributed to them. About 5,000 new workers had been included in the rolls recently.
10 August 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Fix GPS device in vehicles, urge police to buyers||The Tiruchi City Police has advised buyers of four-wheelers to install Global Positioning System (GPS) device for easier detection in dealing with stolen vehicle cases. Installation of GPS device in four-wheelers would enable those buying such vehicles for own use or using them for rental basis to ensure that it reaches the destined place through the App. Owners of cars used for rental basis and those owning lorries would also be in a position to know the location of their vehicles once the vehicles were equipped with GPS device without having to make a call to the driver. Equipping the vehicles with GPS device would enable the law enforcers to speedily know their movement in case the vehicles were stolen, a police press release said. The City Police had recently recovered a lorry that was stolen from the city limits. The movement of the stolen lorry on the Thoothukudi road near Madurai was known through the GPS device installed in it. An alert was sounded to the Madurai Police following which the stolen vehicle was recovered. The City Police has advised the public to realise the importance of equipping GPS device costing Rs. 4,000 to Rs. 5,000 as a safety measure in their vehicles which were purchased by investing a heavy amount. The police convened a special meeting with dealers of cars here on Saturday as per the instruction of the Commissioner of Police asking them to drive home to the customers the message on the importance of installing GPS device and the benefits. The dealers were also asked to insist upon the customers to equip the new vehicles with GPS device.
10 August 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Man held||A 52-year-old man has been arrested on the charge of downloading child and adult pornography photos and circulating them in the social media platform. The Cantonment All Women Police arrested R. Arun (52) on Saturday and booked a case against him under the POCSO Act and sections of the Information Technology Act. The accused was later lodged in Lalgudi Sub-Jail. Police said Arun who had been staying at Crawford area was arrested based on information from the Cyber Cell of the Tiruchi City Police. He had been allegedly downloading child and adult pornography video and shared the clippings in different Whatsapp groups. He was also involved in Kerala online lottery activity. He is also accused of administering injection to poor people in the surrounding area for ailments. The police seized a cell phone and other items from his house.
10 August 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||New SP takes charge||T. Jeyachandran assumed charge as the Superintendent of Police, Tiruchi, on Sunday. He was earlier SP of Kallakurichi district. Mr. Jeyachandran had also served as Superintendent of Police of Tiruvarur, Sivaganga and Dindigul districts.
10 August 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Woman arrested for selling parakeets||Forest Department officials arrested a 41-year-old woman after she was found with parakeets meant for sale at Somarasampet on the outskirts of the city on Saturday. The accused Kanakavalli had kept 10 birds in five cages for sale. Based on information, a team went to the spot, arrested the woman, and seized the birds. A fine of Rs. 5,000 was imposed on the woman who was subsequently released.
10 August 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Mettur level||The water level in Mettur dam stood at 75.83 feet on Sunday against its full level of 120 feet. The inflow was 61,197 cusecs and the discharge was 1,000 cusecs.
10 August 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Over 33,000 households to get water connection||A total of 33,098 houses in Tiruppur Corporation will get water connection under the Atal Mission for Rejuvenation and Urban Transformation scheme, District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan said here recently. The Rs. 250-crore scheme implemented by Tamil Nadu Water Supply and Drainage Board (TWAD) will ensure around 135 litres of water per house a day for the next 30 years. Adequate number of overhead tanks, ground level sumps, additional overhead tanks and redesigned distribution pipelines have been set up under the scheme, he said in a press release.
10 August 2020||August 10 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Residents worried about model road work||More than a month after Municipal Administration Minister S.P. Velumani participated in the ground-breaking ceremony to start the Rs. 40.70 model road work in Race Course, the residents there are worried than happy. The cause for their concern, the residents say, is the Coimbatore Corporation’s intransigence on what it proposes to do to improve the area, its failure to take them into confidence by asking the improvement they want and their grievances. With the corporation starting work in the stretch between the CSI All Souls’ Church and Cosmopolitan Club on the 3-km circular road, the carriage way has reduced resulting in increased traffic congestion and poorer parking space. The Race Course and Neighbourood Association (RANA) secretary Sathish Balagopal said the residents’ concern were the increased misuse of the area by people consuming liquor, unregulated parking, encroachment of public space and mushrooming of makeshift structures. Without addressing any of those, if the corporation were to merely relay the walkers’ path and provide space for roadside eateries, it would only worsen the environment there. RANA committee member J. Sathish said the residents’ objection was not to the corporation creating or improving infrastructure with an eye on people’s health but providing space for eateries as that would lead to more congestion and deterioration in hygiene. Even in the present condition, the residents were unable to take their cars on the roads as parked cars on both sides of the exit blocked road visibility, Mr. Balagopal rued. A Race Course resident, N.K. Velu, wondered what was the corporation’s motive behind replacing the well-laid and even walkers’ path when there was no demand or complaint from the residents or regular walkers. Even the dividers that demarcated garden from the walkers’ path were intact. What the Corporation was doing under the Model Road project suggested that its intention was other than developing the area. Civic and consumer activist K. Kathirmathiyon has also questioned the corporation’s need for taking up model road project in Race Course. What the civic body should have done was take up a poorly developed area to make it a second Race Course for Coimbatore. What it was doing in Race Course was only replacing the existing infrastructure and not any improvement. It should have aimed at creating a Race Course-like facility in another part of the city and that would have added real meaning to Coimbatore being a Smart City.
10 August 2020||August 10 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Improve infrastructure in village, demand rain-hit residents||Residents of Puramana Vayal in Gudalur, one of the villages most affected by the recent rains and subsequent flooding caused by the Kalampuzha stream, have urged the district administration to take corrective measures to prevent further flooding in the future. The residents believe that the flooding over the last two years to be a sign of things to come, and want the infrastructure in their village improved, including the reconstruction of a damaged bridge. They also want a wooden bridge to be replaced with a permanent road. Local residents said that most of the families living along the course of the Kalampuzha stream had been living there for more than 20 years, and that they had not witnessed any floods on such a scale. “Only over the last two years has the stream flooded and surrounding homes inundated,” said P. Jose, a local resident, who feels that encroachments along the course of the stream could be contributing to more serious floodings. The intense rains in Gudalur for two successive years have led to a bridge connecting a few houses in Puramana Vayal to the main road leading to the village becoming damaged. S. Adeesh, another resident, said that the bridge had become damaged and that vehicles had been prohibited from using it for fear of the bridge collapsing. “We urge the local body, when sanctioning the construction of a new bridge, to plan for the bridge to be built at a greater height and much wider, so that there is space for the water to flow underneath. The current bridge and its pillars, trap the water and doesn’t allow it to flow freely, leading to the water spilling over from the stream course and inundating surrounding residential areas,” said Mr. Adeesh. Another demand from local residents is for the existing wooden bridge connecting the main hamlet of Puramana Vayal to a few surrounding houses to be replaced with a proper road. “The wooden bridge is at risk of being washed away, and it is perilous for people to use it during the rains,” said another resident. Tribal families in Puramana Vayal were among the most affected, with their hamlet almost completely becoming flooded and the families losing most of their possessions. The families, who were evacuated and sent to a school nearby for their safety, demanded that construction of the new houses which are being built for them away from the stream be expedited so that they can move into the new houses before the start of next monsoon.
10 August 2020||August 10 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Consumer organisation opposes monthly EB billing||The Coimbatore Consumer Cause, a consumer organisation, has opposed plans by the government to switch over to monthly billing system for domestic electricity consumers instead of the current bi-monthly system. Secretary of the organisation, K. Kathirmathiyon, said in a press release, “We strongly oppose the suggestion since the demand was made by some people who misunderstood the Tariff Order and are under the wrong impression that if bills are paid monthly instead of the present bi-monthly billing, consumers would save huge amount. But it is totally wrong and the fact is that not even a single paisa could be saved by the public.” He said the public will only face difficulties if the billing is changed to monthly system. In all the Tariff Orders of the Tamil Nadu Electricity Regulatory Commission, it is said that tariff is specified for monthly billing. For the bi-monthly billing the slab rate is just double and the Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation is following the same. If it is monthly billing, the consumers should pay the amount every month. Many institutions collect service charges per bill for payment of EB bills. Instead of one service charge for two months’ bill, the consumers will have to pay two service charges for monthly bill, ie., for two months. The Tangedco will have to recruit more assessors and personnel for cash counters, he said.
10 August 2020||August 10 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Entrepreneur makes solid fuel from plastic waste||“Encouragement from Collector K. Veera Raghava Rao and support from officials at Prime Minister’s Office last year helped me start a unit under the StartUp India and (New Entrepreneur Cum Enterprise Development) NEED programme,” said V.Anbarasan, 23, a budding entrepreneur, here on Saturday. The StartUp company produces solid fuel from plastic waste, which is an alternative to wood and coal. It has tremendous need in industries which use wood and coal in their manufacturing process. “My product is not only cheaper, but eco-friendly,” he says. After passing out from Anna University, Coimbatore, in 2018, the petro-chemical engineer says he was keen to become an entrepreneur rather seeking a job. “I was confined to my small room of research for a year. When I met Collector Mr. Rao at the weekly grievance meeting about 10 months back and explained to him about my goal, he sanctioned Rs. 10,000 for my research from the Collector’s Special Fund. It gave me the fillip,” he says. With single use plastics as prime raw material, he said he signed an MoU with the Paramakudi Municipal authorities. “Every day, I can produce about one ton initially with the present capacity and process them with additives. “This (additives) is my innovation. I have applied for a patent. My end product has been tested and certified by Central government approved laboratories,” he says. Mr. Rao said the district administration extended support from T.N. Pollution Control Board for his certification after inspecting the unit at R. S. Mangalam. District Industries Centre GM, P.Mariammal, was instrumental in coordinating with Indian Bank, Paramakudi, which had sanctioned a loan of Rs. 12.50 lakh and the TN government’s subsidy of Rs. 2.24 lakh. “I have commenced production two months ago but my order book looks encouraging. I want to give jobs to people around me and protect the environment.”
10 August 2020||August 10 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Help pours in for siblings who lost parents||A trust and philanthropists have extended help to four siblings of Kuttaiyur village in Erode, who lost their father to alcoholism, and later their mother to illness. The siblings, Akshita (13), Rakshita (9), Jeya (8) and Mani (3), lost their parents Puttappan and Sakhi, a few years ago. While Akshita and Mani are staying with their mother’s sister at Devarmalai in Bargur Hills, Rakshita and Jeya are living with their 80-year-old grandmother Manjamma in the village located near the Tamil Nadu – Karnataka border in Bargur panchayat union in Anthiyur taluk. A report on “Girl who lost father to alcoholism pleads with villagers to shun liquor”, was published in The Hindu dated August 9 that highlighted their plight. On Sunday, R. Sivakumar, Superintendent of Police, Prohibition Enforcement Wing, Salem Zone, and J.J. Bharathi, founder of Selva Charitable Trust, offered to sponsor the education of all the four children till their college education. Monthly assistance “The family lost their breadwinners and we will take care of their education needs,” they told The Hindu . A philanthropist in Chennai, who does not want to be named, is willing to provide monthly assistance of Rs. 2,000 to the family. Collector C. Kathiravan told The Hindu that if their guardian is willing, all the children can be admitted to a government school at Anthiyur and hostel accommodation can be provided.
10 August 2020||August 10 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore district’s tally touches 6,670 cases||Coimbatore district’s COVID-19 tally touched 6,670 with 217 more persons testing positive for the disease on Sunday. The western districts recorded 624 new cases and 16 deaths. According to a bulletin issued by the Health Department, 13 patients died of the disease in Coimbatore district on Friday and Saturday, two in Tiruppur and one in Erode. The total death toll in Coimbatore district stood at 125 on Sunday. Of the 13 deaths declared on Sunday, 12 were reported from the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital (CMCH) on Friday and Saturday and the remaining one from a private hospital on Saturday. Statistics released by the Department showed that 19 persons died at CMCH in a three day period from Thursday to Saturday. According to the media bulletin from Tiruppur, a 78-year-old man died at Tiruppur Government Medical College Hospital on Saturday and a 23-year-old cancer patient, who also tested positive, died at Tiruppur Government Medical College Hospital on Friday. In Erode, a 55-year-old-woman died at the hospital on August 8. With this, the total number of deaths reported in the district so far is 17. Majority of the 217 cases reported on Sunday were from places within the limits of Coimbatore Municipal Corporation. Other cases were reported from Mettupalayam and Pollachi municipalities, Annur, Karamadai, Kinathukadavu, Pollachi south, Sulur, Thondamuthur, Thudiyalur and S.S. Kulam blocks. 165 cases in Salem In Salem, 165 cases were reported on Sunday. According to health officials, 159 cases are indigenous, including 113 within the Salem Corporation limits. Four patients have travelled to Cuddalore, Namakkal, Tuticorin and Ariyalur and two patients returned from Bihar and Maharashtra. In Namakkal, 35 cases were reported, majority of them were contacts of previous cases. Four patients have travelled to Erode and Chennai. In Dharmapuri, 29 cases were reported. According to officials, four persons have travelled to Karnataka and three patients to Salem, Virudhanagar. The patients include a government hospital worker, lab technician and a police constable. In Krishnagiri, 60 cases were reported, all indigenous. 42 cases in Tiruppur Tiruppur district reported 42 cases, taking the overall tally to 1,154 cases. Two children from Tiruppur Corporation limits were among the fresh cases. Other cases were reported from Vellakoil, Avinashi, Palladam, Kangeyam and Dharapuram Blocks. In Erode, 66 cases were reported taking the district’s tally to 1,064. A total of 16 persons were discharged from the hospital while 367 were under treatment. In the Nilgiris, 10 persons tested positive on Sunday. The district administration stated that with the latest infections, 958 people have confirmed to have tested positive, with 803 recovered so far.
10 August 2020||August 10 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Silence speaks||
10 August 2020||August 10 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Ensuring adherence||
10 August 2020||August 10 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||CISF to probe ‘Are you Indian?’ taunt at MP||“The message from the CISF came when I was on the flight. When I reached Delhi, two CISF officers met me and promised action. They said it (the incident) should not have happened,” Ms. Kanimozhi told this correspondent.  DIG speaks to MP “The CISF DIG from Chennai also spoke to me on the phone,” said the DMK leader, who had gone to Delhi to attend meetings of the Joint Parliamentary Committee on Personal Data Protection Bill and the Standing Committee on Chemicals and Fertilizers. She said that normally, officers from south India would be deployed at Chennai airport to avoid any inconvenience to the passengers. “But this time, a north Indian officer was there,” she added. Subsequently, CISF informed her that it had ordered an inquiry into the matter. ‘Not CISF police’ “It is not the policy of CISF to insist upon [using] any particular language,” the agency said. Ms. Kanimozhi thanked the agency for its “immediate response and assurance that action will be taken”.
10 August 2020||August 10 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Demonstration staged||Stating that both the Central and State governments are trying to loot the public sector undertakings and natural resources during the COVID-19 pandemic, various trade unions staged a demonstration at Surampatti Four Road here on Saturday. Members said that Mahatma Gandhi launched the ‘Quit India Movement’ on August 8, 1942 and condemning the anti-people, anti-labour and anti-country policies of the governments, we are observing it as “Save India Day”.
10 August 2020||August 10 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||covid-19 update||Till August 9   Coimbatore district  No. of cases on Sunday: 217 No. of persons tested +ve so far: 6,670 Indigenous cases: 6,632 Imported cases: 38 No. of active cases: 1,665 Persons recovered: 4,880 No. of persons died: 125  Tiruppur district  No. of cases on Sunday: 42 Persons tested +ve so far: 1,154 Persons recovered: 801 Deaths: 23  Active cases: 330
10 August 2020||August 10 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Reader’s Mail (unused on August 2)||Utilising the lockdown, some pharmacists are playing the role of doctors and prescribing drugs to the public, particularly in rural areas, where people are unaware of the seriousness of COVID-19 pandemic. So, many take medicines without knowing whether or not they have symptoms of the virus. Health officials should keep a tab on such pharmacists. Sainithii. M, Madurai   A signage at Kodaikanal ghat road junction says Batlagundu is 7 km and Madurai is 102 km away. Although the distance for Batlagundu is accurate, the distance to Madurai is only 65 km. The board is there for at least three years now. Authorities must rectify the mistake. M. James Victor Raj, Theni      The Chief Minister announced two years ago that Ramanathapuram municipality would be upgraded to selection grade by including the village panchayats of Sakkarakottai, Peravoor, Pattinamkathan, Soorankottai, Achuthanvayal and R.S. Madai. Now the municipality is under the administration of a Special Officer. With elections round the corner, this is the right time to carry out the process of amalgamation. Asmabagh Anvardeen, Ramanathapuram.    Nowadays, private hospitals treating COVID-19 patients are charging exorbitant fees. One of my relatives was admitted to a private hospital for a heart ailment. First, a COVID-19 test was taken but it returned negative. On the day of surgery, he apparently tested positive and was asked to remain in the hospital for 10 days. Despite providing little medical care, the hospital charged a very high amount for treatment. The hospital also kept delaying discharge of the patient. This is the case in many hospitals. G. Chittibabu, Madurai.    In 1956, the Tamil Nadu government introduced English subject as a course. Many students who were studying in Tamil medium schools got an opportunity to learn the course, thus making it easy to enroll in colleges where a majority of the subjects were taught in English. It is a proven fact that learning the subjects in mother tongue in all the classes in schools along with the study of English as a language will enable students to understand and discuss subjects well. M. Vathapureeswaran, Madurai.    This refers to the news report ‘Tamil Nadu govt. releases norms for online learning’ The Hindu , July 31. Since there is no sign of decrease in the COVID-19 pandemic, it seems remote that the educational institutions will be opened in the near future. Therefore, authorities have introduced online learning classes for students. With a view to regulating the online classes, the government has issued norms and guidelines on the duration, number of classes and the like. It is also a good news that School Education Department has introduced teaching through TV channels. But, many rural students or their parents do not have smartphones. It cannot also be said that uninterrupted internet connectivity will be available in all remote areas. It will be difficult for the students of these areas to follow online classes. Hence, the government should make necessary arrangements in collaboration with private networking companies so that all students have internet access to follow online classes. S. Nallasivan, Tirunelveli.    It is announced in dailies that reimbursement of train tickets booked in the lockdown period will be made at the ticket counters of Nagercoil railway station. The proposed method of payment will attract crowd at the station and will deter personal distancing. Hence, the railways could think about online reimbursement. B. Nagalingam Pillai, Nagercoil.      Steps must be taken to terminate the recently approved Kanniyakumari- Dibrugarh Vivek weekly train at Thiruvananthapuram or Kochuveli. The Railway Board and Thiruvananthapuram Division are using Kanniyakumari and Nagercoil Junction as a dumping yard for cleaning and maintaining Kerala-bound trains. The board has ignored our demands of making Tambaram-Nagercoil rriweekly superfast into a daily train and Chennai Central-Nagercoil weekly train to triweekly. Jegan, Nagercoil.
10 August 2020||August 10 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Readers Mail||Residents living near the stretch between Karattampatti and Puthanampatti have been making repeated representations to the Highways Department to widen the road passing through the seven culverts. Also, in the absence of protection walls, motorists are exposed to danger along the stretch. The stretch is also turning busy with traffic as it provides connectivity to Thuraiyu town. A prompt action by the authorities will be appreciated. M. Periyamalaiyan  Karattampatti   The stretch from Shobanapuram to Top Sengattupatti on the Pachamalai Hills has undergone much damage, causing difficulty for motorists, especially two-wheelers as residents in the several hamlets on the hills in the Eastern Ghats depend on the road for transporting agricultural produce. At some stretches, the gravel has been gouged out from the road due to movement of lorries and formation of deep pits has turned dangerous for two-wheeler riders. Only patch work is being done, and the stretch, which is under the control of Forest Department, needs to be re-laid completely. Saravanan Natesan  Puthanampatti   Adequate precautions need to be taken to prevent spread of COVID-19 infection at workplace. The key factor for prevention is strict adherence to social distancing, hand-hygiene and disinfection of surfaces that are often touched so as to avoid exposure to respiratory droplets of infected people. Office administrators need to carry out risk assessments with the support of occupational health and safety professionals. It is also important for office administrators to identify people who are unwell and prevail upon them to stay at home, self-isolate and get themselves tested. M.A. Aleem  Tiruchi   Due to rapid spread of corona virus, it has become risky to go to the motor vehicle inspectors' office for renewal of driving licence. People, particularly senior citizens are vulnerable. Also, as many offices of Regional Transport Officers are temporarily closed, the government has to extend the validity of driving licence by a year. S. Kannan Uyyakondan Thirumalai     While online classes have commenced for college students during the lockdown, there are many who are unable to purchase costly gadgets for attending classes. Even in the case of students having the gadgets, many are unable to bear the cost of high-speed internet data. Below Poverty Line families are already in immense economic distress, and unable to spend on the gadgets. The education department has to step in and resolve the issue at the earliest and make sure that students in large numbers are covered by the online initiative.  Sainithii.M Cantonment    Garbage strewn on the Warners Road by a section of residents and shopkeepers have not been cleared and have turned into breeding spots for mosquitoes. Cattle rummage into the garbage and unbearable stench emanates from the heap. The City Corporation has to address the discomfort caused to residents.  M. Raja  Tiruchi    Curbing movement of people through the e-pass system makes little sense if the crowding of customers in front of liquor outlets is not curbed. As in Kerala, liquor sale must be permitted only in licensed bars and well outside the urban limits, for ensuring adherence to social distancing norms.  T.M. Ranganathan  Srirangam    Though smoking and spitting in public is prohibited, none seems to be bothered. It is common to see people smoking and spitting in the vicinity of tea stalls. Such acts could lead to the spread of COVID-19 virus. The system of spot fine must be implemented strictly on violators.  Dimple R. Mohan   Sangiliyandapuram     The biometric system in offices and schools were suspended due to COVID-19 pandemic, but the PDS outlets insist on thumb impression for getting provisions. The old system could be followed until the pandemic is eradicated.  V. Raveendran  South Kattur    Early fixation of fee in engineering colleges by the government-appointed committee will be appreciated. The individual colleges must be asked to publish the fee particulars in their respective websites. While it is known that the fee fixation committee for professional colleges takes into account the student-staff ratio and the extent of payments made to teachers to fix the fee for every three years, a number of private colleges have not paid salaries for their staff members. The pay scales recommended by the AICTE is also not adhered to. More transparency in this regard will help improve quality of education.  R. Ganesan  Tiruvanaikovil    This is the apt time to have a uniform educational system across the country. States must rise above political reasons and allow students to learn additional languages, which would stand them in good stead to secure employment beyond Tamil Nadu. A uniform educational system will expedite India's march towards transforming into a knowledge superpower. Students ought to be provided with the right skills and knowledge for eliminating human resource constraints.  S. Krishnan  Thippirajapuram    Farmers bringing cotton for sale to the marketing yard at Tiruppanandhal on Wednesdays and Thursdays are required to wait for a long duration due to the lengthy queue. Establishing an eatery and implementing a coupon system will be of immense convenience for them.  V. Srinivasan  Thiruppanandal    Saliamangalam, a busy town along the Thanjavur-Nagapattinam Road, has no bus stand. Traffic jams occur due as the town is at a vantage location for many villages in the surroundings. A permanent bus stand for the town has been a long-time desire of the public.  U. Sundaram  Ammapet
10 August 2020||BELAGAVI,KARNATAKA||Hubballi Rail Museum inaugurated via video conference||Union Ministers Pralhad Joshi and Piyush Goyal inaugurated the Rail Museum in Hubballi on Sunday. The event was organised on a virtual platform via video link. Mr. Joshi, who was present at the museum, said that the museum would emerge as a tourist attraction. He urged Mr. Goyal to start an electric train between Hubballi and Bengaluru, as it would reduce the travel time to six hours and would be an eco-friendly means of transportation. Mr. Goyal said that the Railways would play an important role in making Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s dream of Atma Nirbhar Bharat come true. Minister of State for Railways Suresh Angadi said that the museum would make the 167-year-old history of the Railways known to common travellers. He said that a part of the museum would be dedicate to the COVID-19 epidemic. He said that the museum on Gadag Road was the first such institution in North Karnataka. Apart from national-level developments in the history of the Railways, the museum includes sections such as Galaxi rolling stock, Malaprabha and Ghataprabha cottage, Theatre coach, a toy train, and a section to teach children about how the railways is operated, and about ticketing and railway innovations. Zonal manager Ajay Kumar Singh, MLAs, MLCs and others were present.
10 August 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Jogamma gets help for daughter’s education after she sells jewellery||Some philanthropists helped a poor woman who had sold her jewellery to buy a smart phone for her daughter’s education in Belagavi recently. Sarojini Bevinakatti, a Jogamma of Saundatti Yallamma temple, who lives in Belagavi city, had been forced to sell her earring to buy a smart phone. Her daughter is an SSLC student in the Government Sardar’s High School in the city. Her son is bed-ridden, after an accident. The Jogamma family lives in a tin shed near the school. BJP leaders Ujwala Bhadavanache and Veeresh Kivudasannavar bought her a pair of earrings and provided her with some foodgrains. Mr. Kivudasannavar also promised to help the girl complete her education and to get a job for her brother. Social workers Manjula Kotagi and Kannubai Thakkar were also present.
10 August 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Former KSBA president passes away||Anil G. Mulawadmath, Belagavi-based criminal lawyer and former president of the Karnataka State Bar Association (KSBA), died of COVID-19 related complications in Belgavi on Sunday. He was elected president of the district Bar association a few months ago. He was 61. He was suffering from co-morbidity conditions, including diabetes. He was admitted to a private hospital after he tested positive for COVID-19 a few days ago. He was responding to treatment. But he developed breathing difficulties on Sunday, a Health Department officer said. His family members are under home quarantine. Tributes poured in for Swami Vakil, as Anil Mulawadmath was well known. Supreme Court advocate Mohan Kataraki described his friend as a lawyer committed to protecting his clients’ legal rights and to the cause of justice.
10 August 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Vaccine trials enter Phase 2 in Belagavi||Human trials for the second indigenously developed COVID-19 vaccine have begun in Belagavi. Belagavi-based Jeevan Rekha Hospital that is conducting the trials for COVAXIN, the COVID-19 vaccine developed by Bharat Biotech Ltd., has started trials for Zydus Cadila pharmaceutical company’s ZyCoV-D vaccine. The first phase of trials for ZyCoV-D vaccine is complete. The second phase being conducted on a larger sample at Jeevan Rekha hospital. This vaccine was found safe and well-tolerated in phase 1 of the trial. We began the second phase from Thursday, Amit Bhate, hospital director, said. Its safety and immunogenicity is tested on a larger population in the second phase, he said, and added that the immunogenicity of a vaccine is the ability of the molecule to provoke an immune response in the body. Zydus is the second company to get trial permission from the Drug Controller General of India.
10 August 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Ventilators, testing kit donated to hospital||Members of the Rotary Club of Belgaum have donated six ventilators and a testing kit to the designated COVID-19 hospital in Belagavi. The ventilators were installed and have started working, club president Jeevan Khatav has said in a release. The Hamilton ventilators are made in Switzerland and are covered under an annual maintenance service guarantee from the vendor. The total cost of the equipment is around Rs. 80 lakh. It is a Global Grant project under Rotary Foundation. Rotary Club of Belagavi raised Rs. 45 lakh from local donors and Rotary Foundation provided around Rs. 35 lakh. The donation is part of the Rotary-BIMS Life Support Programme started by past president of the club Sharad Pai in April. Akshay Kulkarni and Sachin Sabnis coordinated the programme, said the release.
10 August 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||COVID-19 positive woman injured||An ambulance carrying a COVID-19 positive woman met with an accident near Bennali in Belagavi district on Sunday. The van coming from Chikkodi to Belagavi overturned on the Kolhapur highway. Three persons, including the COVID-19 positive person in the van, were injured. They were taken to the district hospital in another ambulance. They are out of danger, doctors said.
10 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||COVID-19: Huge difference in district-wise positivity rates||There is a stark difference in the positivity rate with respect to testing for COVID-19 among different districts within the State. According to an analysis done by the State war room, the district-wise positivity rate in the last 15 days ranges from 24% in Bengaluru Rural to 5.6% in Kodagu. The positivity rate is an important indicator that assesses the spread of an outbreak. It is defined as the percentage of people who are found to be infected by COVID-19 from those who are being tested. Giridhar R. Babu, member of the State’s COVID-19 Technical Advisory Committee, said that test positivity is an important indicator that needs to be monitored as it shows the district’s overall efforts in testing and identifying cases. “Increasing testing will decrease the test positivity. Hence, it has to be combined with other important indicators such as deaths per million and Influenza like Illnesses and Severe Acute Respiratory Infection cases detected,” he said. The State average positivity rate over the last 15 days stands at 15.3%. Ten districts, including Bengaluru Urban, have a higher positivity rate than the State average. Meanwhile, 20 districts have a positivity rate less than the State average. Experts point out that there is a need to keep the positivity rate within 5%. A higher positivity rate could mean that many of the COVID-19 cases are going undetected. They state that effective contact tracing, isolating COVID-19 patients would help in reducing the positivity rate. There has been a huge jump in the positivity rate since July after the State began witnessing a huge surge in the number of COVID-19 cases. According to the State war room data, the positivity rate in Bengaluru in the last 15 days stood at 19.5. Hephsiba Rani Korlapati, BBMP war room special officer, said that the Chief Secretary had directed them that the positivity rate should be below 5 %. “We are now having more field level teams to ensure that there is more contact tracing and testing so that we are able to reduce the positivity rate,” she said. Annies Kanmani Joy, Deputy Commissioner of Kodagu district, which has the lowest positivity rate of 5.6%, said that effective home quarantine of inter-State and international passengers has helped in keeping their positivity rate low. “To curb the spread, we also advise people coming from other districts to Kodagu to stay at home,” she said.
10 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Growth rates of positive, active cases on the decline in city||Though the number of COVID-19 cases being reported in the city has been hovering around the 2,000 mark every day, civic officials say a closer inspection of the data shows a drop in the growth rate of both, positive cases and active cases. Positivity rate is defined as the percentage of people who test positive for the virus of those overall who have been tested. While active cases rate is the time of detection till the end of treatment or quarantine. According to data shared by the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), the moving average growth rate of active COVID-19 cases increased from June 27 to July 18, but started reducing after that. A similar trend was observed in the growth rate of active cases. Epidemiologist Giridhara Babu said the number of positive cases, recovered cases, active cases, and deaths keep increasing. “To measure the efficacy of the actions taken, we take a seven-day or 30-day moving average. The advantage of taking a moving average is the base value, which has increased for the period it is factored. In the case of the city, when we look at the 30-day moving average, we can see a downward curve week-on-week,” he said. ‘Measures effective’ The epidemic curve will show a plateau, however, with the growth rate showing a downward curve, it means that the containment measures are effective. “This is a positive sign. It shows that Bengaluru is trying to reclaim the path to the model it was known for earlier,” he added. BBMPCommissioner N. Manjunath Prasad attributed the trend to early interventions, increased testing that helped detect cases, and isolating the positive cases, either under home quarantine, admission in COVID Care Centres or the designated hospitals. Early intervention had also helped bring down the number of fatalities. Dr. Babu concurred and said that the BBMP which was initially testing around 9,000 people a day had ramped it up to 16,000 a day. That apart, with coordination issues with regard to admission in hospitals sorted out, the rate of fatalities had also decreased. “Increased awareness among citizens in seeking care sooner has also played a role,” he said and added that fatalities had reduced owing to earlier clinical management, including early provision of critical care and introduction of Tele-ICUs. According to WHO, the positivity rate should be less than 10%. In Bengaluru, it is around 18%.  This is a positive sign. It shows that Bengaluru is trying to reclaim the path to the model it was known for earlier. Giridhara Babu,epidemiologist
10 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||No festive cheer for idol makers, sellers||The sight of densely but neatly packed clay and colourfully painted Gowri and Ganesha idols of varying sizes along roads and markets across the city is missing this year. This is despite Gowri and Ganesha festivals being less than a fortnight away. With the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) banning public celebrations, processions, and immersions in view of COVID-19, families and even local groups and organisations are planning low-key festivities. Sales have dropped,leaving idol makers with no means of earning a livelihood this season. Sellers and idol makers say there are “absolutely no takers” for big idols. They are banking on the sale of smaller idols — one to two foot in height — that can be installed at homes. “I have over 500 small idols and I am hoping to sell them two to three days before the festival. Apart from that, there is absolutely no scope for business now,” said a traditional potter from K.R. Puram. By this time, idol makers would have been flooded with orders from across the State. “Every year, 15 to 20 days before the festival, our shop would be crowded with customers, mainly from local groups and organisations. By this time, over 50% business would have been done. This year, however, we have not done any business,” said M. Srinivas, an idol seller from R.V. Road. Hoping for relief Mr. Srinivas,who has a stock of over 20,000 idols, said they were still hoping for the government to intervene and allow installation of idols in public places at least for a day. “In Mumbai and Hyderabad, they have allowed pandals with a cap on the height of the idols and issued special SoPs for such celebrations. The authorities in Bengaluru can also come up with similar guidelines,” he added. Traditional idol makers say their livelihood is in peril and they are unable to pay rent and meet other expenses. “We started procuring clay and raw material in November and December itself, before we knew about this virus. We started work in January, never thinking that COVID-19 would affect us so badly,” said another idol maker. Owing to the poor sales and losses, he has not been able to pay his workers or the rent for the sheds where the idols are stored. “All we can do now is hope and pray Deepavali will bring us some respite,” he said. According to S. Nanjundappa of Kumbara Karakushala Kaigarika Sangha at New Pottery Town, the storing of idols is becoming a problem. “The government has said no to public pandals, but they have also not announced any compensation for us. I urge them to give us some compensation to help us get by,” he said.  The government has said no to public pandals, but they have not announced any compensation for us. I urge them to give us some compensation to help us get by. S. Nanjundappa,Kumbara Karakushala Kaigarika Sangha, New Pottery Town   Usually, people would place orders in advance and by this time, over 50% business would have been done. This year, however, we have not done any business. M. Srinivas,an idol seller from R.V. Road
10 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||DULT crowdsources cycle routes along Ring Road||The Smart Cities Mission that has initiated a ‘Cycles 4 Change Challenge’ for cities with a population of over five lakh, may finally give the much needed push for dedicated cycling infrastructure in Bengaluru. Incidentally, the campaign also says it aims to “inspire and support the cities to quickly implement cycling-friendly initiatives in response to COVID-19.” The Committee for Cycling in Bengaluru — the first of its kind — is being formed to oversee cycling initiatives in the city. Its members will include Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad, representatives of the Directorate of Urban Land Transport (DULT) and Bengaluru Smart Cities Ltd., and citizens, including Bengaluru’s bicycle mayor. After announcing 16-km dedicated pop-up cycle lanes on either side of the Outer Ring Road (ORR) between Silk Board junction and Lowry Memorial College near K.R. Puram, DULT has now begun a crowdsourcing exercise for drawing up cycling routes from areas along the ORR. “Cycle lanes are effective only when there is a large interconnected network of cycle lanes. So, we have decided to expand the cycle lane network in areas along and feed the ORR,” said Mr. Prasad. Twenty-five wards along the ORR have been combined into a cycling district. Cyclists are being asked to map the routes where they want cycle lanes. Submissions are open till August 14. This district includes prominent areas such as Koramangala, Domlur, HSR Layout, Varthur, Bellandur, and Marathahalli. “The pandemic is the best opportunity to push for cycling in a big way in our cities and we are happy that the Smart Cities Mission has taken up this task through ‘Cycles 4 Change Challenge’,” said Sathya Sankaran, bicycle mayor. Two phases The ‘Cycles 4 Change Challenge’ has two phases. In the first phase, cities selected under the Smart Cities project will have to implement a quick intervention for cycling, and also prepare a concept plan to scale up such interventions across the city. As part of the first phase, Bengaluru is creating pop-up cycle lanes along the ORR and mapping out cycling districts. “While on the ORR the pop-up lanes will be physically segregated with bollards every metre, the nature and design of cycle lanes on other roads will be decided based on the road width, traffic, and other constraints,” said Mr. Sankaran. This exercise will be extended across Bengaluru. “If your area is not covered in this cycling district, it will open up as soon as the plans and budget for the Cycling District 1 are completed and submitted for implementation,” DULT says on its website. The last date for submission of entries for Phase I of the challenge is October 14, 2020. Eleven cities will be selected and they will get additional funding and support for initiatives planned during Phase II, which will last till May 2021. The challenge will now be an annual event and those cities that have not been selected for Phase II this year, can apply next year. “The process will repeat multiple times to encourage cities to embrace a cycling transformation,” the Smart Cities Mission says.
10 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||5,985 fresh COVID-19 cases, 107 deaths in State||A total of 5,985 new COVID-19 cases were reported on Sunday in the State. With this, the total number of cases stands at 1,78,087. Meanwhile, 4,670 patients were discharged on Sunday. With this, the total number of discharges stands at 93,908. The recovery rate in the State stands at 52.73%. A total of 107 deaths were reported on Sunday, taking the total number of fatalities to 3,198. According to the media bulletin issued by the Department of Health and Family Welfare, 678 patients out of the total 80,973 active cases were admitted in intensive care units in different hospitals. The spread of COVID-19 in districts besides Bengaluru have also been increasing in the last few days. While 41% of the total 1.78 COVID-19 cases are reported in Bengaluru, the remaining were reported in the other 29 districts in Karnataka. While Bengaluru reported 1,948 new COVID-19 cases in the State, five other districts recorded over 200 cases. On Sunday, 37,936 tests were conducted in the State. While 17,113 cases were rapid antigen tests, the remaining were RT PCR and other tests.
10 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Siddaramaiah poses a series of questions on flood relief||Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly Siddaramaiah on Sunday alleged that the State government’s failure to provide relief to last year’s flood damage has aggravated the conditions of flood-hit people this year. In a series of tweets on Sunday, Mr. Siddaramaiah said: “I had warned the Ministers a month back about the same but as usual, there was no response.” In a series of questions to Deputy Chief Minister Govind M. Karjol, who also holds the Public Works portfolio, the former Chief Minister asked: “How many government school buildings were damaged? How many of them have been repaired and reconstructed? How many more have to be repaired? How much has been spent? How many roads and bridges were damaged? and how many of them have been repaired? How much was spent for the same?” He also took Housing Minister V. Somanna to task and asked him: “How many houses were damaged? How many new houses were built? How many houses get flooded every year? How many people are in shelter homes? Will you give answer @Somanna”. Mr. Somanna has toured rain-affected Kodagu and monitored the rescue and relief operations in the district.
10 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Man murdered; police suspect friends who are on the run||A 28-year-old man was killed allegedly by his friends who were drunk at JSS Layout in Parappana Agrahara police station limits on Saturday. The victim has been identified as Yogeesh, a resident of Singasandra. According to the police, the incident took place around 8.30 p.m. on Saturday. “The victim and five to six of his friends were drinking at an open space at JSS Layout. We do not know the exact reason for Yogeesh’s murder. The accused are on the run,” a police official said. Accused killed A 36-year-old commercial goods auto driver was killed by unknown assailants on Saturday night near Hira Masjid in Byatarayanapura police station limits. Apart from running goods auto, the deceased, Ismail Khan, was also an automobile broker. “He is named in an attempt to murder case and a murder case. He had enmity with local history- sheeters,” said Sanjeev M. Patil, DCP, West. According to sources, the murder took place around 11 p.m. while Ismail was heading to a paan shop.
10 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||52.5 lakh farmers to get funds under PM Kisan Scheme||The State government will credit the first instalment of money under PM Kisan Scheme into the bank accounts of 52.5 lakh farmers, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa has said. A sum of Rs. 1.04 crore would be credited into the accounts of farmers today, he said. Mr. Yediyurappa tweeted: “PM@narendramodiGovt believes India’s future lies in the welfare of its farmers. Thanks to@PMOIndiafor#PMKISANScheme which has benefited over 52.5 lakh farmers in Karnataka, the first instalment Rs. 1049 Crore will now be credited into their accounts.” The Chief Minister thanked the Prime Minister for releasing the amount, which was the first of three instalments of this year. The PM Kisan is a scheme with 100% funding from the Union government and it became operational from December 12, 2018. Under the scheme, an income support of Rs. 6,000 per year in three equal instalments would be provided to small and marginal farmer families having combined land holdings/ownership of up to two hectares. The amount is expected to benefit farmers who had faced severe financial constraints owing to lockdown and now destruction of crops in floods in some districts.
10 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Free COVID-19 testing||To identify people potentially infected with COVID-19, the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike, South Zone, has started free mobile testing van services in the zone. People of Bengaluru South with COVID-19 symptoms, including cough, sore throat, fever, and fatigue, may get tested for free. People can call 8431816718 to know the venue of the testing van or visit https://bit.ly/3fEVUby for more information.
10 August 2020||DHARWAD,KARNATAKA||Joshi meets deceased girl’s family||In the wake of a girl ending her life after she was allegedly sexually harassed, Union Minister for Parliamentary Affairs, Coal and Mines Pralhad Joshi along with local MLAs visited the house of the deceased girl and consoled the family. Mr. Joshi, who was accompanied by Superintendent of Police Vartika Katiyar and MLAs Amrut Desai and Arvind Bellad, visited the house at Bogur village in Dharwad taluk on Saturday and said the accused had been arrested and direction had been given to the SP to provide protection to the victim’s family. He said he would look into the possibility of extending government assistance to the family under the existing guidelines. Mr. Joshi said he would give Rs. 50,000 from his side. Mr. Desai too said he would give Rs. 50,000. The elected representatives assured the family of help in getting justice. Congress delegation Earlier in the day, a delegation of Congress leaders led by district president of INTUC Bangaresh Hiremath, KPCC secretary Rajashekhar Menasinakai, KPCC coordinator Sharanappa Kotagi, Parasamal Jain and others visited the village and consoled the family members. The crime reportedly took place on July 30, and the student took the extreme step the next day. The accused has been identified as Basheer Gadadnavar of the same village.
10 August 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Seven die of COVID-19||The total number of deaths due to COVID-19 reached 101 in Hassan district with seven deaths reported on Sunday. On Friday night, Ramanna (55), a Janata Dal (Secular) member of the Arsikere City Municipal Council, died of COVID-19. Ramanna, son of a municipal worker, was elected to the council last year. He has been an active member of the Dalit Sangharsh Samiti. His two sons continue to work as municipal workers of the council. The body was laid to rest in Arsikere on Saturday. Arsikere MLA K.M. Shivalinge Gowda took part in the final rites wearing personal protection equipment.
10 August 2020||Hassan/Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Modi interacts with office-bearers of Hassan cooperative bank via videoconference||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Sunday interacted with office-bearers of the Primary Cooperative Agriculture and Rural Development Bank of Hassan taluk, through videoconference as part of his Mann Ki Baat programme. Ugane PCARD Bank’s secretary Basave Gowda shared information and achievements of the bank with the Prime Minister. Bank’s president A.V. Devendrappa and other office-bearers were present. The bank, set up in 1976, has over 2,300 members spread over 22 villages. With an annual turnover of Rs. 50 crore, it had extended loan to the tune of Rs. 20 crore. Mr. Basave Gowda, who has been working as secretary of the bank for the last 12 years, said the bank had built a godown with the capacity to store 1,200 tonnes of agricultural produce. The Loan for godown National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) had provided a loan of Rs. 32 lakh for the construction of godown, which was constructed at a cost of Rs. 40 lakh. The Prime Minister appreciated the work done by the bank and congratulated the office-bearers for their commitment to help the farming community. “I am happy about getting an opportunity to interact with the PM and share the achievements of the bank with him. I am thankful to the officers of NABARD for providing me with this opportunity,” Basave Gowda told The Hindu . Senior officers of the State government, NABARD, Apex Bank and Hassan DCC Bank were present during the videoconference. NABARD funds  NABARD has identified 163 Primary Agriculture Cooperative Societies (PACS) in Karnataka for funding and creation of infrastructure in the first phase under the Rs. 1 lakh crore Agricultural Infrastructure Fund (AIF) announced by the Prime Minister on Sunday. Karnataka is one of the three States, which has been selected by Prime Minister’s Office for formal launch of this fund through NABARD Regional Office of Karnataka. The NABARD’s concessional refinance would provide interest subvention under AIF. The net interest to PACS works out to be 1%. In principle, NABARD handed over sanction letters to 163 PACS, identified under the AIF and conversion to Multi Service Centre under NABARD’s “Special Refinance Facility- Transformation of PACS as Multi Service Centres”, the release said. On the occasion, Additional Chief Secretary Rajkumar Khatri and NABARD Chief General Manager Niraj Kumar Verma handed over the cheque to State Cooperative Bank CEO Venkataswamy.
10 August 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Work to help enhance train speed in Hubballi-Londa section completed||To improve the speed of trains operating on the Hubballi-Londa section, the Hubballi Division of South Western Railway (SWR) has completed upgradation works and removed permanent speed restrictions in six locations. According to a release from the Hubballi Division, the upgradation works were taken up at six locations between Kashanatti and Kambarganvi, Kashanatti and Mugad, Kyarkop and Dharwad and Mugad and Kambarganvi. As the permanent speed restrictions have been removed in these locations, it would help in running trains more safely, comfortably and punctually, the release said. The upgradation works included raising of super elevation over track curves, provision of sufficient shoulder ballast section over outer-side of the curves, full complement of rail fastenings and also obtaining required permission from the competent authority to raise cant deficiency to 100 mm for curves and tamping the entire curve locations identified. These were taken up for removing permanent speed restrictions. The removal of permanent speed restrictions will save running time for all trains running on Dharwad-Alnavar section. According to the release, the upgradation works were carried out by Divisional Engineer (Central) Vinayak Padalkar and his team under the guidance of Divisional Railway Manager of Hubballi Division Arvind Malkhede. Mr. Malkhede has said that with the completion of these engineering works, the mobility of trains would increase considerably.
10 August 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Crops on 29,529 hectares of land damaged in incessant rainfall||Continuous rain after farmers started sowing short-duration crops (green gram and black gram) raised expectations of a good yield during this kharif season. However, incessant rainfall during the second half of June and in July has resulted in crop damage, though negligible, on over 29,529 hectares as rainwater gushed into low-lying areas in parts of Kalaburagi district. According to the rainfall data available with The Hindu , against a normal rainfall of 278 mm between June 1 and August 6, the district received 412 mm rainfall. Some taluks such as Kalamapur and Sedam recorded 521 mm rainfall against a normal rainfall of 289 mm and 457 mm rainfall against a normal rainfall of 273 mm, respectively. Aland and Kalaburagi taluks received 438 mm rainfall against a normal 293 mm rainfall. As per data provided by the Agriculture Department, crops on over 29,529 hectares of land were damaged, against a total sown area of 7.5 lakh hectares. And, red gram, black gram, green gram and soya bean were among the worst hit. Low-lying areas Excessive rainfall and water-logged areas in low-lying regions caused damage to crops by inducing flower shedding. Though crop damage was negligible [4.65 %], farmers are concerned that short duration crop yield will be badly affected by excessive moisture.  Maximum damage The maximum crop damage, on 3,588 hectares, was reported in Aland taluk, followed by Kalaburagi taluk with 3,324 hectares. Chittapur recorded crop damage on 1,281 hectares. Afzalpur and Sedam taluks each recorded crop damage on 200 hectares of land. Red gram on 16,513 hectares against a total sown area of 5,32,800 hectares and black gram on 2,963 hectaresagainst a total sown area of 29,800 hectares have been damaged. Green gram crop on 2,496 hectares against a total sown area of 50,482 hectares has also suffered damage.
10 August 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Private COVID-19 hospital, care centre opened in Kalaburagi||Considering the increasing number of positive cases and deaths of COVID-19 in Kalaburagi putting the public healthcare sector under great stress, a private hospital in the city has established a dedicated COVID-19 hospital and a care centre. United Hospital, leading accident trauma and critical care centre in the region, has established the dedicated COVID-19 hospital at Hazel Tree Hospital in Gachhinmani Tower located opposite Big Bazaar off Darga Road to serve moderate-severe cases and the United COVID-19 Care Centre at Grand Hotel located opposite to S.M. Pundit Rangamandir, to offer healthcare services to asymptomatic and mildly symptomatic COVID-19 persons. Available facilities In a release, Dr. Vikram Siddareddy, the Chairman and the Managing Director of the hospital, said that the COVID-19 hospital was equipped with 24x7 ICU facility and High Dependency Unit and a General Ward. “The COVID-19 hospital will have a team of intensivists and physicians along with the dedicated duty doctors and trained nursing staff to take care of the COVID-19 patients. The beds have High Flow Nasal Cannula (HFNC) Oxygen assisted Non-Invasive Ventilators. The COVID-19 Care Centre, which is for asymptomatic and mildly symptomatic patients works round the clock and manned by trained nursing staff assisted by the duty doctors. Every room is provided with a stand-by oxygen cylinder and Repeated RT PCR testing would be done to ensure the recovery of the patient before discharge,” he said.  Main campus Mr. Siddareddy added that the main campus of United Hospital would remain as “a non-COVID-19 hospital to safeguard the lives of non-COVID-19 patients and frontline health workers.”
10 August 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Former Minister G. Ramakrishna passes away||Veteran Congress leader and former Minister G. Ramakrishna, who was suffering from age-related ailments, passed away at his residence here on Sunday. He was 84. He is survived by his wife and three sons. Sources close to his family said that his last rites would be conducted on Monday afternoon. Ramakrishna had served as Medical Education Minister for a brief stint in the Veerappa Moily Cabinet. He was MLA for three times, twice representing Kamalapur constituency and once Gulbarga Rural constituency, in Kalaburagi district.  He led the Keerthi Education Trust that ran a host of educational institutions that included paramedical and educational colleges. Deputy Chief Minister and Kalaburagi in-charge Govind M. Karjol, the former Union Minister M. Mallikarjun Kharge, Chittapur MLA Priyank Kharge, Jevargi MLA Ajay Singh, the former Medical Education Minister Sharan Prakash Patil were among those who condoled the death of the senior Congressman.
10 August 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||A year on, Anaru bridge yet to be rebuilt||A year after flash floods hit villages under the jurisdiction of three gram panchayats on the foothills of the Western Ghats in Belthangady taluk, a bridge which had been washed away under Charmadi Gram Panchayat is yet to be restored. The bridge in question constructed across the Mrutyunjaya river, a tributary of the Netravathi, was at Anaru. The floods had damaged two other bridges, one at Parlani and another at Aralapade, constructed across the same river, cutting off the connectivity to about 400 families living on the foothills of the ghats with the main land Charmadi and Kakkinje through which the National Highway 73 (Mangaluru-Charmadi-Chikkamagaluru Road) passed. Ravi Poojary, a former member of Charmadi Gram Panchayat, told The Hindu that about 100 families, including that of the Malekudiya tribals, at Anaru, have been using the restored bridges at Parlani and Aralapade to cross the river and to travel between the main land and their homes on the foothills of the ghats. “If the bridge lost at Anaru is rebuilt, the distance from Anaru to Kakkinje on the mainland will be about 2 km. It will be 5 to 6 km, if it is via Parlani and Aralapade bridges, which is a roundabout route,” he said. Prakash Shetty, in-charge Panchayat Development Officer, Charmadi GP, said that a proposal to re-construct the bridge at Anaru is still active and is before the government. “Like last year we faced some anxious moments two days ago when some tree trunks and debris carried by the river due to heavy rain in the ghats got stuck again in vented-dam-cum-bridge at Aralapade. They were removed later using an earthmover. Now, it appears that the bridge there should not have been built at such a low level. It is facing the threat for the second consecutive year,” Mr. Poojary said. In addition to areas under Charmadi, the flood on August 9, 2019, had created havoc in the villages under the jurisdiction of Malavanthige and Mittabagilu GPs in the same taluk.
10 August 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Flash flood memories still haunt many||Jyothi Gokhale and her mother at Kadamanagundi in Aanadkka under Malavanthige Gram Panchayat in Belthangady taluk faced some anxious moments when gushing water from the Western Ghats swept through their one acre arecanut plantation damaging it on Saturday morning. “It was at about 6 a.m. The gushing water resulting from the heavy rain created a deep channel in the middle of our plantation besides flooding the plantation with sludge,” she told The Hindu on the phone. “The damage is extensive,” she said. The plantation is about 3.5 k.m. away from Didupe which was also hit by the flash floods of August 9, 2019, with other areas including Aanadkka, Parlamakki, Nandikkad, Singanar, Tulapule, Aggapal, Kajakke, and Killuru, on the foothills of the ghats under Mittabagilu and Malavanthige gram panchayats. Last year’s flash floods on the tributaries of the Netravati which brought huge boulders, trees, tree trunks, sludge and other debris and damaged properties extensively, still haunt people. “We have been living at Kadamanagundi for over two decades but have never faced the flood situation like last year’s. We don’t know what is in store this time,” she said. Other plantations Shivakumar Shivaraj, an IT professional turned farmer from the same village, said that some more arecanut plantations have been hit by the sludge now due to overflowing streams and tributaries. Research sought Mr. Shivaraj said that the State government should make it clear through a study whether it is safe to continue farming, building houses and living on the foothill areas as the threat of landslips on the ghat portion has not been overcome. He said that if the government made it clear then the local people living on the foothills could take a decision on whether to make further investments in farming or not as the upper reaches still have some cracks.
10 August 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Kateel asks party workers to get ready for GP elections||State BJP president Nalin Kumar Kateel on Sunday asked office-bearers to strengthen the party at the grassroots and prepare themselves to face the coming elections to the gram panchayats. He was addressing office-bearers of the Dakshina Kannada district unit and party elected representatives in the city. Mr. Kateel said that Dakshina Kannada is politically a BJP citadel. But there is scope to strengthen the party further in the district. He asked the office-bearers to ensure that the welfare programmes of the Union and State governments reached the people in the grassroots as the party is in power in the State and at the Centre. The office-bearers and leaders should mingle with the people and work hard to face the gram panchayat elections, he said. Minister in-charge of Dakshina Kannada Kota Srinivasa Poojary, MLAs and MLC of the party from Dakshina Kannada attended the meeting.
10 August 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Railways transports FMCG goods to NMPT to be sent to Bangladesh||Southern Railway’s Palakkad Division recently began unloading a batch of baby food products manufactured by a fast moving consumer goods (FMCG) company in Delhi area at the New Mangalore Port here for onward transmission by sea to Bangladesh. The consignment was brought through a rake of 20 parcel vans to SR’s Railway siding at Panambur within NMP Trust premises from Delhi. Earlier too, FMCG goods were transported by sea route through NMPT that were brought on rails. The FMCG company resorted to rail-sea routes of this method following the closure of international road borders between India and Bangladesh owing to the COVID-19 pandemic. The shipment would move from Mangaluru to Colombo and then to Chittagong in this arrangement, the Railways stated. Asked why the company chose NMPT, sources in Railways said it was the best available option for two reasons. The first being Kandla and Mumbai ports were too busy. The second was that container vessels from the western coast move first to Colombo and then to Chittagong while those from the eastern coast would first move to Malaysia before calling on Chittagong. Hence, there would be speedy movement. Railways would actively support this kind of arrangement in the interest of manufacturers as well as its own, an official said.
10 August 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||All hospitals told to reserve 50% of bed strength for COVID-19 patients||Minister in-charge of Dakshina Kannada Kota Srinivasa Poojary has said that both private and medical college hospitals in the district should compulsorily allocate 50 % of their beds to the government for treating COVID-19 patients. He was speaking after visiting AJ Hospital and Research Centre and Srinivasa Medical College Hospital to review their COVID-19 management measures here recently. Public health The Minister said that safeguarding public health is the priority of the government. Private hospitals should cooperate with the government in managing COVID-19. Mr. Poojary said that the government is supplying rapid antigen test kits to private hospitals and has directed them to conduct free sample tests for COVID-19. Supply of ventilators The government will supply 50 more ventilators to Dakshina Kannada shortly, the Minister further said. Cost details Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra asked the hospitals to display boards at their entrances mentioning the details of COVID-19 treatment costs prescribed by the government. They should also display the details pertaining to the Ayushman Scheme. He said that the Health Department has deputed Arogya Mitra health workers to each one of the medical college hospitals to give information to people on Ayushman. If they were found failing in their duties, action will be initiated against them. Mangaluru City North MLA Y. Bharat Shetty accompanied the Minister.
10 August 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||GP-level disaster management panels to come up in twin districts as pilot||Disaster management committees will be set up at the gram panchayat level for carrying out flood relief operations. The State government is trying this out on a pilot basis in Dakshina Kannada and Udupi districts, said Revenue Minister R. Ashok here on Saturday. Talking to reporters after reviewing the flood relief works in Dakshina Kannada, Mr. Ashok said each gram panchayat will have a 10-member disaster member committee comprising present and former gram panchayat members, social workers and other volunteers. The members of this committee will be of great use in identifying areas prone to flooding and help the district administration in shifting the affected families to safe areas. They will also monitor working of the relief camps and ensure that affected families get necessary facilities there. The members of these committees will be trained by the district administration and the government will release funds for these committees.
10 August 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Visitors throng Shivanasamudra waterfalls||A large number of visitors made a beeline to the twin waterfalls at Shivanasamudra near here on Sunday after the release of water from Krishnaraja Sagar and Kabini reservoirs enhanced the natural beauty and splendour of the waterbodies. Visitors in cars and two-wheelers began pouring into Gaganachukki and Bharachukki, the twin waterfalls separated by around 10 km, making use of the weekend holiday to enjoy the glorious spectacle of cascading waters and the mist, even amid concerns over the spread of COVID-19. Though the release of water from Kabini was brought down from the rate of 65,000 cusecs to about 30,000 cusecs on Sunday, the discharge from KRS remained in excess of 75,000 cusecs for the second consecutive day. Early visitors to Gaganachukki, situated in Malavalli taluk of Mandya district, managed to catch a glimpse of the waterfalls from the designated viewpoint, but security personnel soon imposed restrictions after a spurt in the inflow of visitors as the day progressed. Elaborate security arrangements were in place at Bharachukki, which falls in Chamarajanagar district, with security personnel advising visitors to wear masks and maintain social distancing. Apart from an entry fee for vehicles, an admission price of Rs. 5 per head was charged on visitors who wished to go down the steps to the designated viewpoint. Security personnel posted at Bharachukki were seen disallowing tourists without masks and egging people gathering near the viewpoint to keep moving while cautioning them about COVID-19. Most of the visitors at the twin waterfalls appeared to be from Bengaluru and Mysuru, going by the registration numbers of their vehicles. A very small number of vehicles were from outside the State. Car parking arrangements were made at a distance of a few hundred metres from both waterfalls.  Inspection Deputy Commissioner of Chamarajanagar M.R. Ravi had visited Bharachukki on Saturday and inspected the arrangements made for safety, food, and parking of vehicles. He also inspected the dargah near Bharachukki and advised officials to repair the iron fence erected behind the place of worship. Meanwhile, the discharge of water afforded a splendid view at KRS while Balamuri falls, situated downstream of the reservoir, too came alive. However, a note issued by the Mandya district administration said that, as a precautionary measure, the public was not allowed to venture into Cauvery river. The note from Deputy Commissioner M.V. Venkatesh said barricades had been put up at Sri Nimishamba Temple near Ganjam at Srirangapatna taluk to ensure the safety of the public, particularly tourists.
10 August 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||DKS for lasting solution in Kodagu||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president D.K. Shivakumar on Sunday favoured a lasting solution to the ills plaguing Kodagu, which has been at the receiving end of natural calamities for the last three years. Speaking to reporters at Talacauvery, where the efforts were under way to trace four persons missing from the house of a priest after landslips, Mr. Shivakumar said the Congress would exert pressure on the State government to announce a special package in the coming Budget to take up programmes to provide a lasting solution to the problems plaguing Kodagu. He said all parties should keep aside their political differences and work for the welfare of the people of Kodagu, which has not only given soldiers to fight for the country, but also given birth to Cauvery, the State’s lifeline. While the State needs the rainfall, which recharges rivers, there is a crying need to stop the calamities, he said. Mr. Shivakumar promised the Congress’ support if the BJP government came up with good programmes in the regard. However, he expressed regret that the State government was yet to provide relief to the victims of last year’s flood havoc. Though the government had sought Rs. 35,000 crore, the Centre released only Rs. 1,800 crore, out of which not even half the amount has reached the beneficiaries, he said. The Congress leader also bemoaned the fact that tourism in Kodagu district had taken a big hit because of the rains and floods.
10 August 2020||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Gross storage up in major dams in Cauvery basin||The cumulative quantum of water in the major reservoirs in the Cauvery basin remained high on Sunday, thanks to the heavy rains that lashed the catchment area last week. The cumulative gross capacity of Krishnaraja Sagar (KRS), Hemavathi, Kabini, and Harangi is 114.57 tmcft of water; the total storage on Sunday was 99.28 tmcft. Though the rains receded across the region, the rate of inflow remained high consequent to the last week’s downpour. The rate of inflow to KRS in Mandya was 92,441 cusecs at 6 p.m. on Sunday, while the rate of outflow was 74,590 cusecs. The water level in the dam was 119.58 ft, against the full capacity of 124.8 ft. The gross storage was 42.51 tmcft, as against the gross capacity of 49.45 tmcft. As a result of the high outflow, the water level downstream of the bank along Balamuri, Srirangapatana etc. was high and the Mandya district administration has put up barricades near Sri Nimishambha Temple at Ganjam in Srirangapatna. This is to ensure the safety of the general public, tourists, and pilgrims visiting the place. This followed an incident in the town where a woman, Apoorva, and her two year-old daughter, Kirtana, were washed away by the river in spate near the old Wellesley Bridge. Though Ms. Apoorva was rescued near the Nimishambha Temple downstream, a search operation was launched to trace Kirtana. But in the adjoining district of Mysuru, the rate of inflow into Kabini reservoir from Wayanad region in Kerala receded from a high of nearly 70,000 cusecs on Saturday to 41,311 cusecs on Sunday. The outflow was reduced to 16,600 cusecs by afternoon. Parts of Nanjangud were inundated, but the water level is expected to recede by Monday. Against the gross storage of 19.52 tmcft, the storage was 16.58 tmcft on Sunday. Harangi had a storage of 6.79 tmcft of water, against its gross capacity of 8.50 tmcft. With rain abating in the catchment area of the Hemavathi, the rate of outflow from the dam at Gorur in Hassan district fell to 4,200 cusecs on Sunday from a high of 20,000 cusecs onFriday.
10 August 2020||MYSURU/HASSAN,KARNATAKA||Rain respite for Kodagu, Malnad||Kodagu and the Malnad region, which have been reeling under torrential rains, got a respite on Sunday as the downpour abated, even though normal life continued to be affected. Many parts of Hassan, Chikkamagaluru, and Shivamogga remained cloudy and there was moderate rain during the day. The search operation resumed for the remaining four of five persons who went missing after their house was flattened by a landslip at Brahmagiri Hills in Kodagu on Thursday, but it did not yield any results. The body of Anandatheertha, who was among those missing, was retrieved on Saturday. Three teams of National Disaster Response Force and State Disaster Response Force, apart from local Fire and Emergency Services personnel, are engaged in the search operations at Bhagamandala. At Chikkamagaluru, a 70-year-old woman, who had gone missing two days ago, was found dead in a stream near Kottigehara. Rathnamma, of Taruve village, is suspected to have fallen into the stream by accident. Kodagu district received 31.08 mm of rain in the 24-hour period ending 8.30 a.m. on Sunday. There was intermittent but light-to-moderate rain across Kodagu throughout Sunday and the Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre has forecast similar weather conditions for Monday. As many as 18 places in Madikeri taluk have been affected by floods, 14 in Virajpet taluk, eight in Somwarpet taluk, and 12 localities in Kushalnagar, according to the Kodagu district administration. As on Saturday, 578 people who were stranded in their villages, marooned by overflowing rivulets, were rescued and shifted to nine relief camps established across the district. The water level at Bhagamandala, which has received the brunt of rain fury this year and saw in excess of 400 mm of rain for two consecutive days last week, has receded. The approach road to the pilgrim centre and Talacauvery, which is the source of the river Cauvery, was also cleared for light traffic. Meanwhile, Housing Minister V. Somanna, who is also in charge of the district, and Revenue Minister R. Ashok visited the site of the landslip at Brahmagiri Hills and promised to deploy additional personnel, if required, to expedite the search operation for missing persons.C.T. Ravi, Minister for Tourism and in-charge of Chikkamagaluru, held a meeting with officials on the relief work, while RDPR Minister K.S. Eshwarappa visited the rain-hit areas of Sagar taluk on Sunday.
10 August 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Stranded shepherd rescued from island near Narayanpur||National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) team has rescued a shepherd stranded in an island between Melinagaddi and Chayabhagavathi near Narayanpur in Hunsagi taluk of Yadgir district. The shepherd and his 230 sheep were stranded on the island after a heavy amount of water was discharged from the reservoir into the Krishna. According to sources, Topanna (20) had taken his sheep to the island for grazing on Friday. He and the sheep were stranded as the water level in the river increased suddenly and surrounded the island owing to heavy discharge. Left with no option, he remained on the island with his sheep for nearly 50 hours. NDRF team When the incident came to light, MLA Narasimha Naik informed the district administration and also extended cooperation to bring the NDRF team from Hyderabad. The team arrived in Narayanpur on Saturday night. The team which had 16 members started rescue operation at 5 a.m. on Sunday, after the location of the stranded shepherd was identified. Nine-hour operation “The rescue operation took nearly nine hours to be completed,” Vinay Patil, Tahsildar of Hunsagi, told The Hindu over phone. He added that the shepherd was shifted to a health centre at Rajan Kollur for preliminary check. Mr. Narasimha Naik, who felicitated the NDRF team, said that the timely arrival and the continuous efforts of the NDRF team helped rescue the shepherd. He urged shepherds and villagers not to go near the river course for any reason as the water level has been increasing owing to heavy discharge to maintain the reservoir level.
10 August 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||‘Stop collecting exam fees from first, second semester students’||Basavaraj Badarli Hiremath, former Syndicate member of Akkamahadevi Mahila University, Vijayapura, has urged the State government to give appropriate directions to universities to stop collecting fees for examinations, marks cards and other expenses from first and second semester students of Bachelors of Art, Science and Commerce. Mr. Badarli, who is from Sindhanur in Raichur district, released a note on Sunday, stating that owing to the pandemic, universities have decided not to conduct examinations for the first and second semester students of BA, B.Com and B.Sc and to conduct examinations only for final semester students, during the meeting of vice-chancellors of all universities with the Higher Education Minister. When a decision was made on not conducting examinations for first and second semester students, universities were still collecting fees for examinations, marks cards and other fees from them, Mr. Hiremath alleged. He further stated that the COVID-19 pandemic had badly hit all categories of families with financial difficulties. Under these circumstances, collecting fees from students was not only improper but also unjust. Therefore, the State government should interfere in this matter and issue directions to all universities to stop collecting fees, he demanded. Mr. Hiremath also warned that if the government did not interfere and solve the problem, he would launch an agitation along with student organisations.
10 August 2020||Yadgir,KARNATAKA||Dy. CM calls for proper facilities||Laxman Savadi, Deputy Chief Minister, said that Health and Family Welfare officials should provide proper healthcare; necessary treatment and other basic needs including food to COVID-19 patients in hospitals. He was speaking at a meeting held in Raichur recently to review the pandemic, agriculture and flood situation here. “Patients cannot get treatment at private hospitals at higher charges. Therefore, officials should provide necessary treatment and meet other basic needs including food, drinking water and cleanliness in designated hospitals,” he said. Mr. Savadi, who is also Raichur district in charge, said that patients need mental strength apart from medi-care. Doctors on duty should put in additional effort to bring confidence to them. Ramakrishna, District Health Officer, said that 3,122 persons had tested positive till August 6, and of them, 2,067 have been discharged so far. Presently, 1,065 patients are under treatment and 34 have died. Tackling flood The Dy. CM directed the officials to initiate preventive measures to tackle flood. “You should interact with officials at the dam sites of Narayanapur and Alamatti about the discharge of water from both dams and take necessary precaution by keeping the boats ready to shift affected people. Shift villagers on the banks to the safer places if required,” he directed Deputy Commissioner R. Venkatesh Kumar.
10 August 2020||August 10 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Ashok, Bommai to attend PM’s review meet today||Prime Minister Narendra Modi will review the flood situation in Karnataka and five other States on Monday. The Prime Minister’s Office has invited the Chief Ministers of Karnataka, Kerala, Maharashtra, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, and Assam to provide an update on the flood situation and damage to crops and other properties in these States. With Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa hospitalised after testing positive for COVID-19, Revenue Minister R. Ashok and Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai would participate in the videoconference with Mr. Modi, sources said. Both Ministers are expected to provide information on flood damage to crops, houses, and public properties in 10 coastal and malnad districts, sources said. A note has already been prepared to highlight major problems faced by the people of the rain-affected districts during interactions with the Prime Minister, sources said. Meanwhile, the Chief Minister on Sunday held discussions with Chief Secretary T.M. Vijay Bhaskar and other officials and obtained information on the flood situation. He instructed the officials of Revenue and other departments to implement relief measures on a war footing. The Chief Minister is likely to tour rain-affected districts after Independence Day, sources said.
10 August 2020||August 10 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||CoP||Now that almost all commodities are available online, the Excise Department is contemplating joining the bandwagon and selling liquor online. With revenue collection still low, even after lifting of lockdown, the department is keen to mop up resources from any means possible. But this proposal has drawn flak from the Opposition JD(S) besides self-help groups. JD(S) leader and former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy (in picture), who has been rather soft on the BJP government on several issues of late, was one of the most vocal opponents of this proposal. He argued that online sale and opening of MSIL shops in rural areas would destroy families, whose life is already hit by lockdowns and job loss. The JD(S) leader, who banned sale of arrack during his first term as Chief Minister in 2006, took to Twitter to air his views. He has threatened to launch an agitation if such a proposal is implemented. It remains to be seen if the government, which has done a U-turns on several proposals, will do so this time too.     Heavy downpour during the last few days has left farmers worried as they have already suffered losses owing to the COVID-19 lockdown. Swathes of agricultural land are under water. But Major and Medium Irrigation Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi (in picture) left people surprised when he said that farmers would never bother about excess water since all their worries are about drought conditions. While people wondered if the Minister was unaware of the basic fact that any extreme weather condition can destroy crops, he clarified that all he meant to say was dams filled to the brim make farmers happy. He went on to promise a crop survey to assess the extent of crop loss.   Farmers routinely pray for rains. But this time, they have been praying that rains should stop, amidst a deluge in many parts of Karnataka that has destroyed crops and houses and even claimed lives. Following instructions from KPCC president D.K. Shivakumar (in picture), the Kisan Cell of the party offered prayers to Rishyashringa, considered a rain god, at Sringeri Mutt in Chikkamagaluru district on Saturday. Kisan Cell president Sachin Miga said that farmers were pained by the excessive downpour in at least 10 districts during the last few days. He posted photographs and videos offering prayers to the deity.   An audio clip said to be a telephonic conversation between two police inspectors has gone viral in Hassan, leaving a few politicians and many police officers red-faced. The conversation posted on social media platforms is all about the transfer of police officials and whose letters of recommendation would help get posts of choice. The inspectors earlier worked in Hassan district. During the conversation, they mention names of officials trying to get transfer to “places on high demand” in the district. Names of Hassan MLA, two political workers of the party in power in the State, and a former Minister are referred to during the conversation. Worse still, one of them is heard saying that a colleague of theirs might get a “plum post” since he had helped the MLA, much before he was elected, by removing his name from a criminal case. However, it is not clear who leaked the clip. Police officials have refused to comment or give it any credence, though some of them discuss it “off the record.” Nagesh Prabhu Sathish G.T.
10 August 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Bund breaches put Kuttanad on the edge||A series of bund breaches clubbed with a torrential downpour and an increase in the inflow of floodwaters from the eastern side has brought back fears of another deluge in the district. Kuttanad, which witnessed at least seven bund breaches on Saturday and Sunday, is on the edge. Floodwaters entered a large number of houses after outerbunds of Valiyathuruthu and Vavakkad North paddy polders in Kainakary were breached on Saturday night. At least 90 people were shifted to a relief camp opened at SD College, Alappuzha, while a few families moved to their relatives’ homes. Sources said that rest of the families were staying put as efforts were on to secure the breached portion of the bunds. Outer bunds of paddy fields in Thakazhi, Champakulam and Pulinkunnu were also breached. Paddy cultivation in around 1,300 hectares has been submerged. According to officials, all villages in Kuttanad taluk have been inundated. The Alappuzha- Changanassery (AC) road and Nedumbran stretch of the Ambalappuzha- Thiruvalla road have been submerged. “The water level is on the rise in rivers in the region, but the situation is under control. All arrangements are in place to meet an emergency situation. However, no mass evacuation of people is planned from Kuttanad as of now,” said an official. A total of 327 people of 98 families from Kuttanad has so far been shifted to relief camps. Besides, 12 gruel centres were opened in Kunnumma village. Elsewhere in the district, a large number of people from flood-prone parts of Chengannur taluk were shifted to relief camps/relatives' homes. Low-lying areas in the taluk have been submerged after Pampa and other rivers breached banks. Spillway “As floodwater is draining through the Thottappally spillway much faster, we are not expecting a serious situation this time around. However as a precaution, boats, heavy vehicles and other equipment have been put on standby mode for conducting rescue operations if needed,” said Saji Cherian, MLA. Floodwaters also submerged several places in Karthikappally and Mavelikara taluks. Cautioned District Collector A. Alexander urged the people living on the banks of Pampa river in the district to maintain caution. A total of 3,205 people were moved to 69 relief camps opened in six taluks as of Sunday evening.
10 August 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||109 new cases in Alappuzha||There was no let-up in COVID-19 cases in the district with 109 people testing positive on Sunday. The fresh cases include 98 patients who contracted the disease through local transmission, seven who came from other States and four from abroad. One COVID-19 death was reported. Among the 98 contact cases, 42 cases were reported from Pattanakkad. Another 26 cases were logged from Thaikkal. Rest of the cases were from Alappuzha (5), Kallisserry (4), Pathiyoor (4), Kadakarappally (2), Poochakkal (2), Kadakarappally (2), Devikulangara (2) and one case each from Chettikad, Perumbalam, Ottammasserry, Veliyanad, Chandiroor, Kuttoor, Kayamkulam, Cherthala and Pulinkunnu. Those who returned from abroad and other States hailed from Veliyanad (3), Muttar, Pulinkunnu, Pandanad, Valayoor, K.R. Puram, Aroor, Ramankary. One is native of Karnataka.
10 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Heavy rain continues to batter Ernakulam; 6 houses destroyed||Heavy rain continued to play havoc in the district on Sunday. Six houses have been totally destroyed in rain-related incidents and 224 have been partially damaged. According to weather reports, Aluva has received 67 mm of rain, Ernakulam South 122 mm, Piravom 97.3 mm, Perumbavoor 124 mm, North Paravur 84 mm and the Cochin International Airport area 100 mm. Most rivers in the district are in spate. The administration has opened 46 relief camps across the district, to which 1,200 people from 453 families have been shifted. People above the age of 60 have been placed in special camps. There are 18 people in two camps opened for those under COVID-19 observation. There are seven camps in Aluva taluk, eight in Kanayannur taluk, two in Kunnathunadu taluk, seven in Kothamangalam taluk, 16 in Paravur, four in Muvattupuzha taluk and two in Kochi taluk, according to a communication from the district administration. In Muvattupuzha Muvattupuzha is one of the worst affected areas in Ernakulam, with about seven zones in the town under water. There was fear that when more water was released from the Bhoothathankettu dam, more areas would be inundated and flooding in the already affected areas would become worse, said P.K. Baburaj, member of the Muvattupuzha municipality on Sunday. The affected areas in the town include Ilahia, Ettangadi, Anikkakkudi, Anachal, Moonnukandam, Perumattam and Kadavumbhagam. Most people had not moved out of their homes in flooded areas due to fear of COVID-19 spread, added Mr. Baburaj. Areas around Ernakulam town such as Eloor also continued to be inundated.
10 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Saturday was wettest day in recent past||Saturday, August 8, will go down in the annals of climate data history of the district as one of the wettest days in the recent past. Rain gauges installed in the district recorded 109.7 mm on the day, a whopping 701% departure from the normal. The normal rainfall on the day is 13.7 mm. Kozhikode (1009%), Kottayam (872%), Kollam (798%) and Alappuzha (717%) were the other four districts that recorded the highest deviations on the day. The district-wise rainfall statistics released by the India Meteorological Department (IMD) had included all the districts of the State in the category of large excess which receives rain in excess of 60% or more. On Saturday, it rained from dawn to dusk in Ernakulam, without a break. As the skies opened up, many parts of the district were inundated. Streets and bylanes turned into streams, thus slowing down the pace of life. Low-lying areas and the coastal belt of the district bore the brunt of the monsoon fury. The weekly rainfall figures for the district also showed a significant departure from the normal rainfall pattern. From July 30 to August 5, there has been a 214% departure in rainfall. The district received 339.1 mm of rain in place of the normal 107.9 mm, according to IMD data. Analysing the weather patterns, Ministry of Earth Sciences Secretary M. Rajeevan said the State was likely to receive heavy rainfall till August 10. Such heavy rainfall occurs during the revival phase of the monsoon. The weather prediction is that the intensity of rain will be less from August 11 onwards. Though the State would continue to get rainfall, its intensity would be less, said Mr. Rajeevan. During the active phase of the monsoon, Kerala could expect more than 500% departure in rainfall, said Abhilash S., Associate Professor, Department of Atmospheric Science, Cochin University of Science and Technology.
10 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||With lessons from previous floods, residents prepare for the worst||Having learnt their lessons from the deluge of 2018 and a less menacing flood in 2019, people living on the banks of the Periyar in Eloor have essentials, including clothes, some food and a sheet to lie down on, packed and ready to move to a camp at short notice around this time of the year. “Though the water level did not climb up to the sunshade of the house as it did last year, we were prepared for the worst,” Vasanthi S., a resident of Kuttikatukara in Eloor, said over phone. “This year, COVID-related restrictions meant that most people in the neighbourhood were not going out to work and had enough time to move everything that was not absolutely essential to a higher spot in the house when we heard that the rain would get heavy,” she said. Many of them without a second floor or a terrace at the top of their houses had moved some of their belongings to other houses in the neighbourhood, she said. She is staying with over 70 people at a relief camp at the Union Hall in Eloor and is prepared to stay put for a few more days, before she goes home to assess the damage. “Even if the water has receded a little, electricity and water supply at home will remain erratic,” she said. Prabhavati S., an ASHA worker in Eloor, moved to the camp in the wee hours of Friday when the water rose around her house. Troubles barely seemed to end, she said. She had just completed her quarantine period after four other ASHA workers from the area had tested positive. Since the camp was a hall without separate rooms, some people were likely to soon be moved to another facility to avoid crowding and adhere to the COVID-19 protocol, she said. In Kunnukara, which is sandwiched between the Periyar and Chalakudy rivers, many residents of Cheriyatheyykanam, a low-lying area, had either moved to rented houses or to live with their relatives, said Manoharan A. B., who also has a few essentials packed up and is ready to move if the water level climbs. “With the virus spreading, most people were bent upon not moving to camps this year,” he said. In anticipation of a flood this year as well, a group of volunteers in the panchayat had earlier helped move electrical equipment from the ground floor of several houses to minimise losses, he said. The flood and related damage to their house were an annual affair that they had resigned themselves to, said another resident of Kunnukara who is in a camp at Chalakka for people in quarantine. But the situation was worsened by the pandemic, said the resident, who had come in contact with a COVID-19 patient at a private hospital where she had been working.
10 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Homage paid to pilot||The body of Captain Deepak Sathe, the pilot of the Air India Express flight that crashed at the Karipur international airport, Kozhikode, on Friday night, was brought to the Cochin International Airport on Sunday afternoon on the way to being flown to Mumbai. Airlines staff paid homage to Captain Sathe.
10 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Water level in major dams going up steadily||Water level in all of Kerala’s major dams remains high as heavy rain continues to lash the high ranges of the State. Data from the Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) on Saturday night showed that the Idukki, Pampa, Sholayar, Idamalayar, Kundala and Mattuppetty dams are filling up fast. The water level in Idukki dam was 2,363 ft on Sunday. There was a rainfall of 108 mm on the catchment area. The gross storage level was 69%, which is below the new rule curve level announced by the Central Water Commission. An official of the KSEB said that there was no chance of opening the dam in the present situation. It needed 28 ft more water to reach the full reservoir level. Power production As per Saturday’s data, the major dams under the electricity board have enough water to produce 2,363 million units of electricity.  An inflow of 1,295 million units has already been achieved in the first eight days of August against the anticipated inflow of 1,629 million units for the whole of August (31 days). Compared to last year’s storage of 1,103 million units, the current storage is more than double. It is the second highest level in the past five years. A person familiar with hydro power generation in the State said that the continuing heavy spell would fill the dams to capacity within a few days. With heavy rain in August, Kerala has just about 5% deficit in rainfall on the basis of long-term average. Pampa has water up to 57% of its capacity with the catchment area receiving 91 mm of rain. Idamalayar has water up to 50% while Sholayar has water up to 67% of its capacity. The catchment areas of these dams received 44 and 48 mm of rain each during Saturday. Kuttiadi dam has water up to 87% of its storage capacity. Thariode has 71%, Anayirakkal 32% and Ponmudi has 93% water. In Mullaperiyar Water level in Mullaperiyar dam, managed by Tamil Nadu, touched 135.65 ft at 2 p.m. on Sunday. The maximum storage level as per the Supreme Court order is 142 ft. The inflow of water in to the dam was 5,510 cumecs and Tamil Nadu was drawing water at 2,010 cumecs. Kerala government on Saturday demanded the Tamil Nadu government to take more water from the dam to Vaigai dam in Theni district and inform at least 24 hours in advance in case of opening of the dam shutters. With rain continuing, there is concern that an increased inflow could lead to opening of the dam shutters and that could cause heavy damage in the downstream area as the Periyar is already in spate.
10 August 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Relief camps opened in Kollam district||The district administration has shifted 252 people from 65 families to the four relief camps opened at different places following incessant rains. The camp at Government UP School, Mylakkad, opened on August 8 has two families while John F Kennedy Memorial High School at Ayanivelikulangara accommodates maximum people. A total of 195 persons from 45 families including 105 men, 75 women and 15 children were shifted to the school. Other camps at Sree Vidyadhiraja College of Arts and Science, Karunagappally and Vimala Hridaya HSS for Girls, Pattathanam are providing shelter to 13 and five families respectively, sources said. Twenty three houses were partially damaged in the district on Sunday due to the rains. The loss is estimated at Rs. 8.5 lakh and Kottarakara taluk suffered maximum damages.
10 August 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Spike of 106 cases in Kollam||The district reported a spike in caseload with 106 persons testing positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Sunday. While 88 persons contracted the virus through contact, others include 50 inmates of Kollam District Jail, and four health workers. Among the fresh cases are 10 persons from abroad, four from other States, and two district jail staff members. The health workers who tested positive have been working at Government Medical College Hospital, Kollam, and Primary Health Centre, Karavaloor. The district now has 7,732 persons under observation and the total number of samples collected is 33,061. While 557 persons completed home quarantine, the Health Department has traced 7,784 primary and 2,123 secondary contacts of the fresh cases. The number of recoveries is 43. Jail cases While Kollam was the one of the five districts that reported lowest cases during the last week, the jail cluster has caused the sharp rise in numbers. Instructions were given to conduct the antigen test of contacts and 10 inmates with severe symptoms were moved to Government Medical College Hospital, Kollam, and the rest to the COVID-19 First-line Treatment Centre (FTC) at Government ITI, Chandanathope. “Other than the jail cluster, random cases are being reported from other places,” said an official. The department has also instructed all hospitals in the district to conduct fever surveillance and collect the samples of Acute Respiratory Infection (ARI) and Severe Acute Respiratory Infection (SARI) cases.
10 August 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Career guidance webinar||Kollam City Police on Saturday organised a career guidance webinar as part of efforts to promote academic-related activities among students during the pandemic. Thiruvananthapuram Range Deputy Inspector General of Police Sanjay Kumar Gurudin and City Police Commissioner Narayanan T. interacted with the students and answered their career-related queries.
10 August 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Swollen rivers add to Kottayam’s flood woes||The flood situation in Kottayam worsened on Sunday with more parts of the district submerged by the run-off waters from the rivers, which continued to flow above the danger levels. Earlier in the day, a taxi driver from the Cochin International Airport was swept away in flood waters near Manarcadu in Kottayam. The victim was identified as Justin Joy, 26, a native of Manjapra near Angamaly. The incident occurred around 2 a.m when the car driver was returning to Kochi after dropping off a passenger in Mallappally, Pathanamthitta. The car got stuck in the flood waters while attempting to cross a flooded portion of the Manarcad-Ettumanur bypass road near Palamuri. On an alert raised by the cab driver, locals rushed to the spot and a crane was soon brought in for retrieving the vehicle. The car, however, fell into the paddy field nearby soon after Justin entered inside in a bid to release its hand break prior to lifting the vehicle using a rope. After floating for some distance, the vehicle then disappeared in the water. The NDRF team launched a search operation and the vehicle and its driver were recovered by afternoon. The body will be handed over to relatives after post-mortem examination and COVID-19 test. In a separate incident, a Kulathukadavu native identified as Biju Kaniyamparambil, was electrocuted while cleaning up a flooded shop in Erattupetta Town. Full fury The incessant rains, which had battered the high-ranges of the district for two days before receding on Saturday, returned to the region in full fury on Sunday morning. Water level in the Meenachil river, which had receded by several feet, once again rose sharply, triggering concerns of another flood in Pala. The low-lying areas from Vaikom to Changanassery, meanwhile, remained submerged for the second day, sources said. Adding to the woes, reports of bund breaches emerged from the farmlands of Northern Kuttanad. Traffic along several roads including the Alappuzha-Changanassery Road, Main Central Road and Pala-Erattupetta Road was thrown out of gear due to water logging. With the flood water continuing to enter more human settlements, as many as 194 relief camps were opened across Kottayam, which together accommodated 4,495 people from 1,450 camps. A meeting convened by the Civil Supplies Minister P.Thilothaman in the evening reviewed the flood situation.
10 August 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||At 139, Kottayam count at a high||The number of fresh COVID-19 cases in Kottayam rose sharply to touch its highest number on a single day with139 people testing positive here on Sunday. According to officials, 110 people contracted the virus through contact while 29 cases came from outside. Ettumanur municipality recorded the highest number of contact cases with 30 people testing positive. The region also has 15 of the 29 cases that came from outside. Athirampuzha panchayat, part of the COVID-19 cluster in Ettumanur, reported 15 cases. Those who tested positive included an official at a flood relief camp in Madappad and four of a family in Nattassery. Meanwhile, 56 people recovered from the infection. The district has 489 active cases. There are 87 wards as containment zones.
10 August 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Rising water level in rivers adds to woes of Malabar residents||While heavy showers continued in the Malabar region on Saturday, brief respite from rain was reported from some parts, especially in Wayanad district that had witnessed heavy rain accompanied by gusty winds over the past few days. While the flood situation in Kozhikode city was not grave at present, many other areas in the district witnessed flooding as heavy rain continued unabated. In Olavanna panchayat, for example, several houses near Thondilakadavu and Kalathilparambu were inundated. Rising water level in Chaliyar and Poonoor rivers too troubled many areas in the panchayat. At Kalathilparambu alone, 16 families were relocated to other convenient locations. It was one of the problem spots earlier identified by the Disaster Management Authority for improved vigil. The number of relief camps opened as part of the preparedness to meet rain-related calamities reached 37 in Kozhikode district on Sunday. Nearly 700 affected persons were given accommodation in the already opened camps subsequent to the red alert and intensified vigil by the Disaster Management Authority. In Wayanad Flood waters have started receding from the highlands and midlands of Wayanad district because of a brief respite from rain in the district on Sunday. However, a few places, including Panamaram and Valliyoorkavu areas, on the banks of tributaries of the Kabani river still remain submerged. Vehicle movement resumed on the Kozhikode–Kollegal National Highway 766 after water receded from low-lying areas on the banks of the Nugu river, including Thakarappadi and Pozonkuzhy on the Kerala-Karnataka border. Banasura Sagar dam area in Padinharethara grama panchayat received 75.8 mm rainfall in the past 24 hours as against 282.8 mm during the corresponding period on Saturday. Meppadi grama panchayat received an average of 24.6-mm rain while Thavinhal panchayat received 52.5-mm rain. As many as 4,288 persons, including 2,190 women and 1,039 children, of 1,247 families have been shifted to 81 relief camps opened in various parts of the district. In Kannur As many as 491 persons were evacuated in Kannur and Thalassery taluks after heavy rain lashed the district on Sunday. In Kannur, 85 persons from 24 families were relocated after water entered their houses. They were shifted to six camps started in Kannur, Elayavoor, Puzhathi, Valapattinam, Kalyasseri and Chirakkal. As many as 257 houses were partially damaged, two house were fully damaged and four persons suffered injuries. In Thalassery, 406 persons were evacuated from 23 villages and one house was damaged in Shivapuram village. While in the rest of the three taluks, the situation was normal as the water receded by the afternoon and people returned to their houses. No casualties have been reported in the district so far. In Malappuram and Palakkad Rain continued in Malappuram and Palakkad districts on Sunday. All rivers were in spate, and the administrators had taken precautionary measures. As many as 1,003 persons of 321 families remained in camps in Malappuram. There were 21 camps in the district. Three camps were wound up as there was a respite from rain. While 12 camps were opened in Nilambur taluk, four were opened in Eranad taluk. There were two camps each in Perinthalmanna and Kondotty taluks, and one camp in Ponnani taluk. In Thrissur As many as 27 relief camps have been opened in Thrissur as torrential rain continued to lash the district. People from 126 families were rehabilitated to the camps opened at Kodungallur, Thrissur, Chalakudy, Mukundapuram and Chavakkd taluks. As many as 164 women and 146 men, and 103 children are in the camps. Three camps have been opened for people under quarantine. Many houses in Edathiruthy, Kaipamangalam, Perinjanam, Eryad, Edavilangu and Sreenarayanapuram panchayats were inundated as Canoly canal is overflowing. Coastal belt of the district is also facing the monsoon fury. The Manakkody-Pullu-Sasthamkadavu road, which is known for monsoon tourism, was closed. The road was flooded in the heavy rain that lashed the district in the past few days. Meanwhile, the rapid rescue team reached for the help of a bed-ridden patient caught in floods at Edathiruthy. They shifted Gopakumar who had been bed-ridden for the past 11 years following an accident. The Arappa canal was opened as waterlogging was severe in Kadappuram panchayat. Low-lying areas of Thrissur city are also under water.
10 August 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||An ignored proposal back on the radar||Citing high operational and maintenance cost, the Airports Authority of India (AAI) and the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) had not acted upon a 10-year-old proposal for using Engineered Materials Arresting System (EMAS) technology to ensure the safety of tabletop runway at the Calicut international airport. The Rs. 100-crore proposal, sources said, was rejected on various grounds, including the recommendation to bring experts from abroad after a runway overshoot. It also recommended the closure of the runway for several days in the event of an accident. Ministry’s report Incidentally, based of the Court of Inquiry Report on the Mangaluru airport crash, the Ministry of Civil Aviation had recommended in May 2012 to the DGCA to provide suitably designed aircraft decelerating systems like EMAS at both these airports with tabletop runways. “Runways in airports such as Mangaluru and Calicut are very critical and providing suitably designed aircraft decelerating systems like EMAS will ensure safety,” it said. EMAS is made of engineered lightweight materials and when used at runway ends, acts as a safety barrier and stops an aircraft overrun. However, at that time, the AAI was expanding the Runway End Safety Areas (RESA) at the Calicut airport so as to reduce the damage when an aircraft overran the end of a runway during a landing or after a rejected takeoff or undershoot. In fact, the RESA was expanded from 90 metres to 240 metres after reducing the runway of the Calicut Airport from 2,850 metres to 2,700 metres. Reasons cited EMAS technology, which aims at reducing the severity of the consequences of a runway excursion, is accepted internationally and installed in over 100 airports, including Tibet. The AAI had been toying with the idea of EMAS as early as 2008. However, the idea had to be dropped following the severe global financial crisis. In September 2010, two EMAS models were proposed for the Calicut airport for narrow and widebodied aircraft as land acquisition was hindering the expansion of the airport runway. After the accidents at Mangaluru in May 2010 and Lengpui (Mizoram) in May 2011, the AAI went ahead with the project to install it at the Calicut airport. But the proposal was caught in a bureaucratic maze with the DGCA also opposing the project. A standard EMAS installation can stop an aircraft from overrunning the runway at approximately 80 miles per hour and even if the RESA is less than standard length, according to the Federation Aviation Administration of the United States Department of Transportation.  EMAS technology, which aims at reducing the severity of the consequences of a runway excursion, is accepted internationally and installed in over 100 airports, including Tibet.
10 August 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Expansion that never took off||Despite the various proposals submitted by the Airports Authority of India (AAI), the expansion of the Calicut international airport has been remaining on paper for quite some time with both the State and Union governments not taking any proactive steps. Sources said the AAI had requested the State government to acquire 248 acres of land for the expansion of the runway and for the construction of a new terminal. However, after several rounds of discussions at the State-level it was decided to acquire 135 acres for filling the terrain so as to extend the table-top runway from its existing length of 2,700 metres. The AAI had requested the government to acquire another 15.2 acres for vehicle parking. Razing of hills The AAI had also come up with a commitment of Rs. 1,000 crore for the airport’s expansion. Subsequently, the government asked the Collectors of Malappuram and Kozhikode districts to identify hills in these districts to be razed for land-filling purpose. Proposed meetings between top officials, including former AAI Chairman Guruprasad Mohapatra, with Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and the then Chief Secretary Tom Jose last July failed to materialise. Difficult terrain The expansion plans were put on hold indefinitely because of the difficult terrain, prone to landslip and floods, and the huge cost that would entail in razing hills and filling land. The airport, located on 380 acres, had been the embarkation point for Haj pilgrims from Kerala and Lakshadweep till 2014 when the Ministry of Civil Aviation shifted the embarkation point to Kochi, following which the airport was partially closed from June 1, 2015 to March 1, 2017 to strengthen and re-carpet the runway. In 2018 The airport had been crying out for development even when the Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) succumbed to political pressure to allow three major airlines — Air India, Saudia (Saudi Arabian Airlines) and the Dubai-based Emirates — to resume the operation of widebodied aircraft, with multiple conditions in 2018. Only Saudia restored flights from December 2019 after carrying out a study and submitted a safety assessment and risk mitigation plan. Air India followed suit, but Emirates is yet to take a final call.
10 August 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Around 190 relief camps identified in Kozhikode||The Kozhikode Corporation has identified around 190 flood relief camps across the city to rehabilitate people in the event of flooding or sea erosion. Corporation Secretary Binu Francis said that these camps could be launched in a matter of three hours if the need arose. The camps have been categorised into four considering the COVID situation. Category A is general camp while B is for the elderly and people with diseases other than COVID. Category C is for those with COVID symptoms while D is for those under home quarantine. There are a total of 24 camps under category C, 26 under category D and 20 under category B. Some camps have facilities for more than one category. The respective village officers and assistant engineers are in charge of the camps in each village. At present, three relief camps are functional in the city, and two in Malapparamba village. The general camp at Government Women’s Polytechnic at Malapparamba has accommodated 52 persons from Kannadikkal. They were shifted after the region was flooded on Saturday. A special camp (category C and D) is also functioning at Providence Women’s College at Malapparamba. A general camp at Government Higher Secondary School, Cheruvannur, was closed after the people who had taken shelter there went back to their homes on Sunday. At present, a special camp is functional at Little flower School at Cheruvannur. Camps in the coastal areas will accommodate victims of sea attack. The Corporation Secretary said that the flood situation was not grave in the city.
10 August 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||COVID control room staff turn Good Samaritans||A district-level control room, which was opened a few months ago at the Kozhikode collectorate to handle COVID-19-related queries, proved its strength again by managing critical communications following Friday’s flight crash at the Karipur airport. The control room, which functions with the support of the National Health Mission (NHM), was declared the official helpline within just two hours after the mishap, and those at work quickly emerged as trustworthy sources of information for frantic callers. Though the staff strength at the control room was 10, including health workers and teachers, only a few of them were on night shift.. “For us, the biggest surprise was that there were many callers who enquired about the health condition of victims, purely out of empathy. This was besides calls from relatives or friends of those who were believed to have travelled by the ill-fated flight,” said Randolf Vincent, a coordinator at the control room. The control room staff said they had students, teachers, and nurses as external support providers.
10 August 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Man booked||The Thiruvambady police have booked a Health Department staff member who allegedly violated quarantine norms and roamed around Mukkom and Thiruvambady areas. The man who was later tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 was charged under various sections of the Epidemic Diseases Act.It is suspected that the man visited banks, shops and jewellery outlets in violation of rules.
10 August 2020||Malappuram,KERALA||Malappuram registers biggest spike in cases||Malappuram district registered the biggest spike ever in COVID-19 cases on Sunday when 170 persons tested positive for the novel coronavirus. District Collector K. Gopalakrishnan said that 147 of them had been infected through local contacts. COVID-19 claimed one more life in Malappuram on Sunday, taking the toll to 18. A 71-year-old man from Olavattur near Kondotty, who died at Government Medical College Hospital, Manjeri, was under treatment for heart and respiratory ailments. However, the death was not included in the official list of the government on Sunday. In Palakkad Seventy-eight persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Palakkad on Sunday. However, there were 80 recoveries in the district. Forty of the new cases got the infection through local transmission. In Kozhikode The number of new COVID-19 cases saw a decline in Kozhikode when 69 people were declared tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Sunday. Fifty-five of them got infected through local transmission. Meanwhile, sources at the Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode, said that the triage system to inspect and shift COVID-19 patients is being shifted to the Government General Hospital from Monday. The MCH would now treat only those who need critical medical care, defined as ‘C’ category patients. In Ernakulam The district appears to have registered a brief fall in the number of COVID positive cases, with only 54 people testing positive on Sunday. A 77-year-old from Ayyampuzha who was under treatment at the Government Medical College Hospital, Kalamassery, died on Sunday. She was shifted to the MCH from a private hospital on Saturday evening after she was suspected to have the disease. In Kannur Forty-one more persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kannur on Sunday. Of them, 28 persons contracted the disease through local transmission. In Wayanad Twenty-five cases of COVID-19 were reported in Wayanad district on Sunday. All patients were found to have been infected through local contact. In Thrissur As many as 24 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Thrissur on Sunday. Of them, 23 were infected through contact. In Kasaragod In Kasaragod, 56 more persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. Of them, 49 persons contracted the disease through local transmission.
10 August 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Pathanamthitta on alert as dam opens||The unrelenting rains that had battered Pathanathitta for the last few days forced the authorities to open one more reservoir on Sunday, triggering fears of another flood in the region. In an order, District Collector P.B. Noohu permitted the Kerala State Electricity Board to open six shutters of the Pampa dam by 60 cm to bring down the water level to 982 meters from 983.45 meters. The opening of shutters caused an additional water discharge of 82 cubic meters per second to the Pampa river, raising the overall water level by another 40 cm According to authorities, a decision to open the dam was made in view of the downpour in its catchment areas. Despite the dam's opening, water level in Triveni-Pampa, the base camp of the Sabarimala temple, continued to be normal till the evening. The run-off water from the dam was expected to reach Ranni and Perinadu later on the day The Collector advised people living on the banks of Pampa and Kakkattu rivers and in settlements including Ranni, Aranmula and Kozhencherry to exercise caution. Meanwhile, the rain-swollen Manimala river continued to inundate low-lying parts of the district as more people were being evacuated to the relief camps. A person, identified as Rajan of Pramadam, went missing in the Achenkoil river. Besides the NDRF team, teams of fishermen with 25 boats too were brought in and put on a stand by mode in view of the heavy rains forecast. Till Sunday evening, 103 relief camps were opened in the district, which together accommodated 3,342 persons from 1,015 families. Amidst the continuing rains, the Niraputhari festival at the Sabarimala hill shrine took place without any disruptions on Sunday morning. The ceremony, held in strict adherence to the COVID-19 prevention protocols, were led by Thanthri Kandaru Mahesh Mohanaru and chief priest (melsanthi) A.K.Sudheer Namboothiri.
10 August 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||30 fresh cases in Pathanamthitta||As many as 30 persons including an Excise officer and a health worker tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Pathanamthitta on Sunday. Of the fresh cases, 13 persons contracted the disease through local contact while 10 persons had landed from abroad. Seven persons had came from other States. Meanwhile, the contact source of at least four cases were yet to be traced. The local transmission cases also included a 43-year-old Christian priest from Kuttoor and a 20-days-old kid from Vechoochira. At the same time, 62 persons were discharged from the various hospitals, bringing down the total number of active cases in the district to 256.
10 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||292 new cases in capital||The daily COVID-19 count in the district fell sharply to 292 on Sunday from an all-time high of 485 recorded a day ago. As many as 284 people, including three health workers, contracted the infection through contact. The source of infection in nearly 40 cases are unknown. With 101 patients recovering, the number of people under treatment here is 3,213. Officials said the slump could be attributed to a dip in testing in clusters including Anjuthengu. An assistant sub-inspector attached to the Attingal police station tested positive. In Kallikkad, 33 out of the 94 patients have recovered. The district witnessed yet another death with a 72-year-old man succumbing to the illness late Saturday. The Peyad native was shifted to the Government Medical College Hospital after he was diagnosed with COVID-19. Containment zones were declared in Puthanambalam, Moonukallinmoodu, Town and Vazhimukku wards in Neyyattinkara; Kurichara ward in Andoorkkonam grama panchayat; Kaniyaramcode, Pannacode and Tholicode wards in Tholicode panchayat; Decentmukku ward in Navaikulam panchayat; Anchumarankala, Kiliyoor, Manoor, Ponnambi, Manathottam, Panachamoodu, Krishnapuram, Vencode and Panchakuzhy wards in Vellarada panchayat; and parts of Kalady (Maruthara, Elamthengu, Parappachanvila, Karipra, Vittiyara and Kavali junction), Kuriyathi (Rottikkada KM Mani Road) and Kudappanakunnu (Harvipuram colony) wards in the Corporation limits. Containment zones have been declared in Chovvalloor and Vilappilsala wards in Vilappil panchayat; Arikathwar, Kurakkada, Mudapuram and Vaidhyantemukku wards in Kizhuvilam panchayat; Kandala ward in Maranaloor panchayat; Thattathumala, Parandakunnu, Sheddilkkada and Manjappara wards in Pazhayakunnummel panchayat; Enikkara ward in Karakulam panchayat; and Thokkad ward in Chemmaruthy panchayat.  Collector condemns District Collector Navjot Khosa condemned the attack on health workers in a COVID-19 first-line treatment centre in Pulluvila on Saturday.
10 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||A mark of self-discipline||At a time when there are divergent opinions on the declaration of containment zones to arrest the local spread of the COVID-19 pandemic, the residents of a street in Karamana have on their own declared their street as a containment zone, after six positive cases were detected in the area. With the residents putting in a request to the local police regarding the same, barricades have been put at both ends of the street, with a display board that reads ‘Janatha containment zone’. 62 houses The self-declared containment zone is being implemented by the residents of SS Street in Karamana, which has 62 houses. According to ward councillor Karamana Ajith, the decision was taken after discussions among the residents’ association representatives. “Rapid antigen tests were conducted in the street on August 6 and 7. Six people tested positive. All of those who tested positive had taken part in a small function. Since the houses are located close to each other, with two houses sharing one wall, it became important that some containment measure had to be implemented. The residents themselves came forward to implement it. Later, we talked to the Karamana police, who said the official decisions on containment zones are usually taken by the district administration, but if the residents are taking such a decision on their own, the police are ready to cooperate. They provided us with the barricades,” said Mr. Ajith. Now, one member from each household can go out between 8 a.m. and 9 a.m. or between 6 p.m. and 7 p.m. to get essentials. A margin free shop located nearby is also providing doorstep delivery. The containment zone is being implemented on an experimental basis for a period of one week, after which a decision on whether to extend it or not will be taken by the residents.
10 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Cong. aiding BJP: Kodiyeri||Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] State secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan has accused Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala of adopting a stance helpful to the Bharatiya Janata Party. Briefing reporters on the deliberations at the CPI(M) State committee here on Sunday, Mr. Balakrishnan said that Mr. Chennithala’s personal security officer was a district office-bearer of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS). Mr. Chennithala chose the officer ignoring officers who were loyal to the Congress, he said. Regarding the row over CPI(M) Polit Bureau member S. Ramachandran Pillai’s revelation that he had attended the RSS camps when he was a teenager, Mr. Balakrishnan clarified that members of various parties, including the Congress and the BJP, had joined the CPI(M), but the party did not permit dual membership for its cadre. The Congress, he said, had a soft Hindutva stance on the demolition of the Babri Masjid and said that the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) was duping the people on the issue. ‘Not against temple’ The CPI(M) was not against the Ram temple, but it was being built on a site where a Masjid stood. The secular forces had turned apprehensive. The Congress had not taken any initiative to oppose the BJP or come out in aid of the secular forces, he said.
10 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Cong., BJP allege ‘unfair’ treatment||The Congress and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Sunday accused the State government of showing an unfair differentiation between victims of the landslip in Idukki and those killed in the air crash in Kozhikode while compensating their bereaved families. Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala said the government had announced a compensation of Rs. 10 lakh for those killed in the air crash. At the same time, it had limited the compensation for plantation workers who died in Pettimudy to Rs. 5 lakh. He demanded that the government announce an ex gratia payment of Rs. 10 lakh for the families of the dead in Idukki. Mr. Chennithala also slammed Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan for not visiting the landslip site in Idukki. Leaders visit site Mr. Chennithala had visited Pettimudy along with Dean Kuriakose, MP; Shafi Parambil and V.T. Balaram, MLAs. Union Minister of State for External Affairs V. Muraleedharan also visited Pettimudy. He levelled a similar criticism against the government. Mr. Muraleedharan said plantation workers had lived in dismal conditions in the billets. He said Mr. Vijayan should have visited the spot. Interim relief Mr. Vijayan had clarified on Saturday that the Rs. 5 lakh compensation for the kin of those killed in Idukki was merely an interim relief. Other benefits would kick in soon. The government would protect the survivors and ensure better living and working conditions and health care for plantation workers. The Chief Minister said he had contemplated visiting Pettimudy. But, the difficulty in reaching the spot had dissuaded him. Washed away roads, fallen trees and minor mud slips had rendered Pettimudy almost inaccessible. Ministers at spot Squally weather had prevented helicopters from sortieing into the area. Revenue Minister E. Chandrasekharan and Electricity Minister M.M. Mani were at the spot along with top police officers, rescue workers and district authorities.  Govt. will protect survivors and ensure better conditions and health care for plantation workers.
10 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Ayurveda, wellness tourism to be in high demand||Ayurveda, yoga, and wellness tourism is going to be in high demand in God’s Own Country in the post-pandemic era with an increased interest in immunity boost and health care. “The world is seeing that a good immune system and physical distancing can check the spread of SARS- CoV-2. Kerala and India stand a good chance to get an upper hand as people trust Ayurveda for improving immunity and wellness,” says Claudia Wagner, a leading German tour operator. The demand for Ayurveda is to increase in the post-pandemic days. Kerala should come up with new packages and marketing strategies and India should open its borders and lift curbs on holidaymakers, adds Ms. Wagner, managing director, FIT Reisen, that gets 50% business from Sri Lanka and India. Considered as an expert in Ayurveda tourism marketing and known for sending Germans for Ayurveda and rejuvenation therapy to Kerala, Ms. Wagner has a word of caution to the authorities and stakeholders as the adjoining Sri Lanka has opened its borders for tourism and Kerala will stand to lose footfall if the restrictions are not lifted. ATTOI webinar Speaking from Germany on ‘Impact of COVID-19 and the revival of tourism’ at an Association of Tourism Trade Organisations India (ATTOI) webinar, Ms. Wagner said the next tourist season was crucial for India and Kerala as lots of enquiries were pouring in on travel curbs as the country was a favoured destination for Ayurveda. Muralee Thummarukudy, Chief of Disaster Risk Reduction at United Nations Environment Programme, spoke on “Is there a spring season awaiting Kerala tourism?’. Rani George, Secretary, Tourism, said Kerala Tourism would bounce back after COVID-19. “Crisis is not new to Kerala. We bounced back after the 2019 floods. But, the pandemic is an unprecedented crisis and we will bounce back,” she said. Pointing out that survival and revival was the need of the hour, the Tourism Secretary said Ayurveda and rejuvenation therapy were in great demand among the Germans and the French and the State stood to gain from Ayurveda in the post-pandemic era. Earlier, Minister for Tourism , Kadakampally Surendran, who inaugurated the webinar, said Kerala with its beaches, hill stations, backwaters, and Ayurveda would be the most sought-after destination in the post-pandemic days when health care will be the top priority of people. C.S. Vinod, president, ATTOI, was the moderator.
10 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||U.S. firm to retrieve personal effects||The Air India Express (AIE) has commenced steps to hand over the personal effects of the passengers of the flight that crashed at the Calicut international airport on Friday. U.S.-based Kenyon, an agency for emergency response and rescue operations, has been entrusted with the task of search and retrieval of the personal effects lying at the accident site at Karipur and from the ill-fated B-737 aircraft. “The agency will take care of the collection, recording, cleaning, inventorying, photographing, cataloguing and arranging the return of the personal items to the families of the 191 passengers on the flight from Dubai to Kozhikode,” official sources told The Hindu . Besides, unidentified items, including gold and other precious items, recovered from the crash site will also be catalogued by the agency. Identification Once the exercise is completed, the families would be contacted for the identification and handing over of the things. The action taken is in conformance with the recommended guidelines of the International Air Transport Association (IATA), the trade association for airlines globally. The International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) norms on aircraft accident victims and their families too will be followed. The same crisis management services provider had handed over the personal effects of passengers in the Mangaluru plane crash in which a Boeing 737 aircraft of the AIE overshot the runway and burst into flames killing 158 passengers. The airline is trying its best to provide all assistance to the passengers’ families, sources say. Chief Operating Officer, AIE, K. Shyam Sundar and senior officials are camping in Kozhikode and overseeing relief operations. The AIE is yet to commence steps to pay the interim relief of Rs. 10 lakh to the families of the deceased and financial assistance to the injured announced by the Civil Aviation Minister, sources said.
10 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Rescue team of fish workers to be set up||The city Corporation has decided to form a rescue team consisting of fish workers considering the heavy rains and chances of flood in various districts, Mayor K.Sreekumar has said. The civic body aims to use the fisherfolk and their boats to help the rescue efforts within the district as well as outside. In the first phase, the Corporation will be readying 25 boats. The civic body will be bearing all the expenses incurred on rescue operations. Fish workers from the Corporation area, who wish to be part of the initiative can register with the Corporation. Contact - 9496434410. COVID testing will be conducted on fish workers who are to be sent on rescue operations.
10 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Rain deals a severe blow to farm sector||Already hit hard by the COVID-19 pandemic and the consequent lockdown, farmers in Kerala have been dealt another severe blow by the torrential rainfall in August. Crop damage has been reported in 30,519 hectares of land across the State between August 1 and 9, affecting a little over 1.07 lakh farmers, show data compiled by the Agriculture Department. Three districts Idukki, Wayanad, and Pathanamthitta — three districts that have borne the brunt of extreme weather over the past several days — are also the worst hit, according to Agriculture Minister V.S. Sunil Kumar’s office. Major crops, including paddy, banana, and vegetables, have taken a hit. Idukki has reported crop damage in 2,316 hectares so far in August. The devastation has impacted 20,581 farmers and the loss, in monetary terms, has been pegged at Rs. 197 crore. Wayanad, another agrarian district that has been hit hard by the torrential rainfall and floods this month, has reported crop damage in 1,028 hectares, affecting 21,563 farmers. Loss The loss has been put at Rs. 107 crore. Pathanamthitta has reported crop damage to the tune of Rs. 215 crore. Rain havoc has damaged crops in 1,039 hectares, impacting 3,889 farmers in the district. In various districts, damage to paddy crop has been reported in 1,543 hectares, cardamom in 20,679 hectares, and vegetables in 1,800 hectares. According to the Agriculture Information Management System (AIMS) of the department, crop loss has been reported in 2.16 lakh hectares affecting 7.17 lakh farmers since the onset of the southwest monsoon on June 1.
10 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Fishing banned till August 12 in capital||Fishing activities in district has been banned till Wednesday, August 12, given the possibility of inclement weather along the Kerala coast. The district administration has directed fishers not to venture out to sea till Wednesday due to a weather alert that strong winds are likely along the Kerala, Karnataka shores, and Lakshadweep. Meanwhile, coastal erosion continues to be severe along coastal Thiruvananthapuram. Several houses at Shangumughom sustained partial damage on Sunday. So far, 37 houses have been fully destroyed and 218 partially damaged in the district. As many as 583 people have been evacuated to camps. The heavy rainfall and wind that lashed the capital city uprooted trees at Pangode, Karamana, Kalady and Palayam. People residing along river banks have been asked to be vigilant with water being released from the Neyyar, Aruvikkara and Peppara dams. All four shutters of the Neyyar dam are open at 35 cm each. The water level in the dam stood at 82.12 metres (full reservoir level (FRL) is 84.75 metres) at 6 p.m. on Sunday. Two of the four shutters of the Peppara dam are open by 15 cm each. The water level in the dam stood at 107.15 metres (FRL, 107.50 m) on Sunday evening. Two shutters of the Aruvikkara dam are raised by 50 cm each and another, by 80 cm. Water level in the dam stands at 46.30 metres (FRL, 46.60 metres).
10 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Digital class re-telecast||The General Education Department’s First Bell digital classes telecast for school students on the KITE VICTERS channel will be re-telecast from Monday to Wednesday next week owing to disruptions in accessing them in the wake of heavy rain in the State. Instead of fresh sessions, the classes telecast this week from Wednesday to Friday will be repeated in the same order from Monday to Wednesday next week, KITE chief executive officer K. Anvar Sadath has said.
10 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Heavy rain for two more days||Heavy rainfall is likely to continue in the State on Monday, and, in some northern districts on Tuesday as well, under the influence of a second low-pressure area formed over the Bay of Bengal. A gradual reduction in peak rainfall activity across the State is expected from Tuesday, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) indicated. Orange alert Alappuzha, Ernakulam, Malappuram, and Kannur are likely to receive heavy to very heavy rainfall on Monday. The IMD has put the districts on orange alert. Rainfall activity over Idukki and Wayanad is expected to ease by Monday. Kollam, Pathanamthitta, Idukki, Thrissur, Kozhikode, Wayanad, and Kasaragod can expect isolated heavy rainfall on Monday. Yellow alerts have been issued for these districts.  Alappuzha, Ernakulam, Malappuram, Kannur may get heavy rainfall today.
10 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Quit COVID campaign inaugurated||The pandemic can be got rid of by October 2, Gandhi Jayanti, with people’s participation, Mayor K. Sreekumar says. He was inaugurating the Quit COVID campaign to be observed in the city from August 9, Quit India Day, to October 2.
10 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Online model NEET exam postponed||The online model NEET examination being conducted by the higher secondary wing of the Directorate of General Education and the State Institute of Educational Technology has been postponed to August 16 in view of heavy rain. The timings are 2 p.m. to 5 p.m. that day. Candidates yet to register can do so on thewww.sietkerala.gov.intill 5 p.m. on August 14, a statement said.
10 August 2020||THIRUVNANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Newman College wins hackathon||Newman College, Thodupuzha was declared the winner of ninth hackathon in the Reboot Kerala Hackathon 2020 conducted online by the Additional Skill Acquisition Programme (ASAP). Mar Baselios College of Engineering and Technology, Thiruvananthapuram, came second.
10 August 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Carcass of elephant retrieved||Carcass of an elephant found floating in the Kanjirappuzha, near Kodungalloor, was retrieved on Sunday. The elephant is estimated to be aged between 10 and 15 years and is carried by the strong current of water in the river. The carcass is around one week old, according to forest officials. The elephant was reportedly caught in the strong current of water near the Mahagony forest, Malayattoor. Spotted at Kalady The carcass was first found in Kalady and the Forest Department was in its trail. The body then floated through the Manjaly river and reached the Kanjirappuzha. The carcass was retrieved using ropes.
10 August 2020||August 10 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Obstacle course||
10 August 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||People wait for days as mobile testing units fail to turn up||People in Anantapur district have been running from pillar to post for COVID-19 tests for the past four days as the IMASQ buses, which serve as the mobile testing facilities, are not reaching the scheduled locations. It is learnt that the Vera Health Services, a private company that manages the IMASQ buses, has not paid salaries to its staff for which they have been abstaining from duties.  The Hindu tried to find out how the testing was going on at the SSBN College Grounds, Arts College Grounds and Sri Chaitanya College Grounds, Kakkalapalli on the NH-44 on Sunday. A 60-year-old woman from Kurugunta, recently consulted a private doctor with complaints of cough and she was advised to get the COVID-19 test done. “I hired an autorickshaw to reach the scheduled location for testing. I am waiting for the mobile testing vehicle,” she said. The ANM and ASHA worker on duty told The Hindu that the van had not come since the past three days and they had no idea when it would come. Similarly, many people including children were found waiting for the testing vehicles. However, many such vehicles were seen parked near the entrance gate of the Government Medical College at Anantapur before noon and no staff was yet to report to duty. When contacted, Assistant Collector G. Surya Sai Praveen Chand said that Collector Gandham Chhandrudu had already spoken to the CEO of Vera Health Services and the issue was being resolved. Target set for testing “We have set a target of conducting 8,000 tests on Monday with new True NAT machine installed at Kalyandurg. Around 3,000 tests are being done on RTPCR, 1,000 on TrueNAT, and the remaining Rapid Antigen tests,” Mr. Praveen said. The asymptomatic patients, who were being tested positive by rapid antigen kits, have been advised home isolation with the medication prescribed by the doctor posted at the testing centres. The rapid antigen kits confirm the results within 15 minutes. At present, 160 test centres are functioning in the district, apart from simultaneously testing being conducted at the Anantapur GGH, 88 PHCs, and CHCs. Meanwhile, BJP district general secretary Duddakunta Venkateswara Rao has objected to more testing by rapid antigen kits. ‘Rapid tests inconclusive’ “The tests conducted by the rapid antigen kits are not conclusive. The government is using more such kits to show higher number tests. The sharp spike in death tells it all about the poor strategy of government, he said. “Same person is being tested twice or thrice, adding to the count,” he alleged. The BJP leader also opposed the curfew being imposed from 6 a.m. on every Sunday to 6 a.m. Monday, without prior information. It is causing hardship to people, he said.
10 August 2020||K.R.PURAM (WEST GODAVARI DT.),ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Many development works in the pipeline in Agency areas’||Tribal people in the Agency area here celebrated World Adivasi Day, also known as the International Day of the World’s Indigenous Peoples, on a modest note on Sunday, inviting only a few officials and sticking to the COVID protocols of physical distancing and handwash etiquettes. Attending the programme, District Collector R. Mutyala Raju said that about 778 eligible tribal people would be given pattas under Recognition of Foreign Rights (RoFR) for 1352.83 acres of podu lands, and community pattas would be distributed for 12,361 acres in the Agency in the district. Polavaram MLA T. Bala Raju, also present at the event, said works worth about Rs. 1,132 lakh have been taken up under ‘Nadu-Nedu’ programme and 68 Sachivalayam offices were being constructed with Rs. 2,856 lakhs in West Godavari district. Leaders remembered K.R. Puram Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA) project officer(PO) R.V. Suryanarayana said that the government was providing quality education to the tribal children in Girijana Gurukul Schools. The officials were welcomed traditionally with performance of Kommu dance. Later, they hoisted the national and Adivasi flags at the ITDA office and garlanded the portraits of Adivasi leaders who fought for their rights.
10 August 2020||KURNOOL/ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Surge of cases, deaths continues in Kurnool||Kurnool district continued to see a surge in number of COVID-19 cases as 1,399 more tested positive for the disease on Sunday pushing up the cumulative tally to 27,431. The district added seven deaths to the toll that rose to 245 on Sunday. Meanwhile, with reduced testing in Anantapur, the number of new positive cases recorded was 858 while the total went up to 24,107. Eight more fatalities took the toll to 170 in the district. Lockdown measures were not yet withdrawn in both districts even as Anantapur witnessed a curfew for the third consecutive Sunday with all shops closed from 11 a.m. on Saturday till 6 a.m. on Monday. Deputy Superintendent of Police G. Veeraghava Reddy and his team kept a watch on the movement of people on the city roads and the police patrol parties made rounds to ensure no shop was open.
10 August 2020||Nivedita Ganguly,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pandemic delays Town Hall restoration project||The COVID-19 pandemic has had a sudden impact on the heritage sector resulting in the much-awaited restoration project of 120-year-old Town Hall getting delayed by months. The iconic structure finally got its due after decades of neglect. However, the project work has slowed down significantly due to labour issues. Being carried out at a cost of Rs. 3.4 crore, the project is being executed by Savani Heritage Conservation Pvt. Ltd, under the initiative of the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC). Speaking to The Hindu , Sravani Naraparaju, conservation architect of Savani Heritage, said: “We are currently managing with just five to seven workers out of the 25 who were working on this project. The workers are all from Maharashtra and Bihar with expertise in working on heritage projects. Most of them have left for their home town resulting in delay.” With almost 80% work completed, the final phase of the restoration of Town Hall was expected to be completed by September. However, due to the present crisis it is now expected to be done by the year-end. “Restoration work of the first floor of the project is already over. Mangalore tiles were layed and lime plastering of walls was done. We have taken care to retain the originality of the structure without tampering the materials or the core architecture of this heritage building,” says Ms. Sravani. Work on the ground floor resumed recently. “The Burma teak wooden flooring is being restored very carefully and we are using similar material only in sections where the wood has decayed. These will have a distinct look so that the visitors can make out the part restored from the original wood,” she added. The restoration project also includes landscaping work around the Town Hall, an amphitheatre and a parking space. Steeped in history Built by the Maharaja of Bobbili in 1901, in memory of Queen Victoria, the Town Hall was reduced to a shadow of its former grand self. It was originally called the Victoria Diamond Jubilee Town Hall, and was handed over to the municipality in 1904. Years of neglect endangered the stability of the structure with the roots of vegetation growing through walls, resulting in cracks and mortar loss. The Town Hall has been witness to fiery speeches delivered by freedom fighters, including Mahatma Gandhi, who addressed a gathering here in 1929. It also saw eminent personalities such as C. Rajagopalachari, Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan, C.V. Raman, Rabindranath Tagore and M,S. Subbulakshmi speak here and perform. It is the only surviving building in the district with a massive wooden floor made of Burma teak. While the fierce Cyclone Hudhud did not harm it much, human apathy finally got to it.
10 August 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kandukur woman, son die in hotel fire||It was a tragic end for coronavirus-infected woman(52) and her 26-year-old son from Kandukur who were getting treatment at the Swarna Palace Hotel in Vijayawada. D. Venkatalakshi Swatchala Devi and her son D. Pawan Kumar, a techie who had been working from home for a Bengaluru-based IT company, were among the over-700 persons in Kandukur division to have tested positive for the virus. They had contracted the infection a week ago after the woman’s husband D. Prasad, who runs a grocery shop, got infected. Only two days ago, Mr. Prasad had returned to Kandukur after he was discharged by the Ramesh Hospital in Vijayawada on recovery. As the designated COVID 19 hospital in Kandukur was overflowing with patients, the duo went for treatment in Vijayawada after trying in vain to get admission into a private hospital in Ongole. Emotional scenes Emotional scenes were witnessed at their residence in Ganesh Nagar in Kandukur after the news reached the father and Pawan Kumar’s pregnant wife.
10 August 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Health staff plea||The Andhra Pradesh Government Employees Association on Sunday urged Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to intervene and ensure clearance of pay arrears to a section of employees in Medical and Health and Women and Child Welfare departments. The employees in the two departments had been demoralised as their pay had been kept pending for three months.
10 August 2020||ONGOLE/NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Toll mounts to 206 in south coastal Andhra||The incidence of coronavirus continued to rattle south coastal Andhra region with 15 more persons--11 in Prakasam and five in Nellore district, succumbing to the viral disease and 1,126 more persons getting infected in the last 24 hours. The death toll due to pandemic rose to 111 in Prakasam district where 430 more tested positive for the disease, taking the count to 8,665, according to a health bulletin released by the State government on Sunday night. In SPSR Nellore district, 696 more persons got infected taking the total number of positive cases to 13,739 while the death toll stood at 95. Meanwhile, Prakasam and Nellore saw 397 and 176 recoveries respectively. In view of steady increase in positive cases, the bed strength in two private hospitals treating COVID-19 patients in Ongole was increased from 50 to 75 each. Only 797 symptomatic cases were admitted to the designated hospitals. Of them, 481 were put in Intensive Care Units as their condition turned serious. While the other 963 patients were admitted to COVID-19 Care Centres and 1,394 asymptomatic cases persons were getting treatment at home. Four 108 ambulance drivers, who were involved in moving patients from and to hospitals, tested positive for the disease. Ongole accounted for 78 of the 430 fresh cases. New cases came from all over the district including Singarayakonda(17), Inkollu(12), Vetapalem(11), Thurumella(9), Martur (9), Daggubadu(8), Darsi(8), Karamchedu(5), Pamur(5), Ponnalur(5) and Talur(5).
10 August 2020||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Special diet for infected inmates at Central prison||Backward Classes Welfare Minister Chelluboyina Srinivasa Venugopala Krishna inspected the Rajamahendravaram Central Prison in East Godavari district on Sunday and promised timely healthcare and new diet for those who have been infected with coronavirus on the prison campus. The Minister, accompanied by Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy and a team of officials, inspected the available healthcare facilities and infrastructure at the prison. He interacted with the inmates including the remand prisoners, and inquired about the healthcare services being offered to them. Under watch “As many as 272 inmates have been tested positive for the virus. They have been accommodated in a separate barrack at the prison. They are under the watch of a team of doctors from the District Government Hospital,” the Minister told the media. By Sunday, around 1,600 inmates have been tested for the virus and 300 more would be tested this week. “The prison authorities have been instructed to follow a prescribed diet chart for the infected inmates. Timely healthcare services are being provided to the patients,” said Mr. Venugopala Krishna. The officials also assured all support to the prison authorities to check the spread of the virus at the prison, apart from deploying sufficient number of doctors. The Collector advised the inmates to maintain hygiene. Central prison Additional Superintendent K. Venkata Raju, Rajamehdnravaram City SP Shemushi Bajpai, Rajamahendravaram Municipal Commissioner Abhishikt Kishore accompanied the Minister during his visit to the prison.
10 August 2020||RAMPACHODAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Gear up to take up cultivation, tribal people told||East Godavari Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy on Sunday promised all support to the tribals and encouraged them to make best use of the 40,000 acres of land to be distributed among the 14,000 tribal families in the Rampa and Chintoor Agencies. Addressing the gathering of tribal elders and women during the celebration of the World Tribal Day here, Mr. Muralidhar Reddy said that all was set to distribute the land to the forest dwellers on October 2. The tribal families would be offered every support from the district authorities, he said, encouraging them to take up horticulture, agriculture and micro-irrigation practices on the land given to them. The assistance would also be extended through the NREGA to improve their livelihood in the Rampa and Chintoor tribal pockets, said the Collector. Quality life Felicitating the elders of various tribes inhabiting in the East Godavari Agency, Mr. Muralidhar said that the Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA) at Rampachodavaram and Chintoor would strive for improving the quality of life of the seven tribes in the district and protecting their age-old traditions and culture. The Collector said that the tribals would get access to various government documents at the panchayat level through the secretariat system. ITDA Rampachodavaram in-charge project officer Praveen Adithya has promised to develop marketing chain for better price for the forest produce being collected by the tribes.
10 August 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Watershed project bails out tribal farmers||At a time when many areas of Srikakulam district are facing shortage of water owing to deficit rainfall this monsoon; the hilly region near Seethampeta have plenty of water, thanks to the effective implementation of watershed programme. With the support of District Water Management Agency (DWMA) , a non-governmental organisation, ARTS, has been implementing the programme in 11 panchayats effectively. “Launched six years ago, the programme have started yielding the desired results. As many as 4,985 hectares of barren land has been brought under cultivation as part of the project,” says ARTS director Nuka Sanyasi Rao. He says that tribal farmers have been made a part of the watershed committee and they are generating a decent income by growing various crops . “Apart from paddy, millets are also being grown with the availability of water in the ponds which get recharged by percolation and run-off. The watershed project is providing livelihood to 1800 tribal farmers and each farmer is able to generate around Rs. 15,000 per annum,” says Mr. Sanyasi Rao. Aquaculture The residents of Mandal, Killada, Garapadu, Pedarama, Haddubangi, Manda and others are also practising aquaculture by utilising the pond water which is available through out the year. “Fish varieties grown up in fresh water has a huge demand in market. It is helping us generate additional income,” says S. Savara Gopal, a tribal farmer. Manda Watershed programme Project Officer Bendi Sankara Rao says that horticulture crops are also being promoted in the tribal areas.  “Mango, banana, cashew and other crops certainly ensure decent income for tribal farmers. With the support of the NABARD, we are sensitising the tribal people about marketing so that they can get remunerative prices for their produces,” says Mr. Sankara Rao  ZBNF Experts are imparting training to tribal farmers about zero-budget natural farming (ZBNF) and setting up vermi-compost units.
10 August 2020||SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Trade unions decry privatisation of railways||Activists from the Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) and All India Trade Union Congress(AITUC) organised massive protests in Srikakulam criticising the policies of the Union government and privatisation of railways and other public sector properties. Displaying ‘Save India-Save Working Class-Save People’ banners, CITU State vice-president D. Govinda Rao, CPI district secretary S. Narasimhulu, raised slogans against the government. Mr. Govinda Rao said that the agitation was planned to mark Quit India agitation and to highlight the ‘misdeeds’ of the Union government. “Properties worth lakhs were given at throw-away prices to corporate companies,” said Mr. Govinda Rao. As many as 30 leaders and activists of various trade unions were taken into custody and later released.
10 August 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Hospitals in Tirupati on the edge||Hospitals in Tirupati are on the edge after a major fire that broke out at Hotel Swarna Palace, which was taken on lease by a hospital to treat COVID-19 patients in Vijayawada on Sunday. With the reports surfacing that the hotel-turned- COVID care facility in Vijayawada do not have the mandatory fire NoC and Ramesh Hospitals took it on lease without verification, the hotels in Tirupati that had tie-ups with hospitals for COVID treatment are fearing backlash over the non-compliance of safety norms. Now, various opinions are emerging as to who should take the blame in case of such accidents. There are nearly 100 private hospitals with beds in Tirupati and another 100 smaller clinics operating with single doctors that treat only out-patients. Of the ten private hospitals authorised by the government to treat COVID patients, six are enrolled under Aarogyasri scheme. In view of the sharp spike in COVID cases and the shortage of hospitals beds, some hospitals have tied up with star category hotels to accommodate patients with mild symptoms or asymptomatic cases. The fire incident has apparently rattled these hospitals, as they are worried over the backlash. Many hospital managements are unable to digest the government fixing the responsibility on the hospital. They are fearing of being nailed for no fault of theirs. ‘Unfair to blame hospitals’ “Be it a hotel or a hospital, fire mishap can happen anywhere. It is fair to blame hospitals for poor healthcare services or negligence in offering the services, but not for a fire mishap in an alien premises,” argued a private doctor, requesting anonymity. “A star category hotel is expected to adhere to the mandatory fire norms. It is difficult for hospitals to check every fact before signing a pact,” opined District COVID Coordinator for Indian Medical Association (IMA) D. Sreehari Rao. He said such charges would hit the morale of hospitals, especially amid the pandemic where the entire healthcare fraternity was focussed on delivering quality treatment.
10 August 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Railwaymen stage protest||Members of the South Central Railway Mazdoor Union (SCRMU) staged a protest here on Sunday by wearing black badges and waving red flags, expressing ire over the Union government’s privatisation move. As part of the nationwide call by SCRMU and All India Railwaymen’s Federation, they demanded that the government drop the proposal to run private trains in select profitable routes and said it would affect profitability and viability of the organisation.
10 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘A few COVID patients jump off hotel building to escape fire’||Sunday’s early morning calm gave way to terror. Patients battling COVID-19 at a hotel-turned-quarantine centre were confronted with a bigger challenge — fight a blaze. And what followed was chaos as the patients, in their anxiety to escape the fire that engulfed the rooms, cried out for help. While a few of them, according to the passers-by, jumped off the first and second floors of the building, injuring themselves in the process, many others fell unconscious in the rooms. The fire occurred at Hotel Swarna Palace, which was taken on lease by Ramesh Hospitals for running the COVID-19 care centre. About 30 patients and 10 staff members were in the centre at the time of the accident. The firemen, the police and the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) personnel used ladders to reach the windows, broke them open and rescued the patients with the help of stretchers. Rescuers’ dilemma As the family members of the patients were not available, there was nobody to identify the victims. Being a dedicated COVID care centre, the rescue personnel were in a dilemma as they did not know where to shift the patients. Speaking to The Hindu , NDRF 10th Battalion Commandant Zahid Khan said that 25 personnel were deployed with PPE kits and life-saving equipment to rescue the patients. “We rescued a few patients and brought them out of the hotel. But there was no clarity on where to shift them. There are no attendants to take of the patients either,” said an NDRF team member who took part in the rescue operation. “Already, the patients have respiratory problems. On top of it, thick smoke engulfed the air-conditioned rooms. Consequently, they fell unconscious,” said a police officer. “Though the police and firemen have no PPE kits, they did not hesitate to rescued the patients and shift them to other hospitals,” said Sitaram Babu, a passer-by. Heart-rending scenes Heart-rending scenes were witnessed at the quarantine centre when the family members of the victims were seen enquiring with the officials about the welfare of their dear ones. The hospital staff denied them entry as the victims were COVID-19 patients. “A few patients fell unconscious after inhaling the smoke. We brought them out of the hotel and rushed them to different hospitals. A few other patients succumbed to the burns. Some patients were asphyxiated because of the thick smoke,” a fire officer said. Home Minister M. Sucharitha, Deputy Chief Minister Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas, I&PR Minister Perni Venkataramaiah, Endowments Minister V. Srinivas, and MP Mopidevi Venkata Ramana rushed to the spot to monitor the rescue operations. “We are trying to identify the patients who died in the accident,” said Police Commissioner B. Srinivasulu. List of deceased The dead have been identified as S. Raja Kumari from Jaggaiahpet in Krishna district, Majji Gopi from Machilipatnam, M. Ramesh from Vijayawada, D. Venkata Suvarchala Devi from Kandukur in Prakasam district, D. Pavan Kumar from Prakasam district, P. Purnachander Rao from Krishna district, D. Siva Brahmaiah from Machilipatnam, S. Babu Rao from Vijayawada, K. Suvarna Latha from Nidubrolu in Guntur district and S. Abraham, native of Jaggaiahpet.
10 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Prime Minister speaks to Jagan, promises all support||Prime Minister Narendra Modi spoke to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy about the fire accident at the COVID centre at Hotel Swarna Palace, which resulted in the death of at least 10 patients on Sunday, and assured him of all possible support. Mr. Modi expressed anguish over the incident through Twitter, wherein he said his thoughts were with those who lost their loved ones and that he was praying for speedy recovery of the injured. A Twitter message from the PMO said an ex gratia of Rs. 2 lakh each would be given to the families of the deceased from the Prime Minister’s National Relief Fund. Meanwhile, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy announced an ex gratia of Rs. 50 lakh each to the kin of the deceased and ordered a thorough probe into the accident that raised serious doubts over the safety in hospitals and such makeshift facilities.  Unfortunate, says Venkaiah Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu condoled the death of the patients in the fire accident which, he said, was unfortunate, and prayed for quick recovery of those who suffered injuries. Short-circuit suspected Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan said he was shocked and ordered that all necessary steps be taken to help the survivors in recovering from the injuries. Home Minister M. Sucharitha said short circuit was suspected to have sparked the blaze and that a detailed investigation had begun. TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu said the government should come to the rescue of the families of the deceased, and insisted that steps be taken to prevent recurrence of such accidents. BJP State president Somu Veerraju visited the Swarna Palace and enquired about the incident, and demanded that the Fire Services and other departments immediately check the fire safety protocols being followed in hotels that were converted into temporary hospitals. He had a word with the personnel of the National Disaster Response Force and the police who were involved in the rescue measures. While expressing condolences, Jana Sena Party (JSP) president Pawan Kalyan said the incident was a wake-up call for the government to take remedial measures so that similar accidents did not happen again.
10 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Putting life at risk in the line of duty||The fire, police and the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) who rushed to Hotel Swarna Palace-cum-COVID care centre, which caught fire in the city, save about 25 persons from the blaze. According to Deputy Chief Minister and Health Minister Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas, the fire broke out between 4.45a.m. and 5 a.m. and the fire personnel received the call at 5.09 a.m. Home Minister Mekathoti Sucharita said the fire and police personnel reached the spot by 5.13 a.m. and started rescuing the patients. “The police, fire and NDRF personnel rescued many patients from the COVID-19 care centre, though they do not have gloves and PPE kits. I thank the rescue teams for showing the courage,” said Krishna District Collector A.Md. Imtiaz. Vijayawada Police Commissioner Bathina Srinivasulu said the police and firemen reached the spot in less than five minutes and rescued the patients trapped in fire. “By the time we reached the hotel building, fire spread in to the rooms in first and second floors. With great difficulty, we reached the second floor and rescued the patients trapped in the rooms,” said Krishna District Fire Officer (DGO) M. Srinivas Reddy. ‘Patients fell unconscious’ “When we entered into the rooms, we found a few patients lying unconscious. As fire engulfed the corridors, we shifted the victims through the windows by using ladders,” Governorpet CI Nagaraju. Praise from all quarters “I was jogging around 5.15 a.m. I saw the fire tenders and police vehicles rushing towards the hotel. After a few minutes, I observed fire and police personnel rescuing the patients on stretchers. Later, NDRF personnel joined them. Had the rescued did not reach the spot immediately, the toll would have been more,” said a morning walker T. Ramakrishna. Andhra Pradesh State Disaster Response and Fire Services Director K. Jayaram Naik said that six fire tenders and about 50 fire personnel participated in the rescue operation. “All the firemen would be rewarded,” said Regional Fire Officer G. Srinivasulu. NDRF 10th Battallion Commandant Zahid Khan said the teams entered the hotel rooms by cutting the doors and windows by using hacksaw blades. They rescued many patients trapped in the smoke.
10 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Over 150 patients being treated in hotels in city||The fire accident at the Hotel Swarna Palace, turned into an extension of city’s Ramesh Hospitals for COVID treatment, has brought to the fore the risks in using hotels for treating patients. Currently, at least 15 hospitals in the district have taken permissions to have extended treatment facilities in hotels and four of them have already started operations.  ‘Mild symptomatic cases only being treated’ Only patients with mild symptoms or with no symptoms are being treated at the extension facilities. All four hospitals, including Ramesh Hospitals, were treating nearly 150 patients at the facilities, according to District Collector A.Md. Imtiaz. Speaking to The Hindu , Mr. Imtiaz said that Ramesh Hospitals had been permitted to treat asymptomatic patients at Hotel Swarna Palace and that there were 31 patients at the time of the incident. “The idea of permitting private hospitals to provide COVID care is to make more options available for the public who could afford treatment. It is the responsibility of the hospital to protect patients getting treatment in an extended facility,” Mr. Imtiaz said. At present, 13 hospitals, including seven private hospitals, are designated as COVID-19 hospitals in the district. The private hospitals are Liberty Hospitals, Ramesh Hospitals, Andhra Hospitals, Kamineni Hospital, Indobritish Hospital and Anu Hospitals, according to the Health Department. A few more hospitals have also acquired permissions for extended treatment facilities.
10 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Couple die in strange quirk of fate||Among the patients who died in the fire accident at Hotel Swarna Palace were a couple from Jaggaiahpeta mandal. They have been identified as S. Ratna Abraham (48) and his wife Rajakumari. Officials said the couple were admitted to the make-shift hospital a few days ago. While Abraham was discharged upon recovery on Saturday morning, his wife continued to be under treatment. By a strange quirk of fate, Abraham returned to the hospital on Saturday evening to take care of his wife lodged in a room on the second floor. And both of them were among the dead. “All the patients have mild symptoms of COVID-19 and could have opted for home isolation. But they chose to admit themselves in the hospital for better care under the supervision of doctors,” an official said.
10 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. releases Rs. 25 cr. for welfare of advocates||The government has released Rs. 25 crore, of the Rs. 100 crore fund it announced to spend on welfare of advocates. The move comes in response to a request made by the Chairman of Bar Council of Andhra Pradesh. A special committee was constituted under the chairmanship of the Advocate General to disburse the amount. The committee has decided to provide health insurance to the needy advocates besides loan facility to those who have applied for it. Eligibility criteria A statement by the Bar Council said to avail the facility, an advocate should not have availed stipend under the YSR Law Nestham and spouse should not be gainfully employed in any government, government undertaking, corporation or government organisation. Advocates who own a four-wheeler and a house are not eligible, so are the Bar Council members and president of Bar Associations. The statement said an advocate who was allotted a house under a government scheme meant for social and economically weaker section categories and a person who owns a house in a village, other than the city or town, where he/she is practising, will not be disqualified. The advocates who intend to avail of the loan should submit online application from 4 p.m of August 10 to 4 p.m of August 16 with a Bar Association certificate/ ID card and self-declaration. The linkhttps://barcouncilap.org/bar-council-of-andhra-pradesh-loan- scheme will be enabled at 4 p.m. on August 10. After verification, the applications will be placed before a panel .
10 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Krishna’s death rate still highest in State||The COVID-19 tally in Krishna district crossed the 10,000-mark on Sunday as 439 new cases were reported in the past 24 hours. Also, four new deaths were reported in the past day and the toll went up to 212, while the tally has gone up to 10,292. The district’s COVID death rate is still the highest in the State at 2.06%. However, it has come down to at least half of its initial figure as the rate of new deaths and cases being reported was low compared to that of other districts. So far, 6,462 patients have recovered and 3,618 patients are undergoing treatment in various hospitals and under home isolation. The recovery rate is at 62.79%.
10 August 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Providing medical facilities alone is our concern’||“The responsibility of maintaining Hotel Swarna Palace rests with the hotel management while providing medical facilities is our concern,” says P. Ramesh, managing director and chief cardiologist of Ramesh Hospitals. In a press release on the fire accident at Hotel Swarna Palace, which is now an extension of Ramesh Hospitals for COVID treatment, Dr. Ramesh said the management and staff of the hospital were deeply saddened at the tragic accident that led to the death of patients who were supposed to recover from the disease. Dr. Ramesh said that they had treated over 500 patients and discharged them successfully. “In view of the rapid increase in cases and on the orders of the district Collector, Ramesh Hospitals has dedicated its MG Road branch exclusively for treating COVID-19 patients. Because of the limited bed capacity (30 beds), more patients could not be accommodated. The requests from officials and political leaders are mounting. The hospital had to find an alternative place to cater to the needs and appeals of the public in general and political leaders and officials in particular. With the permission of the authorities, Swarna Palace Hotel was chosen to provide medical facilities to COVID-affected and corona suspected patients,” Dr. Ramesh said. “In spite of the hospital suggesting to provide home care services to the mild and suspected patients, people insisted treatment under the direct supervision of the medical staff as they were apprehensive of the virus spreading to the family members, especially to the elders in the family. The maintenance, room charge etc are totally the responsibility of the hotel, and providing medical service is the concern of the hospital,” Dr. Ramesh said.
10 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Somu to take over as BJP State chief tomorrow||MLC Somu Veerraju will assume the office of the BJP State president on August 11 (Tuesday). Party’s national general secretary Ram Madhav will participate in the event as the chief guest, a note released by the party said here on Sunday. The programme is likely to be organised at the Venue function hall near Dr. NTR University of Health Sciences. In a sudden change of guard, Mr. Veerraju was declared the BJP State president in the place of Kanna Lakshminarayana on July 27.
10 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fire safety: 26 teams constituted to inspect hospitals, centres||The fire in a COVID-19 hotel facility in Vijayawada rises questions over the fire safety measures at the COVID-19 hotels and COVID-19 Care Centres in the city. There are 79 hospitals, hotels and centres treating COVID-19 patients in the district as of now. While major hospitals, hotels have No Objection Certificates (NOCs) from the Fire Department, there are doubts over the safety norms followed at the COVID-19 Care Centres set up in school/college hostels, old buildings and community health centres (CHCs). Many hospitals in the city have also taken a few hotels on lease to treat their patients. Meanwhile the district administration is on its toes, in the wake of the fire at a COVID-19 facility in Vijayawada on Sunday in which 10 persons died. District Collector V. Vinay Chand has constituted 26 teams with nearly 100 officials of various departments to inspect all the hospitals and centres treating COVID-19 patients in the district. He directed the teams to submit reports along with certification of electrical connection and also safety measures being taken up at the hospitals/centres within two days. One of a COVID-19 survivor from the city, P. Surendra (name changed), who stayed in a centre in Madhurawada area, said that he did not notice any fire extinguishers at the centre. “Since it was a residential school all the bunker beds were placed close to one another in a very congested manner. There was not even two feet distance between the beds. If any fire breaks out, it would be very difficult to escape,” he said.  Narrow staircases Some centres also lack proper entry-exit points, and have narrow staircases, which could pose a problem in the event of any untoward incident. District Fire Officer B.V.S. Ram Prakash said that most of the hospitals, hotels and centres which come under their purview have adopted fire safety measures and are safe. However, an inspection would be conducted jointly with the electrical department to check whether there are any faults, he said. According to him, there should be an emergency team or the staff at the COVID-19 care centres should be given basic fire fighting skills like using fire extinguishers, which should be done during the first five to 10 minutes of the accident.
10 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Six more persons succumb to virus, toll increases to 132||The district COVID-19 tally is inching towards the 20,000 mark, with 961 new positive cases being reported, taking the cumulative total to 19,905 here on Sunday. Six more persons succumbed to the virus, taking the death toll to 132. On the brighter side, as many as 1,211 persons have been discharged from COVID-19 hospitals and COVID-19 Care Centres on Sunday. The total number of active cases and discharged patients is 7,412 and 12,361 respectively, as per the district COVID-19 bulletin. According to the Special Officer for COVID-19 and Principal of Andhra Medical College, P.V Sudhakar, the total number of clusters in the district is 851. Among them, very active clusters are 149. The number of active and dormant clusters is 243 and 459 respectively. Already 39 clusters have been denotified, he said. For information regarding tests in Visakhapatnam, people can contact the Control Room on 0891-2501233 or 0891-2501244.
10 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM to lay stone for medical college at Paderu soon||District Collector V. Vinay Chand has said that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy will soon lay the foundation for establishment of a medical college at Paderu. The medical college and hospital will help in providing better medical care services to the tribal people, he added. The District Collector participated as the chief guest at the 36th Adivasi Day celebrations held, under the auspices of Paderu MLA K. Bhagyalakshmi, at the Talarisinghi Central Tribal Ashram School at Paderu on Sunday. Addressing the gathering, the Collector said that 35 acres of land has already been earmarked for the medical college. He spoke on the commitment of the Chief Minister towards the welfare of the tribal people, particularly, on provision of better health and education apart from development of tribal areas. The government was in the process of filling up of 5,700 posts in the Medical and Health Department. The government has recruited a volunteer for every 50 families and established 212 village secretariats, he said. Presiding over the programme, Ms. Bhagyalakshmi said that the Adivasi Day was being observed on a low key in view of the pandemic. She described Adivasis as great patriots and environment protectors. She said there were scientific reasons behind the celebration of Adivasi festivals like ‘itikela pandaga’ and ‘korrkotha pandaga.’ She recalled that the tribal people had played a major role in the freedom struggle under the leadership of Alluri Seetharama Raju. Mallu Dora and Gantam Dora had also played key roles in the freedom struggle. The MLA said that RoFR pattas were given to tribal farmers during the tenure of former Chief Minister Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy. Now, Mr. Jagan has initiated the process of distribution of pattas for lakhs of acres to 50,000 tribal farmers in the State. She sought action against those indulging in mining in D-form patta lands, provision of network facilities and measures to stop COVID-19 deaths in tribal areas. Araku MLA Chetti Phalguna said that the State government has filed a writ petition in the Supreme Court on G.O. No. 3. A skill development centre would be set up at Araku Valley. He said that 46 roads were being developed at an estimated cost of Rs. 49.90 crore. ITDA Project Officer S. Venkateswar spoke.
10 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Trade unions organise ‘jail bharo’ protest in city||A ‘jail bharo’ programme was organised by all trade unions on the banner of ‘Save India – Save working class – save people’ on the occasion of Quit India Day on Sunday. The leaders of various trade unions garlanded the statue of Dr. B.R. Ambedkar at the LIC Junction. Later, addressing the gathering, CITU State president Ch. Narasinga Rao and AITUC State president M. Ravindranath alleged that the Central and the State governments failed to live up to the expectations of those, who have lost their livelihoods due to the COVID-19 pandemic. They demanded provision of financial assistance of Rs. 10,000 a month to the family of each worker, who lost his/her livelihood during the past six months apart from distribution of essential commodities and provision of employment opportunities. They also sought that ASHA and Anganwadi workers, who have been providing COVID-19 services, should be given a better deal. They alleged that failure of the government to provide better amenities at government hospitals was leading to private hospitals fleecing patients. Alleging that the Central government was trying to privatise Visakhapatnam Steel Plant, Railways, insurance sector and other PSUs, they said labour laws were being amended to benefit the managements.
10 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Minor girl allegedly raped by father||A 17-year-old girl was allegedly raped by her father at Appannapalem area under Pendurthy police station limits in the city. The incident came to light on Sunday, after the family members of the girl lodged a complaint with the police, after they came to know that she was pregnant. Pendurthy police registered a case. The case has been forwarded to Disha police station. More details are yet to be ascertained. Investigation is on.
10 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Minor fire reported in a ship at VPT||A minor fire accident took place in a vessel at Visakhapatnam Port Trust (VPT), here on Sunday afternoon.  No casualties No casualties were reported and no one was injured. According to the VPT officials, the incident occurred in the BD51 vessel berthed on West Quay – 5, for crew sign on and sign off. The ship reached the VPT on Saturday. At around 2 p.m., the crew found the crew change room engulfed in smoke and alerted the Fire Department of the VPT. The fire brigade and fire float of the VPT were deployed and the fire was put out. The officials claimed that the fire originated from oil soaked waste jute and cotton and boiler suits of the crew. Short-circuit is suspected to be the cause. The VPT officials confirmed that there was no damage to the vessel.
10 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man found murdered||A 32-year old man was allegedly murdered near Sarada river under Anakapalle Town Police Station limits in Visakhapatnam district on Saturday night. The deceased was identified as Raju, a native of Kakinada residing at Anakapalle. He works at a burial ground near the river. According to Inspector of Police (Anakapalle Town), L. Bhaskar Rao, on Saturday evening, Raju and another person M. Paramesh reportedly consumed alcohol and they reportedly had an altercation over some issue. Paramesh allegedly murdered Raju by beating him on his head with a large stone. The incident reportedly occurred between 11 p.m. and 11.30 p.m. Sources said that while Paramesh was fleeing the spot, locals informed the police on Dial 100. The accused was caught by the police and a case was registered. Investigation is on.
10 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Isolated heavy rain likely today||The low pressure area, which formed over north west and adjoining west central Bay of Bengal, off Odisha and north A.P. coast on Sunday, under the influence of upper air cyclonic circulations over northwest Bay of Bengal and neighbourhood, lies over northwest Bay of Bengal off North Odisha and Gangetic West Bengal coast, according to the IMD. According to the IMD, thunderstorm and lightning is likely to occur at isolated places over north and south coastal AP, Rayalaseema an Yanam on Monday. Heavy rain is likely to occur at isolated places over north coastal A.P. and Yanam. Fishermen have been advised not to venture into the sea off coastal AP and Yanam from August 9 to 11.
10 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||New star hotel opens in city||Minister for Tourism M. Srinivasa Rao inaugurated a Star hotel Best Western Plus Tejvivaan on the Station Road in the city. VMRDA Chairman Dronamraju Srinivasa Rao and MP M.V.V. Satyanarayana participated as guests of honour. The hotel was developed under the MoU with the Tourism Department of the State government.
10 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Five-year plan unveiled to develop biovillages in State||Kovel Foundation on Sunday unveiled its five-year plan for development of biovillages across the State. Launching the initiative on virtual mode at a meeting organised on the occasion of World Indigenous Peoples’ Day, T. Vijay Kumar, executive vice chairman, Rythu Sadhikara Samstha (RySS), Government of AP, lauded the efforts being made by Kovel for promoting natural farming in tribal regions.
10 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||ITAAP elects new team||The IT Association of Andhra Pradesh (ITAAP) has elected its new team of office for the State chapter. They are: president - Sreedhar Kosaraju (MD, Nimaisoft), president designate - Lakshmi Mukkavilli (MD, Patra India), secretary - Kiran Sangita (CEO, Sails Solutions), treasurer – Srihari Edara (Director, Quant systems), vice president (Vizag Region) – Sudhakar Pantula (CEO, Prospecta), To address the issues of companies in IT Hills, a new chapter was formed , with Mahesh Babu S (Location Head, Conduent) as chairman and Manohar Dendi (Location Head, Cardlytics) as vice chairman.
10 August 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Super-speciality hospitals a boon for tribals: Dy. CM||Deputy Chief Minister and Minister for Tribal Welfare Pamula Pushpa Srivani on Sunday said that the construction of super-speciality hospitals in seven ITDA headquarters were a boon for tribals as they would now get all medical facilities at their door step. On the occasion of Adivasi Day, the Minister formally inaugurated Girijan Bhavan, constructed at a cost of Rs. 3.5 crore, for the welfare of tribals near Gajularega in Vizianagaram district. Speaking on the occasion, she said that the construction of a medical college in Paderu and an exclusive engineering college for tribals in Kurupam would ensure development of the community in all aspects. Ms. Pushpa Srivani hoped that the distribution of three-lakh house sites for landless poor would help them get legitimate right over their property. Vizianagaram MP Bellana Chandrasekhar, Vizianagaram Collector M. Hari Jawaharlal were among those present in the meeting.
10 August 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Medical kits will be supplied to quarantined persons, says official||With pressure from all quarters, Vizianagaram district administration has decided to supply medical kits to 3,000 persons observing home quarantine. Joint Collector R. Mahesh Kumar said that District Rural Development Agency project director K. Subba Rao’s team will oversee the distribution of the kits. ”The kits comprise all requisite medicines. The patients can use them as per the guidelines issued by the medical and health department,” said Mr. Mahesh Kumar. Meanwhile, the district administration has directed all COVID-19 hospitals to reserve at least 20% of the beds for emergency cases. Vizianagaram District Hospitals Network in-charge G. Nagabhusana Rao said that patients with mild symptoms can be asked to be quarantined at home so that the beds can be used for critical patients.
10 August 2020||August 10 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||District reorganisation G.O. modified partially||The government has issued a G.O. pertaining reorganising the districts in the State, in partial modification of the orders issued on August 8. The G.O. 2101 issued on Saturday said that the number of district will be 25 or 26. The government, in the earlier G.O. 2098, said that it intended to increase the number of districts from 13 to 25. The aim is to bring administration closer to people. On Friday, the government began the process for reorganising the districts. A committee would examine and suggest the broad principles for determining the geographical boundaries and administrative units constituting the proposed districts and the steps would be taken for ensuring that the expenditure (both one-time and recurring) was kept to the minimum. Six-member panel The G.O. 2098 facilities forming a six- member panel to study various aspects involved in restructuring. The panel will be chaired by the Chief Secretary, and have the Chief Commissioner of Land Administration, Secretaries of (GAD Services) and Planning Department, and a representative from the CMO as its members and the Principal Finance Secretary as its convenor. The committee has been instructed to submit the report within three months. Reorganisation of districts was one of the poll promises of the YSRCP. The aim was to turn each Parliamentary constituency into a district by dividing the existing ones ‘that are large in size and have become unwieldy to administer.’
10 August 2020||August 10 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Adding spice||
10 August 2020||August 10 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Seasonal delight||
10 August 2020||August 10 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Livelihood concerns||
10 August 2020||B. Chandrashekhar,TELANGANA||Prior EC not needed for Rayalaseema lift: NGT panel||A committee appointed by the southern zone branch of the National Green Tribunal (NGT) to examine whether the Rayalaseema lift scheme proposed by Andhra Pradesh government requires prior environmental clearance before grounding the project has opined that prima facie it is not applicable in the case of this project. The committee that comprises members nominated from the expert appraisal committee (on river valley projects) of the Ministry of Environment and Forests (MoEF), Prof. Shashidhar of Civil Engineering Department of IIT Hyderabad, Harikesh Meena, Member Secretary of the Krishna River Management Board and T. Mahima, Scientist of the Central Pollution Control Board has, however, recommended that the project proponent shall obtain all applicable clearances and sanction before grounding the scheme. A virtual meeting of the committee was conducted by the MoEF on July 29 also felt that there would be no environmental impacts on the availability of water on other users, the irrigation and drinking water systems that depend on water from Srisailam reservoir, as long as AP is restricted to draw its allocated share of water. “In order to ensure that only allocated water of 3 tmc ft per day is drawn, AP shall install pumps of the capacity capable of pumping only that much of water a day excluding the safety margins”. Explaining the features of the scheme, officials of the Water Resources Department of AP informed the committee four lift schemes are presently operational/proposed from the foreshores of Srisailam reservoir – Kalwakurthy lift and Palamuru-Rangareddy and Dindi lift of Telangana and Malyala lift (Handri-Neeva) and Muchumarri lift (K.C. Canal) of AP. They explained to the committee that Rayalaseema region is dependent on Telugu Ganga Project TGP), Srisailam Right Bank Canal (SRBC) , Galeru-Nagari Sujala Sravanthi (GNSS) and Kurnool-Cuddapah Canal supplementation and all these schemes utilise Krishna water through Pothireddypadu head regulator. Further, the AP officials told the committee that 111 tmc ft of Krsihna water is allocated to Rayalaseema through these projects based on the KWDT-I award and TGP, SRBC and GNSS are granted to draw 86 tmc ft water at 854 feet level of Srisailam reservoir but it can’t be drawn rom Pothireddypadu with gravity as the required water level is available only for a limited period. Accordingly, Rayalaseema lift is proposed to lift water from 800 feet level to ensure allocated water is drawn. The committee was of the view that since the existing schemes were unable to drawn allocated water completely and as there is no change in the quantity of water drawal and suggested the KRMB to examine the scheme (Rayalaseema lift) after submission of the detailed project report on the social impact of drawing water from 800 feet level on the existing projects.
10 August 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Sarpanch held for ‘acting as Maoist courier’||Sodi Chalapathi, 32, sarpanch of Puligundala, a border village in Charla mandal, was arrested by the police on Sunday on the charge of acting as a courier for Maoists and mobilising people and funds for the CPI (Maoist) meetings held recently deep inside jungles in the neighbouring Chhattisgarh. Chalapathi was apprehended by a team of special party police during patrolling at Ricepeta area on the periphery of Charla town late on Saturday evening, police said. He had been allegedly acting as a courier for a top State-level leader of the CPI(Maoist). He allegedly mobilised money by writing threat letters to several contractors and businessmen for funding the Maoist activities and supplied medicines and essential commodities to the ultras, a police press release said. He was earlier arrested on the charge of working as a courier for Maoists, the press release added. The Charla police arrested him under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA).
10 August 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||ITDA Project Officer visits tribal museum||Project Officer of Bhadrachalam Integrated Tribal Development Agency P Gowtham visited the tribal museum in Bhadrachalam on Sunday on the World Adivasi Day. Earlier, Mr Gowtham paid floral tributes at the statue of adivasi leader Kumram Bheem.
10 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Fire safety in focus at State’s hotels-turned-COVID centres||All private hospitals in the State which are using hotels as COVID care centres for isolation of coronavirus patients have been instructed to ensure that all fire safety norms are followed. Vijayawada trigger The instructions were issued by Director of Public Health G. Srinivasa Rao on Sunday when people woke up to the horrifying news of a fire accident at the Vijayawada-based Hotel Swarna Palace, which has been converted into a COVID quarantine centre. The fire claimed at least 10 lives. Apart from the 91 private hospitals across Telangana which are allowed to admit COVID-19 patients, a few other hospitals are utilising hotels as COVID care centres. There are around 36 hotels, including premium ones, that are attached to various hospitals in the State acting as COVID care centres. While moderate to critically-ill COVID patients are admitted at hospitals, those with mild symptoms who don’t want to be isolated at home or government institutions choose the hotels-turned-COVID care centres as per their affordability. During isolation at hotels, the patient’s health condition is monitored, medicines are delivered in the room while dieticians and doctors offer video consultations. People who fly from abroad to Hyderabad are quarantined at some hotels for seven days. Closer home On early hours of Sunday, the fire broke out in the hotel turned quarantine centre in Vijayawada. It was a ghastly reminder of the fire accident at Shine Children’s Hospital at L.B. Nagar here in October 2019, which claimed the life of an infant. Dr Srinivasa Rao on Sunday evening has instructed all hospitals and COVID care centres to follow all fire safety norms. “Any violation of fire safety norms will be viewed seriously,” he said.
10 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Bairamalguda flyover to be inaugurated today||The stage is set for the inauguration of a section of the flyover constructed to ease traffic at Bairamalguda, close to the national highway leading to Andhra Pradesh, on Monday. Industries and IT Minister K.T. Rama Rao will inaugurate the section of the flyover, constructed as part of Package-2 of the Strategic Road Development Programme (SRDP) with an estimated cost of Rs. 26.45 crore. The inauguration ensures completion of six of the 14 works launched as part of the SRDP. Mayor Bonthu Rammohan said that the new flyover formed part of the measures initiated by the GHMC for making the city “a free-flow traffic city”. The government planned construction of several flyovers and under-passes and road widening works, as part of the programme and Mr. K.T. Rama Rao had been constantly monitoring the progress of these works. Accordingly, works on the SRDP projects continued in spite of the coronavirus pandemic. The government has decided to implement works worth Rs. 448 crore as part of the SRDP Package-2 and contracts, valued at Rs. 341 crore, were awarded so far. The flyover would ease flow of traffic coming from Secunderabad to Owaisi junction and also the traffic towards Srisailam.
10 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Action sought against statue vandals||The National BC Welfare Association has demanded the immediate arrest of those who vandalised the statue of BC philosopher Mahatma Jyotiba Phule. The incident took place at Ursu Dargah in Warangal East constituency on Thursday. BC Welfare Association national spokesperson Dasu Suresh and a team of Dalit Bahujans decried the incident and visited the place on Sunday. Dasu Suresh said that the damage to the statue was nothing but attack on backward classes. He demanded that Bahujans, beyond parties, should be prepared to fight against the ongoing attacks on the community. He also wanted the State government to erect a new statue of the icon of BCs. The protest programme held on Sunday was attended by BC leader Thirunahari Sheshu, BJP district OBC Morcha president Kuchana Kranti, Rajaka Reservation Fighting Group state president Chaparthi Kumaraswamy, local BC leaders Adepu Nagesh Cheerabharat, Aitam Nagesh and a large number of MMRPS leaders and Mala Mahasena leaders.
10 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Reject anti-people regimes, Uttam tells people||The 78th anniversary of the Quit India Movement was celebrated at Gandhi Bhavan on Sunday with the TPCC chief N. Uttam Kumar Reddy hoisting the national flag and recalling the historic event that ultimately led to India’s Independence from the British. Congress senior leaders, including CLP leader Mallu Bhatti Vikramarka, former CLP leader K. Jana Reddy, former MP V Hanumantha Rao and Mallu Ravi, TPCC Treasurer Gudur Narayan Reddy, and city Congress president Anjan Kumar Yadav were present. Mr. Reddy exhorted people to get inspiration from the Quit India Movement to reject the tyrannical and anti-people regimes in the country. He said that the teachings of Mahatma Gandhi and the path adopted by him to dethrone the British were highly relevant in the present circumstances. The Quit India Movement, also known as the August Movement, was launched at the Bombay session of the All India Congress Committee by Mahatma Gandhi on August 8, 1942, demanding an end to British rule of India. The movement united the people and played a crucial role in getting freedom for the country from British rule on August 15, 1947. Mr. Reddy took a dig at Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao, saying he shattered the dream of Telangana. “KCR has ruined all the resources of Telangana and pushed the State in debts of over Rs. 3 lakh crore in the last six years. He is silent on Andhra Pradesh stealing 11 tmc ft of water every day from Pothyreddypadu Project. It’s time people took inspiration from Quit India movement and rejected KCR’s policies,” he said.
10 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Call for fair deal to farmers||The launch of the sixth instalment of Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi by Prime Minister Narendra Modi came in for criticism from the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee (AIKSCC) during its nationwide agitation demanding fair deal to farmers on Sunday. The scheme had already gone through five instalments and there was no need for the PM to make a show of the sixth instalment of Rs. 2,000. Ignoring the losses made by farmers and agricultural workers during lockdown and making a show of transferring Rs. 2,000, which they were already entitled to, was a big insult to farmers, the protestors said. Farmers under the banner of AIKSCC staged protests in hundreds of villages of Telangana and Andhra Pradesh on Sunday. The protests were marked by burning of copies of three agricultural ordinances and Electricity Amendment Bill. The ordinances were meant to open doors for domination of Indian agriculture by agri-business corporates While they are framed as if they will give more freedom to farmers, in reality, small and marginal farmers will be dominated by big companies. Hence, the slogan “corporate bhagao, kisan bachao”, a release said. The agriculture infrastructure fund, which Mr. Modi announced on Sunday, was also an eyewash because it did not promise any grants or new budget allocation but a new loan of Rs. 10,000 crore at a time when farmers were demanding “freedom from indebtedness” through a Farmers Debt Relief Commission. Participants included AIKSCC national working group members Kiran Kumar Vissa and Vemulapalli Venkatramaiah and State convenors Pasya Padma, T. Sagar, Achyutha Rama Rao.
10 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Small traders diversify to survive pandemic impact||Diversification into other trades has become the strategy of survival for small and retail businessmen hit hard by the COVID-19 pandemic spread and successive lockdowns. Groceries, food and health products are seen as the safest bets as people are desperately looking for immunity boosters and good nutrition. Masks and gloves, earlier found only in pharmacies, are now seen in all shops irrespective of the business type. A stationery shop on Chaitanyapuri Road in Kothapet, for example, has now been replaced with a sparkling new board, ‘Bhavani Kirana General and Stationery’, post lockdown. “Usually, the months between March and June are hectic for us as students prepare for the new school year. But we incurred heavy losses in the stationery business during the lockdown period, as the schools and colleges were closed, and nobody knew when they would reopen,” related Lalitha, the owner. Even without the pandemic, stationery business was not in its best shape, as school managements sold students even notebooks and pens. They, in turn, booked them online. Plan B While not entirely closing down the stationery business, Lalitha and her husband Mahesh diversified into groceries. Now, daily essentials such as onions, garlic, and tamarind occupy the front portion of the shop, along with paper plates which are in huge demand owing to home isolation protocol of COVID-19 patients. Masks and gloves, apart from face shields, are sold by the dozen every day, they say. These safety gear, in fact, adorn all the shop fronts irrespective of the nature of business. Abdul Aleem, owner of a diminutive store in Natraj Nagar of Erragadda, is dabbling in more than two kinds of trade. He, along with two of his brothers, sold fruits in Erragadda market, before construction of Hyderabad Metro Rail displaced them. “We had to shift our stall elsewhere, and the business has dropped. We then opened a garments store, and started selling jeans, T-shirts and jackets, before lockdown came upon us,” he narrated. With no sales in their store since lockown, the brothers have now begun wholesale trade in eggs which are promoted as possessing great nutritional value in the backdrop of the pandemic. Trays of eggs stacked one on the other can be seen in their store now, relegating the T-shirts and jackets to background. Health drinks and dry fruits are another flourishing business option, with new outlets coming up everywhere. “I had a small mobile repair and accessories shop earlier. I wound it up during lockdown as there was hardly any business. Instead, I began selling dry fruits, bringing them from wholesale market,” Trinadh Reddy, a small trader in Saroornagar, informed.  Usually, March to June are hectic for us as students prepare for the new school year. But we incurred heavy losses in the stationery business during the lockdown. Lalitha, Owner of a stationery shop
10 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Two held for trying to grab govt. land in Banjara Hills||Two persons, who tried to grab 4,865 square yards of government land at Banjara Hills, were arrested by Hyderabad police on Sunday. The accused are identified as Syed Abdul Khalid and A. Ashok Reddy. Based on a complaint lodged by an inspector working with the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB), Central Crime Station (CCS) police registered a case against Syed Abdul Khalid and others. Khalid tried to grab the government land in a prime locality after forging the documents, said Joint Commissioner of Police (Detective Department) Avinash Mohanty. “The investigation revealed that the documents upon which Khalid relied were forged and fabricated. He falsely claimed to be the owner of the government land before the Revenue Department,” he said. He said that another accused, Reddy, posed himself as the legal advisor, and assisted Khalid in the offence. Earlier, Khalid was involved in three other cases in Banjara Hills police station. The duo are also accused in a case at Golconda police station. Khalid was the complainant in an ACB case where a Revenue Inspector was trapped and led to the arrest of a tahsildar and a Sub-Inspector of police.
10 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Hopes of farmers soar for additional aid||When Prime Minister Narendra Modi pressed the button to launch the sixth instalment of Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi by video-conferencing on Sunday, it must have warmed the cockles of the hearts of thousands of farmers in the State who were expecting an additional investment support for agriculture from government. The Central scheme, which became operational on December 1, 2018, has seen a steady addition of farmers in every instalment in the State though the website gave a totally different picture. So, the agriculture department of Telangana has written to the Union Ministry of Agriculture, seeking revision of the format in which the figures of beneficiaries were presented. Actually, the number of farmers had grown in the State from 24.29 lakh to 37.09 lakh in the five instalments from December 1, 2018, to July 31, 2020. But, the website showed the figures for all States in the reverse direction. It displayed that 37.09 lakh farmers benefited in the first instalment, 35.89 lakh in the second, 34. 21 lakh in the third, 31.86 lakh in the fourth and 24.29 lakh in the fifth. A senior agriculture officer told that the figures should be read reverse which in effect meant that thousands of farmers had registered between each instalment and added to the scheme. Their number in the sixth instalment would be known in a couple of days after the latest registrations were approved. The scheme envisaged direct benefit transfer (DBT) of Rs. 2,000 to the accounts of farmers in three equal instalments with a gap of four months each in a year. It became operational with the first instalment from December 1, 2018, to March 31, 2019, though Mr Modi formally launched the same at Gorakhpur in Uttar Pradesh on February 24, 2019. The second instalment corresponded to April 1, 2019 to July 31, 2019, third to August 1, 2019, to November 30, 2019, fourth to December 1, 2019, to March 31, 2020, and fifth to April 1, 2020 to July 31, 2020. The sixth instalment, which Mr. Modi launched on Sunday, pertained to the period from August 1, 2020, to November 30, 2020, to benefit 8.55 crore farmers with an outgo of Rs. 17,100 crore in the next 10 days. The Centre targeted adding up to 14 crore farmers to the exception of government servants, IT payers, elected representatives, pensioners who are drawing more than Rs. 10,000 a month and professionals like doctors and lawyers. The scheme invited limited beneficiaries in Telangana as compared to Rytu Bandhu programme because the former was extended with family as a unit.
10 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||80% private hospitals in GHMC limits lack fire safety system||Around 80% of the 1,500 private hospitals in Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) limits do not follow fire safety regulations, officials of the civic body have said. In October last year, a fire accident broke out at Shine Children’s Hospital in L.B. Nagar here in which an infant died. Eight months have elapsed since the incident, but no action has been taken against any private hospital not complying with fire safety norms. Recalling the accident, officials in GHMC said 80% of the hospitals do not have requisite measures such as fire safety installations and emergency exits. After the incident, District Medical and Health Officers (DMHOs) and officials from GHMC’s Enforcement, Vigilance, and Disaster Management (EVDM) Wing had issued letters and notices to the hospital managements asking for fire no-objection certificate. Besides, the EVDM wing asked for occupancy certificate, trade license and other documents. Though DMHOs informed the hospitals that action will be taken if any lapses are found during inspection, no punitive or further corrective measures were taken. GHMC officials followed up with inspections and discussions till mid January. Officials from the two departments held several rounds of discussions with the managements. Now, officials are in a quandary as all hospitals are of great significance during the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. “We can seal the hospitals. But people will be affected,” GHMC officials said, adding that Shine Children’s Hospital continues to remain closed.
10 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||CS briefs Central team on corona control||Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar has informed the Central government that Telangana has made considerable progress on all parameters for controlling COVID-19 pandemic. The State ramped up testing facilities, hospital infrastructure and availability of oxygen beds apart from monitoring the situation every day with Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao himself keeping a close watch on the situation. Adequate stock of all key consumables had been positioned in the hospitals and 4,000 posts of healthcare professionals had been sanctioned since March to meet the requirement of managing COVID patients. The Chief Secretary briefed a delegation of members of NITI Aayog that visited the State on Sunday to inspect the arrangements being made to tackle COVID-19 in the State. He said home isolation of patients was being observed through telemedicine app. The Health department was being assisted by a team of senior officers for support on key thematic areas of pandemic management. NITI Aayog member Vinod Kumar Paul along with senior officials of the Central government were present.
10 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Lift scheme stalled for political reasons: Revanth||Malkajgiri MP A. Revanth Reddy has alleged that Chief Minister K. Chandrashekar Rao was deliberately ignoring the Narayanpet-Kodangal lift irrigation scheme that was sanctioned in the combined Andhra Pradesh, for which Rs. 133 crore was released. In an open letter to the CM, he said the scheme was aimed at irrigating 1.07 lakh acres. Administrative sanction was given with an estimated cost of Rs. 1,450 crore in 2014 itself. The first instalment of Rs. 133 crore was also released. However, since then the TRS government had totally ignored it for political reasons and the CM should take responsibility if it was not grounded. He said the Ranga Reddy Palamuru project would no way help Narayanpet Kodangal areas and the earlier sanctioned lift scheme should be implemented immediately. Reduction of water lifting by one tmc ft per day in the Ranga Reddy Palamuru project would ensure that water would not come to Narayanpet and Kodangal. The Congress MP also alleged that KCR was indirectly helping the AP government to construct irrigation projects on Krishna river against the interests of Telangana. Demanding the postponement of Apex Council meeting on Krishna river reflected how KCR was helping the AP government, the Congress MP said. Mr. Reddy said the case filed by the Telangana government against Rayalaseema lift irrigation scheme was diluted deliberately so that AP would benefit from it. All key leaders of the YSRCP were doing contracts worth thousands of crores and this only showed some collusion, he claimed. While AP wanted to go ahead with illegal projects, KCR was not interested even in legal projects of Telangana, he said.
10 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||New specialisations in ASCI’s PGDM||Administrative Staff College of India (ASCI)’s two-year full time Post Graduate Diploma in Management (PGDM) programme got two more specialisations in the coming 2020-22 batch to meet industry’s demand. They are Data Analytics and Innovation. The Programme Director and in-charge Director General of ASCI, Prof. Nirmalya Bagchi, said that these new specialisations would help students chart new placement opportunities in a post-COVID-19 world. “A separate high-end computer simulation lab with adequate software has been created to enable the students to work on simulation, Big Data and Artificial Intelligence,” Prof. Bagchi said. The admission for batch 2020-22 is now open and information can be had onwww.ascipgdm.inor 09121011411.
10 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Congress to represent to Centre||The Telangana Congress has decided to represent to the Central government on the “illegal” projects being taken up by the AP government and the rising attacks on dalits in Telangana. The decisions were taken at the Congress Legislature Party meeting here on Sunday. CLP leader Bhatti Vikramarka, TPCC president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy, Congress MPs A. Revanth Reddy and Komatireddy Venkata Reddy, MLAs T. Jagga Reddy, Podem Veeraiah, Seethakka, Komatireddy Rajagopal Reddy and D. Sreedhar Babu and MLC T. Jeevan Reddy attended the meeting. Mr. Vikramarka told reporters that Mr. Uttam Reddy would take appointment with the Ministry of Water Resources He said President of India Ramnath Kovind, the Social Justice Minister and organisations in New Delhi would also be apprised of the attacks on dalits and the government’s silence.
10 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||One-hour stir to demand pending incentives||Outsourced staff of government hospitals staged protest for an hour at major government hospitals in Hyderabad on Sunday morning demanding incentives that had been promised to them. They said that the incentive of 10% of basic salary announced by the State government in April, and daily incentives assured last month, had not been paid to them yet. The outsourced staff work as patient care providers, sanitation workers, security guards and Class-IV employees. They draw salary of Rs. 9,500 per month. In mid-July, around 800 of the staff boycotted duty at Gandhi Hospital, bringing patient care to a halt there. Two days after the protest, senior officials in the Health department held talks with them and promised daily incentive of Rs. 300. TS Medical Contract Employees and Workers Union-Hyderabad City Council president M. Narasimha said the incentives has not been paid to the staff yet.
10 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Donate plasma to save lives, Sajjanar urges COVID heroes||A total of 297 COVID-19 recovered patients donated their plasma and saved the lives of 450 patients till Sunday, said Cyberabad Police Commissioner V.C. Sajjanar. A week after the inception of the portal ‘donateplasma.scsc.in’, Cyberabad police have prepared a database of more than 1,000 donors. “It is not an easy job to match the blood of donors and the recipients. We formed separate teams and are co-ordinating with them to categorise blood groups and help the needy,” he said. Mr. Sajjanar requested COVID- warriors to donate their plasma. “One person’s 500 ml plasma can save two persons,” he said. Cyberabad Police and Society for Cyberabad Security Council, a  joint collaboration between Cyberabad Police Commissionerate and IT industry, are conducting regular blood and plasma donation drives across Hyderabad, Cyberabad and Rachakonda Commissionerates. One can register on ‘https://donateplasma.scsc.in’ or contact Cyberabad COVID control room on 90002-57058 or 94906-17440.
10 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Speed up work on Begumpet graveyard’||Mayor Bonthu Rammohan has instructed GHMC officials to speed up the development and beautification works of Begumpet graveyard. The Mayor along with TRS MLA Madhavaram Krishna Rao and Zonal Commissioner Srinivas Reddy inspected the five acre graveyard, where work is going on with an estimated cost of Rs. 2 crore. It is being developed with all amenities like toilets, parking, internal approach roads, and avenue plantation.
10 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Mahesh Babu||Tollywood superstar Mahesh Babu planted saplings at his residence in Film Nagar, as part of the Green India Challenge, on his birthday. He said that plants and animals have equal right as humans on this earth. He added that cutting forests and concrete jungles coming up would harm the planet and it was the responsibility of all to ensure that green cover increases. Appreciating TRS MP Santosh Kumar for the initiative, he asked his fans to carry forward the challenge, and nominated Jr NTR, Tamil filmstar Vijay and actress Shruthi Hasaan.
10 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Property offender murdered||A property offender was hacked to death at Chaderghat over an old enmity on Saturday night. Police said that Sajid, a resident of Chaderghat, who was earlier involved in several property offences, was sitting near the railway tracks with his friends when a group of unidentified persons approached them. Both the groups picked up an argument, following which Sajid was attacked with surgical blades. He was soon rushed to a private hospital where he was declared brought dead. The body was shifted to Osmania General Hospital for autopsy.
10 August 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||‘Tribal identity under threat in BJP regime’||Adivasi Adhikar Rashtriya Manch (AARM) chairman and former MP Dr. Midiam Babu Rao has called for unified and concerted efforts to safeguard the hard won rights of tribal people, their rich traditions and cultural identity from the “communal onslaught” of “saffronisation.” Addressing a webinar organised by the Telangana Girijana Sangham to mark the World Adivasi Day on Sunday, Mr Babu Rao alleged that the centuries-old glorious cultural heritage of tribal people and their constitutional rights are facing severe attack from the fascist elements under the present BJP dispensation at the Centre. “Attempts are being made to dilute the acts applicable to the Agency areas such as PESA and RoFR to undermine the constitutional rights of tribal people,” he charged, saying such moves should be countered aggressively to protect the tribal rights. He alleged that the move initiated by the Centre to auction 41 coal blocks for commercial mining in predominantly tribal populated States will adversely affect nearly five lakh Adivasis in the form of displacement due to extensive opencast mining and other social, economic and environmental repercussions. “The rights of SCs and STs are under grave threat in the present BJP regime at the Centre and a unified movement is imperative to ensure continuation of the reservation provisions in employment and promotions as per the constitutional safeguards,” he said.  The Telangana Girijana Sangham district general secretary Bukya Veerabhadram and others participated in the online seminar.
10 August 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Identify patients early and treat them: Harish||Finance Minister T. Harish Rao has stressed on early identification and treatment of COVID-19 patients to check the spread of the infectious disease. In a teleconference with District Collector M. Hanumantha Rao, Superintendent of Police S . Chandrasekhar Reddy and medical officials among others on Sunday, Mr. Harish Rao said there should not be any complaint about lack of testing kits as the required number has already been made available. Testing gap He has also warned that action will be taken against those who do not conduct COVID tests at Primary Health Centres (PHC). He said the deaths are taking place due to lack of identification of patients at the early stage. The Minister also found fault with village authorities who are not allowing entry of those with coronavirus symptoms into their respective villages. Urging public representatives to create awareness among villagers about the impact of the novel coronavirus, Mr Harish Rao said that the same kind of treatment offered at corporate hospitals is being extended at government hospitals. He has advised them not to spend money at corporate hospitals. ‘Test primary contacts’ Assuring that it was the responsibility of government to protect doctors and other medical staff, Mr. Harish Rao said that all primary contacts of coronavirus patients should be tested without fail.  There should not be any complaint about lack of testing kits as the required number has already been made available. T. Harish Rao, Finance Minister
10 August 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||BRF||Two boys drowned in a fish tank at a farm house at Zaheerabad on Sunday. According to the police, Harsha Vardhan (12) and Vishal Babu (11) of Bardipur village of Jarasangam mandal went for a swim at the fish tank at Potpally village in the afternoon. As the water level was high, the duo could not swim and drowned. Zaheerabad Rural Sub-Inspector Vinay Kumar said that Harsha Vardhan’s father died of cancer about four years ago, while Vishal Babu’s parents died of ill-health sometime ago. Based on their relatives’ complaint, police registered a case and are investigating.
10 August 2020||August 10 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Media at the receiving end at BRKR Bhavan||Press and the electronic medium have been at the receiving end ever since the government initiated steps to move the Secretariat into the temporary accommodation, BRKR Bhavan. Media, which had had no-barred entry into the Secretariat for decades, started feeling the pinch once the Secretariat was shifted to the temporary accommodation. The government imposed restrictions on the movement of press corps on the new premises and the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic has only compounded the problems of those on the Secretariat beat. Media persons have made several representations to the government at the highest level over the past few months, but to no avail. Vexed with the so-called indifference, a section of the media, the electronic medium in particular, set up a media point of their own in front of the BRKR Bhavan. That the location of this point was abutting the public toilet is a different thing, but it is time the government took a call on the issue sooner than later to ensure dissemination of news for creating awareness among people about the various measures initiated for them. Of course, there will be certain coverage which may go against the government, but then, opening up the Secretariat will help in better percolation of the initiatives to the grassroots level.     There are three Hyderabad-based pharmaceutical companies which are in race for the production of vaccine to treat coronavirus. The city boasts of capacity to produce five billion doses of vaccine every year which is one-third of the total production in world. Moreover, local pharmaceutical companies also produce hydroxychloroquine, which is one of the drugs used in corona treatment. Also, the city has the Central Drugs Testing Laboratory. All this may give Hyderabad a huge lead in production of the magic vaccine. But, the State government believes it is not so easy because the companies will have to get clearances from six Central agencies. So, it has addressed a letter to the Centre to come up with a policy to simplify procedures for granting approvals and clearances to vaccine. A decentralised approach of approvals and tracking should be evolved to facilitate smooth completion of clinical trials and vaccine production.     A senior Indian Police Service (IPS) officer from Telangana, who is now on deputation with the Central Industrial Security Force (CISF), had played a key role in the Kozhikode airport rescue operations. C.V. Anand, IG, Airport Sector South-West, Central Industrial Security Force, had meticulously coordinated the whole rescue operation with the ground staff. The moment he learnt the news of the Air India plane crash, the officer was on ‘high alert’ and constantly guided the security forces and helped them in mobilising all stakeholders, including local police, airport staff and the ambulances. By 9.45 p.m. the officers managed to evacuate 184 passengers and five flight attendants. Later, the NDRF team reached the spot and carried out the extrication of the last four passengers, the last being a woman, who later died in the hospital. During his stint as Commissioner for Civil Supplies, Mr Anand had brought major reforms in the Public Distribution System. Before that, he was Commissioner of Police, Cyberabad.  (M. Rajeev, N. Rahul and Abhinay Deshpande)
10 August 2020||August 10 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Soaked city||
10 August 2020||August 10 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Glimpse into ethnic lives||
10 August 2020||Mumbai,||‘No action taken yet in Krushi Sevak recruitment scam’||This month, an RTI applicant received a letter from the State Agriculture Department seeking his bank details to deposit the compensation amount awarded to him last year with regard to an alleged scam in the 2016 Krushi Sevak recruitment examination. Dr. Vikram Gaikwad, general secretary of the Maharashtra Youth Congress, said, “I filed an application under the Right to Information Act in October 2016, seeking documents related to the investigation into the alleged scam, which was published in newspapers.” The Maharashtra State Council of Examination conducted the Krushi Sevak recruitment examination in 2016 through a private partner, which landed in trouble over allegations of malpractice. The allegations involved — one student passing from two locations; two brothers passing with identical marks; passing of students with similar surnames from neighbouring villages; students in the age group of 20 to 22 clearing the exam from Retired Defence Personnel category; and interestingly, not a single student scoring in the 150-178 bracket in the 200-mark exam. He said the allegations were discussed in the State Assembly in 2016 and the then agriculture secretary had recommended an inquiry by the Criminal Investigation Department. “But the then State government did not follow the recommendation and chose to conduct the probe through officers who were accused of irregularities, who gave themselves a clean chit,” he said. Dr. Gaikwad’s application seeking documents of investigation was denied by the office of the then agriculture commissioner. After being denied information, he filed an appeal, but his application was dismissed. Dr. Gaikwad then filed another appeal in February 2017, which came up for hearing in May 2019. The verdict said, “Instead of providing information, irregularities were covered up. It is a clear case of purposely denying information. The applicant has faced mental, financial and physical problems and therefore the authority concerned must pay a fine of Rs. 25,000.” The delay in the entire process resulted in over 700 candidates, who cleared the questionable examination, joining government duty. State Information Commissioner Sambhaji Sarkunde said during the three-year period, disturbing facts about the scam emerged. The Agriculture Department was also charged with withholding information. Dr. Gaikwad said, “So much time has passed and those who cleared the dubious exam have joined duty. The previous government chose not to act against irregularities despite being alerted. Now, the present government can take the case to the High Court.”  So much time has passed and those who cleared the dubious exam have joined duty Dr. Vikram GaikwadGeneral secretary of the Maharashtra Youth Congress
10 August 2020||Mumbai,||Fadnavis should lead stir against Shivaji statue removal, says Sena||Shiv Sena MP Sanjay Raut on Sunday condemned the removal of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj’s statue in Belagavi district of Karnataka and said all parties should come together to protest against the incident under the leadership of Maharashtra Leader of Opposition and Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leader Devendra Fadnavis. Belagavi has a sizable Marathi-speaking population and has been the subject of a long boundary dispute between the two States. The border dispute is pending before the Supreme Court.  Talking to reporters, Mr. Raut said, “Mr. Fadnavis should be taken into confidence over the issue and we should all unite under his leadership to protest against the action of the Belgaum police.” The Sena-led Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government had on Saturday shot off a letter to Karnataka Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, seeking reinstatement of the statue of the Maratha warrior king. Maharashtra Urban Development Minister Eknath Shinde, who is a close aide of Chief Minister Uddhav, had written the letter to Karnataka government, where the BJP is in power. Mr. Shinde, who is also the minister in-charge for coordination on the Maharashtra-Karnataka border issue, said the statue was removed at Mangutti village. He said the statue had been installed with the permission of the gram panchayat, but the administration removed it deliberately. Sena workers in Maharashtra’s Kolhapur district, which borders Karnataka, held a series of protests over the issue on Saturday.  Meanwhile, BJP leader Ashish Shelar alleged that the local Congress MLA was responsible for the removal of the statue. “We condemn the incident of removal of Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj’s statue. It should be restored with full respect. But will the Sena protest against the local Congress MLA who ordered the removal of the statue?” Mr. Shelar asked.
10 August 2020||Mumbai,||Heavy rain likely in Maharashtra: IMD||Heavy to very heavy rainfall is likely in parts of Maharashtra due to a low pressure area formed over north-west and adjoining west-central Bay of Bengal, the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said on Sunday. “Most places in Maharashtra received rain or thunderstorms on Saturday,” the IMD official said. Heavy rain is likely in the Western Ghat sections of Madhya Maharashtra and the coast starting Sunday. “Heavy rainfall is expected over the Vidarbha region on Monday, while Madhya Maharashtra would receive thunderstorms accompanied with lightning,” the official said. Mumbai and parts of the western coast will witness winds with speeds up to 50 to 60 km per hour.  The southwest monsoon is expected to become active again over Mumbai and other parts of coastal Maharashtra from Monday.
10 August 2020||MUMBAI,||Scientists find 77 new butterfly species in Matheran||After a long gap of 125 years, scientists have found 140 rare species of butterflies, including 77 new ones, in Matheran. The last time butterflies were codified in this eco-sensitive zone was in 1894, when a researcher identified 78 species. ‘Finding the forgotten gems: Revisiting the butterflies of Matheran after 125 years’, a research paper by scientists from the Bombay Natural History Society (BNHS) and Somaiya Vidya Vihar University published in the Biodiversity Data Journal, provides a glimpse of the rare butterflies in the hill station. The paper said, “We observed a strong seasonal variation in butterfly diversity. The maximum diversity (125) of butterflies was recorded during winter, while the least (80) during monsoon. A high similarity of butterfly species composition was observed between the pairs of sites studied, tending towards perfect nestedness.” The paper has listed the species surveyed between 2011 and 2019. “Ours is the first dedicated checklist for the butterflies of Matheran after J.A. Betham (1894). He listed 78 species of butterflies, combining the list of sixty butterflies provided by Smith (1882) and the list of butterflies recorded by him between April and May 1892,” the paper said. Scientists Mandar Sawant, Dr. Nikhil Modak and Sagar Sarang said it took them eight years of fieldwork in the forests of Matheran to come out with the research paper. Mr. Sawant said, “While roaming the forests of Matheran and clicking these flying beauties, we never thought somewhere in future we will be working on this data to give it a form of a research paper.” Dr. Modak was instrumental in the team using biostatistical techniques. The team used a barcode system to denote seasons and the activities of the butterflies. They hope this system will help biologists studying butterflies present such data concisely and effectively.
10 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Two drunk men arrested for locking mosque||Two persons were arrested after they locked a local mosque and prevented the Imam from entering the place of worship in south west Delhi’s Bijwasan village, said a senior police officer on Sunday. Police said that two locals in inebriated state locked the main door of the mosque on Saturday evening and restricted the Imam and others from entering the premises. A local informed the police about the incident. “A police team rushed to the location and two persons, identified as Manjit Khatri and Pramod, were held and taken to Kapashera Police station for further investigation. The lock was removed and the mosque was open to everyone,” said a police officer.
10 August 2020||New Delhi,||ATM thief arrested after encounter||The Delhi Police’s Special Cell on Sunday arrested a 27-year-old man, who was allegedly involved in incidents of ATM uprooting in Delhi and NCR, after a brief exchange of fire in south Delhi’s Nangal Dewat village, officials said. The accused was identified as Arshad Khan, a resident of Alwar district in Rajasthan.
10 August 2020||Panaji,||Record spike of 506 COVID-19 cases in Goa||Goa on Sunday recorded 506 new COVID-19 cases, its highest single-day spike yet, State Health Minister Vishwajit Rane said. “We are discussing the issue with the Chief Minister, who has already announced that Goa will get a second COVID-19 hospital,” Mr. Rane said, adding that patients will be moved to the new facility set up in the sub-district hospital at Ponda in north Goa.  After chairing a meeting with health officials and medical experts, Mr. Rane said seven of the 10 patients undergoing plasma therapy are showing positive signs. He added that the State is not facing any shortage of medicines.
10 August 2020||Pune,||RT-PCR lab to start operations in Satara today: Health Minister||Expressing concern over the alarming spike in COVID-19 cases in Satara and Kolhapur districts in western Maharashtra, State Health Minister Rajesh Tope on Sunday said a RT-PCR (reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction) lab would be started in Satara from Monday. Addressing reporters in Karad, Mr. Tope said the RT-PCR lab would help reduce the load of testing Satara’s samples in Pune and generate results much faster. “There is an urgent need to increase testing in both Satara and Kolhapur given the drastic surge in new cases. It takes two to three days for the sample results to come in to these two districts. This must change and all results must come within 24 hours of testing a potential case. Once the lab in Satara becomes operational, the pace of detection and sample testing results will quicken as well,” he said. Review meeting Earlier in the day, Mr. Tope, along with Nationalist Congress Party president Sharad Pawar, took stock of the worsening COVID-19 situation in Satara and Kolhapur at a review meeting, which was attended by Guardian Ministers, elected representatives and senior officials from the two districts. Mr. Tope said early identification of symptoms would help reduce the case fatality rate and directed officials and medical authorities to test at least 15 contacts of a positive case to break the chain of transmission. The Health Minister also warned private hospitals in the two districts of stern action if they refuse to treat suspected COVID-19 patients. He said, “There have been numerous complaints from people in these districts of private hospitals not admitting people with COVID-19-like symptoms or refusing to treat them. This is very wrong. The district administration has full authority to investigate such cases and book errant hospital staff.”  Threat of strict action Mr. Tope said 45 hospitals in Kolhapur and 27 in Satara are covered under the Mahatma Jyotiba Phule Jan Arogya Yojana — the State government’s flagship health insurance scheme — to provide free treatment to COVID-19 patients. He said these hospitals will face strict action if they are found charging patients. Satara has been reporting an average surge of 200 cases a day for the past three weeks. In contrast, throughout June, the average single-day rise was less than 60. The surge was lower in May, with the district reporting only 10 cases a day. The district now has over 2,700 active cases and has recorded more than 170 deaths. Kolhapur’s surge has been even more worrying: from an average 20 cases a day in the beginning of July, the district has since been reporting 500 new cases every day for the last fortnight. The district now has more than 5,600 active cases, while its death toll has gone past 250. The Health Minister also said the State government would soon be procuring 500 ambulances and allotting them to hospitals in the State’s rural areas. The Maha Vikas Aghadi government last month belatedly realised the dire scarcity of ambulances in the State’s rural hospitals and had released Rs. 90 crore to purchase them. 10-day lockdown in Beed Five important towns in Beed district in Marathwada, including Beed city, Parli and Ambejogai, have decided to observe a rigid 10-day lockdown from August 12 in view of the rising cases in the district. During this period, only milk supply will be allowed and shops selling essentials will be permitted to remain open, according to district authorities.  There is an urgent need to increase testing in both Satara and Kolhapur given the drastic surge in new cases Rajesh Tope State Health Minister
10 August 2020||Pune,||One killed, 7 injured in LPG cylinder blast, wall collapse||One person was killed and seven others were injured when an LPG cylinder exploded in a flat and led to the collapse of a common wall separating two apartments in Pimpri-Chinchwad on Sunday, the police said. The blast took place in the flat belonging to Surwade family at a housing society in Dighi area, but a person from Temkar family, residing in the adjoining apartment, died after the wall separating the two houses collapsed due to the impact of the blast. Police suspect the gas was leaking from the cylinder overnight. “The explosion took place at 7.30 a.m. on Sunday, when Archana Surwade turned on an electric switch in her house. The explosion was so powerful that the common wall between the flats of Surwades and Temkars collapsed,” said senior police inspector Vivek Lawand of Dighi police station. When the wall collapsed, Dnyaneshwar Temkar got trapped under the debris and died on the spot. His eight-year-old daughter also sustained injuries. Ms. Surwade was seriously injured and suffered around 80% burns. Five other members of her family also sustained injuries, Mr. Lawand said. “Prima facie, it seems the liquefied petroleum gas leaked from the cylinder and caused an explosion the moment the electric switch was turned on,” he said.   The explosion was so powerful that the common wall between the flats collapsed Vivek Lawand Senior police inspector
10 August 2020||Kabul,||Loya jirga approves prisoner release||The Afghan government and the Taliban are “on the verge of peace talks” after thousands of prominent Afghans approved the release of about 400 contentious militant prisoners, the head of Kabul’s peace council said on Sunday. The prisoners’ fate has been a crucial hurdle in launching peace talks between the two warring sides, which had committed to completing a prisoner exchange before negotiations can start. Three-day meeting The resolution was passed at the end of a three-day “loya jirga” — a traditional Afghan meeting of tribal elders sometimes held to decide on controversial issues. “In order to remove the hurdles for the start of peace talks, stopping bloodshed, and for the good of the public, the jirga approves the release of 400 prisoners as demanded by the Taliban,” jirga member Atefa Tayeb announced. According to an official list seen by AFP, many of the inmates are accused of serious offences, including many involved in attacks that killed scores of Afghans and foreigners, with more than 150 of them on death row. The jirga urged the government to give assurances to the population that the released prisoners would be monitored and would not be allowed to return to the battlefield, adding that foreign fighters should be sent back to their respective countries. It also demanded a “serious, immediate and lasting ceasefire” in the country. “The decision of the loya jirga has removed the last excuse and obstacles on the way to peace talks. We are on the verge of peace talks,” said Abdullah Abdullah, who is leading the government’s peace process and was appointed head of the loya jirga. Afghan President Ashraf Ghani said he would sign a decree to release the prisoners on Sunday. “The Taliban should now demonstrate that they are not afraid of a nationwide ceasefire,” he said. The Afghan government has released almost 5,000 Taliban inmates, but authorities had baulked at freeing the final prisoners demanded by the Taliban. High-profile attacks The prisoners include 44 insurgents of particular concern to the United States and other countries for their role in “high-profile” attacks. Five are linked to the 2018 attack on the Intercontinental Hotel in Kabul that killed 40 people, including 14 foreigners. A Taliban militant involved in the massive May 2017 truck bombing near the German embassy in Kabul is also on the list. The family of French aid worker Bettina Goislard who was murdered in Afghanistan in 2003 said they would not accept the release of her killers, who are on the list. The decision has raised hopes for talks, however. “Based on the information I have, the intra-Afghan talks would begin within two to three days after the release of the 400 Taliban prisoners,” former President Hamid Karzai told the jirga.
10 August 2020||Rio de Janeiro,||Brazil’s COVID-19 death toll crosses one lakh mark||Brazil on Saturday surpassed 1,00,000 COVID-19 deaths and three million cases of infection, crossing the grim milestone after President Jair Bolsonaro said he had a “clear conscience” on his response to the outbreak. With 1,00,477 fatalities and 30,12,412 confirmed cases, the South American nation of 212 million people is the second hardest-hit country in the global pandemic, after the United States. The Health Ministry reported 905 new deaths in the past 24 hours, as well as 49,970 fresh cases. But the official figures are most likely an undercount, with experts estimating that the total number of infections could be up to six times higher due to insufficient testing. Brazil has seen 478 deaths per million people, a figure roughly equivalent to that of the United States (487), but lower than that of Spain (609) or Italy (583). 4 days of mourning Senate speaker Davi Alcolumbre announced four days of mourning in Congress to pay tribute to the country’s 1,00,000-plus virus victims. The COVID-19 outbreak in Brazil is showing no sign of slowing as it enters its sixth month. The country’s first confirmed COVID-19 case was identified in Sao Paulo on February 26, with the first death on March 12, also in the city. Brazil marked 50,000 deaths a hundred days later, but then doubled that total in just half the time. Infections have accelerated in recent weeks in the countryside as well as inland regions and areas where the virus was late in arriving, particularly the country’s south and center-west. In southeastern States such as Sao Paulo and Rio de Janeiro, hardest-hit by the virus in absolute numbers, the situation has stabilised, while the virus’s presence has declined in northern regions after reaching catastrophic levels in April and May. At Copacabana beach in Rio, activists from the NGO Rio de Paz released 1,000 red balloons on Saturday while standing between 100 black crosses stuck in the sand, in a tribute to the victims. Former President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva on Twitter denounced “the arrogance of a President who has chosen to describe this cruel virus as a little flu, defying science and even death, and who bears in his soul the responsibility for all the lives lost.”
10 August 2020||Colombo,||Mahinda Rajapaksa sworn in as Sri Lankan PM||Former President Mahinda Rajapaksa on Sunday took the oath of office as Prime Minister of Sri Lanka, following the ruling party’s landslide victory in the August 5 general election. Mr. Rajapaksa, 74, polled a record-breaking share of preferential votes — over five lakh — this election, reflecting his popularity in the electorate 50 years after he first entered Parliament. The swearing in ceremony was held at the Kelaniya Raja Maha Vihara, at a revered Buddhist temple near Colombo, where his younger brother and President Gotabaya Rajapaksa administered the oath, after he bowed and took Mr. Mahinda Rajapaksa’s blessings. The emphatic two-thirds majority to the ruling party in the recent poll, after Mr. Gotabaya Rajapaksa’s big win in November, allows the Rajapaksa brothers to amend the Constitution. As part of their poll campaign, the brothers vowed to repeal a 2015 legislation capping presidency at two-terms and trimming the President’s executive powers. The ninth Parliament of Sri Lanka will not only see the siblings helm the country’s two most powerful offices, but will have among its members, their third and elder brother Chamal Rajapaksa, a former Speaker, his son Shasheendra Rajapaksa and Namal Rajapaksa, son of Mr. Mahinda Rajapaksa and a popular former MP from the southern Hambantota district. The Tamil question Both the President and Prime Minister have underscored the need for greater development in the country’s civil war-affected areas, while the Tamil leadership is also concerned about the minority’s long-pending demand for greater political rights. In the decade following the long civil war, Sri Lanka’s northern Tamils have been demanding a lasting political solution, with a greater measure of power to self-govern. R. Sampanthan, Leader of the Tamil National Alliance (TNA) — which suffered an electoral setback and secured only 10 of its 16 seats this election — said the people of the country had given the government a strong mandate. “It has the authority and power to do all that is necessary for the people. As far as we are concerned, we will extend to the government our fullest cooperation to everything done in national interest and in the interest of solving the country’s problems,” he told The Hindu. Much work has been done in the past, including the Indo-Lanka Accord of 1987 and the consequent 13th Amendment that speaks of power devolution, Mr. Sampanthan said. Discussions on improving the 13th Amendment continued with Presidents R. Premadasa, Chandrika Bandaranaike Kumaratunga, Mahinda Rajapaksa in the past, and with the former government of Maithripala Sirisena-Ranil Wickremesinghe. The new government, he said, must “evolve a formula without delay” for the resolution of the lingering national question. “I believe it will be part and parcel of the new Constitution being contemplated,” he told The Hindu. The inaugural session of the new Parliament is scheduled for August 20.
10 August 2020||Taipei,||U.S. Health Secretary visits Taiwan, angering China||A senior member of U.S. President Donald Trump’s administration landed in Taiwan on Sunday for Washington’s highest level visit since switching diplomatic recognition to China in 1979, a trip Beijing has condemned. During the three-day visit, Health Secretary Alex Azar will meet President Tsai Ing-wen, who advocates Taiwan being recognised as a sovereign nation and is loathed by China’s leaders. Ms. Tsai’s office said the meeting would take place on Monday morning. Mr. Azar is the most senior U.S. Cabinet member to visit Taiwan in decades and his visit comes as relations between the world’s two biggest economic powers plunge to historic lows. Lessons on fighting virus Washington has billed the Taiwan trip as an opportunity to learn from the island’s fight against the COVID-19 and to celebrate its progressive values. “This trip is a recognition of Taiwan’s success in combating COVID-19 and a testament to the shared beliefs that open and democratic societies are best equipped to combating disease threats like COVID-19,” a health and human services department official told reporters ahead of the visit. But Beijing balks at any recognition of self-ruled Taiwan, which it claims as its own territory and vows to one day seize, by force if necessary. It has described Mr. Azar’s visit as a threat to “peace and stability”, while China’s Defence Minister warned against Washington making any “dangerous moves”. As well as meeting Ms. Tsai, Mr. Azar will hold talks with his counterpart Chen Shih-chung and Foreign Minister Joseph Wu. He will also meet COVID-19 experts and give a speech to public health students as well as alumni of a training programme with the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Taiwan has become a poster child for defeating the COVID-19 thanks to a well-honed track and tracing programme as well as firm border controls. Despite its proximity and economic links to China it has recorded fewer than 500 infections and seven deaths. Under Mr. Trump, relations with Taiwan have warmed dramatically and he has approved a number of major military sales, including F-16 fighter jets.
10 August 2020||Bedminster,||Trump signs order extending virus relief||U.S. President Donald Trump on Saturday signed executive actions extending financial relief to Americans hit by the COVID-19 pandemic as polls showed a large majority of voters unhappy with his handling of the crisis. The four measures marked a presidential show of strength after Mr. Trump’s Republican Party and White House team failed to agree with Opposition Democrats in Congress on a new stimulus package aimed at stopping vulnerable Americans from falling through the cracks. Many Americans had been relying on relief measures approved earlier by Congress, but which mostly expired in July. Mr. Trump’s measures are likely to face court challenges because Congress controls federal spending, and in any case they may add up to less money than initially appears. One key Trump order promises to get $400 a week added to Americans’ unemployment benefits, while two others offer some protection from evictions and relief for student loans. The $400 assistance is below the $600 offered in the expired stimulus package. It may also end up amounting only to $300 extra a week, because Mr. Trump said $100 would be provided from State budgets — and only if States were able to do so. A fourth measure ordered a freeze in payroll taxes. This makes a big headline for Mr. Trump but is only a deferral, rather than a cut in the tax.
10 August 2020||Wellington,||Wellington, Aug 9, 2020 (AFP) -||New Zealand marked 100 days on Sunday with no recorded cases of the virus in the community but health officials warned there was no room for complacency. There are still 23 active cases but all were detected at the border when entering the country and are being held in isolation facilities.AFP
10 August 2020||Seoul,||Seoul, Aug 9, 2020 (AFP) -||Landslides and flooding triggered by days of heavy rain in South Korea have left at least 30 people dead and 12 missing, officials said on Sunday, warning of more downpours. Torrential rain has wreaked havoc across the country since the beginning of the month, but nearly half of the deaths occurred in the past three days, according to the Interior Ministry.AFP
10 August 2020||Seoul,||Seoul, Aug 9, 2020 (AFP) -||North Korean leader Kim Jong-un has ordered the distribution of aid to the border city of Kaesong after the area was locked down last month to fight the COVID-19, state media said Sunday. A train carrying goods arrived in the “totally blocked” city of Kaesong on Friday, the official KCNA news agency reported.AFP
10 August 2020||August 10 2020 00:00 IST,||A new direction for India-U.S. ties||The United States under the leadership of President Franklin D. Roosevelt during the early 1940s once pressed Britain’s Prime Minister Winston Churchill to free India and co-opt India as a formal ally in World War II. But Britain firmly and obstinately refused to agree despite the writing on the wall — that Indians had stood up and would achieve freedom sooner rather than later. India stabilised after a bloody Partition in 1947, declared its commitment to democracy, fundamental rights, free press and non-violence in a written Constitution which came into force on January 26, 1950. The UN and China India thus appeared to the U.S. as worthy of replacing China in the most important body of the United Nations, namely the Security Council, as a Permanent Member with a Veto in view of the Communist overthrow of the Chiang Kai-shek-led government. According to a recent study by Dr. Anton Harder, “Not at the Cost of China: New Evidence Regarding US Proposals to Nehru for Joining the United Nations Security Council” Working Paper #76”, Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars. Washington, DC, USA, March 2015” (https://bit.ly/3fOXY0N), the author states that the U.S.’s offer for India to join the UN Security Council was conveyed by India’s Ambassador to the U.S. then, viz ., Ms. Vijaya Lakshmi Pandit, Jawaharlal Nehru’s sister. In late August 1950, Mrs. Pandit wrote to her brother from Washington DC that: “One matter... in the State Department should be known to you. This is the unseating of China as a Permanent Member in the Security Council and of India being put in her place.” “Nehru’s response to his sister within the week was unequivocal: ‘In your letter you mention that the State Department is trying to unseat China as a Permanent Member of the Security Council and to put India in her place. ‘So far as we are concerned, we are not going to countenance it. That would be bad from every point of view. It would be a clear affront to China and it would mean some kind of a break between us and China. ‘We shall go on pressing for China’s admission in the UN and the Security Council. India because of many factors, is certainly entitled to a permanent seat in the security council. But we are not going to at the cost of China’.” Nehru not only declined the U.S. offer to India to become a UNSC Permanent Member with Veto but instead campaigned for China to take up that seat. The U.S. however resisted that campaign till 1972, when in a turnaround the U.S. supported Communist People’s Republic of China and entered into “strategic partnership” in the 1970s onwards with the reform-minded new leadership of Deng Xiaoping. Subsequently what China did to Nehru for this generosity at India’s expense is history from which we must learn. No use is served by crying about China’s betrayal or perfidy. The shift to Pakistan In 1953 after India’s tilt to the Soviet Union and China in the Korean war, the U.S. turned to Pakistan as a possible counterweight in South Asia against the Soviet Union and China. The U.S. made Pakistan a member of the Southeast Asia Treaty Organization (SEATO) and the Central Treaty Organization (CENTO), and liberally gave aid and armaments. Pakistan which was no match in military, economic development, and ancient and continuous culture that ensured democracy, began to dream of equality with India in the international domain. As a consequence, India had to go to war with Pakistan in 1965, 1971 and 1999, losing precious lives defending our own territory. The U.S. even sent a Seventh Fleet Task Force with nuclear weapons on board to threaten us on the dismemberment of Pakistan. The rest is history. We have to learn from our past mistakes. Today there is a new opportunity with the U.S. but it is not on a clean slate. America’s November poll The success of our new bonding with the U.S. will first depend on the outcome of the U.S. Presidential elections this November. The Democratic party rival and Presidential candidate, Joe Biden, has already taken a hostile stand against our government, with the Left wing and liberals in the U.S. highly critical of the Narendra Modi government, such as rubbishing the Citizenship (Amendment) Act passed by India’s Parliament with a two-thirds majority. In inner U.S. circles our purchase from Russia of the S-400 air defence missile system and the refusal to agree to America’s request to send Indian troops to Afghanistan have mostly browned off U.S. officials. U.S. policy makers know Indians love atmospherics and melas , but not substantive issues which concern the U.S. Therefore, we need to build trust with the U.S. that we will give to the U.S. as good as it gives us, and not give us lectures instead. The U.S. will then respond more than what we concede. In 1991 when then Prime Minister Chandra Shekhar told me to find out if we can get a policy-conditions free loan at a concessional interest rate from the International Monetary Fund (IMF), I told him that the IMF would never agree, but since a large size of the voting power in the IMF was directly or indirectly controlled by the U.S., we should placate the U.S. Thereafter, Prime Minister Chandra Shekhar spoke to the U.S. that India would agree to a pending American request with the Prime Minister’s Office for permission to refuel their air force planes flying from the Philippines to Saudi Arabia for the first Gulf War when Iraq occupied Kuwait. I thereafter told the U.S. Ambassador in New Delhi about this but I said it was conditional on getting $2 billion (1991 prices). Over the weekend that loan arrived and India was saved from a default. In synchrony Today, thus, the new or fresh paradigm should be on how to structure India-U.S. understanding and which is in sync with common India-U.S. perspectives. For this structuring we must: first realise that India-U.S. relations require give and take on both sides. What India needs to take today is for dealing with the Ladakh confrontation on our side of the Line of Actual Control by China. Obviously, India needs U.S. hardware military equipment. India does not need U.S. troops to fight our battles against China on our border. Third, the U.S. needs India to fight her enemies in the neighbourhood such as in Afghanistan. It is my view that India should send two divisions gradually to Afghanistan and relieve U.S. troops to go home. India needs the support of the U.S. and its ally, Israel, in cyberwarfare, satellite mappings of China and Pakistan, intercepts of electronic communication, hard intelligence on terrorists, and controlling the military and the Inter-Services Intelligence in Pakistan. India needs the U.S. to completely develop the Andaman & Nicobar, and also the Lakshadweep Islands as a naval and air force base, which the U.S. can share along with its allies such as Indonesia and Japan. India must be firm in two areas which are not amenable to give and take. One is that economic relations must be based on macroeconomic commercial principles. Free, indiscriminate flow of U.S. foreign direct investment (FDI) is not in India’s national interest.  Look at technologies Thus, India needs technologies such as thorium utilisation, desalination of sea water, and hydrogen fuel cells, but not Walmart and U.S. universities to start campuses in India, as proposed in the new National Education Policy draft.  Eighth, the U.S. must allow India’s exports of agricultural products including Bos indicus milk, which are of highly competitive prices in the world.  FDI should be allowed into India selectively from abroad, including from the U.S., based on the economic theory of comparative advantage and not on subsidies and gratis.  Tenth, tariffs of both India and the U.S. should be lowered, and the Indian rupee should be gradually revalued to Rs. 35 to a dollar. Later, with the economy picking up, the rupee rate should go below 10 to the dollar.  The other firm constraint is that India should not provide the U.S. with our troops to enter Tibet, or be involved in the Hong Kong and Taiwan issues because there is always a possibility of a leadership change in China, as what happened when Deng Xiaoping replaced Mao Zedong’s nominees in 1980. Thus, China’s policy changed very favourably towards India. In the cases of Tibet, Taiwan, and Hong Kong, we have made explicit agreements. In the case of Tibet, two formal treaties were signed by Nehru (1954) and A.B. Vajpayee (2003). In the last point, in the long run, India, the U.S., and China should form a trilateral commitment for world peace provided Chinese current international policies undergo a healthy change. Dr. Subramanian Swamy is an economist from Harvard and a Rajya Sabha MP, now on his sixth term
10 August 2020||August 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Bringing nuclear risks back into popular imagination||‘Little Boy’ was dropped on Hiroshima on August 6, 1945 at 0815 hours. This was followed three days later by the dropping of ‘Fat Man’ on Nagasaki, at 1101 hours. The two nuclear bombs vaporised around 150,000 people who were going about their morning business; 130,000 others succumbed to burns, radiation sickness, and other ailments that the collapsed health system could not treat. Few, then, understood why their skin erupted wounds that would not heal, hair fell off in clumps, and stomach churned with pain and nausea. Several hibakusha , or survivors of the atomic bombings, have recounted how an ordinary day turned into one where they wished they too had died in that instant flash. Buried under The purpose of recalling these horrors from 75 years ago is to ensure that nuclear armed states do not forget the real nature of nuclear weapons. Human memory is short and often preoccupied with the immediate. Currently, the socio-economic-health emergency posed by COVID-19 and the growing geopolitical tensions between major powers owing to their abrasive behaviour seem to be consuming us all. But nuclear risks are lurking just below the surface, and they are growing. Dangers of unintended use Among the risks of nuclear use, the highest likelihood is that of inadvertent escalation due to miscalculation or misperceptions. It is less likely that adversaries will launch pre-meditated, deliberate nuclear attacks because each understands that a splendid first strike is impossible and that nuclear retaliation cannot be escaped. Of course, the severity of the damage would depend on the number and yield of weapons used. But studies indicate that use of even a fraction of the weapons held in medium-sized arsenals would cause a massive human tragedy and have long-term repercussions for food and water availability, agricultural output, climate change, migration, etc. Possibilities of unintended use are exacerbated by many factors: stressed inter-state relations, unchecked strategic modernisation as arms control arrangements wither and nations hedge against each other; adoption of nuclear postures that peddle the benefits of ‘limited’ nuclear war; and emergent technologies creating new anxieties. Advancing capabilities of cyberattacks on nuclear command and control, blurring lines between conventional and nuclear delivery, induction of hypersonic missiles capable of high speed and manoeuvrability, incorporation of artificial intelligence in nuclear decision making are new developments that threaten to create unknown risks. As capabilities grow and inter-state trust diminishes, chances of stumbling into nuclear war are not insignificant. The Cold War and after However, these risks are not part of our collective popular imagination today. During the Cold War, citizens of affected nations were made to undergo regular nuclear drills. As sirens blared, everyone had to rush to bunkers created in homes, schools, hospitals, etc. There were guidelines on what to equip these nuclear shelters with so as to be able to sustain lives in case mushroom clouds went up. Several works such as novels, movies and TV documentaries depicted life “the day after”. These graphic depictions kept nuclear weapons and their highly destructive nature alive in the consciousness of the people. Public pressure translated into civil society movements that demanded action from political leaders to engage with the subject of risk reduction through unilateral, bilateral or multilateral measures. The end of the Cold War pretty much brought down the curtains on nuclear weapons for the common man. The perceived sense of danger of nuclear war receded and nuclear strategies went back to being dictated and driven primarily by security conclaves. Over the years, technological advancements and growing hyper-nationalist tendencies have shaped strategic discourse in a manner that is largely devoid of popular participation. But, this connect is important to temper national choices and create the much needed checks and balances. General awareness of the horrors accompanying nuclear weapons, therefore, needs to be revived since a high level of public apathy and political complacency have brought us to the threshold where the risks remain high but the desire to address them is low. In fact, one does not see a shared desire for nuclear risk reduction among nuclear armed states. Drunk on their faith in deterrence, there is a tendency to use strategies of nuclear brinkmanship and ambiguity that actually add to the risks. There is also a display of confidence in being able to manage and control risks. However, umpteen war games have shown that it is impossible to calculatedly climb the escalation ladder. Any nuclear use between nuclear adversaries would cause a humanitarian disaster. A media campaign In order to get nations to understand this, it is necessary to expose leaders and societies to the full range of physical, economic, social, political, health, environmental, and psychological effects of nuclear weapons. This could be most effectively done through use of popular media. Just as the fight against COVID-19 is being won through global high intensity information dissemination about various facets of this highly contagious disease, a similar information campaign about the destructive potential of nuclear weapons is needed. This will help on three counts: compel leaders to rationalise their weapon requirements; force nations to find ways of reducing nuclear risks; and gradually pave the path towards elimination of nuclear weapons. Recalling the horrors of Hiroshima and Nagasaki through events all year round on its 75th anniversary is an opportunity to bring nuclear risks back into popular imagination and into the political agenda. Creative media can help by tapping available modern means of mass communication to create stories with identifiable characters and situations that tug at the heart and instil a larger respect for humanity. Manpreet Sethi is Distinguished Fellow, Centre for Air Power Studies, New Delhi
10 August 2020||August 10 2020 00:00 IST,||COVID-19 deaths may be higher than reported||As on July 31, India had the third highest burden of COVID-19 globally (based on total reported cases). According to the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare (MoHFW), there were 35,747 reported COVID-19 deaths and 5,45,048 active cases. India had 26 COVID-19 deaths per million population. This has been cited to substantiate the low mortality in the country. As per Indian Council of Medical Research guidelines, if it is medically certified that the underlying cause of death is suspected or confirmed COVID-19, then that death should be recorded and reported as a COVID-19 death. The States update the number of COVID-19 deaths to the MoHFW based on the updates received from cities and districts. The reported COVID-19 deaths have to be updated in the medical certification of cause of death (MCCD) web portal. Updates from States and the MoHFW are our immediate source of COVID-19 deaths. The same should also be available at the end of the year when the MCCD reports are collated. The latest MCCD report is available for 2017.  Death registration and MCCD Do the reported COVID-19 deaths reflect the true picture? Before we get into this, we need to understand the prevailing coverage of death registration and MCCD in India. According to the latest vital statistics of India based on the Civil Registration System (CRS, 2018), 86% of the total deaths were registered of which 22% had a medically certified cause of death (MCCD report, 2017). This means 18.9% (0.86*0.22) of the total deaths were medically certified with a cause of death. The key reason for this is that only 34% received institutional medical attention at the time of death (CRS, 2018). Another reason is that not all hospitals (including public and private hospitals in rural and urban areas) have been brought under the coverage of MCCD. Errors, missing details or issues in the quality of MCCD have also been reported. This proportion of total deaths that are medically certified with a cause of death varies from State to State. It is less than 10% in Nagaland (1.5%), Bihar (2.4%), Jharkhand (2.6%), Uttarakhand (5%), Uttar Pradesh (5%) and Madhya Pradesh (7.4%); more than 60% in Delhi (60.7%) and Puducherry (63.7%); and 100% in Goa. The COVID-19 deaths compiled by States predominantly include deaths occurring in COVID-19-designated facilities among reported COVID-19 cases. Hence, suspected COVID-19 deaths occurring at home or during transit or in non-COVID hospitals may not be reported. Outside designated COVID-19 facilities, there could be many instances of suspected COVID-19 being the cause of death (testing not done or results not available); this may not be captured. This is possible in the context of a prevailing systemic under-registration of deaths and the poor coverage of MCCD. This may be more pronounced in rural and semi-urban areas where there is poor access to health facilities and/or qualified medical doctors. Hence, we need to adjust for the prevailing under-registration of deaths and poor coverage of MCCD to arrive at the correct estimate of COVID-19 deaths. Estimated COVID-19 deaths To adjust for the prevailing under-registration of deaths and poor coverage of MCCD, we multiplied the reported COVID-19 deaths by a multiplication factor. It was 5.29 for India and calculated as the inverse of 18.9% (the coverage of MCCD among total deaths based on the 2018 CRS and 2017 MCCD reports). This gave a total of 1,88,938 estimated COVID-19 deaths taking the deaths per million population to 138. This is in contrast to the widely prevailing notion that deaths are very low in India. This estimated COVID-19 deaths per million population is higher than Russia (96 per million, 100% MCCD of total deaths), similar to South Africa (137 per million, 92% MCCD) and lower than the U.S. (477 per million, 100% MCCD), Brazil (440 per million, 99% MCCD), Mexico (362 per million, 100% MCCD), Peru (588 per million, 57% MCCD), Chile (498 per million, 95% MCCD), Spain (608 per million, 95% MCCD) and Iran (202 per million, 90% MCCD). Most of the above countries (but for Peru) have a high MCCD coverage. Hence, we do not need to adjust the reported COVID-19 deaths of these countries. Within India, we calculated State-wise estimated COVID-19 deaths by multiplying the reported COVID-19 deaths with the multiplication factor for the respective State. The top 10 States based on estimated COVID-19 deaths (ranging from 347 per million population to 114) in decreasing order are Delhi, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Andhra Pradesh, Nagaland, Madhya Pradesh, Uttarakhand, West Bengal, U.P. and Tamil Nadu. If we go by reported COVID-19 deaths, then Nagaland, Madhya Pradesh, Uttarakhand, West Bengal and Uttar Pradesh do not find a mention in the top 10. Madhya Pradesh, West Bengal, U.P., Bihar and Jharkhand constitute 43% of the national population. These States with <12% MCCD coverage and less than 10,000 COVID-19 tests per million population contribute to 38% of the total estimated COVID-19 deaths. If we go by reported COVID-19 deaths, then these States contribute to a mere 12% of total reported COVID-19 deaths. This clearly shows the extent to which cases and deaths could be missed. COVID-19 deaths per million population is a straightforward metric but this entirely depends on the timing of the epidemic in the given geographic region. The deaths per million increase as the epidemic progresses. Therefore, inter-country or inter-State comparisons have to be made and interpreted considering the stage of the epidemic. In India, many media reports have highlighted that when suspected COVID-19 was the cause of death (testing not done or results not available), it was erroneously not reported as COVID-19 death. Hence, even among the registered deaths, the COVID-19 deaths appear to be under-reported. Therefore, the estimated COVID-19 deaths calculated by us, despite the adjustment, are an underestimate. Considering adjustments We call upon the MoHFW to consider the adjustments suggested before arriving at the COVID-19 deaths and before making inter-State and inter-country comparisons. The States with a relatively high estimated COVID-19 death per million population and low testing need to be focused upon. These are also the States that have poor healthcare infrastructure. Additionally, this is an opportunity to improve MCCD. Reporting of deaths with suspected COVID-19 as the cause needs to be encouraged and ensured from COVID-19 facilities, non-COVID-19 facilities and homes. The current COVID-19 reporting mechanism is very different from the MCCD reporting. Therefore, we request that it is ensured that the reported COVID-19 deaths are promptly captured in the MCCD web portal. Also, for triangulation of data, we urge the MoHFW to release monthly or quarterly bulletins of national and State-wise deaths reported under CRS and MCCD. Data under CRS will enable us to compare the deaths registered before and during the epidemic and help understand how close are the reported and estimated COVID-19 deaths to the true picture. We also recommend the MoHFW to monitor the proportion of COVID-19 deaths coded with ‘suspected COVID-19’ as the cause of death. Hemant Deepak Shewade and Giridara Gopal Parameswaran are community physicians by training. Hemant works for an international NGO and is based in Bengaluru. Giridara works at the All India Institute of Medical Science, Delhi. This piece along with graphs can be accessed online at www.thehindu.com
10 August 2020||August 10 2020 00:00 IST,||The elusive search for truth||Some readers wondered whether my reading of the crisis in the news media is about journalism or about the news industry. Though the fortunes of the news industry have a bearing on journalism, there is, indeed, a difference between looking at issues that govern journalism and the factors that contribute to the financial stress of the media industry. Over the last few years, I have been discussing the impact of digitalisation on journalism. The pandemic has accelerated the process of digital transformation of the news media. Therefore, these issues need close scrutiny. One of the defining elements of analog journalism was the way two crucial functions of journalism — bearing witness and making sense — complemented each other and helped people make informed choices. When I talk about the strength of analog, I am neither romanticising the past nor am I a Luddite. Most importantly, I do not believe in nostalgia. Many scholars have established “how rose-coloured glasses always leads to an unfair distortion — looking back on the best of the past while comparing it to the worst of the present.” Hence, when I talk about the digital information news environment, I am talking about how there needs to be a conducive atmosphere for credible information to resonate with the people. Literature on misinformation, disinformation and malinformation reveals a new distinction in the minds of the citizens. Editors and journalists have to contend with a new breed of sceptics. These are the people who trust social media forwards more than evidence-based, data-driven journalism. Their confirmation bias flows from encrypted social media platforms that are full of conspiracy theories. Some terms — for instance, ‘post-truth’ and ‘alternative facts’ — that have gained currency in the last five years fail to explain the complex reality that is haunting journalism and its reliance on evidence and data. Let me explain this with a specific example. On the first anniversary of the dilution of Article 370, The Hindu, apart from carrying news reports, published two lead articles — Happymon Jacob’s “A year on, Article 370 and Kashmir mythmaking” (August 4) and Amitabh Mattoo’s “Rekindle Kashmir’s lost and real connect” (August 5) — and a ‘Data Point’ titled “Paradise lost” (August 5). But the reactions we got to these were puzzling. One reader dismissed the ‘Data Point’ and placed his faith above the evidence available. He asked: “Is your source reliable? Was it done by an independent agency or some ‘politically’ motivated one? Why compare the J&K lockdown with the COVID-19 lockdown? What are you trying to convey apart from confusing people and feeding negativity? Yes, both the lockdowns are severe for J&K but they will be eventually removed and normalcy restored.” Another reader, Raghavan, was angry with Mr. Jacob’s piece. He said: “A mythmaking opinion from the factory of mythmaking, JNU, anxious about the myths made for decades being exposed as myths. Expecting a miracle within a year to prove that undoing Article 370 is better than the decades of turmoil with no end in sight while nurturing that Article is in the realm of myths, really.” Jugal Ghosh felt that Mr. Mattoo was wrong and said: “The abrogation stretched the state benefits to all its residents and the sooner they realise it, the better it is for all. This pain about abrogation is purely imaginary to make news.” Facts and truth First Draft Footnotes is a study commissioned by First Draft with the aim of protecting communities around the world from harmful, false, and misleading information. Silicon Valley conglomerates rely on quantitative attributes. They value the metrics that drive the traffic to websites. The Footnotes series, on the other hand, brought back the qualitative component to counterbalance the reliance on analytics to determine the health of our news and information environment. One of their recent studies was about the perceived difference of news consumers between facts and “truth”, and about how this perception creates vulnerabilities online. The study documents our paradoxical existence in more ways than one. For instance, it points out that “those who generate and amplify misinformation and malinformation are the ones who often use words related to the truth, such as disingenuous; nonsense; false; charade; deception; concealed, disguised, hiding, show; find; reveals; exposes; uncovers.” In this world view, journalism is all about facts, but conspiracy theories are what gain the status of truth. The crisis is not with journalism alone. readerseditor@thehindu.co.in
10 August 2020||August 10 2020 00:00 IST,||At stake is our bodily integrity||Governments around the world are increasingly turning to technology as a tool to combat the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic. In India, these tools have ranged from various contact tracing apps to using drones. Privacy concerns have been raised by activists, lawyers and concerned citizens about the use of such intrusive digital technologies. But while these concerns are valid, a crucial element remains unrecognised: what is at stake is not merely our informational privacy, but our autonomy, dignity, bodily integrity, and equality. We live in a world where data about us are constantly being collected. Governments and corporations are moving towards using data as a means of governance and regulation of what our physical bodies can do. This is what is happening, for example, when you are asked to digitally scan your fingerprint to allow your physical body to enter your workspace. Or you may have felt a sense of unease when you realise you are under surveillance through CCTV cameras. Nobody is physically present, yet we somehow feel the gaze on our bodies. Bodily integrity and autonomy Informational privacy may no longer be sufficient to ensure our rights are protected. Instead we need to include matters such as bodily integrity, autonomy and dignity. In the current jump towards technologies as a means to combat the pandemic and control our bodies, this is particularly evident. Consider the questions of control that are raised as this line is becoming blurred. Most people would feel uncomfortable inviting an official into their home every hour to show they are complying with quarantine orders. But effectively, that is what is happening through apps such as Karnataka’s Quarantine Watch, which requires those under quarantine to send hourly selfies with GPS coordinates to officials. Through your digital images, your physical body is being disciplined to stay at home, without the need for the official to be physically present. And where personal data about ourselves are shared or leaked, this may lead to us experiencing a sense of lack of control, fear of uncertainty, and loss, even though nothing has been taken from us physically. This is evident, for example, where data of those who have been home quarantined are shared publicly. Those affected have reported immense psychological stress. In Hyderabad, one home-quarantined man described his experience as “torture” after people started calling at odd hours to provide suggestions or ask questions. Greater discrimination Thus, the potential misuse of our data raises concerns beyond just privacy. It can lead to individuals feeling humiliated, publicly targeted and shamed, raising concerns of dignity and discrimination. The consequences of the public sharing of personal data will not be felt equally by everyone. The experiences we have navigating the material world are often relational to who we are and what body we have. Those who do not conform to society’s dominant views, such as trans people, tend to face greater discrimination. In Hyderabad, derogatory posters targeting trans people were put up saying interactions with them could lead to COVID-19. Such differences also apply to the virtual world shaping our online experiences. Given the greater risk of stigma trans people face, public sharing of their personal data can have dangerous consequences. So, while a pandemic might warrant greater collection of our data, we must not lose sight of the harms this can bring, now and in the future. The data collected by various institutions can be used to re-exert control over our bodies, through ways often unknown, making it hard to question this. But data protection legislation have not kept up with this new reality and the challenges it brings. Formulated on the premise of data as a ‘resource’ or ‘oil’, they tend to completely miss out on the issues of bodily integrity and autonomy. Tanisha Ranjit is a junior researcher at the Internet Democracy Project, a member of the Data Governance Network
10 August 2020||August 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Safety deficit||The tragic crash of an Air India Express ‘Vande Bharat’ relief flight in Kozhikode, in which 18 people, including two crew members, lost their lives and many were left severely injured, is a forceful reminder that there are no acceptable risks in aviation. Although an even bigger disaster was averted by the absence of fire in the aircraft, the crash snuffed out the lives of many returning home from Dubai after a long, traumatic separation from loved ones in the pandemic. Many Indians could not quickly return home from countries where they were employed, studying or travelling, although they desperately sought flights back home since March. For those who took that long-awaited trip on August 7, it ended in disaster. There are clear pointers to the dangerous nature of flight operations at Kozhikode airport in the midst of a strong monsoon, even with the availability of an instrument landing system for the “tabletop” runway carved into undulating terrain. There are problems with visibility, a far shorter safety area at the runway end than optimal, and absence of arrester systems that could stop an overshooting plane from falling off the edge, as it happened with this aircraft. Which of these factors, along with the monsoon impact, led to the disaster will become clear with a professional investigation. The Civil Aviation Ministry should make a full disclosure on the technical evidence gathered, the integrity of which will be scrutinised by safety organisations worldwide. Apparently anxious to project an image of normalcy, the Ministry allowed the airport to restart flights in a day, while the accident cause was yet to be ascertained. If rainy conditions existed during the landing, as Civil Aviation Minister Hardeep Singh Puri has said, these may persist during the rest of the monsoon. Each flight must, therefore, be considered for a potential diversion to a safe airport nearby in bad weather. Significantly, the admission by the DGCA that the key recommendation of runway extension at Kozhikode made almost a decade ago was not possible due to land acquisition issues — although the facility could still support wide-bodied aircraft — strengthens the view that corners may have been cut on safety. The instance of an Air India Express plane suffering a tail strike in the same airport last year should have led to a full assessment, following up on the recommendations made after the 2010 crash in Mangaluru. Since the visible cause of Friday’s crash was an overshoot, the runway continues to pose a threat. Bad meteorological conditions such as rain and wind, and runway surface problems such as stagnation of water or rubber deposits that contribute to skidding endanger passengers and crew. Every air safety incident diminishes India’s reputation. The Kozhikode crash should lead to a fresh review of all risky airports. Transparent remedial action must be taken immediately.
10 August 2020||August 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Balancing priorities||Forecasts of ‘good’ or ‘normal’ monsoons are often beguiling and belie the ominous. This year, the annual floods that upend the Brahmaputra Valley have been followed by intense spells along the Konkan coast and Mumbai, and now Kerala, which until the end of last month recorded a slight deficit. The landslip in Idukki, that has so far claimed 22 lives and rendered several homeless, follows from a continuing spell of heavy rains in Kerala. Most districts have received three or four times more rain than what is normal. Last year too, neighbouring Wayanad saw multiple hamlets wiped out and the year before, the devastating floods in the State forced a debate on the need for new models of development. Landslips, or landslides, in the Western Ghats have a history. Following the 2018 floods, data from the Geological Survey of India showed that Kerala had experienced 67 major landslide events and several minor ones from 1961-2013. As part of a National Landslide Susceptibility Mapping (NLSM) programme, the agency mapped several States in the Western Ghats, North-eastern States, Jammu and Kashmir and Uttarakhand to assess how vulnerable their districts were. Nearly 13,000 square kilometres were mapped until 2018 and 6,000 were to be covered in 2019-20 in Kerala, according to the programme website. Nearly 13 of the State’s 14 districts were prone to landslides and what made Kerala particularly vulnerable was the high population density — over 800 per square kilometre — compared to other States that also faced high landslide risk. The objective of the NLSM maps is to help State and district authorities incorporate the risk of landslides into zoning laws. However, just as in the case of earthquake zonation maps, or for that matter, any exercise to scientifically ascertain the risk from natural hazards to a region, these laws are barely implemented in the right spirit. And this is not unique to Kerala. The details might vary but it is now beyond contestation that India is living in a new climate normal. Frequent high intensity bursts of rain will co-exist along with long dry spells. It has emerged from studies of Kerala’s topography that quarrying and the unscientific cutting of slopes into hills aggravates the risk of soil erosion. Operationalising the State’s disaster management apparatus and allocating funds for preparedness are key policy responses, but Kerala also must double down on enforcing regulations and observing zoning laws as well as ensuring that slopes carved into hilly terrain have adequate provisions for draining water. A lack of compliance with such principles is often a key reason why natural hazards end up causing a significant number of avoidable casualties. There is a cost to pursuing development goals without paying attention to environmental constraints.
10 August 2020||August 10 2020 00:00 IST,||The Tilak Day||A public meeting of the ladies of Bombay was held on Sunday [August 9] evening to express their sorrow and sense of loss to the country on the death of Mr. Tilak. Mrs. Saraladevi Chaudhurani presided. As the crowd was too great for the spacious hall of Gandharva Mahavidyalaya an overflow meeting was held in the compound, with the chairman having to address twice. Saraladevi in her address said that the wonderful funeral procession of Mr. Tilak testified the appreciation by the people of Mr. Tilak’s love for his countrymen, a love that hoped highest and braved all and made him suffer repeatedly for their sake. Swaraj to him was a passion and he gallantly fought all his life for the interests of his country. She exhorted the audience to follow his simplicity of dress and manners and use nothing but swadeshi goods. The speaker deprecated the slavish imitation of following the latest Western fashions in dress and passionately appealed to all her sisters to show their love for the departed patriot by taking a vow for using nothing but swadeshi goods at least for some years, if not forever.
10 August 2020||August 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Hopeful turn in West Asia||The 90-day ceasefire accepted by Egypt, Israel and Jordan went into effect on Friday night and the guns have stopped firing in the Suez Canal sector. So far so good. Since Syria and the Palestinian guerillas have rejected the cease-fire, military activity can be expected to continue on the Syrian, Lebanese and Jordanian fronts. But it is the Suez front that is the most sensitive, carrying the danger, ever since Soviet combat pilots took a hand in Egypt’s defence, of the conflict escalating into a direct confrontation, between the U.S. and Russia. It was evidently this danger that ultimately made the two superpowers join hands in a major effort to reverse the gears. The cease-fire is no doubt the product of American initiative but it could not have come about without Soviet co-operation. President Nasser agreed to it only under Russian persuasion. At the same time, it has to be recognised that Mr. Nasser and Mrs. Golda Meir acted with courage and realism in accepting the American proposals. They had to make that decision in the face of severe opposition from important allies.
10 August 2020||August 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Saving for a goal||On a live TV show, Roshan from Pune called. His query was, should a SIP, in which a sum of Rs. 5,000 is invested monthly, be continued with or stopped. In response, he was asked about the financial goal for which this particular SIP was started. There was no specific answer. Many a time, we start an SIP — Systematic Investment Plan — without linking it with any specific financial goal. SIPs are a way for individuals to invest a fixed, pre-decided amount of money into a mutual fund scheme at pre-defined intervals, usually every month. Most of the time, SIPs are started without any intention to fulfil any particular financial goal. This has limited benefits, in the sense that regular investing is a good habit and to that extent, starting an SIP is a good decision. However, if it is linked to our specific financial goals, it becomes much more useful. There are various financial goals we have to fulfil in life and for each of those, we should invest money on a regular basis. If we invest our hard earned money keeping in mind our financial goals, it will bring a clear direction to our investments. In the absence of any direction, sometimes, there could be anxiety as to whether the amount being invested every month is moving our finances in the appropriate direction. Giving direction Let’s consider two scenarios. In one case, an SIP amount is being invested in an equity-based mutual fund. Equity funds are those that invest in the stock market. This amount is not linked with any specific financial goal. Say, suddenly, there is a drop in the stock market. There is adverse news everywhere. Investors are in panic mode. TV channels are flashing news about the stock market being in the red (in distress). This has been going on for the last about four to five months. When an SIP comes up for renewal, there are chances that investors may have some anxiety about renewing it. They may even decide to defer the renewal for some time. On the other hand, let’s consider the case of an investor who is investing every month through an SIP, to accumulate a corpus for his retirement which is about one decade away. Firstly, he will not be disturbed by a temporary fall. There are chances he will be happy. This is because if the stock market is down, for the amount which he is investing every month, he will receive more units of the mutual fund scheme. As and when the stock market starts moving up again, he would have purchased more units at a lower cost and will profit more. Therefore, always start an SIP with a specific financial goal. In fact, give a name to that SIP; for example, if that SIP is for your daughter Pooja’s higher education, call it ‘Pooja Higher Education SIP.’ ‘My wife is very happy about Pooja Higher Education Fund,’ Ramesh, my client, told me once. ‘Every month, she sees the mutual fund statement and tracks its performance. In fact, the other day, she was telling me that she can save about Rs. 3,000 from the monthly expenses and start a similar SIP for our younger daughter, Richa. Such behaviour is observed pretty often. The family also gets committed to the investment and wants to participate. ‘Take a selfie’ To my younger clients, I encourage them to take a selfie and next to their picture, make a dialogue box for each financial goal. In that box, write down which investment — it could be in form of SIP, FD, recurring deposit or anything else — is earmarked for that financial goal. “This has been a highly rewarding exercise for us,” Shweta and Parag, a newly-married couple, conveyed to me. “Our conspicuous spending has come down as we want to contribute towards each of our financial goals and have started deferring or even [deciding against] unnecessary splurging,” they said.  Sincerity in investing Do not just start an SIP. Go for ‘My SIP — My Specific Investment Plan.’ Do it sincerely and ‘My Sincere Investment Plan’ will turn out to be ‘My Superb Investment Plan.’ It may not be fully in the control of salaried individuals to dramatically raise inflows but they can certainly optimise the inflow.  (The author is a financial planner and the author of Yogic Wealth)    It may not be fully in the control of salaried individuals to dramatically raise the inflows but they can certainly optimise the inflow
10 August 2020||August 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Do your systematic investments need a pause?||If your income has declined this year as a fallout of COVID-19, you may be under pressure to manage your cash flows. In this article, we discuss why you should consider taking an Investment Recess to reduce the pressure on your cash flows. Investment Recess is a temporary period — typically one year — where you stop your systematic investments earmarked for achieving your life goals. Suppose you have been saving Rs. 20,000 every month till your income was affected because of the COVID-19-related lockdown. You have to either cut your current consumption to continue saving Rs. 20,000 or reduce your savings to maintain your current consumption. As humans, we suffer from present bias. We prefer instant gratification to deriving greater happiness in the future. So, consuming now is much better than saving today to spend in the future! But you have to save to achieve your life goals such as buying a house or funding child’s college education. So, what should you do? It is difficult to cut non-discretionary expenses. This refers to essential expenses needed to run your household such as groceries and utility bills. Also, you may want to spend some money on discretionary expenses (take-away dining, for instance) to reduce your emotional stress. That leaves you with little choice but to cut your monthly savings, leading to an Investment Recess. You should take an Investment Recess on all systematic investments in equity mutual funds. This is required to ensure that your investments do not add to your already-high cash-flow volatility arising from unstable income. For the same reason, you should also liquidate your existing equity investments. RD no exception You should, if required, also take an Investment Recess on recurring deposit (RD) earmarked for achieving any life goal, except your high-priority goal. A high-priority goal is one that you cannot postpone — your child’s college education fund, for instance. Note that banks may charge a penalty if you fail to deposit money into your RD on the agreed date every month. An alternative will be to continue with your RD and use fixed deposits (FDs) to ease the pressure on your cash flows. The flip side is that lump sum money in your FDs will provide more emotional comfort than continually building your investments through RD. The choice between taking an Investment Recess on RD and breaking a FD should depend on associated penalties. You should also work with your bank to explore the possibility of converting the money accumulated in your RD into a FD at a lower interest rate to reduce penalty charges. These are unprecedented times. And such situations may force you to work against your best judgment, especially because pressure on cash flows is salient. One way to lower your emotional stress arising from cash flow pressure is to transfer some of your existing FD to your savings account. Having normal balance in the savings account is one way to cheat your brain into thinking your cash flow levels are comfortable. Of course, moving money from an FD to a savings account will reduce interest income. Also, taking an Investment Recess will hurt life goals. But you are justified in being present-biased when your cash flows are under pressure. So, your roadmap to reducing your cash flow pressure is as follows: First, take an Investment Recess on all equity investments. Second, liquidate all your existing equity investments and place the sale proceeds in monthly-income bank deposits. The periodic interest income can reduce the cashflow gap arising from a salary cut. Third, take an Investment Recess on RDs or break your existing FDs depending on the penalties. As the last resort, use fixed assets as collateral to borrow money.  (The author offers training programmes for individuals to manage their personal investments)
10 August 2020||August 10 2020 00:00 IST,||ASK US||Q.Suppose I decide to buy an online term insurance plan of a life insurance company, is it possible for me to buy the same through an agent of a life insurance company or should I apply for it on my own through online only? V. SUBRAMANIAN A.Agents and websites (of the insurance company itself or of an insurance web aggregator) are two different distribution channels for insurance. You have the option of using either of these by submitting your proposal form and paying your premium through them. So, when it comes to the purchase transaction, they are mutually exclusive. The insurance company will have independent sales commission arrangements with differing intermediaries (and, usually, a premium discount if you buy from the company website directly). Some products are designated to be sold only online and, conversely, all products will not be available online. A classic purchase strategy of customers of other goods and services has been to research online and buy offline. This combines the benefits of extensive product information material across companies and products. In addition, you can research on third-party websites also. This much information would not be as easily available from an individual sales person. Going to an agent after you do your research will help you take your purchase forward with better clarity of what you want and what is available where. Also, once an agent is in the picture, you get to buy only the products offered by the companies he represents. For information, an insurance agent can represent one life insurer, one non-life insurer and one standalone health insurer.  Health insurance for parents Q.I am 27 years old. My mother and father are 51 and 61, respectively. My company provides a family floater health insurance, that includes parents, covering up to Rs. 5 lakh. I want to opt for additional health insurance for them. What else do I need to consider for health insurance and how will this be useful in my tax savings? ABINASH PATTJOSHI A.Additional cover is always wise, and the sooner the better as you will not have too many exclusions in the form of pre-existing conditions and, if so, your waiting period clock can start ticking and you can become eligible for coverage benefits. Please make an assessment of what likely illnesses they may face and how much treatment for it costs where you live. This will give you an indication of the sum insured you need. Also check the option of keeping your employment cover as the basic hospitalisation cover and opt for buying a top-up or a super top-up cover as that is a more cost-effective way of increasing cover. Your tax break on premium for parents will be as per the latest provisions of Section 80D of the Income-Tax Act, 1961, which is currently Rs. 25,000 (Rs. 50,000 if either of the parents is a senior citizen). Remember, this is only if they are dependent on you.   (The writer is a business journalist specialising in insurance and corporate history
10 August 2020||August 10 2020 00:00 IST,||loose change||
10 August 2020||BARCELONA,||Messi inspires Barcelona into last eight||A fired-up Lionel Messi led Barcelona to a 3-1 win at home to Napoli on Saturday for a 4-2 aggregate victory which took the club into the Champions League quarterfinals for the 13th consecutive season, where it will face Bayern Munich. Robert Lewandowski struck twice as Bayern cruised past Chelsea 4-1, for a 7-1 aggregate victory, and remains on course for a treble of titles. Superb strike The Catalans had a shaky start but took the lead in the 10th minute with a powerful header from a corner by Clement Lenglet before Messi scored a superb second in the 23rd, seeing off four defenders to curl the ball into the far bottom corner. Messi had the ball in the net again soon after, following a superb team move, but the Argentine’s goal was harshly ruled out for handball after a VAR review. But Messi later won a penalty which Luis Suarez converted. Napoli got one back when Lorenzo Insigne converted a spot kick at the end of the first half and was the better side after the interval but Barca survived to set up a mouth-watering clash with Bayern next Friday. Meanwhile in Munich, the Bavarians went two up through Lewandowski penalty and Ivan Perisic before Tammy Abraham pulled one back for Chelsea. Corentin Tolisso and Lewandowski completed the rout.  The results: Bayern Munich 4 (Lewandowski 10-pen, 83, Perisic 24, Tolisso 76) bt Chelsea 1 (Abraham 44). Bayern 7-1 on aggregate.   Barcelona 3 (Lenglet 10, Messi 23, Suarez 45+1-pen) bt Napoli 1 (Insigne 45+5-pen). Barcelona 4-2 on aggregate .
10 August 2020||Los Angeles,||‘I have been a little bit of a recluse’||Serena Williams said on Saturday the COVID-19 outbreak has not only given her downtime with her family, but has also turned her into a bit of a “neurotic” and “ recluse.” The 23-time Grand Slam champion, who has a history of blood clots and pulmonary embolisms, said she has not taken the virus situation lightly and that her health has been her top priority. “I’ve been a little bit of a recluse,” said Serena. “I don’t have full lung capacity so I’m not sure what would happen to me. I’m sure I would be OK but I don’t want to find out.” Cautious Serena, set to play in the US Open, said it was fun to finally return to tennis but the idea of travelling is not one she took lightly. “I have like 50 masks that I travel with...I’m super careful with what I’ve been doing, and everyone in the Serena bubble is really protected. “Because at the end of the day it’s cool to play tennis, but this is my life and this is my health, so I’ve been a little neurotic to an extent but that’s just what I have to be right now.”
10 August 2020||San Francisco,||Johnson gets his nose in front||Dustin Johnson shot a 65 on Saturday to put himself on course for another mouth-watering final-round showdown at a PGA Championship with two-time defending champion Brooks Koepka. Johnson and Koepka are no strangers at the PGA Championship as Johnson nearly chased down Koepka in the final round last year at New York's Bethpage Black before losing by two shots. One-shot lead Johnson's five-under 65 on Saturday got him to nine under for the tournament and a one-shot lead over fellow Americans Scottie Scheffler and Cameron Champ. History-chasing American Koepka is tied for fourth with two others, just two strokes behind the long-hitting Johnson. Johnson's 65 was his eighth straight round in the 60s at a PGA Championship. His eight birdies are the most he has made in any round of a Major, bettering the seven he made at the 2017 PGA Championship and the 2014 British Open. But his results have been mixed in 2020 as he missed the cut at the Memorial, withdrew from the 3M Open with a bad back after an opening 78 and finished 12th at the WGC event in Memphis. Third-round leader Li Haotong of China shot a 73 and, like Koepka, struggled on the par-4 13th, making a double bogey. But Li never recovered from that and made two more bogeys and finished on 205. Tiger in the woods Tiger Woods saw his chances all but extinguished as he struggled on the greens and shot a 72. He is tied for 59th at 212, 11 behind Johnson.  The scores: 201: Dustin Johnson (USA) 69, 67, 65; 202: Scottie Scheffler (USA) 66, 71, 65, Cameron Champ (USA) 71, 64, 67; 203: Brooks Koepka (USA) 66, 68, 69, Collin Morikawa (USA) 69, 69, 65, Paul Casey (Eng) 68, 67, 68.
10 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Equestrian federation running out of time||Having repeatedly failed to set its house in order, the Equestrian Federation of India (EFI) is fast running out of time. Tough questions Following the recent Delhi High Court order dismissing the EFI’s twin-plea, the governing body may have to answer some tough questions when the case comes up for hearing on September 24. Alongside its reluctance to comply with the 2011 National Sports Development Code, the EFI has been battling court cases challenging its governance and election of office-bearers. The EFI’s questionable practice of appointing the current Quartermaster-General (QMG) as the EFI president saw Lt. Gen. R. Gopal hold the post the day he was made a member of the EFI, last September. On retirement as the QMG on May 31, 2020, he resigned immediately as the EFI president. When Lt. Gen. S.S. Mishra took over as the new QMG, he was made a member of the EFI on 17 May, 2020, and nominated as the president in June. The other contentious appointment was that of Lt. Gen. M.K.S. Yadav as the vice-president (admin), to run the affairs of the EFI till elections were held. Last month, the Rajasthan Equestrian Association (REA) moved the Delhi High Court challenging these nominations. The Court, in its order dated July 20, 2020, restrained the two nominated members from acting in the interim capacity. The REA also argued that these nominations were based entirely on the ranks in the army and therefore detrimental to equestrian sport in the country. The REA requested the Court to form an ad-hoc committee to run the EFI until elections. The REA president Raghuvendra Singh Dundlod insisted on the EFI complying with the Sports Code for normalcy to return to the sport. Interim measure The EFI challenged the July 20 order on the ground that the appointments were made with the consent of Dr. S.Y. Quraishi, the observer appointed by the Court. It was further argued that these appointments were only interim measures to run the Federation. In response to EFI’s plea to vacate the order of July 20 or allow it to hold elections within 60 days for nine posts, including the president and vice-president (admin), the Court posted the case for September 24. Maintaining status quo, the Court allowed the respondents three weeks to reply and two weeks, for the rejoinder, if any. Seven other EFI posts due to fall vacant are vice-president (Sports Development), one each for eventing, tent pegging and endurance besides a regional member's post from west, east and north-east.
10 August 2020||Bengaluru,||RCB to leave for UAE in last week of August||Players and staff of Royal Challengers Bangalore (RCB) are set to fly out to United Arab Emirates in the last week of August, RCB chairman Sanjeev Churiwala said on Sunday. This will give team personnel adequate time to undergo quarantine, COVID-19 testing and a few days of training before the IPL commences on September 19. “All the Indian players and support staff will first assemble in Bengaluru. They will be quarantined in a hotel in Bengaluru for a few days before flying out to the UAE in the last week of August. The players are keen to start practising, so our flight schedule has been worked to ensure adequate time is available to conduct nets in UAE,” Churiwala told The Hindu . Churiwala added that players and staff will undergo testing and medical clearance before their departure. All members of the squad are being actively educated on the standard operating procedures (SOP) issued by the BCCI, a final draft of which will be shared with franchises soon.  “The bio-secure bubble in UAE will have strict rules like complete isolation and regular testing. All our players and support staff are now familiar with the rules. Safety and health is paramount. In this regard, the SOP draft covers all topics. All points will be fully implemented,” Churiwala said. According to SOP, members of all franchises will have to serve a mandatory week-long quarantine before starting on-field preparation. They should appoint a team doctor, who will be responsible for ensuring that bio-secure guidelines are followed. Passengers arriving in UAE are required to carry a negative COVID-19 test report issued no more than 96 hours before their arrival.
10 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Carrom presents a strong case for Arjuna award||It is one game that roared back to life during the pandemic, in almost every household, irrespective of economic status. Carrom binds the nation, as a truly indigenous game for the masses, simple and affordable. However, except for two-time World Champion Maria Irudayam’s Arjuna award in 1996, the fraternity has not been able to get recognition. This time around, there are five applications from carrom for the Arjuna — Kajal Kumari, Prashant More, S. Appoorwa, Rashmi Kumari and Yogesh Pardeshi. Each of them has been a world champion or won a global competition. In fact, Kajal Kumari, the Indian Oil officer from Mumbai, won a Swiss League in the World Cup in Korea (2018) in a combined field of men and women. The record of the 37-year-old Rashmi Kumari, the ONGC officer in Delhi, is most enviable, for she has two World Championship and two World Cup gold medals. She has also been national women’s singles champion ten times, from 2004, bettering Maria Irudayam’s record of nine. One of those came in the eighth month of her pregnancy. Quite remarkably, she has won 100 international medals, including 89 gold, at the Asian, SAARC and global levels. She made the Indian team when she was 15 in 1998, and continues to serve the nation with distinction. Since the inception of the Arjuna award in 1961, athletics, with 93 awardees, leads the list, followed by hockey (88), cricket (54), wrestling (53), shooting (47), boxing (41), weightlifting (37), kabaddi (36), badminton (32), table tennis (29), football (26), volleyball (25), swimming (22) and golf (20). Even compared to billiards and snooker, a sophisticated version of carrom with 17 awardees, kho kho (13), ball badminton (6), bodybuilding (5), wushu (4) and roller skating (2), carrom looks to have lost out.
10 August 2020||MUMBAI,||Ranji Trophy set to begin on December 13||The Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) is contemplating a curtailed domestic season from November 19, 2020, to March 10, 2021, by staging only the Syed Mushtaq Ali Trophy and the Ranji Trophy. The 50-overs-a-side tournaments, Vijay Hazare Trophy and the Challengers Series, have been sacrificed – as reported by The Hindu last month – and do not find a place in the draft proposal prepared by the cricket operations department, in consultation with a private firm roped in to assist in the scheduling. The Ranji Trophy is likely to start on December 13 with the league stage proposed to be a five-group affair. There will be four groups of eight teams each and a plate group featuring the six new sides from the north-east. While the top two teams from each of the first three groups will qualify for the knockouts, the remaining two knockouts qualifiers will be decided through a complex qualification formula. Besides the 50-over tournaments, the proposed season doesn’t include either the Irani Cup tie or the Duleep Trophy. While the Duleep Trophy has lost much of its relevance after being converted into a three-squad affair with teams hand-picked by the national selectors, it will be interesting to see if the BCCI can accommodate the Irani Cup. Interestingly, the Irani Cup was the only First Class game to be called off due to COVID-19 last season (March 18 to 22). It remains to be seen if Saurashtra, the Ranji Trophy champion, can take on the Rest of India in the likely window between the Mushtaq Ali and the Ranji trophies.
10 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Ding stuns Carlsen||A composed Ding Liren produced a late masterclass to stun Magnus Carlsen, after an alert Daniil Dubov punished Hikaru Nakamura in just 17 moves, in the opening game of the first set of semifinals of the $300,000 Magnus Carlsen Chess Tour Finals on Sunday. Carlsen slowly lost the plot after Ding kept up the pressure with white pieces. The gradual squeeze by Ding saw him create an opening from the queen’s side, forcing the World champion to give up a pawn. After the exchange of queens, Ding enlarged his advantage with some accurate continuation and forced Carlsen to resign. Dubov, a former World rapid champion, gained almost decisively by Nakamura’s questionable choice of capturing a central-pawn with a knight, instead of queen, on the 10th move. Nakamura immediately got into serious trouble. The Russian quickly launched a decisive offensive on black’s castled king. A hapless Nakamura spotted an inevitable checkmate and resigned, in just 17 minutes.
10 August 2020||KOLKATA,||Manitombi Singh passes away||A pall of gloom descended on the football fraternity in Manipur as news spread of Laishram Manitombi Singh’s untimely passing away. The former India player, who had a distinguished career with some top clubs in the country, took to coaching in his native State after hanging up his boots. Manitombi was battling an illness for some time and breathed his last on Sunday, at the age of 39. “He was a fantastic human being and it feels very sad to hear about the news of his death at such an early age. We played together for India and Mohun Bagan and had a lot of nice memories to cherish,” said former India captain Renedy Singh. Manitombi played as a sideback and represented the country in two significant tournaments in 2002. He was part of the team that won the LG Cup in Vietnam under the captaincy of Bhaichung Bhutia. He also donned the Indian colours in the Busan Asian Games later in the year. Manitombi played a key role in Manipur’s maiden Santosh Trophy triumph in 2002. After stints with teams like Air India and Salgaocar SC, his club career reached its peak with Mohun Bagan, where he led the side when it won the prestigious All Airlines Gold Cup. “After retirement, he was coaching different academies and teams in and around Imphal. I know he underwent a prolonged treatment that drained a lot of his funds. He has an eight-year-old son and his family will be facing a lot of hardships in his absence,” Renedy, who is also the president of Football Players’ Association of India, said. “We will be organising a benefit match for his family after the restrictions are lifted,” Renedy added.
10 August 2020||HYDERABAD:,||Sports Minister, Azhar discuss safety measures||Hyderabad Cricket Association president Mohd. Azharuddin called on the Telangana Sports Minister V. Srinivas Goud here on Sunday to discuss safety guidelines to be in place as and when cricketing activity resumes in the State. Azharuddin told The Hindu that the HCA had not yet finalised any resumption schedule. “We don’t want to rush things as we are all concerned about the health and safety of players and staff,” he said. The HCA Apex Council is scheduled to meet on August 13 though resumption of cricketing activity is not on the agenda. The agenda includes discussion of development and promotion of the game, affiliation of cricket associations of newly-formed districts, passing of preceding year’s statement of accounts and any other subject, with the permission of the chair.   Shanmukha and Haridheemanth won the open and junior category titles of the 171st Brilliant Trophy open online chess tournament here on Sunday. Shanmukha finished with 11 points from 12 rounds while Hari scored 12 out of 12.  Final placings: Open: 1. Shanmukha, 2. Sk. Fayaz, 3. Basiq Imrose, 4. Rimitha Reddy, 5. Shreyas Seshadri, 6. Vishwaksen, 7. Dhruva Thota, 8. Chidvilas Sai, 9. Vasishta Ramanarao, 10. Pavan Karthikeya Varma. Juniors: 1. Haridheemanth, 2. Abhyudit Singh, 3. Allen Varghese Tom.   Boys: U-15: 1. Abhyudit Singh, 2. Mokshagna. U-13: 1. Allen Varghese Tom, 2. E. Harshith. U-11: 1. Abel Sajan, 2. Atharv Bansal. U-9: 1. Karthikeya Nandan, 2. Saai Srihann. U-7: 1. P. Hariram, 2. T.K. Niroshan.   Girls: U-15: 1. Shruthika Sayapuri, 2. P. Jayahari Chandana. U-13: 1. Sethia Kirti, 2. Naannya. U-11: 1. Harthisha Agarwal, Sahajdeep Kaur. U-11: 1. Deethya Sai Katakam, 2. B. Samhitha. U-7: 1. Anniliya Sajan.   Tennis camp begins Tennis coaching has resumed at the Sports Village on the premises of the Hyderabad Polo and Riding Club on the outskirts of the City, according to head coach Shankar. “In keeping with the COVID-19 guidelines, all safety measures are being implemented at the morning and evening sessions. Exercises are conducted in small groups in order to maintain social distancing norms,” he said. Exhibition matches between trainees and coaches will be held on August 16. Those interested may call Shankar on 9515125592.   The Telangana Tribal Welfare Residential Educational Institutions Society has invited applications from Scheduled Tribe students (boys and girls) for admission to the mini sports academies, two sports schools and two cricket academies across the State for 200 seats. The applicants must be students of TTWREIS, ST Welfare residential schools, model schools, ashram schools, Government schools, Zilla Parishad schools, aided schools and other Govt.-recognised schools. Last date of receipt of applications is August 18.  Details of seats: Kabaddi: TTWRS, Damaravancha (boys), Jadcherla (girls). Archery: Bhadrachalam (girls), Dammapeta, Kothagudem (boys). Football: Miryalguda (boys), Asifabad (girls). Softball: Thungathurthy (boys), Narsapoor (boys). Kho-kho: Adilabad (boys). Volleyball: Kalwakurthy (girls). Weightlifting: Suddimalla, Khammam (girls). Netball: Kondapur (boys), Mahbubnagar (girls). Cricket: TTWURJC, Jinnaram (boys), Wanaparthy (girls). Sports school: TTWURJC, Chegunta, Medak (girls), TTWR, Eturangaram (boys).
10 August 2020||MANCHESTER,||Stokes to miss rest of Test series||England allrounder Ben Stokes will miss the remainder of the ongoing Test series against Pakistan for family reasons, the England and Wales Cricket Board announced on Sunday. “Stokes will leave the UK later this week and travel to New Zealand,” said an ECB statement.
10 August 2020||August 10 2020 07:50 IST,||Sudoku - August 10, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
10 August 2020||August 10 2020 00:00 IST,||A parent’s guide to gadget-free play||“I just hate classes on the computer! My mother makes me sit in front of it all day. I can’t even see my friends on the screen properly.” This is a four-year-old’s rant. Apart from the economy, if there’s one other thing the pandemic has sent for a toss, it is our education system. Classes are all online now, including those for children as young as three. This comes with its own problems. Dr Sowmya Bhaskaran TS, Consultant Child and Adolescent Psychiatrist at Coimbatore-based Insight Clinic, says, “Online classes for children younger than six are not helpful.” However, she adds that her views on screen time are not the same as they were before the pandemic. “I do not view screens as ‘bad’ any more,” she says. But then, once classes are over, it helps to engage your child in something that does not involve gadgets. We asked parents to pitch in on how this can be done: Give life a rhythm Madhu Karthik, who is based in Erode, believes in the Waldorf concept of ‘rhythm’ and making children feel responsible and developing a sense of belonging. She feels that today, children miss the routine that school brings to life; the order a time-table offers. “I try and bring the same order at home by having fixed activities at stipulated times,” says the Waldorf educator and mother to a six-year-old. These activities can be fixed according to your child’s age. “My son can wash utensils on his own; a younger child can help put the washed spoons inside the correct rack, for instance,” she says. “We also fold clothes together. A younger child can fold a towel or handkerchief.” The idea is to merge the child into the adult world seamlessly, so that it does not become a task for the parent. Take to fenugreek farming! Urmila Sampath has two girls, aged 14 and nine. She says that after all the “unavoidable” screen time thanks to online classes, her girls turn to art for some succour. “They are into water colour painting and calligraphy too, and sometimes, we work on it together.” The 40-year-old, who is based in Mumbai, has a kitchen garden, in which she grows mint, curry leaves, and fenugreek. “The girls water the plants and help me repot them when needed too,” she adds. Find joy in the everyday Coimbatore-based Aarthi Balasundaram, a Montessori teacher, suggests an ‘object’ box with small things such as keys in it, that children can grab hold of. “We can ask them to pick up one item from the box, tell them what it’s called, and teach phonetics through the process,” she says. Aarthi is a mother of two girls. She says that the focus should be on “life skills and sensorial activities”. She feels that a lot of learning happens through play, and that parents need not look anywhere else for material to keep children engaged. Enter your teen’s world Talking to teenagers can be tricky, more so at a time of uncertainty and recurring lockdowns. Chennai-based Deepa Packiyanath, who has twins aged 12, and a 17-year-old daughter, says that most teenagers crave a safe space to share their feelings openly. “All the hours spent online affects her; I ensure that I spend our morning tea time together, during which we chat about everything that interests her,” she says. And to get her daughter to open up, Deepa says she tries to be involved in her world. “She is into K-pop, and so I listen to it too, and ask her doubts here and there,” she adds. This leads to more conversations, and in the end, it’s a win-win for both parent and child. Embark on an adventure K R Balathandapani runs an academy in Coimbatore that guides children in Science and Math. “My 10-year-old daughter sits through the sessions,” he says. “Sometimes, she runs away saying I’m repeating the same thing,” laughs the 50-year-old. Before the pandemic, Balathandapani regularly travelled on work — he works in sustainability — his daughter would accompany him. “Active parents, such as entrepreneurs, farmers, or the self-employed, can afford to take their children along with them on their work day so that the child can observe them,” he says. During lockdown, Balathandapani has been setting up kitchen gardens for people, and his daughter is right there, learning by seeing. Bubble fun US-based Sindhuja Sandeep, mother of an active four-year-old, has long lists of activities to keep her son engaged through the day. “We melt crayons and put it in a cookie cutter to get new shapes,” she says. “I also give him a tub of water and some soap and he makes bubbles; I toss in some utensils and he pretends to wash them.” She adds that he makes play-dough of various colour combinations using food colour.
10 August 2020||August 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Yoga is being sexualised?||If you look at yoga search trends over the past five years in India, on Google Trends, (a dynamic matrix that tell us, in data terms, what people searched for online) the first three results were in Hindi. “Sexy yoga”, “Yoga sexy video”, and “yoga sex video” showed what Google calls “breakout” numbers, meaning it shot up by over 5000% compared to the previous five years. How did yoga make the shift from spiritual practice to soft porn? For starters, yoga has gone mainstream world over, and once something is seen as a potential money-spinner, capitalism will turn its greedy eye to it. Yoga was tagged onto the sports-meets-fashion industry, and marketing departments turned it into the ‘aspirational glamour’ segment, where young, slim, white women curved themselves into a vrischikasana, balancing themselves on their arms like it was the most natural thing to do. Women’s magazines promoted it as a means to sexual nirvana. Much like the expensive, finished cotton clothes that we imported into India during British rule, made from the raw material we had supplied, we brought back yoga, in tights and sports bras — as a fitness habit and a weight-loss promise, abandoning the spiritual reason for its being. Entrepreneurial Indian women benefitted — they had the eyeballs of many like them who wanted to learn yoga. Buoyed by the nascent but quickly growing amateur sports industry, where runners were told to “also do yoga” and Yoga Day began to be promoted, it became a parallel business. The growth of social media influencers fuelled the ‘market’, where styling became all-important: soft light, an excellent background, beautiful bodies and clothes. In their earlier avatar until about 10 years ago, yoga instructors in India, much like beauticians, would go from house to house, or building to building, teaching people how to go through a set of asanas. Now, this world was open to upper-middle-class women (men too, though like in the modelling world more women benefitted). Along with a knowledge of yoga, they also had urbanisation, education, feminism on their side, to be able to carve out a sometimes rough path for others after — yoga had, even 50 years ago, been male dominated. The rough path included nasty, sometimes lewd comments. The nature of what can trigger sexual desire is nuanced, but there is something to be said about a) just seeing more women in a space they weren’t dominating, b) seeing the beauty of the human form suddenly ‘out there’ on social media, when we don’t see it in real life — on a road or even in most gyms. It is a reaction to a change in the culture of fitness; a generation of women now learning not just to accept, but to celebrate their bodies. This search for yoga videos that titillate then, is a phase, until India gets used to seeing women revel in a sport in clothes that are comfortable and that show the form, as is often needed for yoga teachers. Until then, we’ll keep seeing searches that deflect from the practice, and focus on quite something else.
13 August 2020||August 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Full tech jacket||Somesh Singh, a former professor at NID Ahmedabad and the former Director of Institute of Apparel Management, declares that the Covest, a jacket he has designed, merges crafts with technology. The four-layer jacket is made using cotton printed Ajrakh (a block printing technique from Gujarat), and has various in-built capabilities to protect the wearer from infections outdoors. It took him more than two months of research, trial, and error, before the prototype was finalised. Constructed with Cemi-Flex (cement fabric combining natural and synthetic material that looks like leather), the jacket is coated with Viroban-N9 SC 100, an anti-bacterial and anti-viral textile finish. It is fitted with social distancing sensors, sanitisation pockets, a thermometer to measure the body temperature, and an in-built mask. The Ajrakh is sourced from national-awardee Abdul Jabbar Khatri, a craftsperson from Bhuj. Somesh is awaiting an ISO 45001 certification, after which the jacket will be available online, around September. Initially, it will be priced at Rs. 4,999 and available in sizes S, M, L and XL. Excerpts from an interview with Somesh, who is also an NIFT graduate and has worked with the Indian Army in the past to design warm clothing for soldiers posted in Siachen. How did the idea of the jacket occur to you? Like many others I believed the novel coronavirus will go away in three weeks after lockdown 1.0. But it didn’t. One day, I went out to fill petrol in my car and forgot the mask at home. After using the credit card for payment, I wondered how I could sanitise it, along with other personal belongings like car keys, coins, kerchief, wrist watch, spectacles or sun glasses, mask, gloves and mobile phone. Over the next few days I read hundreds of articles to understand the nature of the virus and it became clear that as part of new norms to effectively tackle the coronavirus, a person’s behaviour will have to be altered. How did you find the answer in combining crafts with technology?   As multiple doubts gave birth to ideas, I zeroed onto what is popularly known as smart clothing abroad, but not much known in our country. The best product I could think of was a garment-like jacket that could help to embed sensors in a 360 degree sphere to ensure the mandatory physical distancing, to fight COVID-19 in a mindful way. And handcrafting it would also mean jobs for craftspersons. How does fashion meet health in your product?   It is fashion moulded into functional health! For instance, the mask was never an accessory and wearing it is not our habit. But now the convertible collar of the jacket will not allow you to forget. Introducing Ajrakh print as a start will find quick acceptance in the market. What is the purpose of the jacket?   The jacket is not for treatment, but has been developed to check the contagion by incorporating different preventive features. It is important to build a culture of alertness through our dressing, just as we are working on immunity boosters, given a future vulnerable to infections. Could you describe the jacket?   The garment looks like any usual jacket but for its unique features such as a sensor fitted on the shoulders and the back that beep if you do not maintain the recommended distance of two metres with others on any side. A digital thermometer fitted in the front reads the body temperature on simple finger contact. Three-layered 6x10 inch pockets are stitched in the front where all your personal belongings fit in for sanitisation in 30 seconds under UV light of 260 nanometre wavelength. The metal buttons are switches to operate the LED lights for the UV radiation and the seams act as circuits. When you open the pocket flap to take your things out, the radiation circuit gets cut. How does a person maintain the jacket?   It is regular daily wear, which you will need to dry clean preferably every fortnight. Remove the batteries before giving it. The mask is detachable for frequent home wash.  Can the jacket be used in other situations?   Since this is a jacket made for the COVID-19 pandemic, the sensor range is two metres. It can be increased for visually challenged people for proximity alert, and women can be warned of stalkers. Bikers can prevent accidents with vehicles coming from behind. I also want to provide a fragrance finish to the jackets to reduce stress through aromatherapy.
10 August 2020||August 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Is the wait too long?||Educational institutions, whether schools or colleges, have not been functioning from the second fortnight of March 2020 leaving a huge backlog of academic work. With the indefinite closure of institutions and no indications on reopening, students have been left wondering about their future.  Losing touch with study: In the current situation, students are confined to home and all activities are restricted. As online classes pick up steam, conventional study patterns are likely to suffer and it will need special impetus to put students back on track.  Plight of final-year students: The lockdown was announced during the last segment of the final semester of colleges and last term of the school year. The worst affected have been students who were looking forward to entering college or taking up jobs. Among the latter, the plight of those from economically weak and rural sections is especially sad, as their employment would have been vital to their families.  Alternate possibilities: With the lockdown continuing, it is important for students to be engaged in a meaningful and productive manner. Institutions should explore alternative ways to reach out to students. Innovative institutions may be studied to see what novel ways they use to make study an enjoyable endeavour. Teachers should be motivated and encouraged to be serious about this approach, which may be initially arduous but will eventually be an interesting and satisfying exercise.  Other than online: While online education is the current panacea there should be efforts to expedite other modes of education. Institutes involved in educational research and development should work rigorously on alternatives to conventional and online education.  Fate of sports and games: Though sports and games have been an integral part of education, the pandemic has forced a change by tweaking regulations and disallowing spectators. Hence, sports authorities need to work out a formula for educational institutions on how to cope with the current crisis while giving equal importance to sports and games, as these are crucial to the students’ health. The writer is Pro Vice-Chancellor, Hindustan Institute of Technology &Science (Deemed to be University). Email: alexjesu62@gmail.com
10 August 2020||August 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Boost the entrepreneurial spirit||When the United Nations adopted the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) in 2000, it was hoped that, by 2015, the world would be rid of eight grave challenges including poverty, hunger and environmental degradation. However, today, the MDGs have been replaced by the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), which represent the challenges of this millennium and the need to tackle them with a new perspective. It has been established that a collaborative approach and skills-based learning are key to achieve any development goal, and the SDGs are no different. Policy makers and governments must identify common points to realise these new sustainability goals. One such could be entrepreneurship. The way ahead The United Nations described entrepreneurship as one of the possible solutions to sustainable development challenges in its resolution on Entrepreneurship for Development. Thus, developed and developing countries are emphasising the need to promote entrepreneurship. Though India is not behind, it still has a long way to go since micro, small and medium enterprises contribute to over a third of GDP and around half the exports in the country. To develop entrepreneurship, it is necessary that each stage — from education to access to finance — is given due focus. This is where the importance of entrepreneurship education comes in. The current pandemic has shown the importance of business sustainability for economic development. Early start Enhancing entrepreneurship education and skill development in developing countries and economies in transition is one of the six priority areas under the UN’s Entrepreneurship Policy Framework and Implementation Guidance. Entrepreneurship education is required to instil and shape the entrepreneurial spirit, while simultaneously providing right tools to establish and run the business in a financially sustainable manner. Its effectiveness can be improved through introducing the subject formally in school. This will also help instil the qualities of gender equality in children’s minds. With global warming impacting businesses in many countries, start-ups in the field of energy are concentrating on addressing issues related to climate change. For social entrepreneurs, the agenda goes far beyond clean energy production. They are also focusing on improving quality of life and to create sustainable cities and communities. The COVID-19 pandemic has led to shortages of intensive care beds, ventilators, and protective equipment. Many start-ups and MSMEs have begun manufacturing these items with technology support from research institutions. Mass communication of quarantine measures, effective quarantine monitoring measures, as well as digital solutions to regulate essential logistics have also played a vital role. Several start-ups rose to the occasion by providing quick solutions relating to each of these areas. Start-ups can also play a big role in the areas of organic agriculture and value addition of agri products. The writer is Assistant Professor, Entrepreneurship Development Institute of India (EDII)  To develop entrepreneurship, it is necessary that each stage — from education to access to finance — is given due focus.
10 August 2020||August 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Coping with ambiguity||This pandemic is a close encounter with the discomfort of being in-between — unsure of what we have lost and what we are about to find; uncertain if it is a loss or gain — individually, or if we should mourn what we had or prepare for what lies ahead. The dilemma lies in the imperative of planning ahead and the difficulty of planning effectively, as variables abound. Unlike institutional planning, planning as an individual feels doubly stifling as the pandemic has negated foreknowledge of when, how, what of its end and its after effects. This ambiguity bears a great deal of anxiety and discomfort. Freedom of movement and choice and freedom to experience are the three basic freedoms we take for granted. The pandemic’s deathblow to the first two has stymied freedom to experience that was like an impulse on autopilot. Experiences have always run on the fuel of movement and variety, big or small. Although the loss of big experiences such as holidays and ceremonies have rocked our boat, it is the denial of small experiences — freedom to visit with our loved ones, have a meal with friends, go to a café, movie or a game in the stadium, freedom to walk, run, mingle, make merry — that are hurting us the most. Can we replicate these freedom measures in small doses in this distanced, locked-up present? The highlight of our pre-pandemic life was our empowering span of control — to act as we wish is our second nature. In the current status quo, we can recreate control by planning life and events that can be executed in small portions, requiring short planning preludes, since we lack visibility beyond a few weeks. We can initiate experiences therein, re-design the rituals that we most miss, and conduct those in small groups using technology to its every potential. The truth is that smaller, intimate groups build stronger connections as we are more present, more attentive to each one in the circle and can possibly build deeper human understanding and bonding. Regrets abound Regrets have run a parallel course along the pandemic — for goodbyes we missed saying, for friends we didn’t meet, for unresolved fights, for those short trips we didn’t plan, for the money we didn’t save up, for the risks we didn’t take... the list is endless. Ironically again, as the pandemic passes, new regrets will rise to the surface — for all that we have not paused to think and act on, during these unhurried months. If this thought gives impetus, can we think of all that we can initiate and renew during this period of in-betweenness? Days without social contact are opportune to retreat within. Invoking interior movement into activities that we don’t need a partner for, activities that deeply draw us in, that engage and enable creativity and its resultant joy, are worthy companions during social isolation. And while no one is watching, and the world has no big expectations from us, we must remember to expect less from ourselves, not begrudge the lack of doing and movement, and allow the stillness of doing nothing, often. As we loosen up to escape into things that went out of reach as we grew up — a siesta, daydreaming, a book by the window, chatting with a friend for hours — regrets will give way to quiet fulfilment inside this ambiguous pause. The writer is a freelance writer, blogger, and life coach. nivedita@lifealigncoaching.com
10 August 2020||August 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Engineering solutions||Product design (or industrial design) as a profession is linked to the second Industrial Revolution — popularly known as the Technological Revolution. Product designers work with customers and marketing departments to understand user needs and develop products that can be manufactured efficiently and are commercially viable. They are qualified by training, technical experience and visual sensibility to determine the materials, mechanisms, shape, colour, surface finishes and aesthetics of objects to be reproduced in quantity. The formal instruction for product design has its roots in the pedagogical approach of the Bauhaus, a German art school that was operational between 1919 and 1933 and had a lasting influence on art and design. Students of product design learn the fundamentals of art and design as well as study natural and man-made materials, manufacturing techniques, technology, ergonomics and human factors, among other courses. Design courses are experiential in nature and students immerse themselves in the users’ environment to empathise with them and understand their stated and implicit needs. This strong emphasis on understanding the user, combined with problem-solving skills, is what makes the product designer a valued member of a team. New platforms The advent of computers and the Internet led to the rise of a new branch of design called interaction design. In this specialised field, the product designers work closely with hardware and software developers. The growth of the SaaS (Software as a Service) and the app economy has also kicked off a new field of service designer. But the core of designing remains the same; i.e. solving customer problems, albeit on the digital medium. Over the years, the role of a product designer has expanded to the point where the World Design Organisation has redefined product design as a strategic problem-solving trans-disciplinary process that drives innovation, builds business success, and leads to a better quality of life through innovative products, systems, services and experiences. Product design education is available both at the Bachelor’s and Master’s levels across several universities in India and abroad. Prospective students are expected to have drawing and sketching skills and the ability to think critically. But, above all, they should be passionate about creating innovative products. Design education develops a student’s observation and analytical skills. Students have the option to secure jobs in the industry, independent design studios, start-ups or undertake research. Some students also go on to start their own ventures. The writer is Associate Professor, Director, Master of Integrated Product Design, Anant National University.  Product design is a strategic problem-solving trans-disciplinary process that drives innovation, builds business success, and leads to a better quality of life
10 August 2020||August 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Invest in the future||With educational institutions shutting down during the pandemic, online platforms supported by edtech start-ups bailed out scores of students by helping them maintain continuity in education, though technology was earlier used only as a supplementary form of education. The inclusion of online learning and participation of edtech companies in the National Education Policy 2020 will be a huge boost to India’s growth story. So far, the country has been plagued by issues like infrastructure, electricity, accessibility, and Internet connectivity among others. India spends nearly 4.6% of its GDP on education, much less than most of the G20 nations and doesn’t meet the aspirational value of Indian students. Now, with students being unable to travel to colleges abroad, the country will have to build world class resources for them to access. How can India adapt global best practices to strengthen its grassroots infrastructure? For India to become a world superpower, education will be the catalyst along with the opportunities provided by industries. There are five areas where a public-private partnership can help make the education system robust, transparent, inexpensive and accessible to all.  Central repository for records: This should be one of the biggest exercises India should undertake in the education sector, where all academic records are stored in a single repository. This will ensure greater transparency in the education system, better monitoring of institutions and degrees, and help authenticate information instantly. To enable this, data infrastructure centres will have to be set up locally and a robust online framework with heightened security features will have to be put in place.  Better connectivity: Investment in research infrastructure and uninterrupted high-speed Internet access are among the reasons for the success of western countries. India should also invest in the same across the country and be driven by a satellite-linked Internet system. The government should also ensure zero load shedding by investing in renewable energy resources, which are both viable and self-sustaining.  Create remote learning and research centres: India should take a cue from countries like Australia and New Zealand and create remote learning or cluster centres of well-established schools, colleges and universities at the micro-level. The IIMs and IITs are among the most successful examples in ensuring quality irrespective of location. This will ensure that the local student population increases its aspirational quotient and, in turn, ensures a high per capita income.  Develop international standard teaching: Indian teachers, however versatile, are limited by opportunities and are highly underpaid. Teaching should be one of the highest paid professions in the country. The government, in collaboration with the industrial sector, must invest in continuous skill enhancement and training to bring our teachers on a par with global standards. This will also help reduce ‘brain drain’ and enable India to merge as one of the bigger education hubs.  Regulatory framework for innovation: Universities across Asia, Europe and the U.S. are known for the credibility of their academic research and innovation. The government must formulate a reform-oriented regulatory framework to allow innovation and new models where the focus can shift from pedantic degrees to practical and need-based learning. Increased focus on apprenticeship will help aspiring youth find livelihood options. The writer is the Chairman of Ampersand Group and an educationist, an edu-tech entrepreneur and an expert in the global and Indian education policy landscape.  Disclaimer: The views expressed are personal
10 August 2020||August 10 2020 00:00 IST,||A breather for the right reasons||For many students, graduation from high school is the end of a long and gruelling journey and burnout is a frequent complaint. Others are still undecided about their future and not clear about options for higher studies. In such cases, it would be wise to take a gap year and spend some time evaluating priorities. The important thing is to focus on your education and continue learning even though you are not in a classroom. When taking a gap year, it is critical to have a clear plan. Else it may become a time spent on surfing the Internet or occupied in a meaningless part-time job. Make sure you are taking a breather for the right reasons: to assess your goals and find ways to reach them.  Options galore   Experience a different culture: For many, travel expands the mind and living away from home makes one self-aware and independent. Learning and mingling in a different culture can make you open-minded and empathetic.  Learn a new language: This has both practical and intrinsic value. It will help improve your communication skills and thinking and will also be handy professionally.  Develop new life skills: There are many programmes available that can hone your talent, be it music, art or sports. This is the ideal time to develop your competency, learn about entrepreneurship and/or improve your communication ability.  Discover latent passions: Whether it’s photography, organic farming or international relations, a gap year can help you find dormant interests and discover personal goals, and then provide the resources to achieve them.  Boost your job prospects: An internship or industrial exposure not only gives you valid work experience but is something employers look for while hiring freshers. It will offer insights on whether this is the career for you. What do colleges think? A gap year can be integral to developing the independence and maturity needed to make the most of college. Many colleges prefer students who display commitment, passion, and perseverance to something bigger than themselves. Statistics reveal that taking time to make considered decisions will contribute to increased college success. It is vital that whatever you decide to do is credible and that your progress is documented. One way of keeping track of your time is to apply for college but defer your enrollment. This will keep you from drifting if you know that you have a course to join at the end of your time of reflection. The writer is a College Guidance Counsellor, Trio World Academy
10 August 2020||New Delhi,||The latecomer’s guide to face masks||If you’re confused with all the information about what mask to wear, and how COVID-19 is transmitted in the first place (aerosols? surfaces?), you’re like most people who have a dozen masks around the house, with no clarity on what works best. Here, doctors give us some gyan. Why should I wear a mask when those around me already are? If you’re late to the game, then know that masks fulfil two purposes: they prevent the transmission of the novel coronavirus (and other pathogens — viruses and bacteria) from you (if you have it), via little droplets when you breathe hard, speak, sneeze, cough, or sing. They also prevent the same from other people. Over 120 countries have asked citizens to wear masks in public spaces according to Oxford University’s news piece put out in July. Even if everyone around you is wearing a mask, the World Health Organization (WHO) has not ruled out aerosol transmission in closed settings “particularly in these indoor locations where there are crowded and inadequately ventilated spaces where infected persons spend long periods of time with others.” Look at them as personal protective equipment if you’re going to work in an air-conditioned office with several people, for instance, even if you’re keeping a metre-long distance. What is N95 mask? The ideal is the respirator mask (N100, N99, N95), designed for poultry cleaning or logging — high virus or dust loaded environments. It was meant to be worn for no longer than eight hours, to protect the wearer. The N stands for non-oil, meaning an industry can choose this if there is no oil present in the air. There are also R and P masks, where R means oil is present; P is when oil is present. The number stands for the expectation that the filter will trap 95% particles. So an N95 mask “filters at least 95% of airborne particles but is not resistant to oil,” as per the Centers for Disease Control, US. These are certifications provided by America’s National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH). Reputed companies will generally say on their packaging that they are NIOSH certified. Do check this, as there are several fakes in the market. KN95 are the Chinese equivalent of the N95. “The salient features of these masks are that they provide a complete seal around the nose and mouth [a gasket fitting that provides no leakage],” says Ambarish Satwik, a vascular and endovascular surgeon in Sir Ganga Ram Hospital. “They also work on the mechanism of electrostatic attraction.” Here, the filter that is fibrous in nature, attracts oppositely charged particles. The masks come with filters that need to be changed periodically — check the box or manual for instructions. An N95 once used, must be placed in a breathable paper bag (no plastic lining) and worn on the fifth day, as it is believed that if the virus is present, it dies in that time. What mask should I wear? It all depends on the purpose of the mask. “A surgical mask is meant to prevent infection from wearer to people around,” says Suresh Munuswamy, Programme Coordinator and Associate Professor, Indian Institute of Public Health, in Hyderabad. These are three-ply, meaning they have three layers. “Make sure the middle layer is a melt blown micro/nano fibre layer, and wear it with the folds between the pleats facing downwards and on the outside, with the nose clip on the nose [if there’s one],” says Dr. Satwik, who uses them on his run, because of the breathability (it doesn’t cause hypoxia — oxygen deprivation). “As a rule though, it’s best not to wear a mask at all when you’re running, but then make sure there’s no one around.” They are one-time-use and can be used for a prolonged period of time, about 4-6 hours, but never reused. If they are wet with sweat or moisture, they must be replaced. “Dispose of it by wrapping it in a tissue paper and throwing it in the garbage, if you don’t have COVID-19,” says Dr. Satwik. Do remember though that these are plastic derivatives and are adding to environment pollution, so you may want to keep these to the minimum. Dr. Munuswamy says it isn’t necessary for people working from home with limited interaction with other people to wear a respirator mask. “If you’re taking care of a family member who has COVID-19 or you’re going into a high-risk area, do wear one,” says Dr. Satwik. The third category of masks is cloth that ideally need to be approved by the South India Textile Research Association (SITRA) that offers third-party testing and has a government accredited, NABL-approved laboratory. Are these available? SITRA is not a certification body; only a testing one. Dr. Munuswamy and his team, who have developed a mask, says that companies can opt for a BIS certification, but that is upto the company. Wildcraft Outdoor Protection Masks, for instance, are tested by BIS. Loyal’s Supera Shield 4-layer woven mask is SITRA tested and available on Amazon.in . “However, there is no certification organisation as designation by the government, in our country,” says Dr. Munuswamy, adding that therefore, if someone comes out with an innovation, there is no body to validate the claim.  I’m asthmatic, and I find it hard to breathe. Can I skip the mask in public?  You’ll still have to wear a mask. “I recommend a cloth mask,” says Sundeep Salvi, founder-director of the Pulmocare Research and Education Foundation (PURE), Pune. He cites research from the peer-reviewed ACS Publications that offers support for hybrid masks that leverage “mechanical and electrostatic filtering”. A high thread count cotton piece with two layers of natural silk or chiffon showed that the filtration efficiency was greater than 80% for particle sizes less than 300 nm, and greater than 90% for particle sizes greater than 300 nm. However, if the mask is not snug, it could lead to leakage upto 50%. The WHO suggests a three-layer mask, where the outer layer is water-resistant, the inner layer water absorbent. “Synthetic fabric or canvas [a natural fabric] for the outer layer, and material from an old cotton T-shirt on the inside, would be the closest description to this,” says Sangeeta Sen, a textile designer, from Delhi. Dr. Munuswamy, who heads PHFI’s HI-RapiD Lab, says that most N95 masks are designed for Caucasian facial features, so in his team’s development of a mask for India and Indians, they tweaked the design a little to allow for a broader nose and for the mask to sit slightly away from the face. His mask – a low-cost reusable respirator – has air-intake vents from the sides, with the air being channelled through a matrix. This forces air to bend, and each time the air hits a wall, it deposits some airborne dust and virus particles here, enhancing efficiency and prolonging the role of the replaceable HEPA filter. The mask has been tested in their lab and a research paper will be out on this soon.  What are these anti-viral masks that are being sold? These are masks that have a finish of an anti-viral coating, based on nano technology (the science of very tiny particles). The finish often uses metals like silver or copper, and have the ability to kill a virus. Most are tested with a range of two to 24 hours, which means the virus will get killed in that time duration. However, if say the kill time is one hour, but you touch your mask before that and then touch your eyes, you are still vulnerable. “These finishes lower the risk, but don’t eliminate it,” says Prof Ashwini Agrawal, Dept of Textile and Fibre Engineering, IIT-Delhi, who has developed a silver finish that is currently undergoing testing in a lab abroad. “The problem is that there are very few labs in the world doing this testing, and many individuals are fooling companies into believing they are providing these testing facilities,” he says. Can’t I just use my dupatta or a handkerchief? This is not substitute for a mask, because fit is all important in preventing leakage. It’s the reason masks with vents are not advisable, as these allow unfiltered air to enter and escape. Also, it’s going to touch other surfaces that may have the virus. If you have nothing else and are using the cloth only for this, it’s better than nothing at all.  Should my baby be masked?  This is not advisable, because children below the age of four may not be able to communicate what they’re feeling. “You can try and explain to a child over four,” says Bakul Jayant Parekh, president of the Indian Academy of Pediatrics (IAP). If your child cannot tolerate a mask, the IAP recommends “rigorous respiratory hygiene”, meaning using a disposable paper tissue which should be thrown away immediately. “The chances of a child passing on the infection to adults is rare, but grandparents are at risk, so thebest way is to keep the two apart.”
10 August 2020||New Delhi,||As city unlocks, so does pollution||Amid the challenges of COVID-19-induced lockdown, the considerable improvement in the city’s air quality gave some solace for Delhiites fighting a contagion from the confines of their homes. Now, as they step out to bring life back to normal, the air quality is also slipping back to its ‘normal unhealthy levels’, suggests an analysis of Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data done by The Hindu.  The air pollution levels in the city saw a sharp decline during the first two of the four phases of lockdown compared to previous years. However, the margin of decline during the rest of the lockdown and unlock phases has reduced comparatively. Experts say the government will have to make systematic changes and ensure strict implementation of control measures if it wants to sustain the low pollution levels seen during the lockdown. The analysis of CPCB data shows that the average air quality index (AQI) during each phase of the lockdown and unlock periods between March 25 and July 31 was less than the AQI of the same period in 2019 and 2018. A lower value of AQI means better air quality. AQI is the weighted average of different pollutants such as particulate matter, nitrogen dioxide (NO2), sulphur dioxide (SO2) and other pollutants.  No ‘very poor’ days Also, there were no “very poor”or “severe” AQI days between March 25 and July 31, unlike 2019 and 2018 when there were six and seven “very poor” days respectively. In 2018, the AQI was “severe” on three days, according to the analysis. A study of PM2.5 and NO2 levels by the Centre for Science and Environment, a research and advocacy organisation in Delhi, till May 31 has also shown similar results. “We had done an analysis of PM2.5 and NO2 levels and found out that both had substantially reduced during lockdown 1 and lockdown 2. But the levels were rising again during lockdown 3 and 4,” said Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director of CSE. ‘Won’t last long’ The lowlevels of pollution are not expected to last, according to experts and officials. The average AQI of Delhi during the first lockdown from March 25 to April 14 was 90.2 compared to 208.5 in 2019 and 197.2 in 2018. But by unlock 2, from July 1 to July 31, when there were a lot of relaxations, including vehicular movement, though the AQI was still less -- 83.8 as compared to 134 in July 2019 and 103.8 in July 2018 -- the difference had reduced significantly. The lesser value of AQI in July this year as compared to March and April, when the AQI was 128.2 and 109.8 respectively, was also because of the effect of monsoon. Apart from the known sources of pollution, the air quality is also affected by wind speed, rainfall, temperature and other factors. “Every department has suffered due to COVID-19 pandemic and many projects to fight air pollution have been affected. But things are starting now. We are in talks with IIT-Bombay for building a smog tower,” a Delhi government official said. What is needed “During the lockdown, some major sources of pollution such as industries, majority of vehicles and construction activities were restricted. But it is not possible to stop these sources of pollution in the future. So a lot more effort and technology will be needed to sustain the air quality levels seen during the lockdown,” Ms. Roychowdhury said. Though Delhi has a long-term Comprehensive Action Plan, which has detailed projects  and deadlines in different sectors to reduce pollution, it has not been fully implemented. The Capital has made some progress in terms of fighting air pollution such as reducing entry of trucks into the city, banning polluting fuel such as coal and shutting down all coal power plants, but in many other areas it is lagging in measures. “We need to have a zero emission strategy for transportation. That includes electric vehicles, non-motorised transport and more public transport. Also, industries should move towards cleaner fuel and follow high emission controls,” said Ms. Roychowdhury. “The government should review the plans and targets set before the pandemic and revise it and ensure strict implementation.”
10 August 2020||August 10 2020 00:00 IST,||How to Choose the Right Career||The old saying "find a job you love and never work a day in your life" puts a great deal of pressure on people who are trying to choose the right career. Can you really find one that is so enjoyable, it won't even feel like work? Will you do such work even if you are not paid? Well, that might be a bit of an exaggeration. The trick is to land a right career that pays you well earns respect in society and at the same time lets you enjoy doing it.  First learn as much as possible about yourself The results of a self-assessment will be eye-opening. A career development professional, for example, a career counsellor or career development facilitator, can help you with this step but don't be discouraged if you can't afford to hire one. Many public libraries offer free career planning services. If your local library doesn't, the librarian can suggest one that does. He or she can also recommend local agencies that offer career counselling. Instead of meeting with a counsellor, there are also free or low cost self-assessment available online that one can make use of. Next, Learn About the Occupations on Your List The results from your self-assessment will include a list of occupations that are a good fit for you based on all the factors it examined, but the quest to find the right career doesn't end here. While some of the occupations may be nearly perfect for you, others may be all wrong. Even though they are a good match for your personality type, interests, values, and aptitude, they may be unsuitable in other ways. For example, the job duties may not appeal to you, the outlook may be poor, or the required education or training could be more than you are willing to complete. If after finding out what it would be like to work in an occupation, it still interests you, see what the educational requirements are. If they don't match your educational goals, cross it off your list. For example, if an advanced degree is required and that is not something you can commit to completing, don't choose that career. Likewise, if you've always dreamed of going to college, don't pick an occupation for which you only need a diploma. Finally, but most importantly, you will be doing yourself a great disservice if you don't look at an occupation's job outlook. Investing time training for a career only to find out there are limited opportunities when you are ready to enter your field of choice will waste your time, effort, and money. After narrowing down your list to just a few careers, it is time to dig a little deeper. Continue your research by discussing with people who work in the occupations you are seriously considering. Getting their perspectives can help you make a more informed decision.
10 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||COVID-19 situation in Capital under control, asserts Kejriwal||Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal on Sunday said that the COVID-19 situation in the Capital is under control and all the parameters in Delhi are looking good. “The recovery rate is improving, the positivity ratio and death rate are decreasing. However, novel coronavirus is an unpredictable pandemic and no one knows what might happen tomorrow. If the situation goes out of control again, the Delhi government is fully prepared to deal with it,” the CM said. He was speaking after inaugurating a hospital in Ambedkar Nagar. The CM said that the hospital will soon have a total capacity of 600 beds. But 200 beds with oxygen supply have been made available to treat COVID-19 patients. He said that the construction of the hospital began in 2013 as there was no large hospital in Ambedkar Nagar and there was a demand from the people. “The 200 beds which will be made operational from today [Sunday] will be a huge help in the treatment of COVID-19 patients. Oxygen is available on all beds as it is the primary requirement in their treatment,” Mr. Kejriwal said. He said he hoped the 200 beds will remain unused until the entire hospital becomes fully functional. The hospital was not scheduled to begin for a few more months but 200 beds were inaugurated as the government was making every effort to improve the health infrastructure of the city. “I want to thank and congratulate engineers, doctors and all the people for their efforts in making this hospital available,” Mr. Kejriwal said. This is the second hospital he has inaugurated during the pandemic. On July 25, Mr. Kejriwal had inaugurated a 450-bed hospital in Burari which will eventually have a total of 700 beds.
10 August 2020||Chandigarh,||AAP claims on virus management absurd: Punjab Health Minister||Punjab Health Minister Balbir Singh Sidhu on Sunday said the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) was making a laughing stock of itself with its absurd claims on COVID-19 management in the national capital and termed the so-called ‘Delhi model’ nothing more than a desperate bid by the Delhi government to divert attention from its failures. The Minister, in a statement, described Punjab Leader of the Opposition Harpal Singh Cheema’s statement expressing “dissatisfaction” with the Punjab government’s measures to tackle the pandemic as ridiculous and said the AAP MLA was clearly oblivious to the fact that Punjab continued to fare much better than many other States in the fight against COVID-19, which in fact had totally exposed the inadequate Delhi healthcare infrastructure. Mr. Sidhu pointed out that the effectiveness of Punjab’s battle against the virus was not on account of any help from the Central government, unlike Delhi where the Centre had to step in and virtually take over the pandemic management to pull the city out of the total and unprecedented mess into which the AAP government had pushed it. “The less said about the AAP government’s COVID management in Delhi the better,” said the Minister, pointing out that even now, the Delhi High Court was continuously questioning and, in fact, pulling up the Delhi government over its pandemic strategy. “What Delhi model is this, which even the High Court is not satisfied with?” he asked, adding that Punjab remained far ahead of Delhi in terms of effectiveness in COVID-19 management. Under HC scanner “Given that the entire testing strategy of the Delhi government was under the court’s scanner, Mr. Cheema’s insistence on Punjab adopting the same strategy was not just laughable but a clear indication that the AAP was not interested in protecting the people of Punjab,” said Mr. Sidhu. He said all the AAP had ever cared about was promoting its own interests, which the people of Punjab had seen through back in 2017 itself when they had shattered the party’s dreams of forming the government in the State.
10 August 2020||New Delhi,||Facebook needs to review its privacy policy, says HC||Responding to a recent incident where pictures of college students were posted on porn sites after being lifted from photo and video sharing platform Instagram, the Delhi High Court has said that Facebook, which owns Instagram, may need to “review and sharpen” its privacy policy. Justice Anup Jairam Bhambhani said that while no relief may have been sought against Facebook by the victim, who has approached the court for removal of the offending contents from the Internet, the company remains a proper party to the present proceedings. This, the court said, was necessary for Facebook to “ensure that offending content like the subject matter of the present proceedings does not fall in the hands of wrongdoers”. The court’s remark came after Facebook said it was “merely a pro-forma party and may accordingly be discharged from this matter” as the offending content has already been removed by Facebook from its platform. No global policing Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, appearing for Facebook, said the victim has deactivated her Facebook account and that no relief was sought against Facebook in her petition. “We operate in 150 countries in the world. So we can’t act like a global policemen on every account. We are only a platform,” Mr. Rohtagi said, adding that Facebook will remove any content when ordered by the court without contest. The victim, a college student in Bangalore, in her complaint filed through advocate Sarthak Maggon stated that her pictures posted on ‘Instagram’ and ‘Facebook’, were mischievously and illegally lifted and uploaded on a pornographic website, along with derogatory captions. DCP, CyPAD, Anyesh Roy had stated in a previous hearing that there are other students in the college, whose personal content has also been illegally reposted, and investigation in also going on in Bangalore. Mr. Roy had underscored the ‘technological impediment’ in completely effacing offending content from the World Wide Web.  Justice Bhambhani has decided to enlarge the scope of the petition to evolve a set of steps including “what directions are required to be passed by a court and to which parties”, and the measures law enforcement agencies should undertake.
10 August 2020||GURUGRAM,||RTI activist seeks recovery of fine from Haryana officials||A complaint has been filed before Haryana Lokayukta by a Panipat-based RTI activist seeking recovery of Rs. 2.27 crore outstanding fine with interest from 1,726 officials, including several Haryana Civil Services officials. The officials were fined by the State Information Commission (SIC) over the past few years for violating the provisions of the Act, including not furnishing the information, in separate cases. P.P. Kapoor, the complainant, said these officials were penalised by the SIC under Section 20 (1) for violation of the law, but they neither paid the fine nor imparted the information making “mockery” of the RTI Act. He further said that the State government had also failed to initiate any legal action against these officials. “Those seeking information under the law keep running from pillar to post, but they are not heard. It is also causing loss to the State exchequer,” said Mr. Kapoor. Besides seeking the recovery of the fine, Mr. Kapoor demanded that the improper conduct of the officials be recorded in their Annual Confidential Reports, the Drawing and Disbursement Officials responsible for the recovery be also punished and a special cell set up for the recovery of fine in the future. Some of the defaulter officials named in the complaint are Bharat Bhushan Gogia (then Estate Officer, Haryana Sahari Vikas Pradhikaran, Gurugram), Bijender Hooda (then SDM, Charkhi Dadri), Kumari Shalini Chetan (then CTM, Hisar), Aiyaz Mohammad (Estate Officer, Waqf Board, Sonipat) and Parveen Kumar (then ADC, Gurugram). As per the complaint, State Public Information Officer (SPIO), Yagya Dutt Chugh, in reply to a query filed by Mr. Kapoor under the RTI Act, had revealed that 2,974 SPIOs were fined Rs. 3.50 crore till December 2019 and Rs. 2.27 crore was yet to be recovered. Mr. Kapoor added that the number of defaulter officials would have gone up since then. Mr. Kapoor said that circulars were sent to the heads of the departments of the defaulter officials and the senior officials of the government by Chief Secretary, Administrative Reforms Department, several times, but the “influential” defaulters did not pay the penalty.  Those seeking information under the law keep running from pillar to post, but are not heard. It is also causing loss to the State exchequer P.P. Kapoor Complainant
10 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Two drunk men held for locking mosque, denying entry to Imam||Two persons were arrested after they locked a local mosque and prevented the Imam from entering the place of worship in south west Delhi’s Bijwasan village, said a senior police officer on Sunday. Police said that two locals in inebriated state locked the main door of the mosque on Saturday evening and restricted the Imam and others from entering the premises. A local informed the police about the incident. “A police team rushed to the location and two persons, identified as Manjit Khatri and Pramod, were held and taken to Kapashera Police station for further investigation. The lock was removed and the mosque was open to everyone,” said a police officer. The officer said that a mandir and mosque were located adjacently in the village and a few anti-social elements had tried to disrupt the peace. The arrested persons, however, are not affiliated to any group. “A meeting with people from peace committee and locality were held to maintain peace in the area. We have deployed police personnel to avoid any clash,” added the officer. Uneasy past A local said that there are only a few houses of Muslims in the area, dominated by Hindus. In the past, an anti-social had tried to disrupt peace by targeting the only mosque in the village by restricting outsiders to visit the mosque for Friday prayers. A few locals had earlier threatened and abused the Imam and asked him to vacate the area. A complaint was made to the police. The officer added that they have taken appropriate legal action against the accused persons and they have been sent to jail.  A meeting with people from peace committee and locality were held to maintain peace in the area. We have deployed police personnel to avoid any clash A police officer
10 August 2020||Bhopal,||Rights panel seeks report from Centre||The National Human Rights Commission has sought an action-taken report within four weeks from the Centre and the Madhya Pradesh government on a complaint by Bhopal gas tragedy survivors demanding the monthly pension of Rs. 1,000 to each widow of victims that was discontinued in December 2019. The Commission on August 7 directed the complaint filed by the Bhopal Gas Peedith Mahila Udyog Sanghathan be forwarded to Secretary, Ministry of Chemicals and Fertilizers; Secretary, Ministry of Law and Justice and the Chief Secretary, Madhya Pradesh government. The complainant had pointed out that the Union Cabinet in 2010 had approved a recommendation of a Group of Ministers to provide pension to around 5,000 widows. Initially, Rs. 500 a month was paid and later the amount was increased to Rs. 1,000 a month by the Centre, for which Rs. 30 crore had been allocated. As such, Rs. 25.43 crore was disbursed as pension to beneficiaries until 2019-2020, the complainant informed the Commission, and Rs. 4.57 crore was still left with the Centre. “However, now the hapless widow beneficiaries are being deprived of the pension,” the Commission said in the order.  Curative petition Further, the complainant said a curative petition filed by the Centre before the Supreme Court for enhancing the settlement sum by an additional amount of Rs. 7,728 crore was pending for last 10 years. “Thus, the widows of thousands of gas victims are forced to live in abysmal conditions because of the inordinate delay in payment of additional compensation,” the Commission noted.
10 August 2020||Bhopal,||Pandemic restrictions put Bhopal sex workers in a bind||Whenever the COVID-19 advisory chimes in on her phone — maintain a distance of at least two yards with others and always wear a facemask — Kajal* is caught in a bind. A sex worker for eight years, she wonders how to keep the virus away yet continue earning. “New clients fear if we have the disease, but what about them? Even we fear they might have it,” said Kajal, 38, whose husband, a driver with an LPG gas agency, and daughter, don’t know about her work. At least four clients approached her every day before the pandemic struck, but now even if one came, she considers herself lucky. Bleak finances Nearly 1,500 female sex workers in Bhopal, mostly from low-income families, live with the constant fear of having contracted the illness, given the physical intimacy which characterises their profession. Wages have crashed as apprehensive clients are short of the paying power themselves: the pandemic has snatched jobs and hobbled businesses. And bleak finances at households after the pandemic-induced-lockdown is pushing more and more women, even minor girls, into the work. Still, to ensure her daughter’s schooling continues, Kajal can’t depend entirely on her husband, who makes a mere Rs. 5,000 a month. Moreover, there is the added burden of paying Rs. 4,000 rent for a one-room apartment she and three other sex workers have taken. “Several workers have given up such rooms. They now visit the client’s residence which can be unsafe or sit home jobless,” she says. With no one to guide them through profession-specific precautions, sex workers simply follow those prescribed for the general public. The lockdown-induced-economic crisis has also pushed tens into sex work in Bhopal. Recently, a 15-year-old girl, responsible for a younger brother after her mother died during the lockdown, took up the profession as working as a domestic help didn’t work, for households are still loath to allow outsiders inside. “Our work will come back on track only after the pandemic goes away. But people say it is here to stay,” said Manisha*, 42, whose husband is a contractor. Whereas Kajal is now desperate to switch to an alternative profession, perhaps opening a boutique, for it will offer a stable income and reduce the risk of contracting COVID-19 or STDs and harassment by the police. “But other professions will require hefty investments. Where will we get money during the pandemic?” she asked. Credit from customers Only regular clients have come to the rescue of the workers during the lockdown. While Kajal received Rs. 10,000 in advance from a client, who’ll recover the amount later, Manisha too had taken credit from her boyfriend. “We simply tell our families we work at offices and got the loan from our employers,” said Kajal. Six-seven sex workers in Bhopal had also tested positive for COVID-19, though not through their profession, said Rajesh Chouhan, project manager, Centre for Advanced Research and Development, an NGO. “Ensuring safe sex among the workers during the lockdown has been a challenge. But we distributed condoms among workers in bulk earlier,” he said. Of the city’s 1,200 workers registered with the group, around 800-900 were home-based. * Names changed   New clients fear if we have the disease, but what about them? Even we fear they might have it Kajal Bhopal sex worker
10 August 2020||GURUGRAM,||Rail corridor to put Gurugram on fast track||Set to connect four major radial routes of the Indian Railways from Delhi passing through Haryana, the proposed 121-km-long Haryana Orbital Rail Corridor running along the Kundli-Manesar-Palwal Expressway will be the much-needed rail bypass of Delhi, reducing traffic congestion in the Capital, besides making travel possible by train in different directions from the Millennium City. The four major radial routes of the Indian Railways originating from Delhi to be intersected by the proposed corridor are: Delhi-Palwal-Mathura, Delhi-Rewari-Jaipur-Ahmedabad, Delhi-Rohtak-Bhatinda and Delhi-Ambala-Chandigarh. “The project will not just provide rail bypass of Delhi, but also connect Gurugram to these radial routes. As of now, Gurugram is located on a unidirectional route from Delhi to Jaipur via Rewari. The orbital corridor will make it possible to travel in different directions viz. Mathura, Bhatinda and Chandigarh from the Millennium City. It will significantly improve the rail connectivity in this region,” said Haryana Rail Infrastructure Development Corporation (HRIDC), Managing Director, Dinesh Chand Deshwal.  ‘Metro-like’ trains Mr. Deshwal said the railways was also mulling “metro-like” trains on the corridor between Palwal and Sonipat for commuters travelling daily on the route for jobs and business. The proposed orbital corridor would also be the linchpin of economic growth in NCR connecting the Indian Railways’ Dedicated Freight Corridor at Prithala station and logistics hubs and promoting development of new multi-modal hubs along the periphery of the Capital. Connecting Palwal to Sonipat via Sohna, Manesar and Kharkhouda, the rail corridor is a broad gauge electrified double railway line for passenger and freight traffic. Mr. Deshwal said a lot of industrial and township development was expected in the region, especially along the KMP Expressway, and the rail corridor would be the stimulus for real estate and industrial development. “The Haryana State Industrial and Infrastructure Development Corporation (HSIIDC) plans to develop five super smart cities under its project, “Panchgram”, along the KMP Expressway. The freight from across the country now first comes to Delhi. It leads to problems of pollution and congestion. Many mandis and big logistics hub will shift to the periphery of Delhi with the development of this railway line. Cargo multi-modal parks are likely to develop along this railway line,” said Mr. Deshwal. It is also expected that the commissioning of the project will shift the non-traditional rail traffic, such as fruits, vegetables and refrigerated cargo, from roads to railways.  ‘Act as catalyst’ Manesar Industries Welfare Association vice-president Manmohan Gaind said the orbital rail corridor project was a “great” idea and an efficient way to design mass transport through different means used extensively in Europe. “This will increase flow of goods in NCR and act as a catalyst to develop this region as industrial hub in the country,” said Mr. Gaind. The 107-km-long Regional Rapid Transit System corridor from Delhi to Haryana-Rajasthan border passing through the Millennium City and the 1290-km-long access-controlled Delhi-Mumbai Expressway originating here are two other major infrastructure projects coming up in the region.  Land acquisition The Ministry of Railways provided in-principle approval to the project in March last year following which the Haryana Cabinet gave its nod four months later and the project proposal was submitted to the Railway Board on July 25, 2019, for clearance from the Cabinet Committee of Economic Affairs. The land acquisition officers have also commenced the process of land acquisition. For two sub-divisions of Pataudi and Gurugram, land plans have already been submitted with the revenue authorities concerned for further actions and for remaining sections, the same is under process. The HRIDC this past month invited Expression of Interest applications from global engineering and consultancy firms to appoint a General Consultant for the project. A Special Purpose Vehicle, Haryana Orbital Rail Corporation Limited (HORCL), has also been created for implementation of the project. It comprises HRIDC, HSIIDC, Gurugram Metropolitan Development Authority and the Maruti Suzuki India Limited, among others.  Project completion time HORCL Chairperson Rajeev Arora told The Hindu that they had all approvals from the Haryana government and many of the Union Ministries and the project would be completed in five years after commencement of the work. “It will be commissioned in phases. For instance, when the connection between two radials of railways is completed, it will be commissioned for meaningful traffic. Unlike the regular railway lines, the corridor has lot of interfaces with the railway system and the urban infrastructure. At places, there will be flyovers over the roads for the corridor. Five years is a realistic time frame. It will prove to be a stimulus to economic growth and a robust public transport system,” said Mr. Arora.
10 August 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi, Mumbai police save man’s life after they get a call from Facebook||In a successful joint operation involving a social media giant, Delhi Police and Mumbai Police, a man was coaxed out of his decision to kill himself. At 7.51 pm on Saturday, DCP (Cyber) Anyesh Roy received a call from Ireland. An official from Facebook informed him that their systems have identified ‘suicidal activity’ on a Facebook account belonging to a Delhi resident and the information was further shared on his email address, the police said. They said when Mr. Roy checked his email, he found a report from Facebook referring to the account of a woman from Delhi and shared her mobile number that was registered with the platform. Since it was a sensitive issue, a direct call to the person could have triggered panic, the police added. Mr. Roy managed to trace the location of the phone user to Mandawali here. The details were shared with DCP (East) Jasmeet Singh, who then despatched his staff to the woman's house. However, the officials were relieved on reaching the spot to find her fine. When enquired, she said its her phone number but her Facebook account is being used by her husband, who is living in Mumbai. She told police that her husband had left for Mumbai after a fight ensued between them around 14 days ago. He has been working as a cook in a hotel there since then. She shared her husband’s mobile number but was not aware of his address. When the Delhi Police tried to contact him, his number was found to be unreachable, so Mr. Roy got in touch with his counterpart in Mumbai, Mr. Bal Singh Rajput, and Dr. Rashmi Karandikar, DCP (Cyber) in Mumbai. The Mumbai policemen swung into action. After a while, when his phone was found to be switched on, Dr. Karandikar spoke with the man who was in psychological distress. He counselled him and despatched policemen in Bhayandar area, a suburb of Mumbai to control the situation.  Suicide prevention helpline: Sanjivini, Society for Mental Health, Telephone: 011-4076 9002, Monday-Saturday, 10 a.m. -7.30 p.m.
10 August 2020||New Delhi,||DSLSA organises first online Lok Adalat||Bringing creative solutions to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, the Delhi State Legal Services Authority (DSLSA) under the National Legal Services Authority (NALSA) organised the first-ever online Lok Adalat here on Saturday. Supreme Court Judge N.V. Ramana, who is the Executive Chairman of NALSA, said these testing times have resulted in new innovations. “We have to learn and embrace new ways for the betterment of society. The pandemic has brought about new and immediate challenges for the justice delivery system,” Justice Ramana said. “Judges in various courts across the country are working through videoconferencing to make justice accessible to all...,” he said.
10 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Cases rising as many from outside getting tested: Jain||The Capital recorded 1,300 new COVID-19 cases on Sunday, taking the total number of cases to 1,45,427. In the past 24 hours, 13 deaths were reported taking the total fatalities to 4,111, said a heath bulletin from the Delhi government. With the recovery of 1,225 people, the total number of recoveries now stands at 1,30,587. There are 10,729 active cases in the city at present, the bulletin added, out of which 5,462 patients are under home isolation. Out of the 13,527 hospital beds available, the government said that 3,084 were occupied. At the Dedicated Covid Care Centres 711 out of 10,146 beds are occupied. A total of 5,702 RT-PCR and 18,085 rapid-antigen tests were conducted, according to the bulletin, taking the total number of tests done so far to 11,92,082. The number of containment zones stands at 472 in Delhi. Reacting to the rise in number of COVID-19 cases in the city over the past few days, Health Minister Satyendar Jain said that the rise was due to patients from outside getting tested in Delhi. “There have been reports that COVID-19 cases are increasing in the national capital. Many patients from outside Delhi are getting tested here, hence there is a rise in the number of cases. There is otherwise a decline in cases here,” Mr. Jain said.
10 August 2020||GUWAHATI,||Elderly Naga couple with comorbidities beat COVID-19||The recovery of an elderly Nagaland couple with comorbidities has given a fillip to the State government’s fight against the stigma surrounding the novel coronavirus infection. Unlike some parts of Nagaland where the infected have been shunned even after recovery, the people of Lasumi village in Phek district bordering Myanmar stood by 93-year-old Tsulo Therie and his 79-year-old wife Zunyi-ii. The couple’s 10 children, members of their extended family and neighbours welcomed them back home after their discharge from the District (COVID-19) Hospital in district headquarters Phek.  ‘Noteworthy recovery’ The hospital’s Medical Superintendent, Dr. Tiala Longkumer said their recovery was noteworthy as Mr. Therie has arthritis and his wife is a diabetic. “The couple along with one of their sons had tested positive on July 24 and their status was confirmed on July 28 via RT-PCR,” the doctor said. Another of the couple’s sons had tested positive earlier. Kute Therie, one of the couple’s sons and a Community Health Officer at a government-run health and wellness centre near Lasumi village, said he was the first in the family to get infected possibly because of his COVID-19 duty. “It is because of God’s blessings that my parents survived. Besides, they are active and refuse to touch anything other than traditional Naga food grown organically,” he said. Mmhonlumo Kikon, an MLA and State spokesperson for COVID-19, saw a ray of hope in the recovery of the elderly couple and the positive attitude of the people of Lasumi. “The government has run many campaigns for creating awareness through various platforms on stigma associated with COVID-19. However, it is the collective responsibility of everybody to fight this stigma,” he told The Hindu .
10 August 2020||August 10 2020 00:00 IST,||ICAI at a Glance||The Institute of Chartered Accountants of India (ICAI) is a statutory body established under the Chartered Accountants Act, 1949 for the regulation of the profession of Chartered Accountancy and conducting CA Course and examinations in India. During its 70 years of glorious existence, ICAI has emerged as a premier accounting body not only in the country but also globally, for its contribution to the fields of education and professional development as well as for maintaining the highest level of ethics and professionalism in the fields of accounting and auditing. ICAI is now the second largest accounting body in the whole world. ICAI conducts the requisite examinations and grants membership to successful students. Apart from this primary function, it also helps various government agencies like RBI, SEBI, MCA, CAG, IRDA, etc. in policy formulation .ICAI actively interacts with all government departments in aiding and advising on economic policy formulation . ICAI has its Head quarters at New Delhi and 5 Regional offices at Chennai, Mumbai, Kolkata, Delhi and Kanpur and more than 165 Branches and about 30 Foreign Chapters across the globe. ICAI presently has a member strength of over 3,00,000 and student strength of around 8,00,000. The Kozhikode Branch of the Southern India Regional Council of The Institute of Chartered Accountants of India is the sixth Branch of ICAI in Kerala having jurisdiction over Kozhikode, Malappuram and Wayanad districts. Kozhikode Branch of ICAI is the only authorized centre of ICAI in Malabar region to provide coaching classes for all 3 levels of CA course. Courses conducted at Branch are for Foundation, Intermediate, and Final examinations. The Kozhikode Branch is also conducting Integrated course on Information Technology and Soft Skills (ICITSS) and Advanced Integrated course on Information Technology and Soft Skills (AICITSS) for the students.
10 August 2020||New Delhi,||‘Make adequate arrangements to ensure online teaching does not turn exclusionary’||Students group — SFI — appealed to Delhi University to make adequate arrangements to ensure that online teaching to be undertaken in the new semester does not turn exclusionary. The group highlighted that open book examinations had already faced severe criticism as there were issues of access, apart from which online classes that took place during last semester could not be attended by many students. New approach While it supported developments in the use of technology for education, the group said it was important for new approaches to be implemented in the interest of all students. In the absence of infrastructure facilities such as a stable Internet connection and availability of equipment to all, students from socially and economically backward sections will be at a disadvantage, SFI said.  The group demanded that there must be clarity on the availability of facilities among students and undertake remedial measures before moving ahead with its plans.
10 August 2020||New Delhi,||AAP gears up for civic body elections||The Aam Admi Party’s Delhi unit is being reorganised from top to bottom in preparation for the municipal corporation elections, to be held in 2022, said party convener Gopal Rai on Sunday. Mr. Rai announced appointments of district in-charge, district communications in-charge, and 70 assembly observers. The restructuring has been taking place for the last week and is expected to be completed by August 20, Mr. Rai said, adding that priority was being given to party leaders who had helped out during the Assembly elections and in the pandemic. In the next phases of the reorganisation, the party will appoint another 70 Assembly in-charge and 272 ward in-charge party members, Mr. Rai said.
10 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Bhoomi pujan’: AAP attacks BJP for not inviting Kovind||AAP Rajya Sabha MP Sanjay Singh alleged that the BJP was an “anti-Dalit” party as it did not invite President Ram Nath Kovind to the ‘ bhoomi pujan ’ ceremony of Ram temple at Ayodhya. Mr. Kovind is the first Dalit President of the country. “Why was the President not called for Bhoomi Pujan? Is it because he is a Dalit? BJP should answer this. Anti Dalit BJP [sic],” Mr. Singh tweeted. He alleged that the BJP did not invite the President because they did not want to involve him in the rituals. Mr. Singh said that when the BJP made Mr. Kovind the President of India, its leaders were proclaiming loudly across the country that they had chosen a Dalit as the President, but the move was made with an eye on vote bank politics.
10 August 2020||New Delhi,||FIR against unknown for ‘threat to law and order’||The police have registered an FIR against an unknown man after many mobile users received calls from an international number, inciting threat to law and order situation here ahead of Independence Day, said officials. The matter came to the fore after the police said multiple calls were received on mobile phones via Voice over Internet Protocol from an international number. A purported pre-recorded audio was allegedly sent to multiple numbers inciting threat to law and order situation on Independence Day. Through the audio, the unidentified man could be heard inciting people to disrupt the I-Day celebration and not allow Prime Minister Narendra Modi to unfurl the national flag. An FIR was registered under relevant sections.
10 August 2020||GURUGRAM,||18 institutes named after fallen soldiers||More than seven years after a policy was put in place to name government and aided educational institutions in the State after those killed in a war or anti-insurgency operation to boost the morale of the armed forces, the Palwal district administration has named institutes in an honour to 18 slain soldiers.  The policy to name educational institutes after those killed in Kargil war was framed in 1999 and later extended to those who were awarded national awards, freedom fighters and those killed in other wars, anti-insurgency operations as well in 2013. As per the policy, the Deputy Commissioner could effect the change in the name of the institute following a resolution from Gram Panchayat or a municipal body in this regard. Deputy Commissioner, Palwal, Naresh Narwal told The Hindu that the policy was framed seven years ago, but remained on the papers.“Of the 39 martyrs, it was found that educational institutes were not named after as many as 18. The gram panchayats concerned were then directed to sent the resolutions and the names of the institutes were changed with a single stroke of pen,” said Mr. Narwal.
10 August 2020||CHANDIGARH,||24 deaths, 987 new cases in Punjab||Punjab recorded 987 new COVID-19 cases on Sunday and reported 24 more deaths taking the toll to 586, according to an official statement. The number of positive cases has reached 23,903. The major chunk of new cases, 316 and 204 were reported from Ludhiana and Patiala districts respectively. The health department said the active cases are 7,998 and 15,319 patients have so far recovered been cured.  Governor tests negative Meanwhile Punjab Governor V.P. Singh Badnore has tested negative while J.M. Balamurugan, Principal Secretary to Governor, tested positive and has been home quarantined. According to the official spokesperson of Punjab Raj Bhawan, a two-day testing exercise was carried out at Raj Bhawan in which 336 people were screened. Besides Mr. Balamurugan, four others also tested positive.
10 August 2020||August 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Protest over pay||
10 August 2020||New Delhi,||CAIT launches ‘China Quit India’ campaign||Traders body — Confederation of All India Traders (CAIT) — on Sunday launched a “China Quit India” campaign, calling for checks on “China’s growing footprint in India”. The campaign, which is an extension of its earlier demand to boycott Chinese goods, involved demonstrations at nearly 600 places in different parts of the country, the CAIT said. With this it appealed to the government to take a check on Chinese imports, investments in Indian companies and start-ups anddigital apps. Chinese stake in government projects and construction machinery “should be put under the scanner”, the group said. It demanded an “all-round siege” of China and its activities in India.
