10 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||India, China agree to ease stand-off||Indian and Chinese troops began a partial “disengagement” from some of the stand-off points along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in eastern Ladakh, defence sources said on Tuesday, in the first sign of moving towards resolution of the month long stand-off between the Indian Army and the People’s Liberation Army there. A series of ground level military talks are due to be held over the next 10 days, beginning Wednesday, to try and resolve most of the other issues at the local level. “Partial deinduction has happened from some points in the Galwan and Hot Springs areas. [The] Chinese side removed some of the tents and some troops and vehicles have been moved back, and the Indian side, too, has reciprocated,” official sources said. At some points in the Galwan Valley, Chinese troops have moved back 2-3 km. However, there is no change on the ground situation at Pangong Tso. While this is the first time officials spoke about the ground situation, no government statement was issued, either in Delhi or Beijing. This is also the first time senior government officials have acknowledged the continued presence of Chinese troops in these areas where India patrols, and the heavy build-up of vehicles and firepower behind the LAC lines. Despite references to the major build-up that had taken place, officials insisted that there had been “no intelligence failure” and that the Indian Army stopped the PLA advances “quickly and strongly”. Outlining the plans for talks on de-escalation, the sources said Major General-level talks were scheduled on Wednesday at Patrolling Point (PP) 14 in the Galwan area as part of the series of talks at the rank of Colonel, Brigadier and Major General, as had been decided at the Corps Commander-level meeting on Saturday at the LAC at Moldo-Chushul. Both the Corps Commanders had a one-on-one meeting for almost three hours before engaging at the delegation level where the main issues were discussed further, they said. At the meeting, both sides agreed and identified five locations of conflict currently — PP 14, 15 and 17, North bank of Pangong Tso and Chushul. Of these, the Finger 4 area in Pangong Tso was a contentious issue and would take some time to be resolved, the sources said. This would likely be taken up at the Lieutenant General-level at a later stage, if needed. Pangong Tso issue However, major worries remain at the Pangong Tso (lake), where territory is marked by ridges or “Fingers” in increasing serial order towards Chinese territory. India claims up to Finger 8 and patrols up to Finger 4, but after a skirmish on May 5, Chinese troops have dug in at Finger 4. No mention was made of the situation at Naku La in Sikkim, where the stand-off continues, as the focus for these talks was the Ladakh situation. The sources stressed that India remained “firm” on restoring the status quo to pre-May 5 positions, and that apart from troops retreating from the “front lines”, it was necessary to ensure a drawdown of troops and firepower behind the Chinese lines where the PLA had deployed “fighter bombers, rocket forces, air defence radars and jammers among others”. “India will continue to have a major build-up until China withdraws the build-up done there. The Indian Army is fully prepared for a long and permanent deployment if the PLA doesn’t retreat,” the sources stated. As reported earlier, the Indian side told the Chinese counterparts that it would not stop construction, including the DBO road, as it is well within Indian territory. Underscoring the efforts to resolve the tensions, which they referred to as “episodic issues”, the sources said that tactical level hotlines at border meeting points at Daulat Beg Oldie (DBO)-Tien Wein Dien (TWD) and Chushul-Moldo remain “on and open”. It has also been proposed that the Corps Commanders should have formal meetings once or twice every year for better interaction between the two armies at a higher level.
10 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Uptrend continues with 91 more cases||Kerala’s COVID-19 caseload graph continued to rise steadily with 91 more persons testing positive for the disease on Tuesday. While 80 of these new cases are imported cases of infection, detected in persons who had returned to Kerala from abroad and from other parts of the country, 11 cases acquired the infection through local transmission via contact with a known or unknown source of infection. One case of local transmission involves a health worker from Thiruvananthapuram district. Since May 4, when expatriates and Keralites from other States began returning home, almost all of the positive cases of COVID-19 reported daily are imported cases of infection. However, the number of cases reported through local transmission has also been on the rise. The number of recoveries reported on Tuesday is 34, taking the number of active cases in the State to 1,231. The cumulative number of COVID-19 cases so far is 2,096 and the number of persons recovered is 848. An official release from the Health Department said 2,00,642 persons had newly come into the State since May 4 from abroad and other States by flight, road and sea. Testing increased Having increased diagnostic testing in a major way in the last 24 hours, 3,813 samples were tested.
10 June 2020||New Delhi,||City likely to see 5.5 lakh COVID cases by July-end, says Sisodia||Delhi is expected to have around 5.5 lakh COVID-19 cases by July 31, Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia said on Tuesday after a meeting of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority (DDMA) chaired by Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal. Mr. Sisodia also said that Central government officials have maintained that there is no community transmission of the virus in Delhi. Before the DDMA meeting, Health Minister Satyendar Jain had told reporters, “We say community spread when people don’t know how they got the infection. In 50% of the cases in Delhi, the source of infection is not known.” “We can’t declare community spread, it is the ambit of the Central government. But I can tell you that there are a lot of cases where the source cannot be found,” the Minister had said. Blame-game politics In a clear sign that blame-game politics over mushrooming COVID-19 cases in the Capital has begun, Mr. Sisodia said the L-G’s move to overturn the Aam Aadmi Party government’s decision to reserve private and State-run hospitals for “Delhi residents” has created a major crisis. “We had raised the issues in the DDMA’s meeting. We urged him [Mr. Baijal] to reconsider his decision, but he did not accept it,” Mr. Sisodia told reporters after the meeting.  “In the meeting today it was discussed that by June 15 there will be 44,000 cases in Delhi and 6,600 beds will be needed. By June 30, there will be one lakh cases and 15,000 beds will be needed. By July 15, there will be around 2.25 lakh cases and 33,000 beds will be needed. By July 31, there will be 5.5 lakh cases and around 80,000 beds will be needed,” Mr. Sisodia said. The estimation is based on a report submitted last week by a five-member committee appointed by the Delhi government. “When we asked L-G Sir that before overturning the decision [of the Delhi government] he must have done some calculation on how much the cases will increase and how many cases will come from outside, he did not have any idea about it,” the Deputy CM said.
10 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Migrants should not be prosecuted: SC||The Supreme Court on Tuesday said migrant workers should not be prosecuted for trying to reach home amid the national lockdown. A Bench led by Justice Ashok Bhushan directed the Centre and the States to withdraw any complaint or prosecution lodged against migrant labourers who had set out on foot from big cities for their native villages to escape starvation, unemployment and disease during the pandemic. The court said “society as a whole was moved by their miseries and difficulties”. “States/Union Territories to consider withdrawal of prosecution/complaints under Section 51 of the Disaster Management Act and other related offences lodged against migrant labourers who are alleged to have violated lockdown measures by moving on roads,” it directed. A migrant worker who walked home would have faced a year in prison or been fined or suffered both if found guilty of obstructing the law under Section 51 of the Act. The Bench, also comprising Justices S.K. Kaul and M.R. Shah, ordered the States and the UTs to bring the stranded migrant workers home within the next 15 days. ‘Provide more trains’ It ordered the Railways to provide the States with 171 more Shramik Special trains within the next 24 hours to transport migrant workers “The process of transportation by rail and road has to be completed by all the States and the Union Territories so that the next stage of attending the needs of the migrant labourers can be looked into, ie, source of employment, provision of food and ration for them,” the 38-page order reasoned. The court asked the Directors General of Police to direct their personnel to deal with the migrant workers humanely. It said there were instances of police excesses despite otherwise doing a “commendable job”. The States and UTs were directed to conduct extensive skill-mapping of the returned workers at village and block levels.
10 June 2020||CHENNAI,||T.N. adds more beds, manpower||The city will soon get another exclusive COVID-19 facility, which will be housed in a newly constructed building for the National Institute of Ageing, on the premises of the King Institute of Preventive Medicine, Guindy. The facility will have 500 beds, of which 200 will have oxygen lines, according to Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar. Inspecting facilities being readied to tackle the surge of COVID-19 patients in the city on Tuesday, the Minister said that work was being expedited to commission a 300-bed facility at the old hospital of the Chennai Port Trust. Besides, 300 beds were being readied on the old campus of the Regional Institute of Ophthalmology, Egmore. “The National Institute of Ageing is being readied on the same lines as the Government Medical College Hospital, Omandurar Estate. There will be individual rooms, a common ward with partitions, an ICU facility, and ventilators. The work to scale up beds has been going on for the last two months,” he said. The new facility would serve as a standby exclusive hospital for COVID-19 treatment. “We, along with the high-level committee, are discussing if this facility could be utilised for the geriatric population and those with co-morbidities,” the Minister said. Already, 81 specialists had been allocated for the facility. Next, doctors would be appointed. Multi-purpose workers would also be provided in the next couple of days, he said. Beds had been scaled up at the city’s four government medical college hospitals and ESI Hospital, Ayanavaram, as well as COVID-19 Care Centres. “We are scaling up the medical services keeping in mind the forthcoming 30 or 60 days,” Dr. Vijayabaskar added. He said the bed capacity of government hospitals in Chennai stood at 4,900, while there were 75,000 beds across the State. COVID-19 Care Centres in the city had 17,500 beds. Private hospitals and private medical college hospitals had assured the government of increasing their bed capacity. On Tuesday, 88 private hospitals/medical college hospitals had uploaded details on the portalstopcorona.tn.gov.in. PG doctors appointed Service and non-service postgraduate doctors, who had completed their course in May, had been posted on COVID-19 duty at government hospitals, COVID-19 Care Centres and COVID-19 Health Centres in Chennai. An official of the Health department said 1,002 service PGs and 570 non-service PGs from across the State were posted on COVID-19 duty. “All of them will be joining duty from today. We are posting additional manpower to all these facilities to ensure that there is no shortage of doctors,” he said. While service PGs would get government salary, non-service PGs would be paid Rs. 75,000, he said. “This is part of the bond period. As of now, they will be on COVID-19 duty for three months, and an extension depends on the situation.” Their boarding and lodging in hotels and transportation had been arranged. The department had earlier decided to appoint 665 medical officers, 365 lab technicians and 1,230 multipurpose workers on an outsourcing basis for three months. Many of them did not take up the jobs due to low pay. The department has now increased the consolidated pay from Rs. 40,000 to Rs. 60,000 for medical officers, Rs. 10,000 to Rs. 15,000 for lab technicians and Rs. 6,000 to Rs. 12,000 for multipurpose workers. “We wholeheartedly welcome these people to the service. Some of them have managed to come despite severe hurdles, and we appreciate it. They will truly augment our workforce here,” Health Secretary Beela Rajesh said.
10 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Social vaccine’ is need of the hour: Harsh Vardhan||Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Tuesday said India is in a much better position than the rest of the world in the fight against COVID-19, but there is “no time for complacency”. He said “social vaccine”— strict adherence to physical distancing, hand hygiene and using mask/face covers — is the need of the hour. Speaking after the 16th meeting of the high-level Group of Ministers, Mr. Vardhan said as India enters the Unlock 1.0 phase where restrictions have been eased, “we need to be more disciplined”. India on Tuesday added 8,827 new cases and 246 deaths. These numbers do not include data from Delhi, which were not available at the time of going to print. The tally stood at 2,74,744, including 1,33,021 active cases, while the toll rose to 7,717. According to the Indian Council of Medical Research, 1,41,682 samples were tested on Tuesday, up from the 1,08,048 tested the previous day. The Minister said more than 12.55 crore people in the country have downloaded the Aarogya Setu app so far. “GoM was also apprised about the growing medical infrastructure in the country and was informed that as of June 9, 2020, the COVID related health infrastructure has been strengthened with the availability of 958 dedicated COVID hospitals with 1,67,883 isolation beds, 21,614 ICU beds and 73,469 oxygen supported beds,” noted a release issued by the Ministry. It added that 2,313 dedicated COVID Health Centres with 1,33,037 isolation beds; 10,748 ICU beds and 46,635 oxygen supported beds have also been operationalised along with 7,525 COVID care centres with 7,10,642 beds.
10 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Cross-party backing in Nepal for new map||The Lower House of Nepal’s Parliament on Tuesday expressed cross-party support for the new map which shows the disputed Kalapani region as part of Nepalese sovereign territory. During the discussion on the Second Constitution Amendment Bill, which will grant legal status to the updated map, Nepal’s Foreign Minister Pradeep Kumar Gyawali said India has undermined Nepal’s sovereignty by building the Lipulekh link road in the area. “According to the Sugauli treaty (1816), the region of Limpiyadhura, Lipulekh and Kalapani are part of Nepal's sovereign territory and any unilateral change in our borders is unacceptable to us. We regard the inauguration of the Lipulekh link road as a serious matter. This action has undermined Nepal's sovereignty,” said Mr. Gyawali. He addressed the Parliament and presented a detailed answer to questions on the updated map which was unveiled on May 20. The legislative discussion or Saiddhantik Chhalphal on the amendment commenced on Tuesday morning as the government of Prime Minister K.P. Sharma Oli, helped by the main opposition Nepali Congress, pushed for fast clearance of the bill. The Madhesi block, which had earlier urged for a “package amendment” including some of their concerns, also extended support with the Janata Samajvadi Party joining hands with the Nepal Communist Party-led move. Mr. Gyawali said Nepal does not feel happy while recollecting the Sugauli treaty as it was part of a compromise deal with the colonial rulers of India, however, that is the basis of Nepal’s present territorial identity. He said despite repeated efforts, Nepal's request for a resolution of the disputes at Kalapani in the west and Susta on the U.P.-Bihar border were not resolved in the past . “India acknowledged these two issues as unresolved and pending in 1997,” the Minister said. Following the legislative discussion, the bill is ready for passing in the lower house though further discussions are required as per procedural rules. The discussion in the Pratinidhi Sabha saw passionate speeches from MPs of various political parties who urged Prime Minister Oli to protect Nepal's geographical integrity, sovereignty and independence.
10 June 2020||Bengaluru,||Software worth Rs. 36k crore exported during lockdown||The country’s tech flagship, Karnataka, has stayed afloat during the COVID-19 lockdown with Software Technology Parks of India (STPI) units reporting export of software worth Rs. 36,459 crore over the three-month period of March to May. Although STPI does not have export numbers for the corresponding period last year, it reported software exports of Rs. 1,74,894 crore for the whole fiscal 2018-19. Exports from Karnataka saw a growth from Rs. 5.6 crore in 1991-92 to Rs. 1,74,894 crore in 2018-19, which is 41% of the total current National Exports. “STPI companies report their export numbers only once a year and therefore we do not keep monthly or quarterly numbers. Figures for last three months are an exception, since we just wanted to know what was our exports during the lockdown period,” said an official at STPI. Omkar Rai, DG, STPI, said that STPI was the first organisation to enable work-from-home facility to its member units well before the national lockdown was declared during the COVID-19 period. To help start-ups during the COVID-19 lockdown to remain afloat, the government has waived rentals for start-ups operating out of the STPI for four months, from March 1, 2020, to June 30, 2020. Around 18 start-ups in Karnataka have therefore benefited from this. STPI-Bengaluru is also in the process of setting up Atal Incubation Centre focusing on healthcare domain, supported by NITI Aayog. The centre will be mentored by cardiologist Devi Prasad Shetty. The centre will help start-ups bring new technological solutions to the healthcare domain, as per STPI. In Karnataka, STPI-Bengaluru centre was set up in 1991. Today, it has four sub-centres (Mysuru, Hubballi, Mangaluru and Manipal) under its jurisdiction. The STPI also has generated employment of 6.84 lakh.
10 June 2020||LUCKNOW,||Woman listed as teacher in 9 U.P. schools||A woman from Gonda district on Tuesday alleged that her educational certificates were “misused” to provide jobs to at least nine “fake” teachers at Kasturba Gandhi Balika Schools across Uttar Pradesh, adding a new twist to the controversy over teacher recruitment. The woman, Anamika Shukla, submitted her certificates at the office of the Basic Education Officer, Gonda, and lodged a complaint with the police. She demanded action against those who got recruited in her name. Ms. Shukla said she came out to clear her name after the media reported that a woman with her identity had been drawing lakhs in salary through postings in several districts.
10 June 2020||CHENNAI,||Govt. calls off State Board Class 10 exam||In view of the increasing number of COVID-19 cases in the State, the Tamil Nadu government on Tuesday cancelled the State Board Class 10 public exams, which werescheduled to commence on June 15. Exams for the remaining papers for Class 11 students were called off. The DMK-led Opposition and the ruling AIADMK’s ally, the PMK, had demanded cancellation of the exams. Addressing the media, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami said in view of the cancellation of public examinations, all Class 10 students were to be considered as having passed. About 9 lakh students were scheduled to appear for the State Board exams. The CM said that 80% marks would be awarded to the students based on their performance in quarterly and half-yearly examinations and their attendance would be taken into account for awarding the remaining marks. Mr. Palaniswami said that exams for certain papers that were to be held for Class 11 students had been cancelled. He added that the supplementary exams for those who did not pass Class 12 too stood postponed, and a revised schedule would be announced later. The CM referred to representations seeking the postponement of the Class 10 examinations, following which the State government reviewed the situation. “Medical experts have opined that there is no possibility of the spread of infection decreasing in the near future,” he said. Later in the day, the State Commissioner for Persons with Disabilities in an official release, said that those who were brought to Chennai in government-arranged buses would return to their native places. As the examination had been cancelled, all these students would be sent back to their native places from 8 a.m. onwards on June 10, the release stated. The details of the travel on special buses would be communicated to all District Differently Abled Welfare Officers and heads of institutions. The government had arranged 49 special buses for 800 students in hostels of 72 government and government-aided institutions so they could appear for the Class 10 public exams and papers of the Class 11 exams.
10 June 2020||June 10 2020 00:00 IST,||1,685 new cases in State||Tamil Nadu reported 1,685 new cases of COVID-19 and 21 deaths on Tuesday. With this, the State’s overall count climbed to 34,914*, while its toll is 307. Chennai touched another new high with 1,242 indigenous cases and a single imported case taking its tally closer to the 25,000-mark.PAGE 2
10 June 2020||June 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Towering inferno||
10 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Social vaccine’ need of the hour: Minister||Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Tuesday said India is in a much better place than the rest of the world in the fight against COVID-19, but there is “no time for complacency”. He said “social vaccine”— strict adherence to physical distancing, hand hygiene and using mask/face covers — is the need of the hour. Speaking after the 16th meeting of the high-level Group of Ministers, Mr. Vardhan said as India enters the Unlock 1.0 phase where restrictions have been eased, “we need to be more disciplined”. India on Tuesday added 8,827 new cases and 246 deaths. These numbers do not include data from Delhi, which were not available at the time of going to print. The tally stood at 2,74,744, including 1,33,021 active cases, while the toll rose to 7,717.
10 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Cross-party backing in Nepal for new map||The Lower House of Nepal’s Parliament on Tuesday expressed cross-party support for the new map which shows the disputed Kalapani region as part of Nepalese sovereign territory. Nepal’s Foreign Minister Pradeep Kumar Gyawali said India has undermined Nepal’s sovereignty by building the Lipulekh link road in the area.
10 June 2020||Coimbatore,||Five more test positive in Coimbatore||Five persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Coimbatore district on Tuesday, and were admitted to the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital here. As many as 37 persons are undergoing treatment for COVID-19 in Coimbatore.
10 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Delhi riots: three more chargesheets filed||The Crime Branch of Delhi Police filed three more chargesheets before a court on Tuesday in cases related to riots in north-east Delhi in February. Two chargesheets were filed in connection with murder of two residents, while the third one was regarding mob violence at Maujpur Chowk.
10 June 2020||Bhopal,||COVID-19 patient travels 700 km, dies in Bhopal||A 42-year-old man died of COVID-19 within a day of making a 700-km journey from Delhi to Bhopal, his hometown, at a hospital here on June 7. He had been turned away by two government dispensaries, one hospital and three private doctors in Delhi.
10 June 2020||New Delhi,||Over 2,000 more beds in private hospitals in city||The Delhi government on Tuesday allocated 2,015 more beds in 22 private hospitals for COVID-19 treatment. The number of beds in these hospitals has gone up from 1,441 to 3,256.
10 June 2020||Madurai,||Fever clinics||A total of 155 makeshift fever clinics have been set up across the 100 wards of Madurai city, in view of the rising COVID-19 positive cases in the city. Collector T.G. Vinay said that these camps are important to identify fever cases early on.
10 June 2020||KALABURAGI,||Eighth COVID-19 death recorded in Kalaburagi||Kalaburagi district recorded its eighth COVID-19 fatality on June 4 with the death of a 17-year-old girl who later tested positive for the virus. The girl (P-5,900) was admitted to hospital on June 4, and she died the same day. The contact history of the deceased remains to be traced.
10 June 2020||KALABURAGI,||CM remotely inaugurates office in Kalaburagi||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa inaugurated the newly established Kalyana Karnataka Human Resources, Agriculture and Cultural Association office in Kalaburagi through video conferencing on Tuesday. Mr. Yediyurappa said that the association was set up with the aim of alleviating poverty and empowering rural youth and women in the region.
10 June 2020||RAICHUR,||Woman dies of TB in COVID-19 hospital||Deputy Commissioner R. Venkatesh Kumar has said that a 28-year-old woman who was admitted to OPEC hospital in Raichur died of tuberculosis on Tuesday. He said that the body will be cremated as per COVID-19 protocol.
10 June 2020||Bengaluru,||VTU to hold exams only after ‘contact classes’||Bowing to pressure from students, Visvesvaraya Technological University (VTU) has postponed semester-end examinations. It will conduct them only after students return to colleges for lectures, or ‘contact classes’.
10 June 2020||Bengaluru,||State has nearly 700 ‘follow-up’ positive cases||Sources in the Health Department say there are nearly 700 ‘follow-up‘ positive cases in the State getting added to the tally of positive cases. On Tuesday, with 161 new cases, the State saw the least number of cases since June 1. In the last week, it has been reporting above 200 cases each a day.
10 June 2020||Bengaluru,||New vehicles: State sees steep fall in registration||The registration of new vehicles dropped during the lockdown. In April, on an average, only 570 were registered every day. In May, when restrictions eased, it rose to 1,200 a day. However, the numbers are still low compared to last year.
10 June 2020||CHENNAI,||Self-declaration must before testing in city labs||To ensure proper contact tracing of COVID-19 patients, the Greater Chennai Corporation has written to all approved labs in the city, asking them to get a self-declaration from those coming to test with details about their contacts.
10 June 2020||CHENNAI,||Chennai police help over 1 lakh migrants go home||The Greater Chennai Police facilitated travel arrangements for over 1 lakh migrant workers from States such as Bihar, Jharkhand and Uttar Pradesh to their native places, by helping them with getting e-passes and train and bus tickets.
10 June 2020||COIMBATORE,||Exemption for plastic for packaging goes||To eliminate use-and-throw plastics, the government has withdrawn the exemption granted for use of plastic bags for packaging. However, plastic carry bags manufactured exclusively for export purpose, plastic used to pack milk and carry bags made from compostable plastics are exempted.
10 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Telangana reports six fatalities; toll rises to 148||More COVID-19 fatalities continued to be reported in the south, with six patients dying inTelangana, taking the toll to 148. In Andhra Pradesh, two patients treated in Krishna and Anantapur districts died, raising the toll to 77. Kerala’s COVID-19 case graph rose with91 more persons testing positive on Tuesday. While 80 of these new cases were detected in persons who had returned to Kerala from abroad and the rest of the country, 11 acquired the infection through local transmission. One case involved a healthcare worker from Thiruvananthapuram district. The number of recoveries reported on Tuesday was 34, taking the total number of active cases in Kerala to 1,231. The Health department said a total of 2,00,642 persons had come into the State since May 4 from abroad and other States. The State had kept 2,04,153 persons under COVID-19 surveillance and quarantine. Having increased diagnostic testing, in the last 24 hours, 3,813 samples were tested. So far, 95,397 samples were tested, apart from 22,855 sentinel surveillance samples from priority groups in the population. Andhra Pradesh on Tuesday put its case total at 5,029, with 216 new cases. The Health Department said out of the 216, locals made up 147 cases and 69 were migrant returnees and people from other States. Also, 64 patients including 16 locals, 12 foreign returnees and 36 migrant workers and people from other States had recovered in the past day leaving 2,177 active patients under treatment and 2,775 certified as recovered. The recovery rate was put at 60.25%, which had slightly reduced from previous levels due to the increase in cases among locals. The overall recovery rate was 55.17%.  The number of COVID-19 cases in Telangana rose to 3,920 as 178 more samples tested positive on Tuesday. Of the 178 new cases, 143 were from Greater Hyderabad, 15 from Rangareddy, 10 from Medchal, two each from Mahbubnagar, Sangareddy and Medak, one each from Jagtial, Asifabad, Sircilla, and Warangal (Rural). Of the total 3,920 cases, 2,030 were active, 1,742 were discharged, and 148 died. Doctors, staff positive Of the new cases, eight were from Nizam’s Institute of Medical Sciences (NIMS). The institute authorities said it included four resident doctors, a technician and three patients. NIMS Resident Doctors Association president Dr G. Srinivas said 16 resident doctors, four senior doctors and 19 nurses, para medical staff, lab technicians and others were detected with COVID-19 till date. In Tamil Nadu Tamil Nadu reported 1,685 new cases of COVID-19 and 21deaths on Tuesday. With this, the State’s overall case count climbed to 34,914, while its toll increased to 307. Another 798 persons were discharged from hospitals across the State, taking the total number of persons discharged to 18,325. Chennai touched another high with 1,242 indigenous cases and a single imported case. The city’s tally inched close to the 25,000-mark. A total of 244 of the 307 fatalities have occurred in the city. Tuesday marked the highest number of fatalities to be reported by the Health department on a single day. All 21 fatalities were in Chennai — 15 in government and six in private hospitals. Sixteen of the patients had co-morbidities, a bulletin issued by the Health Department said. There was a decline in the number of samples tested. A total of 13,219 samples were tested in the State. Till date, 6,21,171 samples have been tested in the State.   (With inputs from Vijayawada, Hyderabad, and Chennai Bureaus)
10 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Central teams deployed in over 14 States, Delhi||The Union Health Ministry has deployed high-level multi-disciplinary teams in 14 States and a Union Territory (UT) with more than 50 districts/municipal bodies that are witnessing a high COVID-19 case load to provide technical support for containment and management of the pandemic. The States are Maharashtra (seven districts/municipalities), Telangana (four), Tamil Nadu (seven), Rajasthan (five), Assam (six), Haryana (four), Gujarat (three), Karnataka (four), Uttarakhand (three), Madhya Pradesh (five), West Bengal (three), Bihar (four), Uttar Pradesh (four), and Odisha (five) and UT Delhi (three). These teams would address the challenges faced by the authorities such as testing bottlenecks, low tests/per million population, high confirmation rates, high testing confirmation rate, risk of capacity shortfall over the next two months, potential bed shortage, growing cases fatality rate, high doubling rate, sudden spike in active cases, etc., the Ministry said on Tuesday. “The three-member teams are composed of two public health experts/epidemiologists/clinicians and a senior joint secretary level nodal officer for administrative hand-holding and improving governance,” noted a release issued by the Ministry. This was announced after the 16th Group of Ministers meeting headed by Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan on Tuesday. An official said the Central teams were working visiting health care facilities to support the State health departments in implementing the containment measures and efficient treatment/clinical management of cases.
10 June 2020||GUWAHATI,||After blowout, OIL well on fire||The natural gas well of Oil India Ltd (OIL) in Tinsukia district of eastern Assam that had a blow-out on May 27 caught fire on Tuesday. The “accidental fire” happened 13 days after the well started spewing gas and associated elements and a day after three disaster control experts reached the spot at Baghjan, near the Dibru-Saikhowa National Park, to work on taming the blowout. Machinery failure usually leads to a blow-out, which is an uncontrolled release of crude oil or gas from a production well. OIL officials said the cause of the fire, which broke out at 1.40 p.m., was yet to be ascertained. A fireman of Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Ltd. was injured, they added. Protests held “The well caught fire while the clearing operations were on. There are violent protests around the site. A request has been made to the State government for maintaining law and order so that experts are allowed to enter the site and start well control operations,” an OIL spokesperson said. “The blow-out will take four weeks to control once the fire is contained,” the statement said. Local people said some houses were damaged in the vicinity of the well, but OIL officials said the threat was minimal since all the 1,610 families in villages around the spot have been shifted to a safe distance. Chief Minister Sarbananda Sonowal alerted Union Petroleum Minister Dharmendra Pradhan to the fire, and sought the Centre’s urgent intervention. He directed the Tinsukia district administration to take urgent steps to provide safety and relief to the affected people. The blow-out occurred when a Gujarat-based firm, given the task of exploration and production, tried to extract gas from a depth of 3,729 metres. FIR against OIL An environment activist at Golaghat in eastern Assam on Monday filed a police complaint against OIL. In the FIR registered at the Baghjan police outpost electronically, Apurba Ballav Goswami said OIL’s statements made it clear that drilling operations had been outsourced without any arrangement to prevent a blow-out.
10 June 2020||New Delhi,||Not an inch ceded, says Minister||Minister of State for Home G. Kishan Reddy said on Tuesday that the government “has not, and will not, cede an inch” of territory to China. In retort to Congress leader Rahul Gandhi’s tweet asking if the Chinese had occupied Indian territory in Ladakh, Mr. Reddy tweeted, “One morning Congress Shahzada woke up in the night thinking India was still under his great-grandfather. Pt. Nehru on Sep 10, 1959 admitted in Parliament that a road was built in Ladakh many years later & he was unaware. This @narendramodi Govt has not and will not cede an inch.” Several skirmishes have occurred between the Indian Army and the Chinese People’s Liberation Army (PLA) at several points of the Line of Actual Control in Ladakh and Sikkim since May 5. The two countries are engaged in dialogue at military and diplomatic level to ease the standoff. The government is yet to call an all party meet or brief the Opposition on the ongoing standoff. In his tweet, Mr. Reddy attached a copy of the 1959 debate in Rajya Sabha where former Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru, who also held the External Affairs portfolio, presented a white paper on the difference of perception along the China border. White paper The motion on India-China relations was moved by Rajya Sabha member Dr H.N. Kunzru, who said in his opening remarks that the “differences regarding certain border areas between India and China along the India-Tibet border have existed for some time, and the white paper that has been supplied to us shows that these differences have existed for at least seven years. They are along the frontier from Ladakh to NEFA (present day Arunachal Pradesh).” A part of the debate shared by Mr. Reddy on Twitter quoted Mr. Nehru that the government discovered a year ago (in 1958) that a road had been built across Yehchong in the north-east corner of Ladakh and it did not know where it was. Mr. Nehru replied that the area was uninhabitable and there was no administration within hundred miles and “it is a territory where not even a blade of grass grows, about 17,000 feet high. It adjoins Sinkiang.”
10 June 2020||New Delhi,||‘Killing of sarpanch a targeted move’||A day after a Kashmiri Pandit sarpanch (village headman) was gunned down in Anantnag district of south Kashmir, Jammu and Kashmir police chief Dilbag Singh said it was a “targeted killing”. Mr. Singh told The Hindu that Ajay Bharti Pandita, 40, was targeted for two reasons — being part of the democratic process and a member of the minority community. The DGP said the police had identified two local Hizb-ul- Mujahideen terrorists who killed Pandita at Lokbawan village on Monday. Pandita, who was elected unopposed as the sarpanch from the Larkipora area in Anantnag, was a member of the Congress. He used to live in Jammu with his family and often visited Anantnag. He was one of the few to return to his village six years after the exodus of Kashmiri Pandits from the Valley in the early 1990s. “The terrorists have done this deliberately. He was targeted because he was part of the government machinery and democratic process and a member of the minority community … it shows the communal mindset of our neighbour,” Mr. Singh said. The newly-formed The Resistance Front (TRF) has said it had done the killing. “The TRF is nothing but a front of the Pakistan-backed Lashkar-e-Taiba [LeT],” Mr. Singh said. The TRF was created in August last after the revocation of Article 370. Pandita’s family said that he had been seeking police protection but his requests were not acted upon by the police. The DGP said he was not aware of the request. G.A Mir, president, J&K Pradesh Congress committee, said, “For the past seven-eight months, he had been saying that since he is the lone member from the minority community in the area he has sought police security ... Had he got police protection, this incident wouldn’t have occurred.”
10 June 2020||KOCHI,||Poor rating for Kerala local bodies’ waste management||The State Level Monitoring Committee (SLMC) appointed by the National Green Tribunal (NGT) has given a poor rating for the management of solid waste by a large number of local bodies in Kerala. “The date on solid waste management collected from various local bodies in the State reveals that certain local bodies have made considerable achievement in the field while a large number of local bodies have registered a poor performance,” pointed out the supplementary report submitted by A.V. Ramakrishna Pillai, SLMC chairman, before the NGT’s Principal Bench, New Delhi. It is distressing to note that directions given to the District Level Monitoring Committees to conduct periodical trainings as well as the direction to the District Collectors/District Magistrates to prepare District Environment Plans have gone into deaf ears. The District Collectors who are also the District Magistrates can play a pivotal role in the matter. Therefore they are to be awakened from their present lethargy by strict directions from this tribunal, it said. The report also referred to the resignation of Ajit Haridas, former chairman of the Kerala State Pollution Control Board, after the government issued a show cause notice to him for giving notices to various local bodies under Section 5 of the Environmental Protection Act, 1986 for violation of Solid Waste Management Rules. Here it is crucial to note that no specific permission of the State government or any authority under it is required for issuing notice under Section 5 of the Environment Protection Act against any local body for violation of its provisions. The powers vested with the Union government under Sec. 5 of the Environment Protection Act, 1986, is delegated to the Chairpersons of the State Pollution Control Boards through a Union government notification S.C.327(E) dated April 10, 2001.
10 June 2020||Kallol Bhattacherjee,||Cross-party backing in Nepal for new map||The Lower House of Nepal’s Parliament on Tuesday expressed cross-party support for the new map which shows the disputed Kalapani region as part of Nepalese sovereign territory. During the discussion on the Second Constitution Amendment Bill, which will grant legal status to the updated map, Nepal’s Foreign Minister Pradeep Kumar Gyawali said India has undermined Nepal’s sovereignty by building the Lipulekh link road. “According to the Sugauli treaty (1816), the region of Limpiyadhura, Lipulekh and Kalapani are part of Nepal's sovereign territory and any unilateral change in our borders is unacceptable to us. We regard the inauguration of the Lipulekh link road as a serious matter. This action has undermined Nepal's sovereignty,” said Mr. Gyawali. He addressed the Parliament and presented a detailed answer to questions on the updated map which was unveiled on May 20. The legislative discussion or Saiddhantik Chhalphal on the amendment commenced on Tuesday morning as the government of Prime Minister K.P. Sharma Oli, helped by the main opposition Nepali Congress, pushed for fast clearance of the bill. The Madhesi block, which had earlier urged for a “package amendment” including some of their concerns, also extended support with the Janata Samajvadi Party joining hands with the Nepal Communist Party-led move. Mr. Gyawali said Nepal does not feel happy while recollecting the Sugauli treaty as it was part of a compromise deal with the colonial rulers of India, however, that is the basis of Nepal’s present territorial identity. He said despite repeated efforts, Nepal's request for a resolution of the disputes at Kalapani in the west and Susta on the U.P.-Bihar border were not resolved in the past .
10 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||After 75 days, malls and restaurants open in Kerala||Nearly two-and-a-half months after the coronavirus cast a dark shadow over retail trade, a limited number of shopping malls, restaurants, wayside eateries and tea stalls admitted customers in a severely restricted manner on Tuesday. However, the number of patrons appeared to be few and far between. The public seemed conscious that the pandemic remained a threat in the State. The persistent rise in new COVID-19 cases appeared to have dampened the appetite for dining out. The restaurant industry, hobbled by the lockdown, appeared to focus more on home deliveries and takeaways, which accounted for the bulk of their business. The outbreak had also deprived the industry of revenue of latenight dining. Many popular restaurants remained closed due to non-availability of staff given the dearth of public transport. The pandemic- spurred exit of migrant workers also impeded the reopening of several restaurants. Those who opened operated at less than half their seating capacity. The few that allowed in-house dining checked customers before allotting them tables spaced at least two metres apart. Waiters wore masks and gloves and regularly sanitised the precincts. Digital transactions Many establishments chose to transact business in digital form. They preferred electronic cash transfer over currency notes to reduce the risk of transmission. Tea stalls and fruit juice vendors served customers in limited numbers. Police patrols routinely warned the owners against overcrowding. Most used paper cups to serve customers instead of the customary glasses. Most hotels were particular that they would not serve citizens above the age of 65, pregnant women and children below 10. The Food and Safety Department and health authorities inspected several premises. The few shopping malls that opened were bereft of teeming crowds of families with raucous children in tow. Cinema halls, play areas and gaming centres in the complexes remained shut. The air-condition remained switched off in most parts, and the once- crowded food courts offered vistas of empty chairs and shuttered fastfood outlets. The staff examined the body temperature of customers and turned back children and senior citizens. They also registered the mobile number of visitors. Several air-conditioned shopping complexes that vaguely qualified as malls also remained shut. Most establishments operated on minimal staff and janitors regularly disinfected the premises. There were separate entry and exit points for visitors.
10 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Kerala govt. defends temple reopening||Reopening of temples has triggered a political row with the Sangh Parivar accusing the State of forcing the decision and the government putting up a spirited defence denying room for a fresh bout of protests in the run-up to the local body and Assembly elections. The Parivar organisations are sore that they have been kept out of the consultations Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan had with heads of religious institutions for evolving a consensus on opening places of worship. Union Minister of State for External Affairs V. Muraleedharan was the first to set the ball rolling by charging the State of acting in haste on the basis of the Central guidelines without evaluating the local scenario. Minister’s response This prompted an instant response from Devaswom Minister Kadakampally Surendran, who said the State was not on a collision course with the Centre in fighting the pandemic and was only abiding by its directives on all issues, including the reopening of temples. UDF lies low United Democratic Front (UDF) leaders who had fervently pressed the demand have opted to lie low and it has turned out to be a spat between the State and the Parivar organisations, including the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP). The government had waited till the Centre set the guidelines for lifting the restrictions and ensured that it was not acting in haste to draw flak The Travancore Devaswom Board (TDB) which manages 1,248 temples, including Sabarimala, and the Guruvayur Devaswom had reiterated its resolve to follow the COVID-19 protocol to ensure that the pilgrim management was not intensifying the pandemic spread. Responses of the government and the Devaswoms on the issue are calibrated and seem to be aimed at staving off any move to use it as a trigger for targeting the government as in the case of the agitations over the legal nod granting entry for women of child-bearing age to the Sabarimala Ayyappa temple. The best efforts of the Parivar organisations do not seem to invoke any protest and the government is consciously avoiding a friction so that it could fight the polls with ease.
10 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Call for focus on symptomatic cases||India ought to be focussing on symptomatic patients, epidemiologists and public health experts told The Hindu a day after an official at the World Health Organization (WHO) said asymptomatic patients are responsible for a small percentage of the infections spread. Maria Van Kerkhove, Head, WHO emerging diseases and zoonosis unit, said at a press briefing on Monday: “It still appears to be rare that an asymptomatic individual transmits onwards. What we really want to be focussed on is following the symptomatic cases. If we followed all of them, traced their contacts and isolated them we would drastically reduce transmission.” The role played by asymptomatics — those who carry the virus but never show symptoms — has been a matter of intense debate since March. Policy decisions such as the wearing of masks, stringent lockdowns, restricting movement and restarting economic activity, are in part guided by the role of asymptomatics in spreading infections. A statement by the Harvard Global Health Institute on Tuesday accused the WHO of “creating confusion” by reporting that asymptomatic patients rarely spread the disease. “All of the best evidence suggests that people without symptoms can and do readily spread SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes COVID-19.” In their estimate, about 20% of people infected with COVID-19 never develop symptoms and they cited modelling studies to show that 40-60% of spread is from people before they had any symptoms. In March, India began by testing only those who showed symptoms — cough, difficulty breathing and respiratory infection — and had a travel history. It expanded the criteria to gauge the extent of community spread but now several States have reverted to a more stringent testing criteria. The Health Ministry maintained that 69 out of 100 COVID-19 patients are “asymptomatic” in India. However this also includes those who show mild disease and could include another category called presymptomatics. The latter are those who eventually show symptoms, but asymptomatics are those who never manifest symptoms. Both categories are capable of being infectious and the debate is about the degree to which both categories do so. “It’s true asymptomatics don’t spread much and that it is the symptomatics who are the drivers of clusters,” Dr. Giridhar Babu, physician and epidemiologist, said. “WHO should be commissioning studies to understand spread within the categories of asymptomatics and presymptomatics.” “For India, the asymptomatics can range from 28% to 68%. What we’d found was that the contact tracing data of nearly 40% of patients couldn’t be traced,” Manoj Murhekar, Director, ICMR-National Institute of Epidemiology, said.
10 June 2020||Bhopal,||COVID-19 patient travels 700 km, dies in Bhopal||When his father, showing COVID-19-like symptoms, was turned away by two government dispensaries, one hospital and three private doctors in New Delhi, 18-year-old Sanjay Singh* pinned his hopes on Bhopal, their hometown, and booked his father’s train ticket online. “We thought if not at a hospital, then at least at railway stations his illness will be caught during medical examination,” said Mr. Singh. But the 42-year-old’s illness went undetected at the railway stations in both the cities. And within a day of making the 700-km journey, he died at Hamidia hospital here of COVID-19 on June 7. The Bhopal administration is now tracing 13 of the deceased man’s contacts. “We will collect their samples,” said Tarun Kumar Pithode, Bhopal Collector. When the man, who worked in the electronic media in New Delhi, stepped outside the Habibganj station here, his condition shocked his brother. “He was getting breathless while talking... A lot of time had been wasted in Delhi,” said the brother, a staff member at Hamidia Hospital. First, the man went to the government-run J.P. Hospital. When doctors sensed his situation had deteriorated considerably, they referred him to the Hamidia Hospital, where he tested positive and died while on a ventilator. “Only after that the government woke up,” said his brother, who started getting numerous calls from the police, district authorities and the Railways after that. “The Bhopal administration even declared a containment area where my house is located, although my brother stayed in New Delhi,” he said. Mr. Singh said his father had approached three doctors in Mayur Vihar phase 3 of New Delhi when he turned feverish on May 29. The teenager recalled his father telling him on the phone that no doctor would touch him. Then the man had approached a dispensary, which turned him away too. He drove to a hospital in Anand Vihar and was told by doctors there he must immediately get tested for COVID-19. At the GTB Hospital, the man was told they hadn’t begun testing yet. “I called them from Bhopal, confronted them, told them it’s mentioned on their website that they are a COVID-19 hospital but they refused to budge,” said the son. On hearing the news of the man’s death, his wife suffered an asthma attack and is admitted to a hospital in New Delhi. The man is also survived by a daughter, 15, who has tested positive. (* Name changed to protect identity )
10 June 2020||Hyderabad,||Containment zones a closely guarded secret in Hyderabad||On Monday, a family in Malkajgiri learnt about a COVID-19 case in their neighbourhood apartment. “Police officials came. Then the area was sanitised and the gate of the apartment complex where the person lived was barricaded with a banner about containment. We learnt from others that a medical professional in the complex was under treatment forthe virus,” says Beenoy, a resident of New Mirjalguda in the eastern part of Hyderabad. A month earlier, the area itself would have been cordoned off and marked as containment zone limiting movement of people. “We are not giving out information about Containment Zones so as to prevent panic among general public,” says an official of the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation when asked about the number of containment zones in the city. Three leaks Between the detection of the first case in March first week and June, information about containment zones in the GHMC area has leaked only thrice. On April 13, there were 139 containment zones in the GHMC area where 258 cases were reported. It affected 12,814 households and 55,855 persons in all the zones of the city. The containment zones list had information about a nodal officer and his contact number, details about surveillance teams and details about officials of all civic utilities. Movement in the containment zone was limited to supply of essentials and medical emergencies. The State was following the March 11 guidelines of the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare which mandated: “Geographic quarantine ( cordon sanitaire ) strategy calls for near absolute interruption of movement of people to and from a relatively large defined geographic area where there is single large outbreak or multiple foci of local transmission of COVID-19.” Information about the containment zones leaked again on May 20 which listed 111 containment zones in the city. But instead of specific areas and boundaries, this list had names like Filmnagar, Asifnagar Zirrah, Ahmed Colony or Prakash Nagar, making the information useless. The Ministry of Home Affairs guidelines on May 30 for re-opening the country linked business activities to limits of containment zones. Containment zones were expected to have “geographic quarantine, social distancing measures, enhanced active surveillance, testing all suspected cases, isolation of cases, home quarantine of contacts, social mobilisation to follow preventive public health measures.” If the MHA guidelines were followed, large portions of the city would have remained under lockdown. But that didn’t happen. The clue lay in the third list of containment zones that leaked on June 3. It listed 159 containment zones, up from the May 20 list. The bottom line for the list was: “The above are only containment houses list (only one house is contained)”. The result? Almost all areas in Hyderabad have been opened up for shopping, business, offices and other purposes. The other outcome of the secrecy about containment zones has been wild rumours and gossip. “There are two cases in this apartment complex,” says a resident of Shiva Sai Residential Association in the Attapur area. His source of information is the Arogya Setu app. It lists information about patients within a radius of 500 metres, 1 km, 2 km, 5 km and 10km. In Attapur area, it shows two users testing positive for the SARS-CoV-2 in 1 km radius and 72 users as SARS-CoV-2 positive in 5km radius.
10 June 2020||Bengaluru,||Karnataka’s all 4 RS nominees set to be elected unopposed||The elections to four Rajya Sabha seats from Karnataka are set to be unanimous with no political party fielding an additional candidate. The Congress and the JD(S) are fielding political heavyweights while the BJP has nominated two low-profile party workers. On Tuesday, BJP candidates Eranna Kadadi and Ashok Gasti, as well as JD(S) candidate and former Prime Minster H.D. Deve Gowda, filed their nomination papers. Congress candidate M. Mallikarjun Kharge filed his papers on Monday. Mr. Gowda filed his papers in the presence of his two sons, former Chief Minister H.D. Kumaraswamy and former Minister H.D. Revanna, and JD(S) State president H.K. Kumaraswamy. For Mr. Gowda, this will be his second Rajya Sabha entry; the first being in 1996 as Prime Minister. With Tuesday being the last day for filing nominations, only five candidates, including one Independent (Sangamesh Chikkanaragunda), have filed papers. Mr. Chikkanaragunda’s nomination paper will be rejected during scrutiny on Wednesday since the required number of MLAs did not sign it at the time of filing, sources in the State Secretariat said. Mr. Kadadi and Mr. Gasti, the BJP’s organisational in-charge leaders for Belagavi and Ballari zones, respectively, filed their nomination papers in the presence of Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, State BJP president Nalin Kumar Kateel, Deputy Chief Minister Laxman Savadi and other party leaders. The elections are scheduled for June 19 to fill the four Rajya Sabha seats from the State, represented by Rajiv Gowda, B.K. Hariprasad (Congress), Prabhakar Kore, and D. Kupendra Reddy (JD-S), that will fall vacant on June 25 with their retirement.
10 June 2020||Hyderabad,||Fish ‘prasadam’ takes COVID break||A 175-year-old tradition snapped on Tuesday as the Bathini Goud family did not distribute the fish prophylactic touted to help people with breathing disorders. “What was started by my great grandfather Veeranna in 1845 had to be stopped this year due to the spread of COVID-19 disease. During the freedom movement, and even when there was Razakar terror in the city, the tradition didn’t stop,” said Harinath Goud of the family. Mrigashira Karte Every year on Mrigashira Karte, members of the Bathini Goud family distribute the oral prophylactic stuffed into a small murrel fish to thousands of people who reach Hyderabad. The distribution event takes place at the Exhibition Grounds in Nampally where police and State officials help with the arrangements as thousands of people partake of the prophylactic. “We have received hundreds of calls asking about the event. We want to follow the orders of the government and cannot take risk. We realised that social distancing would not be possible if we went ahead with the event,” said Mr. Harinath Goud. The event should have taken place between 10 a.m. on June 8 and 10 a.m. on June 9. Rationalists and scientists have questioned the efficacy of the fish prophylactic over the years calling into question the scientific principle behind it. Nomenclature change In 2004, the Indian Medical Association questioned the secrecy surrounding the ingredients of the “medicine” and invoked the provisions of the Drugs and Magical Remedies Act 1954, and filed a writ petition in the High Court in Hyderabad. The family changed the nomenclature from fish medicine to fish prasadam .
10 June 2020||New Delhi,||‘Parliament doesn’t have space to ensure physical distancing’||Both Houses of Parliament do not have space to accommodate members while strictly adhering to physical distancing norms, Rajya Sabha Chairman M. Venkaiah Naidu and Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla were told by the Secretaries-General of the Houses at a meeting here on Tuesday, sources said. According to the sources, by a review done by the Parliament Secretariat, the Rajya Sabha hall can have 60 MPs while keeping enough distance between each member, and the Lok Sabha hall has space for a little over 100 members. The secretariat had been weighing on moving the Rajya Sabha to the Lok Sabha hall, while moving Lok Sabha members to the Central Hall, which is used for the joint sittings of Parliament. “Even if the members are accommodated in the visitors’ and press galleries, the total seating capacity would be much less than that required...,” an official said. The seating capacity at the Vigyan Bhavan, which is a facility used for national conferences, was also reviewed, but it has been ruled out. “Another option discussed was to enable attendance in both Houses of only those many members who can be accommodated as per the social distancing norm by drawing up lists of such members whose participation in various items of business is required on a daily basis,” the official added. However, the Opposition is likely to resist any such move to curtail the entry of members during a session for paucity of space. Both Mr. Naidu and Mr. Birla for now have ruled out using webcast for holding virtual meetings of the parliamentary committees, saying it would need change of rules, which has to be approved by both Houses of Parliament.
10 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Don’t ignore bonded labour, SC tells Bihar||The Supreme Court on Tuesday asked the Nitish Kumar government not to “turn a blind eye” to the problem of bonded labour in Bihar merely because the administration was focussed on handling the migrant workers’ influx amid the COVID-19 lockdown. A Bench, led by Justice L. Nageswara Rao, was dealing with the delay on the part of Bihar and Uttar Pradesh in implementing a May 11 order of the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) to rescue and repatriate 187 bonded labourers working in brick kilns under inhuman conditions. The Bihar government explained that the administration was busy addressing the huge influx of migrant labourers. “All your energy may be concentrated on the problem of migrant workers, but you cannot turn a blind eye to the problem of bonded labourers. Minimum wages were not paid to these workers,” Justice Rao told Gopal Singh, counsel for Bihar, at a virtual hearing. Uttar Pradesh Additional Advocate-General Aishwarya Bhati said the victims had already been released. FIRs had been registered against the owners of the brick kilns and the workers had been repatriated to Bihar, their home State. The court, disposing of the petition filed by activist Zahid Hussain, asked the NHRC to consider drafting guidelines for repatriation and protection of bonded labourers keeping in mind the conditions arising out of the pandemic. Mr. Hussein, represented by senior advocate Anitha Shenoy, said the District Magistrates of Sambhal in Uttar Pradesh and Rohtas in Bihar did not take prompt action to aid the 187 victims.
10 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Twitter to test ‘fleets’ in India||Social media giant Twitter on Tuesday said it will start testing its new feature ‘Fleets’ in India, allowing users to post “fleeting thoughts” that will disappear after 24 hours and cannot be retweeted or liked. This functionality is similar to the popular ‘story’ features offered by social networks such as Instagram, Facebook and Snapchat. “We learned from research that people don’t tweet because tweets are public, feel permanent, and display the number of retweets and likes. We hope ‘Fleets’ will empower many more people to express themselves more freely,” the company said. India is the third market globally, after Brazil and Italy, where Twitter is rolling out this feature on a test basis. ‘Diversity of usage’ “India is important for Twitter since it is one of our largest and fastest-growing audience markets globally. We are excited to bring the Fleets experiment to India and make it one of the first three countries in the world to experience this new product,” Manish Maheshwari, MD at Twitter India, said. He added that from the test, Twitter will learn how adding a new mode of conversation changes the way Indians engage on Twitter. “It will also be interesting to see if it further amplifies the diversity of usage by allowing people to share what they’re thinking in a way that is light-touch and light-hearted,” he said. ‘Fleets’ from the accounts one follows will appear on the top of one’s timeline. To create a new Fleet, users will need to tap on the profile picture on the top left corner, and then type in a message or add a photos or video and tap ‘Fleet’ to post. To engage with followers on Fleets, the option to reply and react will be available when Direct Messages (DMs) are open. Followers can reply privately via DM or quickly react with an emoji, and continue the conversation privately in DMs. Their replies and reactions will appear in DMs along with the Fleet they are responding to. Mo Al Adham, Twitter group product manager, said, “Twitter is where people go to see and talk about what’s happening. We want people to be able to have conversations on Twitter in different ways, with less pressure and more control. That’s why we’re testing a way to share their fleeting thoughts.”  Fleets will be available for iOS and Android in the coming days in the updated app versions.
10 June 2020||PALAKKAD,||Armless youth icon Pranav lends a helping hand to the deprived||Pranav M.B., who had been in the news as the armless ambassador of the differently abled during last year’s Lok Sabha elections, on Monday joined the SFI TV Challenge by donating his television set to help the deprived. “I will be happy if my TV set helps at least one student to learn during this COVID-19 pandemic. I can manage with my smartphone,” said Pranav after handing over his TV set to Students Federation of India district secretary P. Dinanath at his house at Malamalamukku, Alathur. Pranav had been chosen by the district administration as the youth icon of the differently abled for the Election Commission’s voter awareness programme SVEEP (systematic voter education and electoral participation). He became a hero when Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan shared a photo with him on his social media page in December last. “I am sure the TV set will reach the most deserving hands,” said Pranav, who is preparing for Public Service Commission examinations after he passed BCom securing 65% marks from Government College, Chittur. During the current lockdown, he completed more than two dozen paintings using his right toes. Mr. Dinanath said they were aiming to collect 500 TV sets through the TV Challenge.
10 June 2020||New Delhi,||Uncertainty over food scheme extension||Two Central schemes started during the extended lockdown to provide additional foodgrains end by June 30, but so far the Ministry of Food and Public Distribution has not taken any steps to review whether they should be extended and are awaiting word from the Prime Minister’s Office (PMO). Karnataka Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, in a letter to Union Minister for Food and Public Distribution Ramvilas Paswan on Monday, urged the Centre to extend the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Ann Yojana (PMGKAY), which covers the 80 crore ration card-holders, providing 5 kg of rice or wheat each month and one kg of pulses for a household. According to sources, he is the first Chief Minister to make this request. A second scheme was announced by Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman to cover 8 crore migrant workers who do not have ration cards and are supposed to get 5 kg of rice or wheat and 1 kg of chana or other pulses free. “We ourselves don’t know whether the schemes will be extended or not and are awaiting instructions from the PMO,” a top official at the Food Ministry said. As per government data, nearly 74 crore ration card holders in April, 71 crore in May and nearly 8 lakh so far in June have got additional foodgrains. Under the Atma Nirbhar Bharat Abhiyan,only 59% of the allocation had been lifted by the States. It was critical to extend both the schemes, for primarily three reasons, Associate Professor of economics, IIT Delhi, Reetika Khera, who has been involved with food security issues told The Hindu . Ms Khera said, “The severe hit people have taken because of an unplanned lockdown and its adverse economic impact would be felt for some time to come. Ideally for next six months, the government should universalise public distribution. If not, the schemes should be extended for a minimum of three months at the very least. Two, because the monsoon months are known to be hungry season since food supplies from any previous harvest are likely to have run out, and three, because the government had 80 million tonnes of food grains at the end of April, far in excess of its buffer stock requirement.”
10 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||74% claimants ‘low-wage earners’, says EPFO||The Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO) on Tuesday said over 74% claimants during the lockdown were “low wage earners”, or those who earn less than Rs. 15,000 a month. “Despite the lockdown restrictions, the EPFO settled a staggering 36.02 lakh claims thereby disbursing Rs. 11,540 crore to its members during April and May. Of this, 15.54 lakh claims, disbursing Rs. 4,580 crore, were related to the recently introduced COVID-19 advance under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana,” the organisation said in a statement. It said the special withdrawal scheme related to the pandemic had helped members with income less than Rs. 15,000. Under the scheme, members can withdraw up to three months’ basic wages plus dearness allowance or 75% of the amount in their EPF account, whichever is lower. “A look at wage slab-wise data points out that more than 74% claimants belonged to the slab of less than Rs. 15,000 wage [per month]. The high income category with wages more than Rs. 50,000 accounted for a mere 2%. Approximately 24% claims were made by the members with wages falling in the Rs. 15,000 to less than Rs. 50,000 category.” Despite a shortage of staff, the EPFO said, it had settled 36.02 lakh claims in April and May, an increase from 33.75 lakh claims for the same months last year. “Apart from commitment of staff, use of artificial intelligence played a big role in achieving new benchmarks in claim settlement. EPFO launched its first fully automatic claim settlement system in a record time of just five days. Almost 54% of the COVID-19 claims are now being settled through the auto mode,” the EPFO said. It added that 80,000 claims were being settled every day.
10 June 2020||June 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Cross-party backing in Nepal for new map||The legislative discussion or Saiddhantik Chhalphal on the amendment commenced on Tuesday morning as the government of Prime Minister K.P. Sharma Oli, helped by the main opposition Nepali Congress, pushed for fast clearance of the bill. The Madhesi block, which had earlier urged for a “package amendment” including some of their concerns, also extended support with the Janata Samajvadi Party joining hands with the Nepal Communist Party-led move. Mr. Gyawali said Nepal does not feel happy while recollecting the Sugauli treaty as it was part of a compromise deal with the colonial rulers of India, however, that is the basis of Nepal’s present territorial identity. He said despite repeated efforts, Nepal's request for a resolution of the disputes at Kalapani in the west and Susta on the U.P.-Bihar border were not resolved in the past . “India acknowledged these two issues as unresolved and pending in 1997,” the Minister said. Following the legislative discussion, the bill is ready for passing in the lower house though further discussions are required as per procedural rules. The discussion in the Pratinidhi Sabha saw passionate speeches from MPs of various political parties who urged Prime Minister Oli to protect Nepal's geographical integrity, sovereignty and independence. Speaking on the bill, Defence Minister Ishwor Pokhrel said Nepal is confident of regaining the territory from India through diplomatic dialogue.
10 June 2020||Hyderabad,||Cong. leaders to visit Godavari project sites||Telangana Congress leaders, on June 13, will visit the sites of projects initiated by the previous Congress regime on Godavari river to study the progress of each and ‘expose’ the TRS government’s deliberate neglect of them. ‘Meet the press’ TPCC president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy spoke to MLAs and senior leaders of the party advising them to hold meets with the local media to explain how projects in their areas were neglected by the current government. As part of the senior leaders’ visit, he said that MLC T. Jeevan Reddy and former minister Marri Shashidhar Reddy will visit Tummidihatti where the Congress proposed the Pranahitha Chevella project. Manthani MLA D. Sridhar Babu, TPCC working president J. Kusum Kumar and AICC secretary Ch. Vamshichand Reddy will visit Yellampalli Sripada Sagar while Bhongir MP Komatireddy Venkata Reddy and AICC secretary Sampath Kumar will go to Gouravalli project site. TPCC working president Ponnam Prabhakar will be headed to Upper Manair; MP Revanth Reddy and MLA Seethakka to Devadula; and a team of CLP leader Bhatti Vikramarka, former union minister Balaram Naik, MLA Podem Veeraiah, V. Hanumantha Rao and Ramulu Naik will visit Dummugudem. Former Minister, Sudarshan Reddy will go to Ali Sagar while former minister Shabbir Ali will visit Bhoompalli. Panel on AP project Mr. Uttam Reddy has constituted a committee to fight against the extension of Pothireddypadu project in Andhra Pradesh, to be headed by former minister Nagam Janardhan Reddy. The committee will have 12 members with Mr. Janardhan Reddy as chairman and former MLA T. Rammohan Reddy as convenor. Mr. Hanumantha Rao and K. Jana Reddy will be the advisers. Other members include former ministers G. Chinna Reddy, Sambhani Chandrashekar and Gaddam Prasad, former MPs Mallu Ravi and Konda Vishweshwer Reddy apart from Balu Nayak, Ling Reddy, Srihari Mudiraj, Ramalingaiah Yadav and D. Venkateshwarlu.
10 June 2020||June 10 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Social vaccine’ is need of the hour: Minister||The Minister said more than 12.55 crore people in the country have downloaded the Aarogya Setu app so far. “GoM was also apprised about the growing medical infrastructure in the country and was informed that as of June 9, 2020, the COVID related health infrastructure has been strengthened with the availability of 958 dedicated COVID hospitals with 1,67,883 isolation beds, 21,614 ICU beds and 73,469 oxygen supported beds,” noted a release issued by the Ministry.
10 June 2020||June 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Migrants should not be prosecuted, says SC||“Migrant labourers are forced to proceed to their native place after cessation of their employment. They are already suffering. They have to dealt by the police and other authorities in a humane manner,” it observed. The court squarely placed the onus on the Centre, the States and the UTs to provide details of employment and benefits schemes to the returned workers. The Bench directed that counselling centres should be set up to reach out to them and explain the various schemes framed for their rehabilitation and employment. The centres should freely provide information and even “extend helping hand” to those workers who want to return to their places of past employment. The States and UTs were directed to conduct extensive skill-mapping of the returned workers. The court passed the order after suo motu taking cognisance of the migrant workers’ exodus. The next hearing is on July 8. In a retort to the government criticism of High Courts running a “parallel government” with their orders on migrants, the top court said, “High Courts, as constitutional courts, were well within their jurisdiction to take cognisance of violation of fundamental rights of migrant workers and we have no doubt that those proceedings shall proceed.”
10 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Plea cites order on J&K Net curbs||A contempt of Supreme Court petition has been filed, making Union Home Secretary Ajay Kumar Bhalla and Chief Secretary of Jammu and Kashmir Union Territory B.V.R. Subrahmanyam parties, for their “willful disobedience” of a May 11 order of the court to “immediately” establish a special committee to determine the necessity of continuing “blanket restrictions” on 4G Internet in Jammu & Kashmir, especially amid the COVID-19 pandemic.  The Foundation for Media Professionals said in its plea that there is no record in the public domain about the formation of the committee. In fact, it said, the authorities issued a new order on the very evening of May 11, directing service providers to continue restrictions on mobile internet speed to 2G.
10 June 2020||June 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Vidhura, the devotee||The third Skanda of the Bhagavata Purana features two lengthy dialogues, one between Uddhava and Vidhura, and the other between Vidhura and Maitreya. Before narrating these in detail to Parikshit, Suka highlights the fact that all three are great devotees of Krishna and also great jnanis, pointed out Sri R. Krishnamurthy Sastrigal in a discourse. Suka refers to Vidhura’s extraordinary devotion to Krishna that becomes explicit when Krishna prefers to stay in Vidhura’s humble home though he had been invited by Duryodhana to his palace. Vidhura stood for righteousness and would often try his best to remind Dhritarashtra that the Kauravas should have to give back to Yudhishtira his rightful dues. Just before the outbreak of the war, when he repeated the same advice, Duryodhana flew into a rage and insulted him and drove him away. Vidhura now meets Uddhava on the banks of the Yamuna and wishes to know about what had happened in his absence. When he makes enquiries about Krishna, and from the way he talks to Uddhava, it is clear that Vidhura is so realised that he finds nothing surprising in whatever that happens as he can discern only the Lord’s hand in everything. Vidhura wishes to hear about the Supreme Lord Krishna whose incarnation has been explicitly to protect the good and the holy from the atrocities of the evil minded. He is aware of the purpose of the Krishna avatar which was to offer solace and salvation to those who have taken shelter in Him. When Vidhura learns from Uddhava that just before His ascension to Vaikunta, Krishna had ordained that Maitreya should impart the highest knowledge to him, he is so overwhelmed that Krishna had thought of him at that moment when the avatar was to end.
10 June 2020||New Delhi,||Move to ban 27 pesticides opposed||Pesticide manufacturers have pointed out that the Agriculture Ministry is now using — in the fight against locusts — some of the very same pesticides that it proposed to ban in a draft notification last month. They appealed to the Centre to drop the plans for a ban. If the Centre does not heed their plea, they plan to go to court against the proposed ban of 27 pesticides, which they claim will increase prices four-fold for Indian farmers, and result in business losses worth Rs. 16,000 crore. “All these 27 molecules have been registered in India by the regulatory authority, meeting all scientific evaluations for safety and efficacy. These... include Malathion that was extensively used by the government during the recent locust attack,” Pesticides Manufacturers and Formulators Association of India’s Pradip Dave said at an online media conference.
10 June 2020||NEW DELHI/BENGALURU,||Legislative Council polls on June 29||The Election Commission of India (ECI) on Tuesday announced the schedule for elections to seven Karnataka Legislative Council seats, for which polling and counting will be held on June 29. The ECI said in a statement that the seven seats would be vacant after the members retire on June 30. After receiving inputs from the Karnataka Chief Electoral Officer, the ECI decided that the election notification would be issued on Thursday. The last date for filing nominations is June 18 while the deadline for withdrawal is June 22. Polling will be held from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m. on June 29. Votes will be counted at 5 p.m. “Adequate measures for close monitoring by appointing observers shall be taken to ensure a free and fair election,” the ECI said.
10 June 2020||New Delhi,||Rahul’s direct poser on border crisis||Moving away from poetic engagement, former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi on Tuesday posed a direct question to Defence Minister Rajnath Singh asking if Chinese troops had occupied Indian territory. “Once RM [Raksha Mantri] is done commenting on the hand symbol, can he answer: Have the Chinese occupied Indian territory in Ladakh,” he asked on Twitter. A tweet from Mr. Gandhi on Monday started off an exchange between Congress leaders and Mr. Singh on social media, with both sides referring to famous Urdu couplets.
10 June 2020||Kolkata,||Mamata is blocking govt. benefits: Shah||Accusing the Trinamool Congress government in West Bengal of stopping benefits from the Centre from reaching people, Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Tuesday said people would remove the party from power in the next Assembly election. “We want to send money to the farmers but we do not have the list of beneficiaries. There should be a limit to politics. The entire country, including Arvind Kejriwal, has accepted the Ayushman Bharat scheme, but Mamataji is still opposing it,” Mr. Shah said at a virtual rally while launching the BJP’s “election campaign”.
10 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Online travel agencies caution against booking GoAir flights||A prominent travel booking portal has stopped selling GoAir tickets while another online travel agency (OTA) said they caution passengers on their website against booking flights with the low-cost carrier. These OTAs have been forced to take the drastic steps after flak from passengers due to sudden flight cancellations, a lack of response from the airline’s customer care and a failure to receive cash refunds on certain tickets despite an order from the government. “We decided to stop selling GoAir tickets from Monday because of customer flak due to a high number of cancellations, the airline being slow on refunds and not responding to complaints,” said a spokesperson of a leading OTA.
10 June 2020||LUCKNOW,||Cong. seeks release of U.P. unit chief||The Congress has launched a “seva satyagraha” campaign demanding the release of its Uttar Pradesh unit president Ajay Kumar Lallu, who has been lodged in jail since May 21 over the showdown with the State government on transport for migrant workers. The 41-year-old leader was arrested on May 20 in Agra for protesting against the administration’s refusal to allow buses sent by the party from Rajasthan to ply into U.P. to transport migrant workers home. The party said it would feed 25 lakh persons in the State under the campaign, with the theme of “Seva ki hogi vijay, Hum sab mein Lallu Ajay”. Though he was granted interim bail by an Agra court, he was soon arrested again by the Lucknow police on charges of sending a faulty list of buses to the U.P. government and alleged forgery of documents. The FIR was lodged under Sections 182, 420, 467 and 468 of the Indian Penal Code on the complaint of the RTO, Lucknow. He was sent to 14 days judicial custody. Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra evoked Mahatma Gandhi and said it was from him that the party had learnt one must stand strong and work on the path of truth even under oppression.
10 June 2020||LUCKNOW,||‘Opposition trying to derail appointments’||The Uttar Pradesh government on Tuesday accused the Opposition of politicising the appointment of 69,000 assistant teachers so as to hold up the process. Minister of State for Basic Education Satish Dwivedi said allegations were being made at the cost of the “future of the candidates”. “Some people are running a political campaign,” he told presspersons. His statement came a day after the Allahabad High Court reserved its order on a government petition against the stay that the court ordered on the process to recruit 69,000 teachers. The court stayed the process after several candidates who had fallen short by one or two marks challenged the results, citing discrepancies in the questions and answers. “We will act as per the orders of the court,” said Mr. Dwivedi.
10 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Jyotiraditya, mother test positive||BJP leader Jyotiraditya Scindia and his mother Madhavi Raje Scindia have tested positive for COVID-19, according to a tweet by his party colleague and Union Minister Som Parkash on Tuesday. “Shri Jyotiraditya Scindiaji and his mother tested positive for Covid-19,” tweeted the Minister of State for Commerce and Industry. “My prayers for the speedy recovery of both.”
10 June 2020||New Delhi,||Fuel prices go up for three days in a row||The price of petrol was hiked by 54 paise a litre and that of diesel by 58 paise on Tuesday in the third consecutive daily increase after public sector oil firms ended an 82-day hiatus in rate revision. Petrol price in Delhi was hiked to Rs. 73 a litre from Rs. 72.46, while the diesel rate was increased to Rs. 71.17 from Rs. 70.59, according to a price notification issued by state oil marketing companies. Prices were raised by 60 paise a litre each on both petrol and diesel on Sunday and Monday. In all, petrol price has gone up by Rs. 1.74 a litre and diesel by Rs. 1.78 a litre in three days. Indian Oil, Bharat Petroleum and Hindustan Petroleum Corp had put the daily price revisions on hold soon after the Union government, on March 14, raised the excise duty on petrol and diesel by Rs. 3 per litre each.
10 June 2020||Karimnagar,||Couple hacked to death over land dispute||An elderly couple was reportedly hacked to death at Kondapaka village of Veenavanka mandal on Tuesday afternoon over a farmland dispute. Sources said that Purella Poshalu (65) and his wife Susheela (60), a former MPTC, were working in their field when some unidentified persons attacked them with knives and slit their throats. Police said they had a dispute over three acres of land and over sharing of canal waters with some villagers. The couple had filed a police complaint over the disputes and even approached the court.
10 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||With 1,685 fresh cases, State’s daily tally hits new high||Tamil Nadu reported 1,685 fresh cases of the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) and 21 deaths on Tuesday. With this, the State’s overall case count climbed to 34,914*, while the death toll increased to 307. As many as 798 persons were discharged from hospitals across the State, taking the total number of persons discharged to 18,325. Chennai hit another new high, with 1,242 indigenous cases and one imported case. The city’s overall tally inched closer to the 25,000-mark. As many as 244 of the 307 fatalities in the State have occurred in Chennai. Tuesday marked the highest number of fatalities reported by the Health Department in a single day. All 21 fatalities occurred in Chennai — 15 in government hospitals and six in private hospitals. Among the deceased was a 30-year-old man with no co-morbidities. The Chennai resident was admitted to a private hospital with complaints of fever and cough on June 6, and died on June 8 due to severe COVID-19 pneumonia. A 39-year-old-man with no co-morbid conditions died at the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital (RGGGH) on Tuesday due to cardiopulmonary arrest and COVID-19 pneumonia. A 90-year-old man from Chennai with seizure disorder was admitted to RGGGH on June 5. He died on June 8 due to factors including cardiopulmonary arrest and COVID-19 pneumonia. Sixteen of the 21 patients who died had co-morbidities, while the rest had no co-morbid conditions, according to the bulletin issued by the Health Department. There was a decline in the number of samples tested when compared to the past few days. A total of 13,219 samples were tested. As many as 6,21,171 samples have been tested in the State till date, while the total number of persons tested stands at 12,421. Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar told reporters that the testing capacity of the King Institute of Preventive Medicine had been increased to 1,500 samples a day. Of the 1,685 fresh cases, 36 had returned to T.N. from abroad and other States. They included three persons who had returned from Kuwait and two from Dammam. As many as 17 persons who had returned from Delhi by flights/road/trains have also tested positive for COVID-19. A total of 1,917 persons who had returned to the State by flights, trains, roads and seaports have tested positive for COVID-19 till date. Cases continued to surge in Chengalpattu and Tiruvallur. With 158 new cases, the overall tally of Chengalpattu surpassed the 2,000-mark. The district currently has 2,146 cases. Tiruvallur reported 90 new infections, taking its case count to 1,476. There were 32 cases in Kancheepuram, 16 each in Madurai, Tiruvannamalai and Vellore, and 10 (including one imported case) in Thoothukudi. Dedicated control room A control room has been set up at the 108 Emergency Response Centre to handle calls from COVID-19-positive persons in the Greater Chennai Corporation limits and dispatch ambulances to their locality. The control room can be contacted at 044-40067108. It has 10 phone lines and would function round-the-clock. This would facilitate access to 108 ambulances without any delays, a press release said.  (*This is inclusive of two deaths cross-notified to other States and one patient who died after testing negative for the infection)
10 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Over 10,000 beds at care centres set aside for four govt. hospitals||The four government medical college hospitals in the city have been allotted 10,252 beds at COVID-19 Care Centres. These centres, arranged by the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC), function from various buildings, including government and private colleges. Officials of the Health Department said that the number of beds at the centres had been increased from 5,000 to over 10,000. “We are taking care of the manpower, including doctors and nurses, while arrangements for food and cleaning are done by the GCC,” an official explained.  Deans informed In an official communication, dated June 8, to deans of the four institutions, the Directorate of Medical Education (DME) said that the Corporation had arranged for the care centres at government and private colleges in different parts of the city and these had been allotted to the institutions. The deans were instructed to inspect and take over the facilities for the treatment of COVID-19 patients. Among the care centres are the newly constructed Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board tenements at K.P. Park, Pulianthope. The blocks at this facility have been allotted to three medical college hospitals other than the Government Kilpauk Medical College Hospital. The Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital has been allotted 3,120 beds at eight care centres across K.P. Park; SRM Hospital, Ramapuram; Port Trust Hospital, Harbour; Chennai Trade Centre Block-1, Nandambakkam; Madras Veterinary College, Vepery; and Anna University, Guindy. The Government Stanley Medical College Hospital has been allotted 3,100 beds at 15 care centres across K.P. Park; IIT Madras, Guindy; Ambedkar College, Vyasarpadi; Presidency College, Chepauk; and a number of private colleges. The Government Kilpauk Medical College Hospital has been allotted 2,112 beds at IIT Madras, Guindy; a private hospital in Arumbakkam; NSTI, Guindy; and a few private institutions. The Government Medical College Hospital, Omandurar Estate, has been allotted 1,920 beds at six centres across K.P. Park; the Government Arts College for Men, Nandanam; and a few private institutions.
10 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Online tributes for Crazy Mohan today||The Tokyo Tamil Sangam, in association with Crazy Creations, will pay online tributes to the ‘king of live theatre’, comedy actor and screenwriter, the late Crazy Mohan, on Wednesday, to mark the first anniversary of his death. The Facebook pages of Tokyo Tamil Sangam, Crazy Mohan page and around 30 Tamil Sangams will broadcast the event live from 6 p.m. to 9.30 p.m. At least one lakh persons across the globe are expected to watch the event. Actor ‘Maadhu’ Balaji, the hero of all of Mohan’s plays and his brother, said actor Kamal Haasan would release online a song made by the Tokyo Sangam and sung by children of other Sangams abroad. Apart from Mr. Haasan, actors Prabhu, Nasser, Khushboo, directors K. S. Ravikumar and Santhana Bharathi will pay their tributes.  Fundraisers held Sangam president Hari Narayanan Ganesan said they had 3,000 members and had been conducting fundraisers for 300 families in Panruti, artistes in Puducherry and a 1,000 girlchildren in north Chennai since the beginning of the pandemic. “We were honouring Corona Warriors every week and when the anniversary of Crazy Mohan was coming up, we wanted to honour him since he has brought such joy and mirth in our lives,” he said. The event will begin with a prayer song by renowned Carnatic vocalist Nithyashree Mahadevan and would also have short performances by vocalist Gayathri Gireesh and veena maestro Rajhesh Vaidhya.
10 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Students, parents heave sigh of relief||For over 9 lakh students who were scheduled to take the Class 10 public exams from June 15, the announcement on the cancellation of the tests has come as a huge relief. The exams were originally scheduled to begin on March 27, but were postponed due to the national COVID-19 lockdown. The School Education Department subsequently announced that the exams would be held from June 1, drawing severe backlash from parents, teachers and students as concerns were raised about the safety of students at a time when COVID-19 cases were on the rise in the State. School Education Minister K.A. Sengottaiyan then released a fresh schedule, under which the exams would begin from June 15. With the number of cases continuing to increase in the State, several parents had raised concerns regarding the prospect of their children taking the exams in the midst of a pandemic, even as the State government framed several guidelines for carrying out the mammoth exercise. On Monday, the Madras High Court questioned the State government over its plans to conduct the exams. “More than the students, it is the parents who are extremely relieved. We have constantly been receiving calls from parents over the last one week. They were worried about exposing their children [to the virus], and whether they were prepared enough to take the exams,” said P.K. Ilamaran, president, Tamil Nadu Teachers’ Association. In smaller districts, many teachers had been unable to keep in touch with their students during the lockdown. This was also the first batch of students scheduled to take the public exams under the revised syllabus. “Even though the announcement has come just six days before the exam, we are definitely relieved. While the State government has said we can take the half-yearly and quarterly marks into consideration, we want the mark-sheet to be prepared on the basis of a system of grades instead of marks, and are appealing for the same,” said Patric Raymond of the Tamil Nadu Graduate Teachers’ Federation. G.J. Manohar, Senior Principal and Correspondent, MCC Higher Secondary School, welcomed the announcement and said that while they had been preparing to conduct the exams, they would have had to face several challenges if the examinations were held. Following the Chief Minister's announcement, Director of Government Examinations (DGE) C. Usharani asked Chief and District Educational Officers to ensure that all Class 10 and Plus-One students are informed of the cancellation of their exams. As for private candidates, details regarding the exams will be conveyed to them in the near future, the DGE said.  More than the students, it is the parents who are extremely relieved. We have constantly been receiving calls from parents over the last weekP.K. IlamaranPresident, Tamil Nadu Teachers’ Association
10 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Corpn. increases fever camps to 300||In a bid to contain the spread of COVID-19, the Greater Chennai Corporation has increased the number of fever camps from 140 to 300. Starting Tuesday, the number of residents tested has also increased from 3,500 to 5,000, said a Corporation official. Owing to a delay in testing residents with symptoms, the Corporation has requested the government for more lab technicians to facilitate testing of residents in various parts of the city. In addition to 100 lab technicians in the civic body, over 140 lab technicians have already reached Chennai from districts such as Krishnagiri, Vellore and Villupuram. Many residents had complained to the civic body about the lack of proper testing facilities. Those who were unable to pay for private labs had requested the Corporation to offer free testing in all zones. But the civic body was unable to increase testing because of the lack of manpower. Across its 40 centres, the Corporation stopped testing residents at 3 p.m. Hence, many had no option but to visit private labs, which offered services beyond 3 p.m. Civic officials said that the services at Corporation centres were expected to improve with the arrival of additional lab technicians sent by the government from other districts. Token of appreciation After increasing the manpower for COVID-19 containment, the Corporation, in a tweet on Tuesday, asked residents to tag the picture of civic workers in PPE with the hashtag #GuardiansOfChennai. The officials tweeted: Dear Chennaiites, we are eternally grateful to those who work round the clock to keep #Chennai safe. If you come across any of them, post a picture of them (with their permission) & tag us with the hashtag #GuardiansOfChennai. Let's celebrate our Guardians! Corporation officials said that 49.1% of those who contracted COVID-19 in the city had recovered. The percentage of deceased was at 0.9%. Areas such as Tondiarpet, Royapuram, Kodambakkam, Thiru Vi Ka Nagar, Teynampet, Valasaravakkam, Adyar and Anna Nagar had reported a large number of positive cases. Added areas such as Tiruvottiyur had also been reporting a large number of COVID-19 cases in the past few days.
10 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Korean consulate holds online dance competition||To infuse keep spirits high during the lockdown, the Consulate General of the Republic of Korea in Chennai conducted an online competition on their social media platforms and asked participants to send in videos of them dancing to a K-pop song. Deputy Consul General Hong-Yup Lee said the competition was designed to present an opportunity for South Indians to recharge themselves since many were physically and mentally exhausted due to the lockdown. From May 27 to June 3, 17 teams contributed videos. These were viewed by over 4,300 people on the Consulate’s Facebook page and YouTube channel. Two winners were announced — Rhea Rajkumar, who uploaded a dance cover to the song Wannabe by Itzy, and the Choi Family members, who danced to the song Bboom Bboom by Momoland. They will receive a medal and prize representing the Republic of Korea.
10 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Police help one lakh migrants go home||The Greater Chennai Police facilitated travel arrangements for over 1 lakh migrant workers to their native places, by helping them with getting e-passes and train and bus tickets. With workers scattered across the length and breadth of the city, planning and co-ordination were key to their smooth travel. Efforts were made to enumerate workers willing to go to their native places and priority was given for those in urgent need of travel. A major chunk of the migrants were from Bihar, Jharkhand, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal and Odisha. The police handled the entire coordination with these State governments. The migrant workers were enumerated from various places: online on the State government website, at industrial labour camps /construction sites, police stations, lodges, mansions and rented houses and in Greater Chennai Corporation shelters. Additional Commissioner of Police (South) Prem Anand Sinha said those who were desperate to go home and started their journey on foot were stopped by the police and sent to camps. Special nodal officers were nominated in each police district and travel arrangements were planned based on the availability of trains. Buses were arranged by the Corporation and the police personnel escorted the workers to the railway stations. Another challenge was to prevent crowding at railway stations. Checking points were put up on all approach roads leading to the railway stations. Many desperate migrants, who walked to the railway stations, were taken to nearby police station and accommodated in the next train available after obtaining their details. Sorting applications Mr. Sinha said over 75,000 online applications were disposed of with the help of call centres after ascertaining the applicants’ willingness and SMS messages were sent to them informing them of the time and place of reporting for boarding the train. Police stations for reporting were selected based on ease of access and sufficient space. “The listing of passengers for each train, including all details in a particular format, was done by the police. Hindi-speaking personnel were identified for facilitation at the railway station, and communicating with the migrant workers,” said Mr. Sinha added.
10 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Self-declaration form on contact history must before testing at city labs||With the number of cases recorded in Chennai increasing every day, contact tracing becomes a massive task, requiring the deployment of a large posse of personnel on the field. In order to ensure that the exercise is conducted meticulously, the Greater Chennai Corporation has written to all approved labs in the city, asking them to get a self-declaration from those coming in to get tested, with details about their family and contacts. The sanitary inspectors and volunteers are the primary people on this mission, and since they are also in charge of bringing people to the screening centres/COVID care centres and COVID health centres, they are naturally finding the task of contact tracing on the same day very difficult. The person who comes in for testing is required to fill the form before the test. If he or she turns out to be positive, the details of their contacts may be immediately shared by the labs with the GCC, which may, in turn, start the process of isolating contacts and testing them for COVID-19. The form requires the person being tested to give complete details of his family members, including age, gender and relationship, along with a contact phone number for each member of the family. Further, besides asking for the contact address of the place of employment, the form also seeks details (with the date of meeting) of any person with whom the individual had come into direct physical contact – defined as shaking hands, hugging and sharing a bed. Details are sought regarding any person with whom the individual had face-to-face contact at less than two metres’ distance, and for over 15 minutes; and any person who had been with the individual in a closed environment, including a workplace, a meeting room or a household, for 15 minutes. The person being tested should also provide information about anyone who had travelled in close proximity to him/her in the same car, bus and plane (seated within two seats), and had travelled in the same train compartment. Such persons are termed high-risk contacts. Laboratories have been told that obtaining the self-declaration form of contacts from the persons getting tested is mandatory, and without it, the labs will not be allowed to carry out further COVID-19 testing.  The form requires the person being tested to give complete details of his family members, including age, gender and relationship, along with contact details
10 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chennai set to become drone manufacturing hub||Chennai is set to become a drone manufacturing hub, facilitating better pandemic and disaster response using drones. In the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic, space scientists like Mylsamy Annadurai have been asked to explore the options available for using drones in disaster response efforts, including the delivery of medicine, food and essential commodities to residents in containment zones. A meeting of senior officials and scientists, scheduled for Wednesday, will explore the possibility of turning Chennai into a drone manufacturing hub with support from institutions like Anna University and MIT. Civic officials said such a possibility had improved owing to the notification of the draft Unmanned Aircraft System Rules, 2020 by the Central government, which seek to relax the norms pertaining to drone use. “Chennai has always taken the lead in using the Unmanned Aircraft System for civic utility. Strategic reasons were cited for the delay in issuance of permission for drones. Now, the regulations laid down by the defence authorities are expected to be relaxed further. Line agencies will be able to use drones for addressing civic issues faced by residents,” an official said. Though drones are being used by the police and civic agencies during the pandemic, their inadequate number and high cost of manufacturing have impeded their utility. The State government’s plan to make Tamil Nadu the drone manufacturing hub of the country depends on Chennai-based institutions such as Anna University and MIT. However, officials would also explore the possibility of using resources in other districts to achieve this goal. Among the challenges cited by officials is the manufacturing of drones at an affordable cost for civic agencies, for use in residents’ welfare measures. Multi-purpose system Once drones are manufactured at a large scale at an affordable cost, the system could be used in traffic management, forestry, agriculture and disaster response, and during the pandemic. For instance, thousands of residents who have tested positive for COVID-19 could be provided with medicine, food and essential commodities in time using an Unmanned Aircraft System. Farmers would be able to prevent pests from harming agricultural productivity using the system.
10 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Convicts on parole told to surrender||The Madras High Court has recalled orders passed by it on March 26 and June 1 to extend the parole period of prisoners. Justices Vineet Kothari and R. Suresh Kumar recalled the orders after Additional Public Prosecutor R. Prathap Kumar informed the court that only 11 prisoners across the State were benefited out of the orders and that they could now be quarantined inside the prisons. The APP also told the court that separate blocks had been earmarked in all prisons to quarantine those who return on completion of leave period. Hence, there was no necessity to extend the parole of 11 life convicts who were on leave for a period ranging from 78 to 137 days. After recording the submissions, the judges recalled the orders passed by another Division Bench on a suo motu writ petition and directed all the convicts to surrender before the superintendents of the respective prisons on or before June 15.
10 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||NGO alleges ‘under reporting’ of COVID-19 deaths||Arappor Iyakkam, an NGO, has flagged three cases of alleged “under reporting” ofdeaths due to COVID-19. In a complaint to the Health Secretary, NGO convenor Jayaram Venkatesan said deaths of three persons — two in Government Stanley Medical College Hospital in Chennai and one in Raja Muthiah Medical College Hospital, Cuddalore — have not been reported by the health department till date. In the first case, the mortuary card of a 50-year-old man, who was admitted to Government Stanley Medical College Hospital at 12.30 p.m. on May 26 and who died at 12.30 a.m. on May 28, listed the causes of his death as: COVID-19 positive, acute encephalopathy, respiratory failure and diabetes. The death should have been shown in the list of COVID-19 patients who died either on May 28 or May 29. On both the days, no death was reported from the hospital. In the second case, a 69-year-old died at the Stanley Hospital at 7 p.m. on May 31. A 87-year-old man, who tested positive for COVID-19, was admitted to Raja Muthiah Medical College Hospital, Cuddalore, and was reported in the bulletin of May 29 as case number 20504. The NGO learnt that the patient died on June 4 but the death was not reported till date.  Health Secretary Beela Rajesh said reconciliation with Greater Chennai Corporation and home deaths was being done.
10 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Conservancy workers want more protection||Improper disposal of masks by the public has become a headache for the Greater Chennai Corporation (GCC) conservancy workers. To protect themselves, the workers want the civic body to take various safety measures. The Madras Corporation Red Flag Union had written to the civic body to provide masks and gloves to the workers on a daily or weekly basis. “There are over 22,000 conservancy workers in GCC and out of this 6,401 are permanent staff. A majority of them are women. In many places, masks and gloves are given to them once in two or three weeks. Whereas they have to be changed daily considering the amount of waste they are exposed to,” said P. Srinivasalu, general secretary of the union. He said that the Corporation should introduce handwashing facilities in all divisions. A senior GCC official said that already guidelines had been issued on disposal of masks. “The same was conveyed in containment zones too. But the public are not following it, hence we have advised the conservancy staff to wear gloves while picking up the disposed masks,” the official added.
10 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Wholesale vegetable traders worried about rain||Some of the roads leading to Thirumazhisai market turned slushy after a short spell of rain a few days ago. With the rainy season ahead, wholesale traders say it may be challenging to continue at the market. Heavy vehicles bringing produce from other places used the rear entrance of the market. Wholesale traders said some lorries got stuck in slushy roads and many retail traders too hesitated visiting the market. D. Rajasekaran, president, Federation of All Traders Associations of KWMC Market, said the market received nearly 250-300 lorry loads of produce on Tuesday. “We have reduced sourcing produce from other places to decrease wastage. Prices of many vegetables remain within Rs. 10 a kg as there are not many takers,” he said. Members of the federation had represented to the authorities concerned to reopen the Koyambedu market and allow sales on a rotation basis. The government could allow traders to function in batches and restrict timings, they said. Space constraint Wholesale fruit traders too complained that space provided was not enough at the Madhavaram market. Of the 800 wholesale traders and semi-wholesale merchants from Koyambedu, only 250 were allotted shops there. E. Duraisamy, secretary, Chennai Fruits Commission Agents Association, said the Madhavaram market received about 1,000 tonnes of fruits daily, which is one-third of the produce sourced at Koyambedu.
10 June 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||HC confirms conviction of former V-C||The Madras High Court has confirmed the conviction of R. Sethupathi Ramalingam, former Vice-V chancellor of Periyar University in Salem, in a case booked for having subjected his daughter-in-law to cruelty after her marriage to his son in 2002. Justice M. Nirmal Kumar, however, reduced the sentence imposed on the convict from three years, imposed by a Fast Track Court in Salem in November 2010, to just one year of rigorous imprisonment since he was now 80 years old. The judge passed the common order on a criminal revision petition preferred by the convict in 2010 challenging his conviction and a criminal appeal preferred by the State in 2011 challenging his acquittal from charges of dowry demand and harassment.
10 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||CM invites pharma majors to invest in T.N.||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami has written to the heads of eight pharmaceutical majors inviting them to invest in the State. The Chief Minister has written to President and CEO of Accuray Joshua Levine, Chief Executive Officer of Philips Medical Systems Frans Van Houten, Managing Director and President of Siemens Healthcare Gerd Hofner, CEO of Sirona Dental Systems Donald Casey, President of Copioumed International William Liu, CEO of GE Healthcare Kieran Murphy and Chief Executive Officer of Hurco Companies Inc Michael Doar and Chairman and CEO of Boston Scientific Michael F. Mahoney.
10 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Actor 'TV' Varadharajen booked for his video on 'shortage of hospital beds'||The Central Crime Branch has registered a case against noted dramatist and newscaster S. Varadharajen in connection with a video message he had put out in the context of COVID-19. In the video clip, he claimed that a friend of his, who was unwell, had struggled to find a hospital bed. Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar accused him of spreading false information. Following a complaint from the Director of Public Health and Preventive Medicine, the CCB booked Mr. Varadharajen under provisions of the IPC, Epidemic Diseases Act and Disaster Management Act. DMK leader M.K. Stalin demanded that the government withdraw the case against Mr. Varadharajen and “give up attempts to hide the truth by intimidating people”.
10 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Opposition welcomes cancellation of Class 10 exams||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Tuesday welcomed the Tamil Nadu government’s decision to cancel the Class 10 board examinations and its announcement that all students will be deemed to have passed the exams. Mr. Stalin also announced that the protests planned for June 10 by the Secular Progressive Alliance now stood cancelled. The DMK leader said all political parties, parents and teachers had been demanding the cancellation of the exams, in view of the rising COVID-19 cases in the State and the need to safeguard the health of more than 9 lakh students who were scheduled to take the exams. “Without any concern for the health of teachers and students, the government insisted that it would hold the exams from June 15. The DMK and other parties called on the government to cancel the examinations. Yesterday, the Madras High Court too asked the government why it was so keen on holding the exams at this time,” Mr. Stalin noted. The government seemed not to be bothered about the concerns raised by the judges. Then, the SPA decided to protest, following which the government announced that all students will be considered to have passed the exams, he said. “Had the government taken this decision earlier, it could have spared students and parents the tension and mental agony,” he said. TNCC president K.S. Alagiri too welcomed the announcement. The Tamil Maanila Congress, an ally of the AIADMK, also welcomed the move. “The government has taken the right decision at the right time,” TMC president G.K. Vasan said.  Had the government taken this decision earlier, it could have spared students and parents the tension and mental agonyM.K. StalinDMK president
10 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Be safe: Rajini||Rajini Makkal Mandram founder Rajinikanth on Tuesday urged people to follow strict physical distancing and to wear mask all the time as COVID-19 cases in Chennai keeps increasing by the day. In a statement thanking his RMM members, Mr. Rajinikanth said, “Please ensure that the need of your families are taken care of and keep them safe,” he said.
10 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Manpower shortage at hospital’||The Southern Railway Mazdoor Union has called for immediate recruitment of medical/para-medical personnel to supplement the staff strength at Railway Hospital, Perambur, where the number of COVID-19 cases and mortality rate are on the rise. SRMU general secretary N. Kanniah said he had written to the Southern Railway General Manager expressing serious concern since the number of railway employees and their family members getting infected was increasing with each passing day. Rise in cases Though the railway administration had taken steps to control the spread of the virus, the continuing rise in cases and fatalities among railway employees was very disturbing, he said, adding that at least 24 serving and retired railway employees died after testing positive. Mr. Kanniah, who is also the working president of All India Railwaymen Federation, said the infrastructural requirement for treating patients at Railway Hospital, Perambur, required immediate attention. Of the 23 ventilators only 15 were in good condition. Though 11 ventilators were being procured, there was an urgent need to purchase at least 100 ventilators exclusively for COVID-19 patients. He said the medical team at the railway hospital was working hard to combat the infection, but had limitations owing to manpower shortage. Asked about the number of COVID-19 positive cases and related deaths in Railway Hospital, Perambur, the Chief Public Relations Officer said information had already been shared with the Tamil Nadu government.
10 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Three trains from Friday||Southern Railway will start operating three special trains in the State from Friday. Reservation will open from Wednesday. A press release said the three new superfast intercity trains will run daily. Two special trains from Tiruchi to Chengalpattu — one on main line via Thanjavur, Kumbakonam, Mayiladuthurai, Thiruppadiripuliyur, and Melmaruvathur and the other on service line with stops at Ariyalur, Villupuram, and Melmaruvathur will be operated. A train from Arakkonam to Coimbatore (stops at Katpadi, Jolarpet, Salem, Erode, and Tiruppur) will start plying. Southern Railway is operating five special trains, including the superfast Rajdhani Express from New Delhi to Chennai. Three more trains are being operated based on a request from the Chief Secretary of Tamil Nadu to the Southern Railway General Manager, according to the release.
10 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Palaniswami inaugurates new buildings||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami has inaugurated many new buildings constructed for various departments and also laid the foundation stone for several others, through video conferencing. According to an official release, he laid the foundation stone for new buildings for the Health Department in many locations at a cost of Rs. 134.93 crore.
10 June 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||PMK opposes plan to reduce buffer zone of bird sanctuary||PMK youth wing leader Anbumani Ramadoss on Tuesday demanded that the plan drawn up by State government to reduce the buffer zone of Vedanthangal bird sanctuary by 40% for building a pharmaceutical company should be cancelled. In a statement, Dr. Ramadoss said that it was worrying to note that State Board for Wildlife had forwarded a proposal to National Board for Wildlife to reduce the buffer area of Vedanthangal bird sanctuary from 5 sq.km to 3 sq.km for the expansion of a pharmaceutical company. However, the Forest Department in a statement denied that there was any plan to reduce the existing 5 km boundary of the sanctuary.
10 June 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||School sealed for conducting entrance examination||Coimbatore district administration sealed a government-aided school in Town Hall here on Tuesday after receiving complaints that entrance examination was conducted for admission for Class VI. Videos of a group of children lining up at C.S.I Boys Higher Secondary School as well as photos of the question papers for the entrance examination was widely shared on social media platforms on Tuesday morning. Coimbatore South Tahsildar S. Arulmurugan said that one of the parents filed a complaint to District Collector K. Rajamani that entrance examinations were being conducted amid the COVID-19 scare. “We received the information from the Collectorate at around noon,” he said. Following the order from Mr. Rajamani, Mr. Arulmurugan along with Revenue Department officials, sealed the school in the presence of Coimbatore Chief Educational Officer (CEO) P. Usha at around 12.45 p.m. Ms. Usha said that a detailed inquiry will be conducted with the management of C.S.I Boys Higher Secondary School for conducting the entrance examination despite the directions of the State government and district administration. However, the school was sealed only for this offence and whether it will be sealed permanently will depend on the inquiry. “We will take further action based on the inquiry,” the CEO said. In a warning issued to private schools against collection of fees on June 3, Mr. Rajamani said that the managements of all private schools must consider it as their primary duty to cooperate with the State government in times of emergencies.
10 June 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Over 300 private buses to be operated from today across Coimbatore district||After over a week since the operations of buses were allowed, nearly 330 private buses are expected to be operated across Coimbatore district from Wednesday. V. Duraikannan, president of Coimbatore District Bus Owners Association (South), said that around 120 town buses and 30 mofussil buses will be operated in Coimbatore region, while around 90 town and mofussil buses respectively will be operated in Pollachi and Mettupalayam regions each. The private buses were not operated earlier as the bus operators deemed that it was not economically feasible to operate with only 60 % occupancy as per the State government regulations. “We waited till June 8 to see whether State government will make announcements regarding increase in occupancy or ticket fares,” he said. Due to lack of such announcements coupled with the demand from public, the Association decided to ply all the private buses from Wednesday, Mr. Duraikannan said. Many drivers and conductors of private buses were hit financially due to the non-operation of buses amid the lockdown, he said. All private bus operators have been asked to follow the COVID-19 precautionary measures such as not allowing excess passengers, allowing passengers only if they wear masks, provision of hand sanitisers and wearing of masks and gloves by the drivers and conductors, according to Mr. Duraikannan.
10 June 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Schools not allowed to start Class XI admission process: CEO||Following State government’s announcement of cancellation of Class X public examinations, private schools must not take any decision autonomously regarding Class XI admissions, said Coimbatore Chief Educational Officer P. Usha on Tuesday. “The State government will provide certain instructions, before which no school can start the admission process for Class XI,” she told The Hindu . Action will be taken against schools if any violation occurs, Ms. Usha warned. Parents in Coimbatore are awaiting clarity regarding Class XI admissions.”We have not received any intimation from the school regarding this yet,” said R. Aranganathan, a resident of Selvapuram whose son is studying in Class X at a private school. As all Class X students will be deemed to have passed the public examinations, he expressed hope that there will not be any issues with the admissions. “We will wait for further instructions from the government,” said Tamil Nadu Private Schools’ Association president R. Visalakshi regarding Class XI admissions. However, the admissions must be conducted at the earliest so that at least online classes to cover the Class XI syllabus can begin, she suggested. Upon completing the calculation of their Class X marks – 80 % marks based on performances in quarterly and half-yearly examinations and 20 % for the attendance – the schools may be permitted to start admission process by taking all COVID-19 precautionary measures so that students shall pick their respective groups for the higher secondary school, Ms. Visalakshi suggested. Cancellation welcomed Ms. Visalakshi also welcomed the cancellation of the Class X and Class XI public examinations, terming it as an ideal solution. Noting that the average marks of quarterly and half-yearly examinations will not differ from the public examinations in most cases, she said that students were in the danger of losing an entire year if the examinations were continuously postponed due to rising COVID-19 cases in the State. U. Abbay Singh, a Class X student of a private school in Siddhapudur, said he was glad that the examinations were cancelled, but was concerned whether an opportunity to score better marks was lost due to the cancellation. Mr. Aranganathan said that both he and his son were nervous about the examinations, but were finally relieved after the announcement.
10 June 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Five test positive for COVID-19 in Coimbatore||Five persons three men, a woman and her son -- tested positive for COVID-19 in Coimbatore district on Tuesday, and were admitted to the Government Medical College and ESI Hospital here. A 35-year-old man from Kanuvai is said to have got the infection from a close contact who returned from Mumbai and later tested positive for the disease. The second person was a 49-year-old man from Podanur who had come to the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital for an ENT procedure. A test for COVID-19 was done before the procedure and he tested positive for the disease. A 27-year-old man from Vadavalli who came from Mylapore by road on Monday was the third person who tested positive for COVID-19. The remaining two cases were from Pollachi -- a 35-year-old woman and her 11-year-old son who came to Coimbatore by a train from Chennai on Sunday. According to Health Department officials, 37 persons are undergoing treatment for COVID-19 in Coimbatore 33 in ESI Hospital three in PSG Hospital and one in Royal Care Hospital.
10 June 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||WhatsApp comes handy for butterfly enthusiasts to track pre-monsoon migration of winged beauties||Migration of butterflies from the Western Ghats towards the Eastern Ghats triggered by the southwest monsoon is an annual phenomenon that all butterfly enthusiasts in the southern States eagerly wait for. Though the COVID-19 lockdown forced the observers to remain at home this year, a WhatsApp group of butterfly enthusiasts from all over the country came in handy for observers to track this annual movement. Members of the WhatsApp group named ‘Butterfly Migration India’ posted their observations in specific pattern - with details such as the species, place and time of observation, direction of movement, and average number of individuals that move per minute - from their locations. As the migration of butterflies belonging to Danainae subfamily like Blue Tiger, Dark Blue Tiger, Double-Branded Crow and Common Crow before the southwest monsoon largely happened from the Western Ghats areas of Karnataka, Kerala and Tamil Nadu towards the Eastern Ghats, members of the group from these States updated the data in the group for observers in other parts of the country to follow up. “This group was started in 2016 for a long-term observation of the butterfly migration pattern in India. We have documented the movement from the Western Ghats to the Eastern Ghats ahead of southwest monsoon and the reverse movement triggered by northeast monsoon since 2016. There are about 40 members in the group from Tamil Nadu,” says A. Pavendhan of Tamil Nadu Butterfly Society. According to Kalesh Sadasivan of Thiruvananthapuram-based Travancore Natural History Society, the movement of these butterflies (crows and tigers) towards the Eastern Ghats is about 10 to 15 km per hour in hills, while the speed increases further in plains. Due to the lockdown, tracking of migration in forest areas was not possible this year. When a band of butterflies entered the Edamalayar forest area in Kerala towards the east, observers in that part updated the details in the group. The band exited forest to Tamil Nadu side through Marayoor and Amaravathy division where observers tracked their movement and posted it in the group. “At least five years of data is required to assess the pattern of the migration and reverse migration, which has never been done by any individual or scientist in India. Apart from crows and tigers, short distance migration of Common emigrant and Albatross butterflies also happen before southwest monsoon. Butterflies are good bioindicators and our forefathers had this knowledge,” says Dr. Kalesh, a key member of the group from Kerala, which has about 100 members. The group has about 15 members from Karnataka, another State where the pre-southwest monsoon migration happens in large scale. “In Karnataka, the migration is still going on. Apart from crows and tigers, our observers have also tracked the movement of Painted lady and Common emigrant in Karnataka,” says Ashok Sengupta from Bengaluru. Another notable migration happening every year is of Crimson rose, which move to Sri Lanka crossing the sea.
10 June 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Public banned from using walking track on Race Course Road||Coimbatore District Collector K. Rajamani on Tuesday banned the public from using the walking track on Race Course Road for walking or doing exercises. In a press release issued on Tuesday, the Collector said that several precautionary measures have been taken in the district to control the spread of COVID-19. The public are advised to use masks when them come out, not to gather at public places unnecessarily, and to maintain physical distancing. A large number of people come to the walking track for walking and doing exercises. They come from different areas and do not maintain physical distancing. Many do not wear masks too and there is a threat of spread of the disease. Hence, it has been decided to ban the public from using the walking track. If anyone is found violating the ban, stringent action will be taken, Mr. Rajamani warned. Following the orders of the Collector, notice boards were put up on the walking track and teams of officials from the police, district administration, and Coimbatore Corporation warned the public not to use the track.
10 June 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Woman held for cheating||The Tiruppur City Police arrested a woman on charges of cheating Rs. 2 lakh and gold jewellery weighing six sovereigns while pretending to be a bank manager. Police said the accused Sonia (34) from Tiruvarur district befriended Surya (29), who was running a flower shop in Sulur, Coimbatore district. Claiming to be the manager of a public sector bank, Sonia cited personal issues and requested Rs. 2 lakh from Surya in March. On March 16, Surya along with her friend met the accused near Tiruppur Railway Station and gave the cash along with jewellery to her, who later absconded. The Tiruppur North police registered a case and were on the lookout for her. The search was delayed due to the COVID-19 lockdown, police said. However, after nearly 80 days, the accused was secured on Sunday near the Pushpa Theatre Junction. She was remanded in judicial custody at Coimbatore Central Prison.
10 June 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Govt. urged to issue handheld device to bus conductors||Consumer rights organisation Coimbatore Consumer Cause (CCC) demanded the State government to ensure that computerised bus tickets are provided to passengers. In a letter to Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam, CCC Secretary K. Kathirmathiyon said that bus conductors carry out an obnoxious practice of using either their saliva or sweat to separate the tickets from a bunch. This practice could be harmful to the public as it might enable the spread of COVID-19. However, this can be avoided if conductors use handheld devices to issue the tickets, he said. Hence, the State government must issue handheld devices to all the bus conductors of Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) buses as well as private operators, Mr. Kathirmathiyon demanded. If regular tickets will continue to be provided, conductors must use sponge cups to separate the individual tickets, he said in the letter. An official from TNSTC Coimbatore Division said that the centralised server for the handheld ticket devices in Chennai is facing issues and that the devices will be issued to conductors after the problem is rectified.
10 June 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Pilloor water being diverted to Siruvani-fed wards||Coimbatore Corporation has begun diverting at 10 million litres a day (MLD) water from its Pilloor project to make good the short fall to wards that get Siruvani water. According to sources, the Corporation supplied water from the Siruvani Reservoir to 25 wards in full and five wards in part. It was drawing around 60 MLD, but that quantity was not enough. It needed 10 MLD more which it drew from the Pilloor Reservoir through the Pilloor II drinking water scheme. Though the capacity of the Pilloor II scheme was 125 MLD, the Corporation had been drawing 100-110 MLD and now it had increased the quantity to 110-120 MLD. Using the pipelines that connected the Pilloor water distribution pipelines to the Siruvani system, the Corporation supplied the water, the sources added.
10 June 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Man held for sexual assault||The All Women Police Station, Thudiyalur, arrested a 20-year-old man from Tiruppur district for alleged sexual assault on a 17-year-old girl from a village near Karamadai. The accused, R. Karuppasamy, took the girl to a friend’s house at Thalavadi in Erode on the pretext of marrying her and assaulted her sexually, said the police. The girl’s parents lodged a complaint with the Karamadai police, who called Karuppasamy over phone and told him to come back with the girl. When he came, he was arrested and remanded in custody.
10 June 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Ban on plastic for primary packaging||To eliminate use-and-throw plastics, the Tamil Nadu government has withdrawn the exemption granted for use of plastic bags for packaging. According to a notification dated June 5, plastic bags, which constitute or form an “integral part of packaging” in which goods are sealed prior to use at manufacturing or processing units, are not exempted any more from the plastic ban. The order came into effect on the World Environment Day. The State government from January 1 last year banned manufacture, storage, supply, transport, sale or distribution and use of certain use and throwaway plastics, such as plastic sheet, plastic plate, plastic coated tea and water cup, water pouch and packet, plastic straw, plastic carry bag, and plastic flag, irrespective of thickness. However, plastic carry bags manufactured exclusively for export purpose, plastic used to pack milk and carry bags made from compostable plastics are exempted. An official of Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board in Coimbatore said the modalities of implementing the notification are yet to be worked out. Former president of Indian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Coimbatore, M. Krishnan, said the government should look at ways to effectively manage plastic waste rather than banning the use of the product. “From kadalai mittai (peanut candy) to an industrial good, plastic is used to pack the products. It is difficult to switch over to other ways of packaging immediately. Trade and industry should have time to study the alternatives,” he said. Meanwhile, the Nilgiris district administration has announced that ‘Paper Boat’, a packaged soft drink being sold in the district, will be banned from July 1. In a press release, the district administration stated that plastic was used in packaging the product, which was causing harm to the environment. Hence, all traders and merchants associations have been informed that the drink should not be sold in the district.
10 June 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Man arrested for murder||A 34-year-old man was arrested on charges of murdering a man from Erode on May 29. R. Madavan, a resident of Kovilmedu near Sirumugai, was arrested by the Sirumugai police for the murder of M. Subramani (30), a native of Sujil Kuttai near Bhavani Sagar in Erode. Police said that Subramani was working as the driver of a person who owns the fishing rights in the water storage area of the reservoir at Sirumugai. He was allegedly in a relationship with a woman at Kovilmedu and was planning to meet her on May 29. However, Subramani could not meet the woman and so he went in search of another woman in the area and by mistake he entered Madavan’s house. Madavan, who had suspicion over his wife’s fidelity, chased Subramani and strangulated him in an isolated area. Madavan was arrested.
10 June 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||OMS test for trains||Palakkad Division of Southern Railway conducted an Oscillation Monitoring System (OMS) test at Pollachi and Podanur Junctions on Wednesday. A special train with three coaches was prepared for this test, which is done to check for any defects in the railway tracks, according to railway officials. The test was conducted between Palakkad and Pollachi at around 1.40 p.m. and between Pollachi and Podanur at 4 p.m.     Forest Department officials arrested a farmer on charges of poisoning 11 peafowls on his agricultural land near Dharapuram, Tiruppur district recently. The farmer Semalaiappan from Panchapatti poisoned the birds on June 5 as they were allegedly proving to be a menace on his land, according to Forest Department sources.
10 June 2020||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||Private buses in Dharmapuri to ply between 5 a.m. to 9 p.m.||Dharmapuri Bus Operators Association has announced that private buses would be operated from Wednesday in compliance with government guidelines, such as 60% passenger intake, physical distancing, disinfection of buses, use of gloves and sanitisers by the crew, and disallowing passengers without masks. Permitted zone The buses will only operate between 5 a.m and 9 p.m. The association also said the buses would ply only within the permitted zone, from Vellore to Dharmapuri, which shall not require an e-pass from the authorities. The bus crew would collect only the prevailing ticket fare.  Guidelines Any violation of the guidelines by the private buses would have to be dealt with by the owners. The association said it would not intervene on behalf of buses that faced action for violating the guidelines.
10 June 2020||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Weavers open rice gruel centres||Expressing their protest and condemning higher-ups in the Handlooms Department, weavers in Chinnalapatti near here opened rice gruel centres on Tuesday. The town, which is known for weaving different type of saris, has a weaver population of close to 8,000. While a majority of them, who were members in the Weavers’ Societies, complained about lowering their wages due to the COVID-19 pandemic and alleged that the managers in some of the societies were not giving them jobs. Offering the gruel to families in front of a temple in J. Pudukottai Weavers Colony near Chinnalapatti near here, K. Nagaraj said that since March 20, there had been no work due to lockdown. Though the societies owed wages to the job works done prior to the lockdown, they insisted on receiving lowered wages. For completed works, expecting the weavers to get lower wages was unfortunate. Moreover, the managers created a rift among the workers by lowering the wages and claimed to give jobs only to those who agreed to their terms, said M. Karunakaran. At a time, when the workers have been demanding higher wages, more relief and soft loans for survival, the ‘dictatorial’ ways irked the weavers and hence, commenced to run rice gruel centres. Handlooms Department Assistant Director Anandan said the societies had been instructed to give jobs to all the registered members. Moreover, they had been advised to arrive at a consensus on lowering wages and not giveing them an impression that the decision was unilateral. There are about eight weavers’ societies where close to 4,000 weavers were members in Chinnalapatti and its peripheries.
10 June 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||NGO, students welcome cancellation||Instead of postponing the Class X board exams, the State government has taken the right decision to cancel it, said a Non-Governmental Organisation (NGO) and students in tribal areas here on Tuesday. Hailing the announcement, S.C. Natraj, Director, Service Unit for Development Activities in Rural (SUDAR), a Sathyamangalam-based NGO, said that students and parents heave a sigh of relief as exams were cancelled and they can focus on admitting to Plus One. “Tension would have prevailed if exams were postponed”, he said. Many students in Kongadai, a tribal hamlet in Bargur hills, were working with their parents at sugarcane fields and had returned home this week for exam preparation. “We did not revise our subjects in the past three months and facing exams would be a tough one”, said a student, who added that he and his parents were much relieved now. While online classes were conducted for students of private schools, students in many villages and remote hamlets could not attend online classes as there is no mobile network in their area. “We were under stress as the exam dates were announced to commence from June 1 and later June 15. But now, we can focus on Plus One”, another boy in the hamlet said.
10 June 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Girl dies in wall collapse||A four-year-old girl died and her brother sustained injuries after a portion of the compound wall in their house collapsed on Monday night. Jeevan Kumar (6) and Rudhra Priya were the children of Prem Kumar (34) of Kakkan Nagar in Karungalpalayam area and Ragavi (30). On Monday, contract workers were widening the length and width of the sewage channel using an earthmover and they left in the evening. Both the children were playing outside their house when a portion of the compound wall located near the channel fell on them. Both suffered injuries and were rushed to the District Headquarters Hospital. But the girl was declared brought dead while the boy is undergoing treatment. The girl’s body was handed over to her parents after post-mortem. The Karungalpalayam police registered a case against the driver of the earthmover.
10 June 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Employees of financial firm gheraoed||A few employees of a non-banking financial company (NBFC), who came to collect loan money from a couple at Nadupalayam village in Shenbagapudur panchayat in Sathyamangalam, were gheraoed by villagers here on Tuesday. Gnanavel, a driver, had obtained Rs. 2 lakh housing loan from the branch and is repaying the interest and loan amount every month. His wife works at a garment manufacturing company at Tiruppur. Due to lockdown, both lost their income and could not make repayments. Few days ago, an employee had called them over the phone and asked them to repay the loan. On Tuesday, employees came to the village to collect money from the couple. But villagers said that the Reserve Bank of India had issued orders asking companies not to insist on repayment of loans for six months. Former MLA P.L. Sundaram arrived at the spot and held talks with the employees and villagers after which the employees left.
10 June 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||power shutdown||Due to maintenance works, power supply would be disrupted in the following areas:  Thindal electric line (9 a.m. to 5.30 p.m.): June 10: Wednesday: Ganapathi Nagar, Postal Nagar and Pannai Nagar areas.  Erode Town electric line (10 a.m. to 5 p.m.): June 11, Thursday: T.V.S. Street, M.S.S. Compound, Eswaran Kovil Street, Nethaji Road, R.K.V. Road, Ramasamy Street, Venkadachalam Street, Kongalamman Kovil Street, Manikoondu, Chokkanada Street, Jinna Street and Agraharam Street.  Chennimalai Road electric line (9 a.m. to 5 p.m.): Gandhiji Road, Nethaji Road, Municipal Chatiram, Marapalam, Valayakarar Street, Agraharam Street, Cutchery Street, V.V.C.R. Nagar areas, Jeevanandam Road and Old Railway Station Road.  Gangapuram sub-station (6 a.m. to 7 p.m.): Perodu, Nochipalayam, Nochipalayam Pudur, Aichampalayam, Chellapampalayam, Kumilamparapu, Kongampalayam, Avudaiyankadu, N. Thairpalayam, Gangapuram, Texvalley, Kolathupalayam, Villarasampatti, Chemmampalayam, Ondakaran palayam and Vettuvapalayam.
10 June 2020||KARAIKAL,TAMIL NADU||Saneeswaran Temple reopens||Dharbanaranyeswarar Temple in Thirunallar in Karaikal district in Puducherry, known famously for its Saneeswarar Shrine, was opened for devotees on Monday, after being closed for about 80 days due to the COVID-19 lockdown. The temple was closed for devotees at 7 p.m. on March 20, but the daily poojas continued. It was opened on Monday with a slew of restrictions and regulations. The names of devotees, their addresses, contact numbers and signatures are being entered and maintained in a register. The district administration has announced that devotees from other districts and States will not be permitted to visit the temple. As per instructions from the Commissioner, Hindu Religious Institutions, Puducherry, devotees below the age of 10 and above the age of 65 are not permitted. Those with fever, cold and cough are not allowed inside. Wearing of masks by both temple staff and devotees, prevention of crowding, cleaning of hands with sanitisers, thermal screening at the entrance, and maintaining physical distancing are the other regulations enforced. Noprasadamwill be given, and holy water will not be sprinkled. The temple administration is required to ensure periodic disinfection of the floor. The opening of the temple was preceded by a meeting of religious leaders convened by the police department in Karaikal for strict compliance with physical distancing protocols. Temple authorities said 288 devotees visited the temple on the first day after reopening.
10 June 2020||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Maxicab owners, drivers stage protest||Maxicab owners and drivers association members staged a virtual protest on Tuesday demanding COVID-19 relief amid a raft of other demands. The protesters gathered near the Rayakottai flyover here and posted protest messages on social media. The district has over 650 maxi cab operators, who have been rendered jobless since mid-March, with the start of the lockdown. According to the maxicab operators, over 2,000 families were dependent on the business. According to the protesters, over 75% of the vehicles were bought on loan, and pending EMI and penalties continued during the lockdown. The maxicab operators demanded suspension of road tax, action against financial institutions that had issued notices for payment of EMI, constitution of a welfare board for maxicab operators, and disaster relief through insurance agencies.
10 June 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Bed dam to divert river water to Paravai tank||The Public Works Department (PWD) will construct a bed dam across the Vaigai between Kodimangalam and Thenur to divert water to Paravai tank next year. Executive Engineer of PWD (Periyar-Vaigai Basin) T. Subramanian said that Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami had made an announcement on the construction of the bed dam. After the Government Order was issued, the work for construction of the bed dam would commence by the beginning of next year. A sum of Rs. 18 crore has been earmarked for the project. Paravai tank has a storage capacity of 175 million cubic feet (mcft). S. Nagamalai, president of Paravai Tank Irrigation Farmer’s Association, said that for the past 40 years the tank had not been receiving water through its natural flow from the river. “Following the 1979 floods, the riverbed level lowered, and the supply channel remained on a higher plane, affecting the natural flow of water from the river to the tank,” he said. Hence, water was being diverted through a channel from Thodaneri tank all these years, said M. Mayakrishnan, Assistant Engineer, PWD. “However, only a limited amount of surplus water is diverted from the tank as a large number of farmers are dependent on its water for irrigation. For the past several years, Paravai tank has never received water to its full capacity. But, once the bed dam is constructed, water can easily be diverted to Paravai tank whenever there is flow in the river,” he said. Since the first week of May, Paravai tank has been under renovation under Kudimaramathu scheme at a cost of Rs. 90 lakh. Mr. Nagamalai said that it had been more than 10 years since the tank was renovated. “After the completion of the work, the storage capacity of the tank is expected to increase by 0.087 mcft,” said Mr. Mayakrishnan. Paravai tank had an ayacut area of 366 acres and the construction of the bed dam and the consequent storage of water in the tank would benefit the farmers, he added. “Also, the surplus from Paravai tank will flow to Vilangudi tank. This will also help recharge the groundwater level,” said Mr. Nagamalai.
10 June 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Fever clinics set up at 155 places across Madurai||A total of 155 makeshift fever clinics have been set up across the 100 wards of the city, in view of the rising COVID-19 positive cases in the city. Collector T.G. Vinay said that these camps are important to identify fever cases early on. “There was one incident where a person, who had fever, visited two private hospitals and then finally visited Government Rajaji Hospital (GRH) and tested positive for COVID-19. The fever camps help in avoiding such incidents,” he said. Assistant City Health Officer S. Vinodh Raja said that a total of 530 field workers, 155 nurses and 31 doctors had been deployed for the fever clinics. The field-level workers would undertake a door-to-door survey to check for any suspects. Those with symptoms of cold, cough or fever would be treated and monitored. If the symptoms persisted, their swab samples would be sent to the GRH. Dr. Vinodh Raja said that in one week all the residents within the city would be screened. He said that Madurai Corporation was also distributing vitamin C and zinc tablets and kabasura kudineer powder to the residents. Deputy Director of Health Services P. Priya Raj said that the fever camps were set up in the city to closely monitor the residents as more number of people were entering the city from other districts, especially Chennai. “Also, compared to rural areas, the city is more congested,” she said. The Collector said that the administration would analyse the scenario in rural areas and decide on setting up fever camps there.
10 June 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Call for intensified testing||Despite having a high number of COVID-19 cases, Madurai stands eighth among the 10 southern districts in terms of tests per million. The figures released by the State Health department on Sunday revealed that the district had taken 3,975 tests per million population*. While Madurai stands in the 30th position among all districts in the State under this category, it takes the 11th position in the number of cases recorded. In comparison, neighbouring Theni stands second though it has recorded only less than half the number of cases in Madurai. Ahead of Madurai are also Tirunelveli, Kanniyakumari, Thoothukudi, Virudhunagar, Ramanathapuram and Tenkasi districts. The State bulletin says 14,102 tests were performed in Madurai. Although there was a period of lull in Madurai district in May as there were fewer number of cases and greater number of discharges, June is likely to see a huge jump post relaxation of the lockdown, says Tamil Nadu Government Doctors Association’s State president K. Senthil. Unless testing, containing and treating are taken seriously over the next week, Madurai will witness a spike in the number of cases as lockdown norms have been relaxed. This is high time quarantining was taken seriously, he says. Su. Venkatesan, MP, who submitted a representation to Collector T.G. Vinay, says, “We have no choice but to extensively trace contacts and take tests. It is learnt that only 250 tests are done a day despite a heavy flow of inter-district travellers. There must be at least 3,000 tests a day.” A Government Rajaji Hospital source says the district administration has issued direction to test symptomatic contacts of COVID-19 patients. Even the contact tracing is not done properly. Collector T.G. Vinay says 16,220 tests have been taken but it is yet to be updated on the portal. he adds. *The State Health bulletin indicates that the numbers have been collated based on entries made on the Indian Council for Medical Research’s (ICMR) web portal by approved labs conducting RT-PCR tests.
10 June 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Power shutdown today||To carry out improvement works on the HT lines under the government scheme - UDAY - there will be no power supply in Anna Nagar and Golcha feeder from 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. on June 10. According to TANGEDCO Executive Engineer G. Malarvizhi, there will be power shutdown in Pallivasal Street, Sikkandarpuram, Kamarajar Street, Moulana Sahib Street, SNA Apartment, Vaigai Colony West and East Street, Thevar Nagar, Annai Nagar, New HIG Colony, Yanaikulai, Ultra College Street and surrounding pockets.
10 June 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||High Court dismisses petition for extension of retirement age||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Monday and Tuesday dismissed batches of writ petitions filed by government teachers, who sought a direction to the State government to extend their retirement age from 58 to 59. Justice C.V. Karthikeyan dismissed the petitions filed by the teachers and directed the government to process the pension papers and pay the pensionary and retirement benefits on or before July 31 in accordance with the Pension Rules. The court observed that it was an executive decision and the court was not prepared to examine that aspect. The State government on May 7 raised the age of superannuation of its employees from 58 to 59. According to the government order, this would apply only to those employees who were in regular service and due to retire on superannuation from May 31, 2020. Subsequently, in a clarification on May 14, the government said the order would not apply to those who attained the age of 58 on or before May 1, and were re-employed and also for those who had already retired prior to May 2020. The main grievance of the petitioners was that they had retired prior to May and were on re-employment till May 31, till the end of the academic year, when the State government announced the extension of retirement age. The teachers said that the same relief must be extended to them. They said the government servants were not allowed to retire due to the COVID-19 pandemic situation and their pension proposals were not even forwarded. Their services were required as the public examinations had to be completed, they claimed.
10 June 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Cancellation of Class 10 examinations welcomed||Teachers, students and parents across the district heaved a sigh of relief, following the announcement of the State government cancelling the State Board Class 10 public examinations, which were earlier scheduled to commence from June 15. The exams for certain papers that were scheduled to be held for Class 11 were also cancelled. All the Class 10 students are to be considered ‘having passed’ the public examination. R. Jansi Rani, a teacher from TVS Lakshmi School, said that it was the best decision to cancel the examinations as safety of the students was very important as the number of COVID-19 positive cases were rising across the state. Concurring with this viewpoint, a headmaster of a Corporation school said that it would have been difficult to ensure personal distancing among students if public examinations were conducted. “ This was evident when students came to school recently to get their hall tickets,” he said. S. Muthu Nithyashree, a student, said that she was stressed and anxious for several weeks and was finally relieved following the announcement. “My friends and I were confused as to how the public examinations would be conducted,” she said. It would have been better if this announcement was made earlier, said K. Mathura, a parent. Though the teachers welcomed this announcement, they raised a concern regarding awarding of marks for the student. According to the government’s announcement, 80% marks would be awarded to the students based on their performance in quarterly and half-yearly examinations and their attendance would be taken into account for awarding the remaining 20% marks. “Students would not have scored well during the school examinations. Hence, awarding their final scores based on this performance would bring down their overall scores,” said the Corporation school headmaster.
10 June 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Siddha doctor for scrutiny of medicine as COVID-19 cure||A Siddha doctor, associated with the Siddha clinic at the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court, on Monday filed a writ petition before the Bench, seeking a direction to the Centre to test if his herbal concoction could be used as a cure for COVID-19. The petitioner, S. Subramanian, said his mixture of 66 herbs in the form of a powder, could be a cure for COVID-19. This mixture could be taken twice a day after mixing it with hot water, he said. He said regular intake of the mixture would increase immunity, prevent COVID-19 and also act as a cure for it. Siddha system of medicine originated in Tamil Nadu and was followed by people since ancient times, he said. Calling the herbal concoction, IMPRO, the doctor said he had approached the Ministry of AYUSH with a request to conduct a study of the mixture. However, with no response to his representation, he said, he filed the writ petition. Justice C.V. Karthikeyan directed the High Court Registry to place the petition before a Division Bench.
10 June 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Advance bail||The Madurai Bench of Madras High Court granted anticipatory bail to an accused in a river sand mining case, Esakkimuthu from Mukkani in Thoothukudi district, after he agreed to remit Rs. 30,000 to a government higher secondary school in Theni district. ‘The money should be utilised for library in the school.’
10 June 2020||Madurai Bureau Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Left parties demand Rs. 12,500 for every family||Cadre of the Left parties staged demonstrations at 77 places in Tirunelveli, Tenkasi and Madurai districts on Tuesday, seeking COVID-19 relief of Rs. 12,500 to every family, besides essential commodities. Member of Parliament Su. Venkatesan took part in a protest which was held in seven locations across the district including one in Sellur. Speaking to the press, the MP said, “The Centre has used the time of the lockdown to provide many relaxations to industries, thus favouring large corporations and moving focus away from labourers on the ground.” He said the Tamil Nadu government must investigate alleged irregularities at ration shops on the pretext of providing cooking essentials to the public. Tirunelveli The Left party functionaries said the nation-wide COVID-19 lockdown declared by Prime Minister Narendra Modi without any preparation had left the public, especially the below poverty line families, in the lurch. Hence, the State government, while streamlining the distribution of free essential commodities thorough the public distribution system, should give financial assistance of Rs. 5,000 while the Centre, on its part should give Rs. 7,500. The number of working days under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme should be increased to 200 for the benefit of rural poor. Moreover, the MNREGS, now being executed only in village panchayats, should be extended to town panchayats. Virudhunagar The cadre staged joint protests at more than 100 places in Virudhunagar district. CPI (M) district secretary K. Arjunan, who took part in a protest in Srivilliputtur, said weavers of that area were badly hit. At a protest held in Seithur, CPI district secretary P. Lingam said due to lockdown, all income-generating activities had come to a grinding halt and a majority of the people suffered untold difficulties.
10 June 2020||MADURAI/TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||16 fresh COVID-19 cases in Madurai||Sixteen people tested positive for COVID-19 in Madurai district on Tuesday, taking the district’s tally to 333. Five of the fresh cases had flown down from Chennai. A 23-year-old CISF man who was on airport duty also tested positive. A 28-year-old man from Thathaneri who travelled from Rajapalayam to Madurai on a bike tested positive on the border. Another resident of Tenkasi who travelled to Madurai for a surgery also tested positive. The other cases were reported from Anuppanadi, Thathaneri, Palanganatham, K. Pudur, Valayankulam, Villangudi and Munichalai. One person was discharged from Government Rajaji Hospital. Railway office sealed Railway Commercial Section in Madurai Division was sealed after the news of an official testing positive broke out around noon on Tuesday. The official, who had been to Tiruchi to be with his family at the weekend, had developed fever. A swab test confirmed the infection later. A source said the official could have been infected while making arrangements for Shramik special trains here. He is the fourth railway personnel in Madurai to be infected. Tirunelveli and Thoothukudi districts recorded 10 fresh COVID-19 positive cases each on Tuesday. They reported nine ‘indigenous cases’ and one ‘imported case’ each. While Tirunelveli, which witnessed its tally rise to 400, has 53 active cases undergoing treatment at Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital, Thoothukudi recorded its total at 365, with 147 active cases. One person from the Maldivian capital of Male, who arrived at VOC Port by ship, tested positive. On June 2, one among the group which landed here from Sri Lanka by Indian Naval Ship Jalashwa had tested positive. Kanniyakumari reported only one ‘indigenous case’ on Tuesday to have its tally at 95 and the number of active cases at 33. Tenkasi did not add any new cases. Its tally is 106 and the number of active cases 18. Dindigul Sex persons tested positive in Dindigul district. Health Department officials said five of them – two from Vadamadurai and three from Palani – had returned from Chennai, while the six person from Reddiar Chatram had been to New Delhi. Similarly, Ramanathapuram district too reported six fresh cases – from Kilakarai and Ramanathapuram. One patient was discharged from Sivaganga Government Medical College Hospital. Virudhunagar district recorded one fresh case and discharge of seven patients. The total number of positive cases touched 154, and there are 30 active cases.
10 June 2020||New Delhi,TAMIL NADU||Medical seats: AIADMK moves SC for 50% OBC reservation||The ruling AIADMK in Tamil Nadu on Tuesday moved the Supreme Court for the implementation of 50% OBC reservation for State-surrendered seats in the All India Quota for all undergraduate and postgraduate medical courses for the year 2020-2021. The petition filed under Article 32 assailed the failure of the Centre to ensure that reservation was observed for OBCs in the category of State-captured seats in undergraduate, postgraduate and diploma medical seats of the All India Quota as per law. The petition, filed by advocate Pallavi Sengupta and represented advocate Balaji Srinivasan, also sought ad-interim relief to safeguard these seats pending disposal of the writ petition. ‘Rule of law’ The petition said the inaction of the Centre completely undermined the most valuable and basic principle of the “rule of law”. "There is no rational basis for not extending the benefit of 50% reservation for OBCs, as envisaged under the State laws of Tamil Nadu, to the State-captured seats in the All India Quota," the petition said. It argued that in the past academic years the OBCs were "grossly under-represented" in the All-India-Quota seats for undergraduate, diploma, PG diploma and postgraduate medical colleges across the country. "It is a matter of fact that negligible numbers of OBC candidates were allocated any of the State-surrendered seats to the All India Quota in non-Central government medical institutions. This is in contradistinction to the reservation ethos in the State of Tamil Nadu and the current existing law [the Tamil Nadu Backward Classes, Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes (Reservation of Seats in Educational Institutions and of appointments or posts in the Services under the State) Act, 1993] which provides 50% reservation for OBCs," the petition pointed out. The petition said in the 2019 postgraduate admissions 8,137 seats were in the All India Quota.
10 June 2020||NEW DELHI,TAMIL NADU||DMK moves SC against Speaker||The Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) party has moved the Supreme Court against the Assembly Speaker, alleging that he has been delaying a decision on the anti-defection proceedings against 11 AIADMK MLAs who voted against the Edappadi Palaniswami government in a confidence motion in 2017. The Opposition party, through its leader R. Sakkarapani, said Speaker P. Dhanapal had been sitting on the disqualification proceedings for three years and would continue to do so till the government completed its term. The DMK, represented by advocate Amit Anand Tiwari, said it took the Speaker three years and an intervention by the Supreme Court to issue notice to the MLAs in February 2020.
10 June 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Five new cases||Five COVID-19 cases, including a second one in Mahe enclave, were reported in Puducherry on Tuesday. Among the new cases was a 11-year-old boy who has been admitted to the IGMCRI, Health Minister Malladi Krishna Rao said. The new case in Mahe was a returnee from Abu Dhabi.
10 June 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Class 10 board exams cancelled in Puducherry too||Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy on Tuesday said the decision of the Tamil Nadu government tocancel class 10 examinationswill be binding on students in Puducherry and Karaikal regions too. As many as 16,709 students in Puducherry and Karaikal regions would be promoted, he added.
10 June 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Veterinarians remove plastic from cow’s stomach||Veterinarians successfully removed, through a surgical procedure, about five kg plastic waste from the abdomen of a cow here on Monday. According to doctors, the cow is recovering well. The veterinarians said the trustees of an Ayyappa temple, near Linemedu, told them that one of the cows in a gosala maintained by the temple was not consuming food properly for the last few days. S. Maniganesh, a veterinarian, said, “About 47 cows are being maintained at the gosala and one of the cows, aged about five, was not taking food properly for the past few days. The cow was suffering from recurrent bloat and indigestion and it was unable to excrete. The case was attended by Amma ambulance team and on diagnosis, we suspected presence of foreign bodies in its stomach.” Procedure A team of veterinarians led by Dr. Maniganesh, who are attached to the mobile veterinary ambulance, performed a rumenotomy procedure on the cow on Monday. About five kg plastic was removed from the cow’s abdomen at the end of the procedure.
10 June 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Three test positive in Salem||Three patients, who have travelled to Salem from places like Maharashtra and Karnataka have tested positive, here on Tuesday. The patients, including two women and a male, are undergoing treatment here.
10 June 2020||Salem/Namakkal,TAMIL NADU||Communist parties stage protest||Members of Communist Party of India and CPI (Marxist) staged a protest at various places here on Tuesday demanding better relief measures for persons affected due to COVID-19 disease and others. The protesters demanded the State and Central governments should provide a cash relief of Rs. 12,500 to each family as COVID-19 relief measures. They also demanded that the governments must not cancel free electricity scheme for farmers. A similar protest was also staged in Coimbatore.
10 June 2020||Staff Reporter,TAMIL NADU||PIL plea on procedures for devotees rejected||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Monday dismissed a public interest litigation petition that sought a direction to the State government to come out with a standard operating procedure in order to tackle the physical presence of a large number devotees at religious institutions when they were reopened after relaxation of lockdown curbs. A Division Bench of Justices P.N. Prakash and B. Pugalendhi dismissed the petition filed by M. Jayabharathi of Thoothukudi district and observed that the petition was filed prematurely. The petitioner said that the State should ensure that physical distancing norms, and make available sanitisers and soaps at religious institutions. The State should also ensure mandatory screening at these places.  Overcrowding A standard operating procedure must be put in place by the State government in view of the COVID-19 pandemic, otherwise it could lead to overcrowding and authorities would not be able to manage the situation, the petitioner said.
10 June 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||All village tanks to be desilted in Thanjavur||Thanjavur district’s monitoring officer Gagandeep Singh Bedi on Tuesday said tanks in all villages would be desilted under kudimaramathu and Chief Ministers’ Special Desilting Scheme. Disclosing this to the media after inspecting works under way at Orathanadu and Pattukottai blocks, Mr. Bedi said desilting and bund strengthening of village tanks in the district would be taken up at a cost of Rs. 1 lakh each in order to revive them as groundwater recharging facility. By taking up desilting and other additional works, the number of workers engaged under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) would go up by another 23,000 from the present 77,000. This would ensure that all farm labourers benefited from MGNREGS during the pandemic situation. Nearly 70% of the works taken up under the two schemes had been completed. In order to complete the remaining works, it had been proposed to increase the number of earthmovers from the present 260 pressed into service in the district to 300, the senior official added. As many as 165 desilting works were taken up under CMSDS at a cost of Rs. 22.92 crore and 109 under MGNREGS at an outlay of Rs. 35.38 crore to ensure smooth flow of water through the irrigation channels in the district during the current season.
10 June 2020||THENI,TAMIL NADU||Milk producers in Theni protest against Aavin||A group of milk producers from five villages near Andipatti resorted to a demonstration by destroying the milk in the middle of road condemning the Aavin officials on Tuesday. Police said milk producers from Thimmarasanaikanoor, Bomminayakanpatti and other pockets supplied milk to Aavin through their producers’ union. A majority of them had taken loans and purchased milch animals. However, in the recent months, Aavin officials had not only lowered the procurement price from Rs. 31 to Rs. 27 per litre, but also suspended procurement from them. They alleged that the Aavin officials procured milk from private agents. The agitators demanded action against the officials.
10 June 2020||Theni,TAMIL NADU||Woman poisons two kids||A woman reportedly gave soft drinks laced with poison to her two kids and consumed it on Tuesday. The kids died. Police said Prabhu (30) of Kanniservaipatti near here was married to Pavitra (26) five years ago. The couple had two children - Darshan (5) and Lakshan (about 18 months old). It is said Prabhu was in the habit of consuming liquor, which was not liked by her. It resulted in quarrels. Pavitra was taken to Theni Government Medical College Hospital. Those who require assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts may contact State’s health helpline 104 or Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.
10 June 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||7 Sri Lankans detained||Seven Sri Lankans, who were staying in a godown here, have been detained by the police as they were found to be staying here after their visa lapsed. Sources said Tharuvaikulam Marine Police, who recently seized a sizeable quantity of sea cucumbers on four different occasions, were on the lookout for Meera Sha of Lourdammalpuram. When the police went to his godown at Lourdhammalpuram, they found the Sri Lankans there. The Sri Lankans – Wilfi, 51, Quintas, 30, Antony Rubasinghe, 37, Wickramasinghe, 34, Arockiam Pikurade, 39, Chanmida Appu, 43 and Ravichandra, 44, all from Mannar district – reportedly told them that Meera Sha had brought them here for poaching sea cucumbers in the Gulf of Mannar. Their visa expired on May 25.
10 June 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Man arrested||Police have arrested a ‘car-lifter’ and recovered 3 cars and a mini-lorry from him. After a few cars were stolen in the town in the past two months, Superintendent of Police Arun Balagopalan formed two special teams under the supervision of Prakash, Deputy Superintendent of Police, Thoothukudi, to crack the cases. When a police team was conducting vehicle check at Fourth Gate area on Monday morning, the driver of a car turned the vehicle and tried to escape from the spot even though the police asked him to stop the car. However, the police intercepted the car and grilled the driver, who was identified as J. Jamaludeen alias Jamal, 31, of Nandagopalapuram in Thoothukudi. Jamal told the police that he and his friend from Natarajapuram, also in Thoothukudi, had stolen 3 cars and a mini-lorry.
10 June 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||34 more test positive in central region||Thirty-four fresh cases of COVID-19 were reported in the central region on Tuesday. Of them, the maximum number of cases was reported from Thanjavur district, followed by Nagapattinam and Tiruvarur districts. While Thanjavur recorded eight cases, Nagapattinam and Tiruvarur accounted for seven cases each. Pudukottai and Tiruchi districts recorded four cases each, while Perambalur district accounted for one case.  Out of the seven fresh cases reported from Nagapattinam district for the virus, three were women. A staff nurse working in a private hospital in Chennai was among them. An 18-year-old person from Nagapattinam and a 28-year-old person from Sirkazhi were among those tested positive for the virus. In Pudukottai district, three of the four patients hailed from Aranthangi and the other one was from Kottaipattinam. One of them was a Riyadh returnee and two others had returned to their native from Chennai. The fourth patient was a contact of a person, who had returned from Chennai. They were under treatment at the Ranees Government Hospital in Pudukottai. Of the three fresh cases in Ariyalur district, two were Chennai returnees and the third patient had returned from Kerala. All of them were admitted to Ariyalur Medical College Hospital. With eight new cases, the total number of persons diagnosed for coronavirus infection in Thanjavur district increased to 125 and at Tiruvarur district to 69. The number of active coronavirus cases at Thanjavur Medical College Hospital, Thanjavur increased to 36 from 28 and at Tiruvarur Government Medical College Hospital, Tiruvarur, to 24 from 17 as on Tuesday.
10 June 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Another one flutters by||Another butterfly species has been sighted at the Tropical Butterfly Conservatory in Srirangam, taking the total tally of species recorded so far to 111. The Common Shot Silverline was the latest species to be spotted on Sunday by a team of officials from the forest department and a Junior Research Fellow (zoology) monitoring the insects inside the 27-acre conservatory. The lush green environment inside the conservatory, which is located between the Cauvery and the Coleroon on reserve forest land, is a major factor that attracts different shades of butterflies. Add to it the optimum weather conditions and about 300 plant species. The conservatory was thrown open to visitors in November 2015. Butterfly species recorded earlier at the conservatory include Grass Demon, Straight Swift, Grass Jewel, Peacock Royal, Apefly, Red Pierrot, Zebra Blue, Large Oakblue, Pale Grassblue, Blue Pansy, Peacock Pansy, Striped Albatross, Blue Tiger and Double Branded Crow. The conservatory, which boasts of a host of facilities, lures various bird species as well. Forest officials say they have recently spotted the 86th bird species — Small Pratincole — commonly seen on rivers and lakes. The bird species recorded earlier at the conservatory include Black Stork, a winter migrant bird, Crested Serpant Eagle, Blue Rock Thrush, Mottled Wood Owl, Short Toed Snake Eagle and White Eyed Buzzard. The sprawling premises comprises an indoor conservatory, amphitheatre, information centre, eco shop, boating facility and children’s park. Although the conservatory has remained shut since late March due to the lockdown, regular maintenance works and watering of plants are being carried out, say the officials. The conservatory has turned out to be a major tourist attraction with visitors’ footfalls steadily rising over the years, touching 11 lakh prior to the lockdown, the officials say.
10 June 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Online teaching is almost over , but it is pen and paper exam for BDU||Though unfinished theory portions have almost been completed in online mode over the last month, online exam is not an option as yet for Bharathidasan University. In the wake of Anna University expressing keenness to conduct online exams for final year engineering students, to enable them complete their graduation, there are expectations that other State universities also need to plan strategies to conduct examinations, at least for final year students, according to senior faculty. Bharathidasan University would prefer to conduct pen and paper exam in view of technical complexities involved in conducting online exams, after commencement of the next semester, the faculty say. “Online exam for students is not an option as such. We would rather wait for guidelines from the Higher Education Department before planning the semester exam,” Vice-Chancellor P. Manisankar said. Earlier this year, the University Grants Commission issued detailed instructions to higher educational institutions to toe online mode for teaching and evaluation. The UGC advised universities to adopt alternative and simplified modes and methods of examinations to complete the process in shorter period of time in compliance with requirements of Choice-Based-Credit-System. These may include multiple choice questions/optical mark recognition-based examinations, open Book Examination, open choices, and assignment/presentation-based assessments. It also suggested reduction in duration of exam from three to two hours without compromising quality in shifts. While calling upon universities to implement the guidelines uniformly and transparently, UGC had left it to higher educational institutions to chart individual plans in view of the location and diversity of universities and colleges, their level of preparedness, residential status of the students, status of pandemic spread in different regions/State and other factors. As a technical varsity, Anna University could find the going easy to set questions based on multiple-choice pattern for the online exam. For other universities, conduct of exams are not possible without descriptive-type answers, teachers contend.
10 June 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||SR announces Tiruchi- Chengalpattu special trains from June 12||The Railway Board, New Delhi, has approved the operation of two daily special trains from Tiruchi to Chengalpattu and back. The fully reserved special trains will become operational from June 12, a Southern Railway press release said. Stoppages The Tiruchi-Chengalpattu-Tiruchi Superfast Intercity special (Train No. 02606/02605) will be operated on the chord line via Ariyalur and Vriddhachalam. It will leave Tiruchi at 7 a.m. and reach Chengalpattu junction at 11.30 a.m. with stoppages at Ariyalur, Villupuram and Melmaruvathur. In the return direction, the train will leave Chengalpattu at 4.45 p.m. and reach Tiruchi at 9.05 p.m. with the same stoppages. The trains will have three AC chairs, 13 non-AC chair cars, three general second class (sitting), a pantry car and two generator-cum-brake vans. The Chengalpattu-Tiruchi-Chengalpattu special trains will be operated on the mainline section. It will leave Tiruchi at 6.30 a.m. and reach Chengalpattu at 12.40 p.m. The train will have stoppages at Thanjavur, Kumbakonam, Mayiladuthurai, Tiruppadripuliyur, Villupuram and Melmaruvathur. It will leave Chengalpattu at 2 p.m. and reach Tiruchi at 8.10 p.m. with the same stoppages. It will have an AC first class coach, three 2-tier AC coaches, five 3-tier AC coaches, nine sleeper class coaches, three second class (sitting) coaches and two generator-cum-luggage vans. Advance reservation for the trains will open at 8 a.m. on June 10, the release said.
10 June 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Exploring facilities||In an attempt to scale up facilities for treatment to meet exigencies arising out of the pandemic, the district administration has begun the process of identifying government and private buildings in Tiruchi and suburban areas. The newly constructed tenements of Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board (TNSCB) at Vannarapattai are among the government buildings shortlisted to accommodate positive patients. The ready-to-occupy tenements are yet to be allotted to beneficiaries although TNSCB has prepared a list. Numbering 330, each house has a built-up area of about 450 sq ft with a bedroom, hall, kitchen and bathroom. A high-level official team has already inspected the site to take stock of the facilities and to check the viability of using the tenements. The facilities in the tenements are ideal to accommodate patients, a team member told The Hindu . Two patients can be accommodated in each house. Since it is located at the rear of Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital, it is easy to make use of the facilities and laboratory to offer quick service to patients. However, no decision had been made, the official said. Meanwhile, a high-level team, including the Joint Director of Health Services, Deputy Director of Health and Dean of K.A.P. Viswanatham Medical College Hospital, visited SRM Medical College near Samayapuram to explore possibilities of using its beds and other facilities for treatment of positive patients. The team held a meeting with the administrators of the college. An official said the private medical college agreed to allocate 250 beds. It had all facilities to provide excellent treatment to patients.
10 June 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Another feather in the cap||Bharathidasan University (BDU) has been ranked first among government arts and science universities in Tamil Nadu in the recently released ‘Education World India Higher Education Rankings 2020-21’. BDU has been ranked second among all universities in the State next only to Anna University, and shares the 19th position with Delhi Technological University among government universities at the national level. In the assessment based on 10 critical parameters including curriculum, faculty competence, research and innovation, placement and infrastructure, BDU secured 989 out of 1,300 points. The ranking was based on both factual objective criteria and perception of the university from sample respondents. The objective data include publications by faculty in refereed journals and number of citations of the published papers. The peer perception survey includes faculty, final year students, and industry representatives from 25 different cities countrywide, BDU Registrar Gopinath Ganapathy said in a press release.
10 June 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Persons with disabilities get scooters from MP||Thirty-five persons with disabilities were presented with scooters, sanctioned with funds from MPLADS of Tiruchi MP Su.Thirunavukkarasar for year 2019-20, here on Tuesday. The beneficiaries were from Tiruchi East, Tiruchi West, Srirangam and Tiruverumbur Assembly segments. The scooters, each costing Rs. 56,400, were handed over to the beneficiaries by Mr. Thirunavukkarasar in the presence of Collector S. Sivarasu and other officials. The retrofitted scooters with additional wheels on the sides were designed to meet the requirements of persons with disabilities.
10 June 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Gold jewellery, cash looted||Gold jewellery weighing 40 sovereigns and Rs. 2 lakh in cash were reportedly stolen from the house of a petrol pump owner at Rajagopal Nagar near Kollidam No. 1 Tollgate on the outskirts of the city. The offence was committed between midnight and in the early hours on Tuesday. Police sources said unidentified persons gained entry into the house of Murugesan, 73, owner of the fuel outlet, after breaking through the side window grill. Murugesan, his wife and son were fast asleep in the hall at the time of the incident. The unidentified persons decamped with the valuables and cash kept inside the bureau. The offence came to light on Tuesday morning after Murugesan woke up. Superintendent of Police, Tiruchi, Ziaul Haque inspected the crime scene and conducted inquiry. A detective dog used for crime detection was pressed into service to track the route taken by the culprits, Finger print experts inspected the crime scene. Kollidam Police registered a case on a complaint from Murugesan.
10 June 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Pregnant woman tests positive||Tiruchi district recorded four positive cases on Tuesday. A pregnant woman from Lalgudi was among the four who tested positive for the virus in the district. The laboratory test of a 22-year-old youth, who was admitted to Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital after being involved in an accident, turned out to be positive for the virus. Another patient from K.K. Nagar reportedly contracted the virus in Chennai.
10 June 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Smart City works to be expedited||After losing over 75 man days of construction due to the COVID-19-induced lockdown, the Smart City projects, being executed in the Corporation on an outlay of Rs. 928 crore, are likely to be on fast track again, according to officials. Collector Shilpa Prabhakar Satish, who chaired a meeting, instructed the officials to resume the construction with much vigour so as to complete the works as per the time-table. Senior officials from PWD, Mines, TANGEDCO and others were told to facilitate the Smart City projects by according mandatory permissions and NOCs by their departments at the earliest. She said 7 of the 59 projects selected under this programme had been completed while 20 schemes were under construction. Even as tenders had been floated for Rs. 191.90-crore worth 19 projects, the detailed project report had been placed before the board for its nod for Rs. 231-crore worth 13 projects. The Collector asked the PWD to give its ‘no objection certificate’ for the two works pertaining to the protection and beautification of Tamirabharani from getting polluted. She instructed the Corporation to complete the installation of traffic signages at all points along the major roads in Tirunelveli and Palayamkottai. Since excavation for basements of the Trade Centre at Exhibition Grounds opposite the Corporation’s administrative office and the multi-level car parking facility at Vaeinthaankulam new bus stand are to be commenced immediately, the Collector instructed the Department of Mines to accord its permission for lifting and transporting sand from the construction site. The Collector directed the Executive Engineer of TANGEDCO to take immediate action on the ‘Smart City’ proposal to establish 3 MW solar power plant opposite Old Pettai sub-station. She also instructed to snap power connections to 40 shops at Netaji Bose Market which are to be demolished under ‘Smart City’ projects. Corporation Commissioner and Managing Director of Smart City Limited G. Kannan, Chief Executive Officer of Tirunelveli Smart City Limited V. Narayanan Nair and senior officials participated in the review meeting.
10 June 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||New modes of holding viva voce at MSU||To avert the delay in awarding Ph.D. degrees to its research scholars due to COVID-19 lockdown, the Manonmaniam Sundaranar University has introduced new modes of conducting viva voce. As per the first mode, the External Examiner, Research Guide and the research scholar may participate in the viva voce being conducted in the traditional way while maintaining physical distancing and wearing masks. In the second method, the viva voce can be conducted through any of the online platforms that include Zoom / Webex / Google Meet after getting due permission from the MSU. In the third mode, the Research Guide would be in the research centre while the External Examiner and the research scholar may participate in the viva voce through an online platform approved by the MSU. When the viva voce is conducted, other professors and the students may also participate in the process through anyone of the online platforms approved by the MSU. More information will be uploaded on MSU website, Registrar S. Santhosh Baboo said in a release.
10 June 2020||June 10 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||More succour for travellers, devotees; officials on exigency mode||Private buses with permits on both mofussil and town routes (other than omni buses) will resume operations in the State from Wednesday. They have been off the roads for over 75 days due to the lockdown enforced in view of COVID-19 pandemic. The buses will begin plying in all districts and within the respective zones, except in Kancheepuram, Tiruvallur and Chengalpattu districts in Zone VII, the Federation of Bus Operators Associations of Tamil Nadu announced here on Tuesday. Private operators do not have a presence in Chennai. The nearly 2,000 members of the federation have a combined fleet of about 4,600 route buses, excluding spare vehicles, in the State. They form a significant part of the public transport network in second tier cities and towns including Coimbatore, Tiruchi, Erode, Tiruppur and Thanjavur districts. While the State Transport Corporations resumed operations from June 1, following relaxations in lockdown restrictions, private bus operators had deferred a decision pending discussions among themselves. The buses went off the roads on March 25. “We have decided to resume operations as per the guidelines of the government and we have made arrangements, on behalf of the federation, to sanitise our buses by spraying disinfectants at the bus stands,” D.R. Dharmaraj, Secretary of the federation, toldThe Hinduhere, after a virtual meeting of office bearers and district representatives on Tuesday. The buses will operate with 60% occupancy and requirements such as wearing face masks will also be complied with. There can be no change in the existing government prescribed fare structure, Mr. Dharmaraj said said to a query. The federation has requested the government to waive road tax for vehicles for the second quarter of the year, April-June, in view of the lockdown. Already several states have waived the tax for varying periods, he pointed out. “We have also written to Insurance Regulatory and Development Authority and insurance companies seeking to extend the annual insurance cover by 78 days – the period during which the buses were off the roads. At the national level, we have also requested the Centre to waive the toll fee for six months,” he added.  Way to go  Private buses to ply on mofussil and town routes   To operate with 60% occupancy To adhere to government guidelines To sanitise vehicles at bus stand No change in fare structure No services:Kancheepuram,Chengalpattu, Tiruvallur
10 June 2020||June 10 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||HC asks if governments could pay COVID-19 bills in private hospitals||The Madras High Court on Tuesday directed the Centre and the State government to respond to a public interest litigation plea to mandate the government to bear COVID-19 treatment costs at private hospitals. Justices Vineet Kothari and R. Suresh Kumar suo motu included the Centre as a respondent to the case since the petitioner, S. Jimraj Milton of the People’s Rights Protection Centre, had filed the plea only against the State government, and sought their response by June 16. The judges sought details regarding the treatment provided to COVID-19 patients at government and private hospitals and the amount charged by private hospitals. Seeking to know if governments had fixed any cap on treatment charges in notified private medical institutions, the court asked if there was any mechanism to lodge complaints about overcharging. If such a mechanism was in place, the governments were directed to disclose the number of complaints received so far, issues redressed and the manner in which the authorities concerned had dealt with them. Additional Solicitor General G. Rajagopal and State Government Pleader V. Jayaprakash Narayan were directed to ensure that the responses of the Centre and the State government are filed within a week, “in view of the situation being of emergent and urgent nature”. Earlier, advocate Balan Haridas, representing the petitioner, urged the court to quash an April 3 Government Order, which stated that COVID-19 patients could get treated at private hospitals at their own cost, and consequently order treatment in all hospitals at State cost. Wondering how the government could ‘force’ people to pay for the treatment of a pandemic, he contended that it was the duty of the State to provide free treatment. He also argued that people who were suffering from loss of livelihood during the COVID-19 lockdown could not be expected to bear the treatment cost.
10 June 2020||June 10 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Farmers seek waiver of all outstanding loans||Farmers in the State are faced with a financial crisis and the moratorium on loan repayment announced by the Centre has not helped them, said P.R.Pandian, President, Coordination Committee of All Farmers Associations of Tamil Nadu. Addressing the media here on Monday, Mr. Pandian pointed out that in view of the financial crisis that had cropped up due to the pandemic, the Union government had announced a moratorium of another three months from May 31 for the farmers to repay their loans. ‘Foul game’ But the Union government had played a foul game by issuing a GO instructing the financial institutions to calculate and collect interest for the moratorium period from the borrowers, he alleged. Nationalised banks and cooperative banks had started levying interest for interest-free loans also and had begun collecting the interest from the borrowers. While the Central government had announced that additional credit to the tune of Rs. 30,000 crore would be pumped in through National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development, the cooperative banks should waive all outstanding loans and stop collecting the interest for the moratorium period.  ‘Non-performing assets’ If the waiver was not possible, the Tamil Nadu government should ensure that the cooperative banks declared the outstanding loans as non-performing assets and disburse fresh loans to the farmers, Mr. Pandian urged. Drawing the attention of the government to the appalling financial condition of the cane cultivators who supplied sugarcane to Arignar Anna Sugar Mill at Kurunkulam in Thanjavur district, Mr. Pandian said the mill had not disbursed the amount due for the farmers for the year 2019-20 and, hence, the cane cultivators were unable to repay the loan taken by them for raising the crop. As a result, they were unable to avail fresh loans and were reeling under a severe financial crunch, he claimed. Alleging that agricultural operations in the State was all set to get affected as the COVID-19 virus had started spreading in villages in view of the relaxations of lockdown conditions, Mr. Pandian urged the State government to step up coronavirus tests in all districts.
10 June 2020||June 10 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Woman soothsayer arrested in minor girl murder case||Pudukottai police have arrested a woman soothsayer and her assistant who were arraigned as an accused in a suspected case of human sacrifice in which a 13-year-old minor girl was murdered allegedly by her father and relative near Gandharvakottai in Pudukottai district last month. While the soothsayer, S. Vasanthi, was arrested on Monday, her assistant M. Murugayee was arrested on Tuesday, Superintendent of Police, Pudukottai P.Ve. Arun Sakthi Kumar toldThe Hindu. The two women were arrested after special police teams conducted detailed inquiry with them. The SP said investigation revealed that the minor girl was murdered by her father Panneer on the advice of Vasanthi, who claimed to Panneer that the act would make him wealthy and prosperous. The girl was murdered by strangulation. A car, which was alleged to have been used for committing the crime, was seized along with 18 other items including ‘vasiya mai’ a gel-like substance, a silver talisman and black magic guide from the soothsayer, said Mr. Arun Sakthi Kumar. The special teams constituted to probe the minor girl murder case reported on May 18 had last week arrested Panneer and Kumar and got them remanded to judicial custody. The girl was found in an unconscious state inside a eucalyptus grove near Gandharvakottai and was rushed to Thanjavur Medical College Hospital where she died. The case, which was initially registered under IPC 307 (attempt to murder) read with section 12 of the POCSO Act, was subsequently altered to murder under IPC Section 302 along with IPC Section 120 (b) (criminal conspiracy). Gandharvakottai police had named five persons as accused in the murder case of which four, including the woman soothsayer, had been arrested. Panneer’s second wife Mookayee, who was also arraigned in the murder case, died on May 30 due to ailment.
10 June 2020||June 10 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||T.N. calls off State Board Class 10 exams||The CM said that 80% marks would be awarded to the students based on their performance in quarterly and half-yearly examinations and their attendance would be taken into account for awarding the remaining marks. He said that exams for certain papers that were to be held for Class 11 students had been cancelled. He added that the supplementary exams for those who did not pass Class 12 too stood postponed, and a revised schedule would be announced later. The CM referred to representations seeking the postponement of the Class 10 examinations, following which the State government reviewed the situation. “Medical experts have opined that there is no possibility of the spread of infection decreasing in the near future,” he said. Later in the day, the State Commissioner for Persons with Disabilities in an official release, said that those who were brought to Chennai in government-arranged buses would return to their native places. As the exam had been cancelled, all these students would be sent back to their native places from 8 a.m. onwards on June 10, the release stated. The details of the travel on special buses would be communicated to all District Differently Abled Welfare Officers and heads of institutions. The government had arranged 49 special buses for 800 students in hostels of 72 government and government-aided institutions so they could appear for the Class 10 public exams and papers of the Class 11 exams.
10 June 2020||June 10 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||T.N. adds more beds, manpower||Private hospitals and private medical college hospitals had assured the government of increasing their bed capacity. On Tuesday, 88 private hospitals/medical college hospitals had uploaded details on the portalstopcorona.tn.gov.in. PG doctors appointed Service and non-service postgraduate doctors, who had completed their course in May, had been posted on COVID-19 duty at government hospitals, COVID-19 Care Centres and COVID-19 Health Centres in Chennai. An official of the Health department said 1,002 service PGs and 570 non-service PGs from across the State were posted on COVID-19 duty. “All of them will be joining duty from today. We are posting additional manpower to all these facilities to ensure that there is no shortage of doctors,” he said. While service PGs would get government salary, non-service PGs would be paid Rs. 75,000, he said. “This is part of the bond period. As of now, they will be on COVID-19 duty for three months, and an extension depends on the situation.” Their boarding and lodging in hotels and transportation had been arranged. The department had earlier decided to appoint 665 medical officers, 365 lab technicians and 1,230 multipurpose workers on an outsourcing basis for three months. Many of them did not take up the jobs due to low pay. The department has now increased the consolidated pay from Rs. 40,000 to Rs. 60,000 for medical officers, Rs. 10,000 to Rs. 15,000 for lab technicians and Rs. 6,000 to Rs. 12,000 for multipurpose workers. “We wholeheartedly welcome these people to the service. Some of them have managed to come despite severe hurdles, and we appreciate it. They will truly augment our workforce here,” Health Secretary Beela Rajesh said.
10 June 2020||June 10 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Teacher recruits report for work at NIT-T||Barring some pursuing post-doctoral fellowships in universities abroad and a few others in government services, most of the new teacher recruits of National Institute of Technology - Tiruchi (NIT-T) have joined duty. Relaxation of travel restrictions has enabled most of the 69 new faculty, appointed as Assistant Professors, to comply with the joining formalities. Including the few who joined duty even before lockdown, 52 new recruits have joined duty so far, NIT-T Director Mini Shaji Thomas said. Since the restrictions are still in place for international travel, some of the new recruits who went back to universities abroad after attending the interview have sought time to join duty. The recruitment drive that attracted applications from thousands of candidates was carried out through a rigorous process. This time around, NIT-T made it mandatory for applicants from other countries to attend personal interview. The NIT-T is currently preparing its faculty to conduct classes online from August, if the lockdown restrictions prolong. Alongside, the institution has also instructed its students across the country to secure strong net connectivity for smooth progression of the online classes. The NIT-T found the online classes it conducted prior to the exams for completion of portions to be useful. The faculty opine that initiating online classes for the next academic session would be a safe bet as it would be difficult to conform to social distancing protocol in the residential type of institution. Moreover, the student intake at NIT-T has started increasing since last year due to the adherence to the economically weaker section quota. Be it classrooms or hostels, ensuring distancing is not a practical proposition. Classroom mode of interaction can wait until there is total safety from the threat of the viral infection, the faculty explain.
10 June 2020||June 10 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Two killed in roof collapse in Ariyalur district||Two persons were killed after the roof of their house collapsed, in Puliankuzhi near Suthamalli in Ariyalur district on Monday evening. The incident occurred when S. Pandian (29) and his relative Karuppusamy (15) were trying to replace the damaged roof of a group house, which was allocated to Pandian’s family in 1989, with an iron sheet. It is said that the badly-damaged roof caved in over them during the work. While Pandian died on the spot, Karuppusamy succumbed to injuries on the way to the Government Hospital in Jayankondam. On receiving information, the Udayarpalayam police rushed to the spot and took the bodies to the Government Medical College Hospital hospital for post-mortem examinations. A case had been registered.
10 June 2020||June 10 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore district||Till June 9   No. of persons tested +ve so far: 166 Domestic cases: 157 Imported cases: 9 No. of persons recovered: 147 No. of persons died: 1 No. of active cases: 17 (Another death cross-notified to Kerala)    House quarantined: 1,259 Positive: 114 (No fresh cases on June 9) Discharged: 114 (No active cases)
10 June 2020||BELAGAVI,KARNATAKA||Couple found dead||A government school teacher and his wife were found dead within hours of a domestic quarrel, in Bailhongal on Tuesday. Gurunath Tavare (45) went out on his motorbike on Monday night, after a fight with his wife Meenakshi (35). She was worried as he did not return soon. However, a neighbour came home to tell her that her husband’s body was found in a field on the outskirts of the town. He had consumed poison, upset with the squabble. The police had found his motorbike parked nearby. An upset Meenakshi hanged herself to death. Bailhongal Police have booked a case. ( Those in distress or having suicidal tendencies can call Arogya Sahayavani on Ph: 104. )
10 June 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Meeting of handloom weavers a near-fiasco||A meeting of handloom weavers chaired by Textile Minister Shrimant Patil here became a near-fiasco here on Tuesday. The Minister who promised to meet the weavers at the government guesthouse at noon arrived three hours late. As per his tour programme, he was to visit families of two weavers who had ended their lives this week, as they were unable to repay loans due to lack of sales. The Minister’s visit to the families was also delayed. At the guesthouse, there were two groups waiting to submit their grievances to the Minister. The Minister first received a memorandum from a group led by MLA Abhay Patil. The other group saw this as discriminatory and said that the Minister was only encouraging the owners and not the handloom and powerloom workers. Later, the other group was also allowed to meet the Minister and it submitted a list of demands. Mr. Patil said that he would discuss the issues raised with the Chief Minister and announce a decision within a week.
10 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||COVID-19: State has nearly 700 ‘follow-up’ positive cases||On June 2, when the State’s health bulletin showed two positive cases from Tumakuru, District Health Officer M.B. Nagendrappa was quick to clarify that they were “follow-up” and not fresh cases which tested positive on the 10th day in the hospital. The two patients had tested positive on May 21 and were under treatment in a designated COVID-19 hospital. They tested positive again on the 10th day and were hence listed as “positive cases”, he said. Sources in the Health Department said this is not a lone case and there are nearly 700 such “follow-up” positive cases in the State that are getting added to the tally of positive cases. C.N. Manjunath, director of Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences, who is the nodal officer for labs and testing in the State’s COVID-19 task force, said there could be duplication in the State’s list of positive cases due to the “follow-up” positive cases. “Several cases are testing positive even after seven to 10 days of treatment and this is because the viral load continues to be high in some patients. Also, in a few patients the RNA of a dead virus can also sometimes test positive,” he said. However, Health Commissioner Pankaj Kumar Pandey denied any duplication of cases in the total tally. “There is a separate column in the ICMR portal for recording follow-up positive cases and we also have the liberty to mention it as “duplicate” cases.”  On Tuesday, with 161 new cases, the State saw the least number of cases since June 1. In the last one week, it has been reporting a record number of cases, above 200 each a day. On Tuesday, the total number of cases touched 5,921. Two more patients, including a 17-year-old female patient, succumbed to the infection taking the death toll to 66, apart from two non-COVID-19 cases. The 17-year-old from Kalaburagi, the youngest person to die due to COVID-19 in the State so far, had a demyelinating disorder – a condition that results in damage to the protective covering (myelin sheath) that surrounds nerve fibers in the brain, optic nerves and spinal cord. She was admitted on June 4 with fever, headache and breathlessness and died the same day. Her reports returned positive on June 9. Another 65-year-old male ILI patient in Bengaluru Urban with several comorbidities succumbed on June 8. Testing reduced The total number of tests conducted per day reduced by half of what were done from the start of June. While a record 15,179 tests, the highest, were done on June 3, only 7,036 tests were done on Tuesday. Among the new cases, Yadgir recorded the highest on Tuesday with 61 cases. Bengaluru Urban recorded 29 cases, its highest.
10 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Central leaders discussed choices with me: CM||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Tuesday claimed that the BJP’s central leadership discussed with him before finalising the names of two low-profile party workers as candidates for the Rajya Sabha elections from Karnataka scheduled for June 19. The BJP has fielded Eranna Kadadi and Ashok Gasti, leaders for Belagavi and Ballari zones, respectively. The party’s central leadership picked these two, overruling the recommendations made by the State unit — Ramesh Katti, brother of senior MLA Umesh Katti, incumbent Prabhakar Kore, and hotelier Prakash Shetty. This has been read as a snub to the CM and the core committee that picked the three names. Speaking to reporters here during the filing of nominations by party candidates, Mr. Yediyurappa said, “The BJP central leaders have given Rajya Sabha tickets to two ordinary workers of the party and thereby have given a gift to karyakartas . I compliment Prime Minister Narendra Modi, party national president J.P. Nadda, and Home Minister Amit Shah for this.” The Chief Minister expressed hope that both candidates would work effectively in the Upper House of Parliament. “Only the BJP can take such decisions and give an opportunity to ordinary karyakarta s. We had sent some names, but ultimately our national president spoke to me and said it was decided that tickets would be given to ordinary party workers. It was after this discussion that the two names were finalised,” the CM claimed. All the three names recommended by the State BJP core committee on Saturday were high-profile candidates. However, the central leadership ignored all of them and fielded two low-key workers associated with the party organisation for nearly three decades. “In other States too, the party has fielded ordinary karyakartas . I welcome it,” Mr. Yediyurappa said said.
10 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State sees steep fall in registration of new vehicles||The registration of new vehicles took a nosedive during the lockdown. In April, on an average, only 570 vehicles were registered every day. In May, when lockdown restrictions were eased, it rose to 1,200 a day. However, the numbers are still low when compared with the same period last year, where every day 4,400 new vehicles were registered at RTOs. This drastic fall has resulted in lower revenue generation for the Transport Department. The State government had set a revenue target of Rs. 7,115 crore for the current fiscal year, which on an average comes to Rs. 592 crore per month. However, due to lockdown, the department managed to generate only Rs. 148 crore in April and Rs. 185 crore in May. In Karnataka, 17,147 new vehicles were registered in April and 37,278 in May this year. Transport Commissioner N. Shivakumar told The Hindu that those who had bought Bharat Stage-IV (BS-IV) vehicles in March but were unable to register them due to lockdown, have been granted an extension. “Compared to April, there was an increase in tax collection in May. The department had managed to generate one-third of the revenue target,” he said. In the previous fiscal, the department managed 94% of the revenue target, which was Rs. 7,100 crore. In his budget speech, Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa has fixed revenue target of Rs. 7,115 crore for the current financial year. In Bengaluru Officials say Bengaluru usually accounts for half of the share in registration of new vehicles, but it dropped drastically during the two months. Prior to the lockdown, on an average, 1,400 new vehicles were registered in the city. However, during the lockdown, only around 400 to 500 vehicles were registered per day. As per data from the Transport Department, till March 2020, there were 2.26 crore vehicles registered in the State of which 86.42 lakh were registered in Bengaluru alone. Officials optimistic The department, however, is banking on more people opting for private vehicles. “The pandemic has made its impact on various sectors. Now, the government has eased the lockdown norms and people are getting back to their normal routine. People may opt for personalised vehicles, especially two-wheelers for their commute in the coming days. Revenue generation may increase in coming months,” said an official.  LOCKDOWN EFFECT Vehicles registered in April — 17,147 In May — 37,278 Revenue target for current fiscal — Rs. 7,115 crore Revenue generated in April — Rs. 148 crore In May — Rs. 185 crore
10 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Data related to SWM collated at war room||The COVID-19 war room of the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) is also assisting in the collation of data on solid waste management as part of containing the spread of the virus. This is along the lines of what was to be the function of the ‘Smart Control Room’ as envisaged in the Solid Waste Management bylaws. BBMP’s Special Commissioner (Solid Waste Management) D. Randeep said, “As of now, the war room is being used for COVID-19. The SWM control room may be set up there itself after it has served its purpose in checking the spread of coronavirus,” he said. According to senior officials, the war room has collated data on a common SWM dashboard. The civic body has almost completed fitting GPS tracking devices on all garbage collection and disposal vehicles. “By the end of June or early July, a tracking system will also be in place. So, GPS data will start coming into the war room, too,” an official said. This information will be supplemented by data from BBMP’s mechanical sweeping machines and underground bins that are already fitted with GPS. “We can remotely track when the cleaning of the bins takes place, and the extent of roads cleaned by the mechanical sweepers,” the official added. Real-time data from hand-held machines used by marshals to levy fines is also being collated. If all goes as planned, the BBMP wants to integrate Sahaaya 2.0 with the war room, and also ‘clean up’ the existing database of pourakarmikas. “When all this is completed, the different modules can be tracked from the head office,” the official added. Mr. Randeep told The Hindu that the smart control room is an overarching approach to solid waste management. “We had envisaged many modules, including door-to-door collection module, transit module, billing and collection, asset monitoring, grievance redressal and monitoring cell,” he said and added that data from many modules was already being collated.
10 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC asks State about measures taken to enforce night curfew||The Karnataka High Court on Tuesday directed the State government to explain what measures it has initiated to enforce night curfew between 9 p.m. and 5 a.m. as per the new lockdown norms, and also to ensure that people wear masks and maintain social distance in public places. Observing orally that a large number of people were found in public places without masks, the court asked the government if there exists a mechanism for registering grievances on violation of lockdown norms and whether people could register complaints using their mobile phones. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice E.S. Indiresh issued the directions while hearing a PIL petition filed by Letzkit Foundation, Bengaluru. The petitioner pointed out that the norm of social gathering is given the go-by in public places particularly when politicians meet the public in the presence of police personnel. In some gatherings, according to photographs produced with the petition, children where also seen along with elders at the meetings, the petitioner stated. Noticing that opening of places of worship, restaurants, hotels, and malls posed more challenge to the authorities to enforce social distancing and other norms, the Bench asked the State government about the measures taken to implement the Standard Operating Procedures at these places. Further hearing has been adjourned to June 12.
10 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Cases likely to peak in July, says Minister||Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar on Tuesday said that the State is likely to see its cases peak in July. Speaking in Chickballapur, the Minister said experts have warned that the State’s cases will peak next month. “We are equipped to handle any explosion of cases. We are testing primary and secondary contacts to ensure that the transmission is curbed at these levels. We have excellent teams of experts who are guiding us in our control measures,” he said. ‘Bengaluru model’ In a tweet, the Minister said the Bengaluru model of handling COVID-19 pandemic beats that of New Zealand, a country which has managed to not report any new COVID-19 cases for the last 18 days. The tweet – with a poster comparing Bengaluru’s and New Zealand’s population, area, population density, cases and deaths – says New Zealand’s population, area and population density were far lesser than that of Bengaluru while the cases and deaths were more compared to the city. “New Zealand has 1,150 cases and 22 deaths while Bengaluru has 450 cases and 13 deaths,” the poster read. General ailments Since March, district hospitals that were converted into COVID-19 hospitals and for treatment of non-COVID-19 ailments, will resume their general OPD and in-patient services. In a circular issued on Tuesday, Health Commissioner Pankaj Kumar Pandey said there will be separate entries for COVID-19 patients and those seeking treatment for other ailments. Hospital Heads have been asked to take precautions to ensure general patients do not come in contact with COVID-19 positive patients.
10 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Luxury hotels all set to welcome guests back||Bengaluru’s five-star hotels are once again rolling out the red carpet. The hospitality sector had gone into a state of suspended animation in the last couple of months with the COVID-19 pandemic. The Indian Hotels Company Ltd (IHCL), the operator of the Taj Group of hotels, and the ITC Group, that operates a chain of hotels, will see the curtains go up first on their Bengaluru properties after the lockdown. IHCL’s ‘The Dream, Drive, Discover, Delight’ gives guests the perfect opportunity to drive with families and friends to discover, unwind, and be one with nature once again. “Guests can choose from exclusive villas, bungalows, cottages, or suites across hotels,” said Somnath Mukherjee, Area Director – Karnataka & General Manager - Taj West End. He added, “Karnataka is home to a variety of beautiful sights and experiences. With summer vacations in full swing, we want to offer guests private living spaces, recreational activities and culinary experiences, just a drive away from home.” In a first for the hospitality industry, ITC Hotels has an accreditation from the National Accreditation Board for Hospitals & Healthcare Providers (NABH), the standards organisation for sanitation, hygiene, safety, and infection control practices. ITC Hotels has also partnered with DNV GL Business Assurance, a global certification body, to ensure stringent hygiene and safety. Specially-curated training programmes have been conducted for staff, and precautions taken for personal, social, and workplaces for all associates. Kadambini Mittal, General Manager, Bengaluru Marriott Hotel Whitefield, said “Well-being of all our stakeholders including our guests is of paramount importance and we have reinforced our protocols to address the current public health scenario. We are also going to ensure periodic monitoring of employees’ health through temperature screening and intensified sanitisation protocols for rooms and high traffic areas in the hotel. In addition to this, we are also enabling seamless guest movement within the hotel premises through aesthetic markings, restricted entry and exit points.”
10 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Not just my decision’||Former Prime Minister H.D. Deve Gowda, who filed his nomination for the Rajya Sabha elections on Tuesday, said the decision to contest was not his alone and he was under pressure from his party colleagues. He, however, clarified that there was no pressure from his sons H.D. Kumaraswamy and H.D. Revanna. “On June 5, all the legislators unanimously passed a resolution seeking my candidature. I wanted to actually work for the party,” he told presspersons after filing his nomination papers at the Vidhana Soudha. “I spoke with Sonia Gandhi on the phone on Sunday evening. I informed her about my decision to file my nomination papers on Tuesday and she expressed her happiness,” the JD(S) leader said. “She assured me of complete support for my candidature.”
10 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Govt. denies permission for Cong. programme||Citing the Centre’s lockdown guidelines, the State government has denied permission to Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president-designate D.K. Shivakumar to hold a programme to formally take over as State party chief. This is the third time the event has been postponed. A few days ago, Mr. Shivakumar wrote to Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa seeking permission to take oath as State Congress president on June 14 at a simple function at the party office in Bengaluru. ‘Vendetta politics’ In a tweet, the KPCC alleged that the BJP government was indulging in “vendetta politics” by denying permission to Mr. Shivakumar to conduct the programme in a simple manner. “On June 14, pratijna dina was to be held at 7,800 locations across Karnataka with 10 lakh+ Congress karyakartas attending it, with care taken w.r.t [with regard to] safety precautions for COVID-19 and social distancing. By denying permission again, the BJP government is indulging in vendetta politics,” the unit said in the tweet. Though he was appointed asKPCC president in March, Mr. Shivakumar could not take oath following the enforcement of the COVID-19-induced lockdown.
10 June 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||BWSSB to conduct survey||Bangalore Water Supply and Sewerage Board (BWSSB), which provides water supply and sanitary facilities, has commenced a survey wherein staff will collect details, such as building dimension, number of floors, whether individual borewell exists, sewerage connection, and whether rainwater harvesting has been implemented. This will enable them to link water connection number with PID number that has been provided to each building by the BBMP. Further, the release stated that BWSSB meter readers will issue a detailed format to every house when they come for meter reading. BWSSB consumers should fill in the details and submit the format in the following month to the meter reader.
10 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BBMP considering trash cans||The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) is considering installing trash-cans in commercial areas as one of the measures to improve the city’s Swachh Bharat ranking next year. “We are largely a bin-less city, but we are looking at putting up dustbins in commercial areas. The locations are being identified,” said D. Randeep, Special Commissioner (Solid Waste Management), BBMP. Bengaluru did not qualify for the Garbage Free City (GFC) tag this year, as the parameters include having bins every 50 metres. However, installation of trash cans and the fitting of GPS on garbage collection vehicles, which is under way, will have no impact on Bengaluru’s performance this year, as the process has been completed. The rankings were scheduled to be announced in March. However, with the spread of the coronavirus pandemic in the country, it is not clear when the rankings will be announced this year. In the past, the civic body has received flak for underground bins that were installed across the city. Several councillors have expressed their reservations about the initiative while many solid waste management experts said that the civic body should instead focus on door-to-door waste collection.
10 June 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Water supply||Water will not be supplied in parts of East and South Zones between 6 a.m. and 6 p.m. on June 11 on account of pipeline linking work by BWSSB.
10 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Priyank Kharge gets threat calls||Congress MLA Priyank Kharge allegedly got multiple calls from an unidentified man who abused and threatened him on his landline and mobile phone early Sunday morning. “He informed the police that the caller spoke to him in Hindi and English,” said a senior police official. The caller reportedly threatened his father, veteran Congress leader Mallikarjun Kharge, warning him to stay away from the upcoming Rajya Sabha elections. Mr. Priyank Kharge approached Director General and Inspector General of Police Praveen Sood seeking action. No FIR has been filed as of now.
10 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Jayadeva gets a COVID-19 lab||Cardiac patients with respiratory, SARI and ILI symptoms coming to Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences will now get tested for COVID-19 at the institute itself. The institute now has an ICMR-approved COVID-19 lab set up in association with BNM Charities. The lab has started functioning from June 8.
10 June 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||More time to hold meetings on school reopening||The Department of Public Instruction has given more time for parents, teachers and school managements to conduct meetings on when schools can be reopened. Initially, the process was to be completed between June 10 and 12, but it has now been extended to June 20. Schools should ensure that precautions like social distancing are followed at the meetings. An official from the Education Department has to be present.
10 June 2020||DHARWAD,KARNATAKA||‘Pandemic situation under control’||Hailing the efforts of the district administration and health workers in containing the spread of COVID-19, Minister in-charge of the district Jagadish Shettar said that the COVID-19 situation in Dharwad district is under control when compared to other districts. Chairing a meeting of district-level officers of various departments here on Tuesday, Mr. Shettar said that over 20,000 people have been tested for COVID-19 in the district and more than half of these are returnees from other States. About agricultural activities in the district, Mr. Shettar told the officials to ensure that the sowing operations for the kharif season went on without hassles. On complaints of poor quality of soya bean seeds being distributed through Raitha Samparka Kendras, he said that the issue will be discussed at the government level and an alternative will be suggested. He directed the officials to complete the construction of houses which had collapsed due to floods in July/August last. Deputy Commissioner Deepa Cholan said that out of the 20,177 persons tested for COVID-19 in the district, results of 18,825 returned negative. Results of 330 are awaited.
10 June 2020||DHARWAD,KARNATAKA||Prohibitory orders till June 30 in Dharwad||Deputy Commissioner M. Deepa has issued orders extending prohibitory orders under Section 144 of Cr.PC in Dharwad district till June 30. According to the orders, shandies, conventions, processions, conferences, sports meets and other such activities where more than five people gather have been banned. The movement of people except for medical emergencies between 9 p.m. and 5 a.m. is also banned. While a maximum of 20 persons will be permitted to attend funerals, 50 persons will be allowed to attend marriages, the orders stated.
10 June 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||‘Plantation elephant’ numbers on the rise||Many villagers in Alur and Sakleshpur taluks get up in the morning worrying about the elephant herds that freely roam in their region. They think twice before stepping out of homes as herds could be anywhere. Though this is an issue they have lived with for decades, they say that the number of elephants has gone up in recent days. They are split into herds, treading into coffee plantations and paddy fields in different parts of the two taluks.  A few planters have not been able to enter into their estates as elephants have stayed put there for weeks. Paddy growers are not sure of getting the yield. Worse still, people with no toilet facility at home are worried about their safety when they go out. According to the Forest Department’s estimates, there are around 60 pachyderms spread over three ranges – Alur, Sakleshpur, and Yeslur. Recently, elephant movements have been noticed in parts of Belur range as well. B.S. Rohith, a planter at Baage near Sakleshpur, told The Hindu: “We have named them ‘plantation elephants.’ Many of them that roam in our area have never gone to the forest. They were born here and if not relocated, they will die here. Unless they are all captured and relocated, we cannot grow coffee.” Planters here have been demanding a permanent solution to the problem. In 2014, the Forest Department captured 22 elephants and shifted them to camps. The relocation exercise was taken up as per the court orders. Over the years, the number increased with new members joining the herd every year. In the last 10 years, more than 60 people have died in elephant attacks. However, in the last two-and-a-half years, there have been no human deaths, though there were incidents causing injuries. Systems in place The incidents of human-elephant conflict have come down due to the elephant tracking system place and mechanism to spread information about elephants’ whereabouts on a real-time basis through mobile phones. The department has also introduced rapid response teams, involving local people to track the herds and alert people around. The department sends alerts to over 3,700 people using mobile network, with the support of Nature Conservation Foundation (NCF), a non-government organisation. Vinod Krishnan of NCF said that apart from the Forest Department, many other government departments have many things to do to minimise man-elephant conflicts. “There are many areas with no streetlights. If gram panchayats could provide streetlights, it can help a lot. Many families do not have toilets at home. They encounter elephants when they go out to answer nature’s call. The government machinery can address these issues. The Agriculture Department, Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Department, and institutions like Coffee Board can take up many initiatives,” he said. Deputy Conservator of Forests Sivaram Babu said: “There have been no deaths in the last two years in Alur and Yeslur ranges. There was one death in Sakleshpur range. We have radio-collared elephants, leading the herds. These measures have brought down human-animal encounters.” Too little relief But farmers are worried because agriculture and plantation activities have been hampered due to the presence of elephants in big numbers. Whenever they suffer loss of crop, the government provides them with ex gratia, which is no way equal to the loss they suffered. The rates of compensation for coffee plants and paddy crop damaged is negligible. Planters get Rs. 200 per coffee plant damaged and in case of paddy fields, farmers get Rs. 1,650 per quintal of paddy. “We have proposed a hike in compensation to the State government. The government has to clear it. In the last financial year, we paid crop compensation of Rs. 1.5 crore and this year within three months, we have cleared Rs. 15 lakhs. A few applications are pending, which will be cleared,” said Mr. Sivaram.
10 June 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Centre urged to include four more cities under Smart City Scheme||The State government has sought the inclusion of four more cities — Vijayapura, Ballari, Kalaburagi and Mysuru — under the Smart City Scheme and appealed to the Union government to include these places under the scheme to ensure their overall development, Urban Development Minister Byrati Basavaraj said here on Tuesday. Speaking to presspersons after inspecting various development projects under way in Hubballi on Tuesday, the Minister said that he had already written to the Union Urban Development Minister on the issue and in the coming days, he would go to New Delhi to meet him to prevail upon the Minister on the issue and also to seek additional funds for the State for urban development projects. The Minister said that he was not satisfied with the progress of the various development works taken up under the Urban Development Ministry in the twin cities and had specifically asked the officials to expedite the projects taken up under the Smart City Scheme. “I have asked them to submit a progress report on various projects and I will come back again after a fortnight to review it,” he said. Mr. Basvaraj said that he was aware of the drinking water problems in the twin cities where waster was being supplied once in four-five days. “I have asked them to increase the frequency and make it daily. The officials have submitted a project worth Rs. 492 crore for drinking water and underground drainage network works. I will take up the issue with the Chief Minister and make honest efforts to get funds for the project,” he said. The Minister listed out various projects that had been initiated under the Smart City Scheme, including the Rs. 130-crore Green Corridor project and the development of Bengeri Market at a cost of Rs. 6.8 crore. He said that nine out of 59 projects under Smart City Scheme had been completed so far. Delay in projects To a query, the Minister said that he was aware of the delay in initiating two projects to develop markets in the twin cities and had directed the officials to involve the elected representatives in convincing the merchants in these markets of the need for temporary shifting so as to begin work on market development. The Minister earlier visited various work places, including Hanumanth Nagar bridge site, compactor station being developed under the Solid Waste Management Scheme and the HDMC swimming pool. He also interacted with the pourakarmikas at Bhagat Singh Circle and sought to know whether they had any grievances. He was accompanied by Chairman of Hubballi Dharwad Urban Development Authority Nagesh Kalburgi, Municipal Commissioner Suresh Itnal, Managing Director of Hubballi Dharwad Smart City Limited Shakeel Ahmed, HDUDA Commissioner N.M. Kummannavar and others
10 June 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Strict enforcement of traffic rules||In the wake of the lockdown regulations being relaxed, the Hubballi Dharwad Police Commissionerate has said that there would be strict enforcement of traffic rules and regulations. Police Commissioner R. Dileep said on Tuesday that wearing helmet was mandatory for motorcyclists.
10 June 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||SWR proposes to cancel eight trains||Amidst COVID-19 crisis, the South Western Railway (SWR), under directions from the Railway Ministry, has proposed to cancel at least eight trains being operated in the State. SWR has also proposed cancellation of at least 200 halts for various trains at different railway stations as well as halt stations. Sources in the Railways said the exercises were being undertaken as part of the Ministry’s endeavour to introduce “Zero Timetable” with effect from July 1, from when Indian Railways’ annual timetable would normally come into force after the Inter-Railway Timetable Committee (IRTTC) meeting. Through this exercise, the IR seeks to speed up trains based on their patronage and priority by eliminating slack running timing as well as curtailing uneconomic halts. Pandavapura, a taluk headquarter in Mandya district on Bengaluru-Mysuru line, would lose halts for at least eight pairs of trains, while Tiptur, a taluk headquarter and commercial centre in Tumakuru district, would lose halts for at least six pairs, including two tri-weekly express services between Yeshwantpur and Shivamogga. Bantwal, a taluk headquarter in Dakshina Kannada, would lose halts for two tri-weekly trains between Bengaluru and Mangaluru. SWR’s General Manager A.K. Singh said he was unaware of the move and that everything was being done by the Railway Board.   The Hindu could get details of three out of eight trains that were proposed for cancellation by the SWR “to provide corridor blocks.” They are: Train No. 11047/11048 Miraj-Hubballi-Miraj Express; Train No. 56913/56914 KSR Bengaluru-Hubballi-KSR Bengaluru Passenger, and Train No. 06921/06922 Belagavi-Vasco Da Gama bi-weekly special passenger that got introduced by Minister of State for Railways Suresh Angadi recently. Tumakuru MP G.S. Basavaraj on Monday wrote to Mr. Angadi strongly objecting to the cancellation of Bengaluru-Hubballi-Bengaluru Passenger (day service) saying the train was always full and served people in his constituency very well.
10 June 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Minority community students wait for renewal of education loans||Despite paying two instalments of margin money, students from the minority community studying professional courses in the State are waiting for the Karnataka Minorities Development Corporation to renew their education loan under Arivu scheme and release fees for the second and subsequent years of their courses. Around 2,000 students from Dakshina Kannada and 300 from Udupi districts alone are among those who are waiting for release of fees for the 2019-20 academic year. Under the scheme, students from religious minority groups, who want to pursue professional courses, masters degree, nursing, B.Ed, and other courses are provided loans ranging between Rs. 10,000 and Rs. 75,000 per year till completion of the course. The loan is released if the student pays “margin money”, which is 10% of the loan amount and 2% service charge, in instalments spread over the term of course. For engineering course, the margin amount comes to around Rs. 6,000 per year. Activist Umar U.H. said till last year, the loan amount was being renewed for the second and subsequent years of the course once the candidate pays the margin amount related to earlier year. “Now, the corporation is asking payment of marginal amount for earlier year and that of present year. Despite parents complying with this new norm, the corporation is yet to release the amount,” he said. Among the affected include Abdul Hameed, who works in a shop in Mangaluru. He pledged gold ornaments to take loan and pay the Rs. 1.5 lakh as fees in July last year for his daughter who is in third year BDS. “The delay in releasing the amount is really hurting,” he said and added that he had paid Rs. 11,700 as margin money. Director of the corporation Sayeeda Aysha told The Hindu the corporation needs around Rs. 30 crore to clear pending applications. “We are working out ways to clear it. It will be done in the next few days,” she said. She said that margin money is being collected as per norms of the scheme, which is clearly mentioned in the indemnity bond signed by the parent and the student. Collection of this margin amount, she said, helped the corporation pay Rs. 155 crore to students for the year 2018-19 and 2019-20. This is against the total budget of Rs. 149 crore for Arivu and 13 other schemes of the corporation. As much as Rs. 16.13 crore is for students of Dakshina Kannada from where a majority of applications for Arivu scheme are filed.
10 June 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||New timetable||The Indian Railways (IR) has resorted to a massive exercise to speed up trains by cancelling “poorly patronised” ones, eliminating uneconomic halts, and reducing the slack time in train running. Cancellation of all passenger trains during lockdown has come as a blessing for the IR when it resorted to “Zero Timetable” exercise wherein it is assumed that no train was running on its network at present. Such an exercise was conducted during 1995, said a senior Railway official. Except for Shramik Specials, Rajdhani Specials and another 100 pairs of specials, no other passenger train is in operation at present. While many rail fans suspect the exercise is a prelude to privatisation of train services across the Board, the official said new timetable is being prepared without looking at the old one prioritising the services. Not many trains would be cancelled, he said adding their timings may get changed.
10 June 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Work to renovate Mangala Stadium begins||As part of renovation of Mangala Stadium, which is the district stadium, Mangaluru Smart City Limited (MSCL) launched the first phase of the renovation work here on Tuesday. MSCL has proposed to build a shade over the viewers gallery, renovate the main building and construct a gymnasium and a change room. On Tuesday, MSCL launched work to renovate a part of the viewers gallery. Deputy Director (in-charge) of the Department of Youth Empowerment and Sports Pradeep D’Souza said that the new office of the department, the gymnasium and the change room will come up behind the gallery. The work has been assigned to Mangaluru-based firm called Creative Engineers, he added. Mangaluru City South MLA D. Vedayas Kamath launched the work. Zilla Panchayat president Meenakshi Shantigodu, Mayor Diwakar Pandeshwar and MSCL Managing Director Mohammed Nazir were present.
10 June 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Concern over land conversion in Kodagu||The recent dilution of the Karnataka Land Reforms Act 1961 through an amendment to Section 109 enabling direct purchase of agricultural land from farmers, has larger environmental ramifications for the State. This is more so in the hilly terrains and ecologically-sensitive regions such as Kodagu where there are concerns over the dilution of the Act, and is set to bring the government and local stakeholders on a collision course. Ravaged by floods in 2018 and 2019 abetted by unbridled urbanisation and infrastructure development to promote tourism, there are apprehensions in Kodagu that sale of agricultural land for non-agricultural purpose will devastate the catchment area of the Cauvery. Kodagu-based NGO, Coorg Wildlife Society, has said that the amendment will have devastating consequences as reckless urbanisation has already caused negative impact on the environment as evident in recent floods and landslips. “It’s not just about land in Kodagu but this will also have a bearing on water and its implications will be felt in the downstream region of State, impacting food security and agriculture,” said C.P. Muthanna of Coorg Wildlife Society, which plans to take legal recourse. “The amendment makes it easy for any industrialist to directly approach farmers and purchase land. We will write to the government and approach the court to fight it,” he said. Stakeholders now plan to revive environmental groups including the Save Kodagu Save Cauvery campaign, an umbrella organisation fighting to conserve Kodagu. These groups were at the forefront in opposing the proposed linear projects through Kodagu that included two railway lines – one connecting Madikeri with Mysuru via Kushalnagar, and another connecting Thalassery in Kerala with Mysuru via Kodagu.
10 June 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Operations resume at Jubilant pharma company||Jubilant Generics Ltd., the pharmaceutical company in Nanjangud, which was at the epicentre of COVID-19 outbreak in Mysuru, has resumed operations after a gap of almost two and a half months. The permission for resumption of operations was accorded after a panel of officials from seven different departments submitted individual reports to the district administration last week, expressing satisfaction over the action plan proposed by the company to implement measures in line with the guidelines issued Ministry of Home Affairs and Directorate General of Health Services. Deputy Commissioner of Mysuru Abhiram G. Sankar confirmed that permission had been given to Jubilant Generics Ltd. to resume operations. Company sources also told The Hindu on Tuesday that operations had resumed at the plant, which had recently entered into an agreement with Gilead Sciences, USA, for manufacture and sale of Remdesivir, a drug that has currently been approved in Japan as a treatment for patients infected with SARS-COV-2, the virus causing COVID-19. Production had been suspended at Jubilant ever since one of its employees tested positive for COVID-19 on March 26. Subsequently, more than 70 people connected to the company tested positive for the virus, contributing to Mysuru’s emergence as one of the hotspots for COVID-19. While all the 1,552 employees of the company were quarantined and tested, the authorities sent carried out an investigation into the source of the outbreak. The raw material imported by the company from China, which was initially suspected to be the source, too tested negative after a sample was sent to National Institute of Virology in Pune. An inquiry ordered by the State government into the outbreak was also given up without identifying the source of infection.
10 June 2020||Shivamogga,KARNATAKA||Accused who escaped arrested again||An accused in an attempt-to-murder case who had escaped from police custody was arrested on Tuesday. Tirthahalli Police had arrested K. Manjunath Gowda, a resident of Kunaje village in Tirthahalli taluk, on the charge of trying to killing an agriculture worker by opening fire at him from a country-made revolver on May 28. The arrested had also lodged a complaint alleging that he was assaulted by the worker. When the arrested was admitted to the Government JC Hospital in Tirthahalli for treatment, he hoodwinked the police and had managed to escape. A special police team was formed to arrest him. Acting on a tip-off, the police arrested him from a house of his relative in Sringeri in Chikkamagaluru district on Tuesday.
10 June 2020||UDUPI,KARNATAKA||No common prayers in churches in Udupi district till June 30||The United Christian Forum for Human Rights, Udupi, has decided not to conduct common prayers and other religious activities in churches in Udupi district till June 30 on account of COVID-19. In a press release here on Tuesday, Bishop of Udupi Diocese and president of United Christian Forum Gerald Isaac Lobo said that the churches, however, will be open to visiting devotees, who, with all necessary precautions, may say their personal prayers. This was decided by the forum at a meeting held at the Bishop’s House here on Tuesday in which the heads of the Udupi Catholic Diocese, the United Basel Mission Churches (UBM), the Church of South India (CSI), the Full Gospel Pastors Association and leaders of other churches and denominations were present. It was also decided to review the situation on June 30. The church leaders appealed to everyone to take maximum care to prevent the spread of COVID-19 and cooperate with the authorities in containing the pandemic, the release said.
10 June 2020||UDUPI,KARNATAKA||More ventilators for govt. hospitals in Udupi dist.||Health and Family Welfare Minister B. Sriramalu said on Tuesday that the State government would provide more ventilators for government hospitals treating COVID-19 patients in Udupi district. Addressing presspersons here, Mr. Sriramalu said that the district administration had sought ventilators for these hospitals. There were 1,306 beds available for COVID-19 patients in the district. Another 1,200 beds would be added soon. He had recommended to the government to send those who had returned from Maharashtra into 14 days home quarantine with their houses being sealed down as a precautionary measure to check the spread of COVID-19. Legislators from Udupi district had made this recommendation to him and he had accepted it. Those who returned from Maharashtra should compulsorily stay in their houses for a fortnight and if anyone was found violating quarantine conditions, legal cases would be initiated against them and they would be sent to institutional quarantine. If such returnees were poor, then grocery kits would be delivered to their houses. Hitherto, returnees from Maharashtra had to undergo seven-day institutional quarantine followed by home quarantine. Returnees from other States were undergoing 14-day home quarantine and this would continue. Those coming from foreign countries had to undergo week-long institutional quarantine followed by week-long home quarantine, he said. To a query, Mr. Sriramalu said that there was no community spread of COVID-19 either in the State or in Udupi district. As many as 12,538 persons had submitted samples in Udupi district and of them, 946 had tested positive for COVID-19. Results of 28 people were awaited. As many as 335 persons had been discharged from hospitals after treatment for COVID-19. At present, 615 persons were undergoing treatment in the district, he said.
10 June 2020||UDUPI,KARNATAKA||State govt. mulling over reduction in syllabus||Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar said on Tuesday that his department was thinking of reducing syllabus for schools for this academic year on account of COVID-19. He was presiding over a review meeting of education officers of Udupi, Dakshina Kannada and Uttara Kannada districts on the preparations for SSLC exams, here. Mr. Suresh Kumar said that schools would reopen late, mostly after August, in this academic year because of COVID-19. This would have an impact on the academic activities and reduce the academic year. Hence, his department was planning to reduce syllabus to lessen the burden on students. His department would discuss this matter with education experts and senior officers, he said. Later, speaking to presspersons, Mr. Suresh Kumar said that the SSLC exams would be held from June 25 in the State. All necessary precautions would be taken at the exam centres due to COVID-19. Social distancing would be given importance, he said. To a query, Mr. Suresh Kumar said that the complaints made by parents on the pressure generated by schools due to online classes and the time they spent watching mobile phone and computer screens would be discussed at a meeting of education experts and experts from NIMHANS in Bengaluru on June 10.
10 June 2020||UDUPI,KARNATAKA||103 persons discharged||Deputy Commissioner G. Jagadeesha has said here that 103 persons who recovered from COVID-19 and were discharged from COVID-19 hospitals in Udupi district on Tuesday. No COVID-19 positive case was recorded in the district on Tuesday, he said.
10 June 2020||Vijayapura,KARNATAKA||Almatti dam sets a record||The hydroelectric plant at Almatti dam has set a new record in generating the second highest quantum of electricity in the last over a decade. According to officials, for 2019-20, the plant has generated 631.5 million units. The plant, which began operations in 2006 in full capacity, generated 664 million units in 2007-08. The officials said that huge inflow of water into the dam last year, because of torrential rains that lashed Western Ghats, enabled the plant to generate power in large quantum. The plant had to discharge excess water through crest gates and through the power generation plant to produce electricity. Currently, the production of electricity has stopped as the dam does not have sufficient water to discharge. However, officials believe that since the inflow has started in the first week on June itself, they can resume power generation in July if the dam receives adequate water. For 2020-21, the officials have set a target of generating 466 million units of power. The plant has six units, but to start operation of all six units, the water level in the dam should reach 519.6 metres and there must be discharge of at least 45,000 cusecs. If all units generate power with their full capacity, then everyday, they could generate six million units of power. The officials are hoping to receive adequate water into the dam to generate electricity more than the set target.
10 June 2020||June 10 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||VTU to conduct examinations only after ‘contact classes’||Bowing to pressure from students, the Visvesvaraya Technological University (VTU) has postponed semester-end examinations. It will now conduct them only after students – most of whom are taking online classes – return to colleges for lectures, or ‘contact classes’. Speaking to The Hindu , Vice Chancellor Karisiddappa said, “We want to make it very clear to students that we will conduct one month of classes and only then hold the examination. If colleges are allowed to reopen in July, then the examination will be conducted in August,” he said. This will be applicable to first, second and third-year students. Final-year students will attend contact classes for one week to 10 days soon after which they will have to appear for their exams. Although the university had initially stated that online classes were accessible by 70% of their students, students organisations had refuted this. All India Democratic Students’ Organisation (AIDSO) Karnataka State Committee, carried out a survey among 4,000 engineering students from 225 engineering colleges across 29 districts in the State. It revealed that only 22.8% students were able to access online classes. Around 97.1% of those surveyed had stated that they were not ready to take the examination based on the online classes. More than 90% said that they were not able to grasp concepts during online lectures. Many could not attend classes due to poor network connectivity, erratic power supply as well as socio economic constraints. The overall consensus was that online lectures were not helpful. As a way of protest, engineering students had launched online campaigns stating that they would be unable to appear for the examination owing to inadequate preparation. As part of the campaign, they attempted to reach out to the Prime Minister as well as Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa demanding that semester examinations be cancelled and students be allowed to attend classes for the next academic year. According to the VTU's calender of events, the academic year is supposed to end on June 1. The semester end examinations were supposed to be held in June and the results were expected to be announced in July.
10 June 2020||June 10 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Students enrolling in colleges abroad defer their dreams||The COVID-19 pandemic has deferred the dreams of thousands of students who were preparing to go abroad to study this year. Instead of packing their bags, they are exploring their options of online classes and attending colleges in India, for a short duration. Many universities abroad have given students the option of attending online classes until it’s safe for them to attend lectures on campus. Others are encouraging students to attend lectures in other institutes in the country that they have tied up with. An engineering student, who has secured admission at New York University, said that the management there is considering tying up with IITs in India for a short duration. “They have asked us to fill a survey. I have indicated that I would be interested in attending classes in an IIT. It is a better option than online learning,” he said. While some European universities have decided to commence classes on campus shortly, those in the United States are taking the online route. A student, who has secured admission in a university in Canada, which is a neighbour of the US, said, “The university has accommodated my request to attend online classes. I’m glad that I won't miss out on an academic year.” Colleges in the US teaching medicine though are looking at starting on-campus classes as soon as possible. “I am preparing to travel to the United States by the end of June, as my university does not plan to offer the option of online classes. Being a medical student, I have been given priority while booking a flight as I am part of essential services,” said a medical student from Bengaluru. Universities are also accommodating requests for deferring admissions, as students are unsure if their final-year examinations will be conducted in time. “The college I have got admission in starts in September, but I am not sure if our university here will be able to declare results by then. Instead of taking a risk, I have decided to defer my enrolment by a semester, and fly abroad early next year,” said a science student who has enrolled in a masters programme at a university in Germany.
10 June 2020||June 10 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||SARS-CoV-2 may have come to India via Europe, West Asia: IISc. study||The probable source of origin of Indian SARS-CoV-2 viruses is countries from Europe and Oceania regions, besides West Asia and South Asian regions, says a research article published in Current Science. The article by Mainak Mondal, Ankita Lawarde and Kumaravel Somasundaram from the Department of Microbiology and Cell Biology, Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru, titled ‘Genomics of Indian SARS-CoV-2: Implications in genetic diversity, possible origin and spread of virus,’ says possible spread of the virus to India through West Asian countries from Europe and Oceania regions cannot be ruled out. The WHO declared COVID-19 as a pandemic on March 11. Comparison of genome sequences from diverse locations allows identification of the genetic diversity among viruses, the researchers say, adding that the aim of the study was to determine the genetic diversity among Indian SARS-CoV-2 isolates. “Initial examination of the phylogenetic data of SARS-CoV-2 genomes from different continents deposited at GISAID (Global Initiative on Sharing All Influenza Data) revealed multiple origin for Indian isolates. An in-depth analysis of 558 viral genomes derived from samples representing USA, Europe, China, East Asia, South Asia, Oceania, Middle East regions, and India revealed that most Indian samples are divided into two clusters,” it states. According to the article, A1 sub-cluster showed more similarity to Oceania and Kuwait samples, while A2 sub-cluster grouped with South Asian samples. In contrast, cluster B grouped with countries from Europe, West Asia and South Asia. Expanding on the viral clade analysis of Indian samples, the study says the potential origin could be countries mainly from Europe, West Asia Oceania and South Asia regions, which strongly imply the spread of virus through most-travelled countries. “Our result also indicates that there is a close connection between source of virus and the countries that are most travelled by Indians. The study also highlights the power of rapid viral genome sequencing and public data sharing to improve the detection and management of pandemic diseases such as COVID-19. Needless to say that major countries from emerging economies such as Brazil and India should also support experimental research on SARS-CoV-2 pathogenesis,” the researchers concluded.
10 June 2020||June 10 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Two men posing as TTEs try to con migrants||The Railway Protection Force (RPF) is on the hunt for two men who identified themselves as Travelling Ticket Examiners (TTE) and attempted to extort money from migrant labourers who were heading to Bihar on a special Shramik train on Sunday. According to the labourers, the men were clad in white shirts and black pants. They flashed ID cards and demanded Rs. 905 from them. “The ‘TTEs’ insisted that they pay up for travelling without tickets,” said a police officer. The incident took place as the train was approaching Dharmavaram railway station. However, one of the labourers called an NGO in Bengaluru and informed them about the demand of the ‘TTEs’. The NGO in turn alerted the railway police. But by the time the RPF turned up, the two men had escaped. The RPF showed the labourers passport-size photographs of all the TTEs operating out of Bengaluru, but the labourers could not identify the suspects as they had worn face masks. RPF officials are now examining CCTV footage.
10 June 2020||June 10 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Protection in a dhoti||
10 June 2020||June 10 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Abortion in COVID-19 ward leads to tension||The incident of a 36-year-old woman, who was three months pregnant, losing the foetus in the COVID-19 ward of OPEC hospital at Raichur led to tension in the hospital on Tuesday. Her relatives alleged that she was bleeding for two days, but doctors on duty did not respond properly and provide immediate treatment. She was shifted only following a strong demand by other patients in the ward. A native of Kotiggudda village in Deodurg taluk, the woman had returned from Maharashtra and was shifted to OPEC hospital after she tested positive on May 23. However, Basavaraj Peerapur, director of RIMS, denied the allegation. He said she was suffering from hyper-thyroidism and was being treated for it. Doctors treated her when she started bleeding on June 6, he said. She was shifted to RIMS on June 8 and she is recovering, he said. R. Venkatesh Kumar, Deputy Commissioner, said he has sought a detailed report from the director of RIMS and added that disciplinary action would be taken if there were lapses.
10 June 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Alappuzha sees hefty one-day spike||The district on Tuesday recorded the biggest single-day spike in COVID-19 cases with 11 more people testing positive for the disease. Of the cases, 10 have returned from foreign countries and one from Mumbai. One of the patients, a youth hailing from Pattanakkad, came from Dubai on May 30. The second patient, a youth from Champakulam, came from Dubai on June 4. A couple aged 64 and 58, from Kumarapuram, arrived from Abu Dhabi on May 31. The fifth patient, a young woman from Champakulam, came from Kuwait on May 26. Another person, a 76-year-old woman from Budhanoor, reached the district from Abu Dhabi on May 18. A pregnant woman, a native of Puliyoor, came from Abu Dhabi on May 28. Two women, hailing from Kayamkulam and Krishnapuram respectively, came from Russia on June 1. Another patient, a youth from Chengannur, came from Mumbai in a private vehicle on May 24. All patients have been admitted to the Government Medical College Hospital, Alappuzha, for treatment. The eleventh patient, a young woman from Oachira, came from Abu Dhabi on June 3. She has been admitted to the Government Medical College Hospital, Kollam. Meanwhile, two persons who were undergoing treatment for COVID-19 have been tested negative for the disease. The number of active COVID-19 cases in the district stands at 88. The district has so far witnessed 106 COVID-19 cases. 17 people have recovered while one person died due to the disease. Negative Samples collected from a woman from Pavukkara who died in quarantine on Monday have been tested negative for the disease.
10 June 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Man dies after consuming sanitiser||A 56-year-old person has died allegedly after consuming hand sanitiser as an alternative for alcohol. The deceased has been identified as V.K. Santhosh, of Sanathanam Ward, Alappuzha municipality. According to the police, the deceased consumed the sanitiser on May 28. He died on Monday.
10 June 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Control rooms to be opened||A meeting, chaired by District Collector Adeela Abdulla, here on Tuesday decided to set up control rooms in all civic bodies in the district to tackle rain-related issues. Civic bodies were asked to ensure the services of volunteers.
10 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||After lockdown, businesses attempt to build ‘new normal’||As people resume shopping after the lockdown, malls and businesses in the city are developing a ‘new normal’, with foot and hand sanitisers and thermal checks at every entrance and allocation of space for display of physical distancing norms. Great care is taken to ensure that shoppers wear face masks and use sanitisers. They are frequently asked by the watch and ward staff to follow physical distancing norms. Restrictions have been placed on the use of lifts, and air-conditioning temperatures have been maintained as per the prescribed limits as part of continuing efforts to contain the spread of COVID-19. Every arrival was registered either at the main entrance or at the car parking area, said Joji John, centre manager of Oberon Mall. He added that places such as malls were better suited to implement crowd control measures. Beena Kannan, CEO of Seematti, a major textile outlet in the city, said shoppers were provided with gloves, and it was ensured that they wore face masks. She added that a little more positive spirit could help businesses as they recovered post-lockdown. Textile shops had been open for more than two weeks, and wedding buyers were active, said Ms. Kannan. Though malls in the city opened on Tuesday, major attractions such as cinemas and other places of entertainment remained closed, in keeping with government guidelines. A press release issued by Lulu Mall said temperature maintained inside the mall was between 24 and 30 degrees Celsius. People aged above 65 years and below 10 years have been advised not to enter the mall. Sensor-based vehicle tyre disinfection was conducted, customers and staff members were subjected to mandatory screening, and bags and personal belongings of customers were sanitised. A small isolation room was arranged at the mall to accommodate potential positive cases till their transportation to hospitals. Physical distancing norms were applied in wash rooms, by blocking alternative wash basins and urinals. A statement from Lulu Mall said close to 20,000 people visited the mall on Tuesday. All visitors were asked to provide their names and contact information in a hassle-free manner. Around 90% of the retail outlets at the mall opened. Restaurants witnessed some enthusiasm among customers as they reopened on Tuesday. Shammi Chakravarthy of Shappu Curry said it would take time before some semblance of normality returned. Deepthi George, a homemaker, said the idea of family shopping was being given some rest as she had come out alone without her children or husband to do her shopping.
10 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||One arrested for assault||The Puthencruz police on Tuesday arrested a person and detained three juveniles in connection with the assault of a 16-year-old at Thiruvaniyur. According to the police, the incident sparked off after the victim tagged his picture in the Instagram alongside the image of a girl who allegedly has an affair with one of the three juveniles. Following this, the accused roughed him up on a road next to his home on Monday. The assault was filmed by one of the boys. The incident came to light after someone shared the visual on the Facebook page of K. Karthik, the District Police Chief ( Ernakulam Rural).
10 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||People wary of visiting temples||The Chottanikkara Bhagavathy Temple had 231 devotees turning up for darshan on Tuesday as one of the major temples in central Kerala reopened. This was just a handful when compared to the rush on Tuesdays and Fridays at the temple, according to temple manager Biju R. Pillai. The temple was open from 4 a.m. to 12 noon. Barricades were erected for devotees to follow a route and maintain physical distancing. Only the western entrance was opened for devotees to enter the temple. Just around a hundred devotees turned up to offer prayers at the Ernakulam Siva Temple, Chittoor Sree Krishnaswamy Temple, and Sree Poornathrayeesa Temple, Thripunithura under the Cochin Devaswom Board (CDB). While 101 persons visited the Siva Temple in the morning, the Chittoor and Thripunithura temples had 90 and 120 visitors respectively. They were opened from 7 a.m. to 10.30 a.m.
10 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||HC admits plea against app selection||The Kerala High court on Tuesday directed the State government not to destroy the proceedings of the Zoom meeting which selected Faircode Technologies, Kochi, for developing BevQ, a virtual queue management app for liquor sale in the State. Justice Anu Sivaraman passed the interim order while admitting a petition filed by Teebu Marketing Private Ltd., Kochi, a company specialised in developing mobile phone applications, challenging the selection of Faircode for developing the app. The petitioner alleged that the entire selection process conducted by the Kerala Startup Mission was illegal.
10 June 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||FACT sales robust despite lockdown||Sale of key products from the Fertilizers and Chemicals Travancore has not been affected by about 70 days of lockdown across India even as the public sector company looks to bank on the promise of the monsoon season. FACT continued well into the new financial year from the last fiscal with strong sales figures. The month of March 2020 saw a record sale of 66,034 tonnes of fertilizers. Record sale The entire financial year 2019-20 ended with 11,29,476-tonne sale of all fertilizer products combined. The achievement was the highest in 18 years.  For the first two months of the current financial year, the sale of Factamfos was 94,517 tonnes against 46,367 tonnes for the corresponding period last year. The sale of ammonium sulphate in April and May stood at 22,161 tonnes against 18,665 tonnes last year, said a communication from the company. Company hopeful The public sector company is hopeful that the current performance will continue through the financial year as there is prediction of a good monsoon season ensuing. Kerala itself has had more than average rain in most districts with Idukki, Wayanad and Ernakulam only accounting for a deficit in rain received between June 1 and June 9, according to the India Meteorological Department. FACT has a strong presence in the States of Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Telengana.
10 June 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Eight fresh cases in Kottayam||Eight persons, including seven who returned from abroad, were tested positive for COVID-19 in Kottayam on Tuesday. Two persons who had been under treatment for the virus infection recovered from the disease. Of the eight persons, four, including a 59-year-old man from Kollad, landed here on May 27 from Abu Dhabi by the same flight. The remaining three were identified as a 19-year-old woman from Thalayolaparambu and a 21-year-old who flew in from Tajikistan and a 54- year-old native of Nalukodi who landed from Dubai. The eighth person was a 34-year-old woman from Mulakkulam who landed here from New Delhi on June 3. Her husband was tested positive earlier and is undergoing treatment in Kochi. Meanwhile, the 33-day-old child of the couple has been tested negative. The number of active cases in Kottayam has become 41 and among them, 21 are undergoing treatment at the Government Medical College Hospital (MCH) here. The persons who recovered from the disease are 25-year-old native of Melukavu and a 32- year-old from Vellavoor. Antibody tests Meanwhile, authorities here began collecting serum samples of 500 persons from five health blocks for conducting rapid antibody tests to ascertain if there is community transmission of the virus. The samples are being collected randomly from persons from a list on the direction of the Health Department. The samples are being collected from five categories of people ranging from health workers to migrant workers in Karukachal, Thalayolaparambu, Ullanad, Erumely and Idamaruk blocks.
10 June 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Incubation centre for rubber dealers||A Rubber Products Incubation Centre (RPIC), which will help non-tyre products manufacturers in the MSME (micro, small and medium enterprises) sector to develop innovative processes and products, is all set to start functioning on the Rubber Research Institute of India (RRII) campus at Puthuppally. K.N. Raghavan, Chairman and Executive Director, Rubber Board, will inaugurate the facility at 10.30 a.m. on Wednesday. According to officials of the Rubber Board, the facility will act as a hub for converting ideas and innovations of entrepreneurs into quality rubber products. The objective is to develop a vibrant rubber product manufacturing industry working together with natural rubber growers to add value at each cog of the supply wheel. “Scientists and engineers attached to the RPIC would handhold individual entrepreneurs through various stages of product development while providing access to machines and holding equipment available here. They would be able to gain access to technical books and journals available in the library at the RRII,’’ an official said. Ideas and innovations can be in the field of rubber farming, processing, product development, recycling of products and pollution control. India has around 4,000 registered non-tyre products manufacturers in the MSME sector, which together earned foreign exchange worth Rs. 11,740 crore in the fiscal 2018-19. However, several of the small players lack expertise and in-house research and development facilities, which hampers timely technological upgrade and compromises competitiveness.
10 June 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Man found dead||In a tragic incident, a 55-year-old hotel employee hanged himself to death here recently reportedly due to a severe financial crisis. The deceased was identified as Raju Devassia, a native of Kaduthuruthy. A suicide note left behind by him stated that his family had been starving for several days and he had been struggling to make ends meet. In the letter, he requested the Chief Minister to take care of his family. He is survived by wife, a 13-year-old daughter and a nine-year-old son.
10 June 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Moderate rush in temples||The temples under the Travancore Devaswom Board (TDB) in Kottayam which reopened after the lockdown on Tuesday witnessed a rather moderate inflow of devotees. According to sources, several devotees offered darshan at the Mahadeva temples at Vaikom, Ettumanur and Thirunakkara in the morning. The temple authorities had made all arrangements to ensure the physical-distancing norms and hygiene of the visitors. Meanwhile, major churches in the district including the St. George Forane church at Aruvithura and the St. Mary’s Forane church at Bharananganam did not open for services in line with a decision by their respective parish committees. The St. Mary’s Jacobite Syrian Cathedral at Manarcad will remain closed till June 30.
10 June 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||74 active cases in Kozhikode||Seven persons were tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kozhikode on Tuesday even as four others, including a native of Wayanad, were cured of the infection in the district. The number of active COVID-19 cases in the district has gone up to 74 now. As many as 8,691 persons are under observation in the district, of whom 2,544 are expatriates. In Thrissur Six more COVID-19 cases, including a 28-year-old dental surgeon at Vadanappally, were reported in the district on Tuesday. In all, 13,293 people are under observation. Meanwhile, the virology lab at the Government Medical College Hospital, Thrissur, will function round-the-clock from Wednesday. In Wayanad Six new COVID-19 cases were reported in Wayanad district on Tuesday. The patients were shifted to the District Hospital at Mananthavady, which is the COVID-19 designated hospital in the district. In Kannur Five more persons were confirmed positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kannur on Tuesday. According to the Health Department, two had returned from abroad and the other two from other States. In Kasaragod Two more persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kasaragod on Tuesday. Both had come from Maharashtra. As many as 3,751 persons are under observation. In Ernakulam Four new cases of coronavirus disease were registered in the district on Tuesday. Three of them were natives of Maharashtra. The district added 1,264 people to the list of those under observation on Tuesday, taking the total number of people under surveillance to 9,912. A private hospital employee who was tested positive on June 3 was discharged on Tuesday. (With inputs from Thrissur, Wayanad, Kannur, Kasaragod, and Ernakulam)
10 June 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Kozhikode limps back to normalcy||Kozhikode district is limping back to normalcy after the lockdown despite some of its suburban regions being classified as containment zones. HiLITE Mall at Palazhi on the Kozhikode Bypass remained closed on Tuesday after Olavanna grama panchayat was declared a containment zone. However, the hypermarket at the mall and the recently opened Nesto Hypermarket in its vicinity were moderately crowded on the day. District Collector Seeram Sambasiva Rao had declared the region a containment zone after two persons from Pantheerankavu tested positive for SARS-CoV-2, and one of them had close contact with many people. Footfall was low at Focus Mall on Rajaji Road. The supermarket at the mall operated. As the government began easing some lockdown measures, shops and commercial establishments opened. Markets in the city witnessed the usual bustle, with people thronging shops at S.M. Street and Palayam. Many shopping complexes reported lean footfall though private offices struggled to carry out regular business. Textiles and electronic shops that had reopened earlier did not have many shoppers. Hotels and restaurants remained closed after the Kerala Hotel and Restaurant Association decided not to reopen them in Malappuram, Kozhikode, and Kannur, as the districts witnessed a surge in COVID-19 cases. But they continued to offer home delivery services. Bus services The KSRTC is conducting a few schedules to rural and hilly regions and inter-district services. However, private buses stayed off the road. The state of private stage carriers appears grim, with a private bus worker at Kakkodi allegedly ending his life two days ago. Bus owners are finding it difficult to operate services owing to financial crisis. However, autorickshaw services were back to normal. Only a few temples opened in the district. Major mosques remained closed after the mahal committees decided to wait till the COVID-19 situation improved. However, mosques in rural areas reopened on Tuesday. Staff Reporter from Wayanad writes:Major towns in Wayanad district, except Sulthan Bathery, began returning to normalcy on Tuesday. Though huge rush was not recorded at hotels and shopping centres in many towns, people were seen shopping by maintaining physical distancing norms. Major shops and malls in Sulthan Bathery town were closed after the district administration declared many divisions of the municipality as containment zones. Major temples in the district were not opened to devotees. Some temples opened, but only a few devotees visited them, said sources.
10 June 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Athira gives birth a day after husband’s death||Unaware of her husband’s death in Dubai, Athira Geetha Sreedharan, who had filed a writ petition in the Supreme Court seeking help to return home following the COVID-19-induced lockdown, gave birth to a baby girl in Kozhikode on Tuesday morning. Nithin Chandran, 29, a mechanical engineer employed with a construction firm in Dubai, died early morning on Monday. The couple had attracted media attention after Athira, a software professional, had moved the apex court to fly down to Kerala to deliver their first baby. He was also supposed to fly with his wife, but decided to stay back as he did not want to waste a seat on the emergency repatriation flights. She had reached her native village in Perambra in Kozhikode on the first Vande Bharat Mission flight from Dubai to Kozhikode on May 7. Both mother and baby are in good health, it is learnt. After the news of Nithin’s death, Athira’s family decided to move her to a private hospital. A C-section delivery was performed following doctors’ advice. COVID negative Meanwhile, the Ministry of Health and Prevention, United Arab Emirates, issued an official death notification document stating that Nithin had died after a congestive heart failure. He had sought treatment for heart ailment a year ago. As his COVID-19 test turned negative, his body is expected to be repatriated to Kozhikode soon.
10 June 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||As New Zealand beats COVID, Kerala too rejoices||New Zealand Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern has quite a fan following in the State. Her fans not only keep a tab on the daily developments in New Zealand but also stay in touch with her through mails, emails and social media. M.K. Promodh, who retired from Calicut University last year as its Joint Controller of Examinations, was excited on Monday when Ms. Ardern shared her joy of declaring the island nation as COVID-19-free. “There are two pieces of good news that I’m happy to be able to share with you today. First, there are now no active cases of COVID-19 in New Zealand. Second, we announced today that as of midnight tonight, New Zealand will move down from alert level two to alert level one,” Ms. Ardern wrote to Mr. Promodh in a personal mail. The Prime Minister went on to describe the situation in New Zealand in vivid detail and thanked Mr. Promodh for his prayers and personal inquiries. “We have been communicating frequently and engaging in healthy discussions. She is an amazing woman with exceptional diplomatic and governing skills. Above all, she is a great human being with a kind and compassionate heart,” said Mr. Promodh. Greetings from PM Ms. Ardern used to greet him ‘Kia Ora’, which means ‘good health’ in Maori language and is widely considered a beautiful greeting to any person. It is considered a Maori equivalent of Arabic greeting Asslamu Alaikum, which means ‘peace be upon you.’ Last year, Ms. Ardern had written a personal letter to Amana Ashraf, a Class X student from Ponnani, sharing her joy of being in touch with friends from around the world, including Kerala. The Prime Minister had even shared the personal well-being of her daughter Neve, who was one year old then. Ms. Ardern and her political secretary and a Member of New Zealand Parliament Priyanca Radhakrishnan had greeted the Keralites during Onam last year in a special video. In her communications with Mr. Promodh and Amana, Ms. Ardern had shared her excitement about Kerala and its spectacular beauty. “I hope to see it for myself one day,” she wrote to Amana.
10 June 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Chennai officer’s visit triggers panic among forest officials||The recent visit of a senior forest officer from Chennai in connection with the investigation into the death of an elephant in the Mannarkkad forest range in the district has triggered COVID-19 fears among the forest officials in the Mannarkkad division and Silent Valley National Park. T. Uma, regional deputy director of the Wildlife Crime Control Bureau, Chennai, and assistant management authority of the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species (CITES) of Wild Flora and Fauna, came to Mannarkkad on Friday last and returned to Chennai the next day. She interacted with a number of forest officials and the public without many of them knowing that she had come from Chennai, a COVID-19 hotspot. A large number of Keralites who returned home from Chennai had tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the State. Violation of protocol The current COVID-19 protocol in the State demands that all people coming from other States, especially hotspots such as Chennai and Mumbai, should go in quarantine. Forest officers here view Ms. Uma’s arrival and return as a violation of the protocol. “More than a technical violation, it gives us shudders about coronavirus. We were not aware that she had come from Chennai,” said a forest watcher requesting anonymity. Among those who Ms. Uma interacted with were Mannarkkad Divisional Forest Officer K.K. Sunil Kumar, Silent Valley National Park Wildlife Warden Samuel Vanlalngheta Pachuau, Flying Squad Divisional Forest Officer Siva Prasad, range officers, forest watchers, and several local residents. Some of them said they would have excused a face-to-face meeting had they been aware of her place of travel origin. Many apprehensive The driver of a Revenue Department vehicle too was with her while she moved around in Mannarkkad. All of them are clueless about Ms. Uma’s COVID-19 status. “We will be in deep soup if madam (Ms. Uma) was infected. I am sad our department ignored a vital safety protocol,” said a watcher.
10 June 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Low turnout of the faithful at temples and churches||Temples under the Travancore Devaswom Board in Pathanamthitta witnessed a low turnout of devotees when they were thrown open to devotees on Tuesday after 78 days owing to the COVID-19-induced lockdown. S. Ajithkumar, Assistant Devaswom Commissioner, told The Hindu that 300 devotees turned up at the Sree Parthasarathy temple at Aranmula. Around 450 devotees offered prayers at the Bhagavathy temple at Malayalappuzha. The Sreevallabha temple at Thiruvalla and the Mahadevar temples at Kaviyur and Chengannur too witnessed a lean pilgrim turnout. Catholic churches open Churches under the Syro-Malankara Church were opened on Tuesday morning for daily liturgical service. The crowd was moderate at St. Stephen’s Cathedral in Pathanamthitta, Mary Matha Forane Church at Mylapra and at Sacred Heart Church at Adoor. Metropolitan Archbishop of Thiruvalla Thomas Mar Koorilos said the Church and its members were bound to ensure strict compliance with the lockdown norms. The Jacobite Syrian Church will open its churches attached to the Kollam and Niranom dioceses for the Sunday service. The Mar Thoma Syrian Church of Malabar and the Believers Eastern Church have decided not to open their churches this month. Mar Thoma Church head Joseph Mar Thoma Metropolitan is of the view that there is no point in opening the churches without permitting entry to believers above the age of 65 years and children below the age of 10 years.
10 June 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Seven more NoRKs test positive in Pathanamthitta||The number of COVID-19 patients in the district went up to 113 with seven more Non-Resident Keralites (NoRKs) testing positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Tuesday. Meanwhile, six persons were cured of the viral disease, raising the number of cured patients in the district to 31. 81 under treatment As of now, 81 persons are undergoing treatment at various hospitals in the district and another one at the Government Medical College Hospital in Thiruvananthapuram. According to an official bulletin released here, a 25-year-old man who reached her home at Kottanad from Abu Dhabi on June 6, a 38-year-old man who came to Mylapra from Delhi on May 29, a 31-year-old man who came to Kattookkara, near Thiruvalla, from Delhi on June 5, a 34-year-old man who came to Ranni from Nigeria on May 31, a 28-year-old youth who came to Angadickal South from Maharashtra, a 52-year-old man who came to his house at Kadapra, near Thiruvalla, from Abu Dhabi on May 27 and a 43-year-old woman who came to Kumbanad from Maharashtra on May 27 are the persons who tested positive. All of them have been quarantined in hospitals. The total number of quarantined persons, including the COVID-19 patients, under observation at the isolation wards of various hospitals in the district too went up to 114 on Tuesday. District Collector P.B. Noohu said the administration would add 1,000 beds to various Covid Firstline Treatment Centres identified in the district in the next 15 days.
10 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||No private buses in 6 districts||Private bus operators opted to keep their vehicles off the road in six districts on Tuesday with a view to pressuring the government for a fare hike to offset the operational loss due to poor patronage arising out of COVID-19. Private buses did not operate in Pathanamthitta, Kottayam, Thrissur, Kozhikode, and Kasaragod. A private bus that operated came under attack in Kottayam. In all, around 200 of the 12,500 private buses operated in the State on Tuesday. As the police imposed heavy penalties on the operators who permitted commuters beyond the seating capacity on Monday, only skeletal services were operated on Tuesday. With more people venturing out following the easing of the lockdown, the lack of public transport buses is causing hardships to many. Operators’ claim More operators are withdrawing services, failing to get revenue to meet their fuel and salary costs, chairman of the joint action council of the private bus owners Lawerence Babu said. In view of the pandemic, the council had left the decision to operate services to the operators as they feared retaliatory action from the government. The tussle between private bus operators who are up in arms demanding a hike in bus fare or restoration of the increased fare and the government turned murkier with the All Kerala Bus Operators Forum approaching the High Court and getting a stay. Transport Minister A.K. Saseendran did not hide his displeasure and announced that the government will file an appeal. While the council is trying to be in the good books of the government, associations under it do not share the view. The legal remedy sought by the association based in Thrissur is a case in point. The private bus operators are also trying to project the suicide of a bus driver in the constituency of Mr. Saseendran in Kozhikode. Confusion prevails Confusion also prevails among the operators over the stance of the government and over the lack of initiative to solve the crisis facing the private bus industry.  The Kerala State Road Transport Corporation is also groping in the dark as the services are run at a heavy loss due to poor patronage. It operated 2,390 services on Tuesday compared to 2,256 services on Monday.
10 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Most eateries say ‘no’ to dine-in||The relaxed lockdown norms have failed to enthuse restaurateurs with most outlets in the city remaining closed for dine-in services and limiting their business to takeaways on Tuesday. Despite being ‘suicidal’ for business, many outlets are unlikely to resume business in full swing this month. Barring some restaurants at Thampanoor, at Medical College area and certain other pockets, most others decided against serving food on their premises for the time being on account of the rising number of COVID-19 cases in the capital district and the influx of people from other States and abroad. Only 10% Kerala Hotel and Restaurant Association district secretary B. Vijayakumar said that less than 10% of the restaurants in the city operated fully. While a greater proportion functioned in full-swing in the rural parts of the district, only less than a quarter of the total number of eateries functioned. With most outlets incapable of registering decent sales by maintaining physical-distancing norms, owing to limited space, the owners thought it unwise to resume business, he said. Floating clientele The potential hazard associated with gatherings also discouraged many. “While we would have wasted little time in throwing open our doors to normal business under any other circumstances, the prevailing panic has deterred us from doing so. Considering that we largely cater to a floating clientèle, it is our priority to avoid any health risk and safeguard the well-being of our staff,” says Sanal K.S., proprietor of a prominent restaurant at Bakery Junction. The Mall of Travancore allowed customers after thoroughly screening them and rearranging seats in the food court to ensure physical distancing. Details collected Mall director Afshin K.P. said the basic details, including contact number of all visitors, were being collected prior to entry. Despite lacking the normal rush, the shopping complex witnessed many customers coming in with specific shopping targets.
10 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||10 test positive in capital, 12 recover from disease||Ten people, including a health worker, tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Tuesday. At the same time, 12 patients, including a Kollam native, tested negative on the day. The 52-year-old nursing assistant from Kachani was working in the COVID-19 outpatient wing of the Government Medical College Hospital here. She had visited some of her relatives, medical stores as well as an automobile workshop at Valiyakada a week ago. She sought treatment at the family health centre at Vattiyurkavu with fever and dry cough on June 5. She tested positive on Monday. Father hospitalised Her 78-year-old father has also been hospitalised with various symptoms, including fever and fatigue. Three medical students from the district who reached Kannur from Moscow on a special flight on June 1 also tested positive. Following their arrival, the youths, from Vanchiyoor, Kuttichal and Chirayinkeezhu, were shifted to an institutional quarantine facility at Varkala. Among the other cases, a 60-year-old Valiyathura native who was working as a fisherman in Dubai and a 41-year-old Poonthura native, both came from Dubai on a flight on June 2, had been in institutional quarantine. The other patients include two men from Edava and Chenkal, who had come from Kuwait on May 28; a 41-year-old Varkala native who arrived in Kochi on a flight from Abu Dhabi on May 27; and another Edava native who came from Dubai on May 29. Two flee from hospitals Meanwhile, a COVID-19 patient from Anad sparked panic when he left the MCH without informing the authorities. While he tested negative for the infection twice, the 33-year-old patient’s third swab test results were awaited. He travelled to his native place on a KSRTC bus and had lunch at a restaurant in Nedumangad, official sources said. Soon after he reached his house, those in the neighbourhood alerted the police, following which he was taken to the MCH. A Pappanamcode native, who was admitted to the General Hospital after developing symptoms of the disease, also left the hospital premises without permission of the authorities. The patient with a history of travel to Tamil Nadu was soon located by the Cantonment police. Case registered Both patients have been booked under provisions of the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance 2020 and the Kerala Public Health Act. Health Minister K.K. Shyalaja ordered an inquiry into the incident in which a COVID-19 patient left the MCH premises. District Collector Navjot Khosa, who has also sought a report from the MCH authorities, has constituted a team to identify those who came in contact with the patient.
10 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Places of worship open doors on a cautious note||Several prominent temples and a comparatively fewer number of churches and mosques cautiously opened their doors to devotees on Tuesday even as the worrying rise in COVID-19 cases continued to cast a long shadow over the State. The houses of prayer had remained under lockdown since March 25 and devotees appeared to welcome the decision to permit on-premise worship albeit rather restrictedly. Strict checks The new normal seemed evident in temples managed by the Travancore, Cochin and Malabar Devaswom Boards. The staff, wearing masks and gloves, received the devotees, entered their address and mobile number in a visitor’s register and took their temperature to check for fever before allowing them into the precincts. The worshippers followed sanitation and physical-distancing strictures. They awaited their turn to enter the sanctum sanctorum on spots demarcated by paint. They were required to wear masks mandatorily and not congregate or socialise within the environs. The temples managed by the Nair Service Society remained closed. In contrast, those maintained by the Sree Narayana Dharma Paripalana (SNDP) Yogam admitted believers. Various Christian bishoprics allowed churches to admit devotees in a restricted manner. However, many remained closed and broadcast services via the Internet and connected with parishioners through videoconferencing. Several mosques allowed believers in a restricted manner, including the Beemapally Dargah Shareef here. Devotees sat spaced two metres apart on prayer mats they had brought with them and wore masks.
10 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||K-Rail revises alignment of section||The Kerala Rail Development Corporation (K-Rail) has revised the alignment for the 57.5-km Vadakara-Thalassery stretch of the 530.6-km semi-high-speed rail corridor from Kochuveli to Kasaragod. In order to reduce displacement and avoid bifurcating Mahe, as directed by the government, two railway bypasses — Vadakara bypass (from Koyilandy to Mahe) and Thalassery bypass (from Mahe to Chala) — have been proposed by K-Rail. Of the 31-km Vadakara rail bypass, 23.27 km will be parallel to the existing track and 7.72 km away from the track. Four landlocked locations to the extent of 103.07 ha and 448 houses will be affected. There will be four road and rail crossings on the stretch. On the 25.5-km Thalassery rail bypass, 11.17 km will be parallel to the existing railway track and 14.33 km away from the track. Nine landlocked locations (226.01 ha) and 509 houses will be affected and there will be nine rail and road crossings. Only 957 houses “The number of houses to be affected has come down from 1,201 to 957 in the stretch and the cost for the project is almost the same even after the changes,” V. Ajith Kumar, Managing Director, K-Rail, told The Hindu . The new lines between Kochuveli, near Thiruvananthapuram, and Tirur will be greenfield corridors and the remaining, between Tirur and Kasaragod, will be parallel to the existing line as per the DPR prepared by Paris-based Systra. The DPR was approved by the K-Rail director board in April and changes in the alignment was mooted when it was awaiting the nod of the government. The DPR, along with the revised alignment for the Thalassery-Vadakara corridor, will come up before the Cabinet soon for clearance. Once cleared, it will be submitted to Railways. Approval needed The approval of the NITI Aayog and the Union Cabinet is needed as the project is to be taken up as a joint venture between the State and Railways. Trains will run at 200 km per hour and Ernakulam can be reached in one-and-a-half hours and Kasaragod in four hours from the State capital once the Silver Line becomes operational.
10 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Demand for job scheme cards surges||With slowdown and job losses in many sectors, there has been more demand than usual for job cards under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS). Since April this year, 15,000 new job cards have been issued in Kerala, which is slightly above the normal rate. But, with the return of blue-collar workers from abroad, officials are expecting a surge in applications. All works under the scheme came to a halt since the lockdown on March 24. When the works restarted on April 21, only around 3,500 workers attended across the State. The numbers remained lesser than normal for a few more weeks due to travel restrictions and the lack of transport facilities. By mid-May, the numbers increased, hitting a high of 5.43- akh workers two days back, almost equal to the normal average of 5.5 lakh workers per day. But these numbers can be deceptive, as workers above the age of 65 are not allowed to work due to the risk of COVID-19. Workers of that age group makes up 20-25% of the usual workforce, as per officials. Daily tally The daily tally of workers during the pandemic matching the average at normal times indicates that a larger number of younger persons are now signing up for jobs. “The demand for job cards had almost saturated over the years, as we had covered almost everyone. A job card is given to an entire family, and more than one member can participate, although total work days should only be 100 per year. Because the State had experienced floods in the past two years, there has been more demand for jobs cards in the past two years. Also, after such crises, inactive workers come back, as other revenue sources dry up. In regions such as Wayanad, many who had been earning income from across the border have come back and taken job cards now,” says an MGNREGS official. Annual target The State’s annual target as approved by the Centre is eight crore person days of work, but with the Centre allocating Rs. 40,000 crore more recently for the MGNREGS, the officials estimate that 13 crore person days can be managed this year.
10 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||It’s guarded entry as places of worship in capital reopen||Many places of worship in the district reopened on Tuesday after restricting entry of devotees for nearly two-and-a-half months. Temples under the Travancore Devaswom Board, including the Thiruvallam Sree Parasurama temple and the Sreekanteswaram temple, allowed devotees. People were allowed to enter the temples after thermal screening and collecting their details. The Manacaud Valiya Palli mosque reopened with restrictions on entry. Believers were required to bring their own prayer mats and maintain physical distancing. Only a few churches reopened. While those under the Latin Archdiocese of Thiruvananthapuram remained closed, the churches under the Syro-Malankara Catholic Church, including St. Mary’s Cathedral, Pattom, reopened. St. Mary Queen of Peace Basilica, Palayam, is set to reopen on Wednesday for the parishioners alone. Besides, entry will be limited to 10 persons at a time. The South Kerala diocese of the Church of South India, which runs around 620 churches, has also permitted its churches to allow faithful. However, with several parishes raising concerns over reopening churches in containment zones and close to inter-State borders, church committees have been allowed to take decisions on the matter. Without laity While the Jacobite Syrian Christian Church has decided to continue with prayer services without the participation of the laity, the Malankara Orthodox Syrian Church is yet to take a call on the issue. The Sree Padmanabhaswamy temple will reopen only on June 30. The office-bearers of the iconic Palayam Juma Masjid and the St. Joseph’s Metropolitan Church at Palayam had earlier decided against reopening them under the present circumstances.
10 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Son held on charge of Ranji player’s murder||The death of former Ranji Trophy cricketer K. Jayamohan Thampi took a shocking turn on Tuesday with the Fort police confirming that he was murdered. His elder son, Aswin, was arrested and a neighbour was taken into custody in connection with the murder. Thampi, 64, was found dead in his house in Parambil Nagar, Manacaud, on Monday by two tenants who stayed on the first floor of the building. The stench that emanated from the putrefying body had prompted them to alert neighbours. Aswin, who was inside the house at the time of the incident, claimed to be unaware of the death. Multiple head injuries While the death was initially considered as one due to natural causes, the findings of the post-mortem report that revealed multiple injuries on Thampi’s head prompted the police to probe further. The death was estimated to have occurred nearly 36 hours before the body was found. According to Assistant Commissioner R. Prathapan Nair, the accused confessed that he had a scuffle with his father while they were consuming liquor on Saturday. Alcoholic Thampi died after being assaulted by his son and pushed to the floor. While Aswin had no criminal antecedents, he was a chronic alcoholic and was separated from his wife, Mr. Nair said. The Fort police also took into custody a neighbour who is suspected to have visited the house on the day of the murder. The deceased was cremated at the Shanthikavadam, Thycaud, on Monday. Jayamohan Thampi had been part of the Kerala cricket team. He was a wicket keeper-batsman. He retired as deputy general manager in the State Bank of Travancore.
10 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Aid for Kudumbashree members to buy laptops||The Kudumbashree mission is set to finalise a proposal in association with Kerala State Financial Enterprises Ltd. (KSFE) for members who want to purchase laptops for their wards for their education. The mission held two rounds of talks with KSFE regarding this. The plan is to start a chit-fund for Rs. 15,000, with the members paying Rs. 500 for 30 months. After the third payment, each member will either be given Rs. 15,000 by KSFE for the purchase of laptops from empanelled vendors or be handed over laptops directly. Once the proposal is finalised, it will be promoted among Kudumbashree members to ascertain the demand. This would begin this week, Kudumbashree executive director Harikishore S. said. The laptops will be available in two months.
10 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Govt. to go in appeal against order||The government has decided to appeal against the High Court’s ruling allowing private bus operators to collect the hiked fare from passengers till the COVID-19 protocol is lifted. Transport Minister A.K. Saseendran, who held consultations with the Chief Minister and officials, told reporters that the government would file an appeal on getting a certified copy of the ruling from the High Court. He said commuters need pay only the existing fare, minimum fare of Rs. 8 and 70 paise for subsequent km, for travelling on Wednesday on KSRTC and private buses. No change in stance “We have not seen the order. Counsel had been told to inform the High Court about the difficulties encountered by the government. The government is of the view that the interests of commuters, KSRTC, and private operators should be protected. There is no change in the stance,” Mr. Saseendran said. As per the High Court ruling, the KSRTC and private operators can collect the increased fare, with minimum fare starting from Rs. 12 for ordinary buses and Rs. 1.10 for subsequent km, till the lockdown is lifted.
10 June 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Work on KIIFB projects to be expedited||Work on 474 new Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB) projects for which detailed project reports have been submitted will be expedited, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said. Reviewing the progress of KIIFB projects costing above Rs. 50 crore here on Tuesday, Mr. Vijayan called for speeding up land acquisition for various projects. Issues that may crop up on widening of roads should be permanently resolved. Projects that cost above Rs. 50 crore would be reviewed at the Additional Chief Secretary level every fortnight, he said. The government would consider appointing a consultancy for supervising projects that cost above Rs. 100 crore.
10 June 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Student admitted to MCH with burns||A 17-year-old girl from Pappanmcode was admitted to the intensive care unit of Government Medical College Hospital (MCH) on Tuesday night with significant burns. The Nemom police said as per preliminary information, the school student set herself ablaze around 9 p.m. Sources at the hospital said she had sustained 65% burns. (Suicide Prevention Helpline: Disha: 1056, 0471-2552056)
10 June 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Rush missing in temples on reopening day||Vadakkumnathan Temple, Thrissur, and Sreekrishna Temple, Guruvayur, reopened on Tuesday after a break of two-and-a-half months. A virtual queue system was put in place at the Sreekrishna Temple for darshan. An e-booking facility was also arranged. E-tokens, with date and time, were e-mailed to devotees. Though nearly 300 persons had booked for darshan, only 88 turned up on Tuesday. Tokens have been issued to 153 persons for Wednesday. Devotees were told to reach the temple half-an-hour before the stipulated time. The Vadakkumnathan Temple was opened to devotees from 7 a.m. to 10 p.m. on Tuesday. Around 200 persons visited the temple in the morning. Meanwhile, Paramekkavu and Thiruvambady temples were not opened on Tuesday as the managements felt it was practically difficult to maintain restrictions. Parameswaran Namboodirippad, the chief priest of Koodalmanikyam temple, Irinjalakuda, gave a letter to the Devaswom administrator, requesting the postponement of the reopening of the temple by two more weeks. In his letter, the priest said since COVID-19 threat existed in Irinjalakuda town, restrictions on devotees should continue.
10 June 2020||June 10 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Enter the dolphin||
10 June 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||10,000 detonators seized from Maoist couriers||The Anantapur police on Tuesday arrested three persons, including a suspected Maoist courier of Telangana, on charges of possessing and transporting 10,000 detonators and 1,098 meters of fuse wire in a multipurpose vehicle for an alleged Maoist group in Chhattisgarh. The accused have been identified as 45-year-old Muthu Nagaraju of Addakula village in Mahabubnagar district of Telangana (believed to be a courier), Alakunta Ramana, 28, and Derangula Babu, 39, hailing from Anantapur, Superintendent of Police B. Satya Yesu Babu said at a press conference here. Displaying the detonators and fuse wire, he said the entire consignment was meant for delivery at Vempuram in Chhattisgarh, and was being carried by Nagaraju, who allegedly developed contacts with Maoist commander Manguto. Nagaraju had been allegedly supplying ayurvedic and allopathic medicines, iron coins, sheets, Mobile phones, SIM cards and all other things needed by the Maoists. Nagaraju was residing in a rented room at Cherla in Bhadradri Kothagudem district of Telangana and was arrested by the Telangana police while supplying detonators in July 2019. He was remanded in judicial custody and later when he was released, he allegedly met Mangutho again. The Maoist commander reporteldy gave Nagaraju Rs. 2.5 lakh and asked him to supply detonators, the SP said. Nagaraju had come to Anantapur in March and reportedly gave Ramana Rs. 1.6 lakh for arranging 12,000 detonators and 10 coils of fuse wire, of which he arranged 2,000 detonators and 3 fuse wire coils. For the remaining part of the consignment, Nagaraju came to Anantapur on Tuesday and was bringing the detonators and fuse wire in a vehicle from Pulasanootala village in Narpala mandal in the district. When the consignment was being shifted from the village, during a regular checking of vehicles, Itikulapalli police chanced upon the consignment and arrested the three persons. Cases have been filed in the Itikulapalli police station and the accused shifted to jail.
10 June 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||SEB makes a dent in ID liquor business||The Special Enforcement Bureau(SEB) that began functioning in the district from May 16 has made a dent in the illicitly-distilled(ID) liquor trade and also illegal transport of sand within the district and to locations outside the State. The new force (SEB), with 70% of staff from the Excise and Prohibition Department, were able to arrest 1,491 persons and lodge 1,159 cases for carrying out the business of distilling illicit liquor in the fields. Many of those arrested had resumed the activity after a gap of several years. Lockdown-a boon for the trade The lack of legally-available liquor in Andhra Pradesh during the lockdown enabled ID liquor trade to flourish. In Anantapur district alone, at least 173 thandas did a roaring business by selling one litre of liquor between Rs. 1,500 and Rs. 2,000. In addition to this, the steep hike in liquor price in the State had turned smuggling of Indian-made foreign liquor(IMFL) and other kinds of liquor packets from Karnataka a lucrative business for many. Additional Superintendent of Police Jallepalli Rammohan Rao told The Hindu that the SEB sleuths had been mapping all the locations where illicit liquor distillation was being carried out and a database was created. Dynamic zones The mapping had revealed that Kalyandurg, Guntakal and Kadiri police divisions were the most dynamic ones, where the sleuths destroyed 81,720 litres of Jaggery wash in three weeks, seized 3,267 litres of ID liquor and 336 vehicles, confiscated 22,184 tetra packets of liquor from Karnataka, 9,038 liquor bottles and 15,955 kgs of jaggery. “Out of all the arrested persons, we could send only 100 persons to judicial custody and others were sent home by serving notice under 41 (A) of CrPC.,” Mr. Ramamohan Rao said. The district that shares a long border with Karnataka has 95 check-posts, 15 mobile posts, and 540 persons manning them. “Huge difference in the price of liquor and the convenience of carrying tetra packs were turning a lucrative business for many,” he said. App comes in handy The SEB sleuths have been confiscating vehicles laden with sand and could turn over 887.5 metric tonnes of sand to Tahsildars for auction as government property and arrested 183 accused registering 98 cases. The A.P. Sand Vigilance App was useful in determining if a consignment was genuine or illegal, Mr. Ramamohan observed.
10 June 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Land identified for medical college||The Anantapur district administration has identified 51.2 acres of land at Hindupur for the proposed establishment of a medical college. District Collector Gandham Chandrudu told Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy during a video conference on Tuesday that the proposal for the alienation of the land, with all details, would be sent to the State government very soon. The Collector, along with other officials, , participated in the video conference where a portal was formally inaugurated for the use of Village and Ward Secretariat staff to receive applications regarding Rice Cards (10 days), Pension Cards (10 days), House Pattas (90 days) and Aaroya Sri Cards (20 days).
10 June 2020||CHINTOOR (EAST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||Chhattisgarh cadre torched machinery, suspect police||The East Godavari police believe that Maoists belonging to the Chhattisgarh cadre could be behind the torching of construction equipment at Sarivela hamlet in Chintoor Agency on the Andhra-Chhattisgarh border on June 6. The Sarivela-Venkatramapuram area is five km from the Chhattisgarh border, which is believed to be a strategic location for Left Wing Extremist groups. East Godavari Superintendent of Police Adnan Nayeem Asmi said the suspected Maoists might have come from the Chhattisgarh side and torched the machinery. Investigation is on. Locals claim that nobody from the local side (Andhra cadre) was involved in the act, he said. Mr. Asmi said the incident was clearly against the interest of the locals who condemned it by taking out a rally against the Maoists. We still need to work for more clues on the incident, he added. On the afternoon of June 6, suspected Maoists asked the people present at the road and bridge works to leave the area before setting fire to the machinery. The next day, suspected Maoists tried to disrupt power supply by felling a tree on the power line in the area, 15 km away from the border. To avoid any untoward incident, the police remained alert and kept themselves away from Sarivela and Venkatramapuram and Pega area where the tree was axed. Till date, no Maoist group claimed responsibility for the incidents.
10 June 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Farm sector gets lion’s share in East Godavari credit plan||East Godavari Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy released the district annual credit plan with an outlay of Rs. 27,000 crore for the financial year 2020-21 during the bankers' meeting here on Tuesday. A whopping Rs. 9,341.62 crore was earmarked for the agriculture crop loans, targeting to extend credit support to 5.59 lakh farmers in the district. An outlay of Rs. 5,625.93 crore was earmarked for term loans, aiming at benefiting 3.12 lakh farmers in the present fiscal. Loans to SHGs The banks were told to lend their support, offering loans to the tune of Rs. 1,935.71 crore to the Self-Help Groups. The Micro, Small, and Medium Enterprises (MSME) would get a financial aid of Rs. 347.58 crore. The MSME sector was badly hit by COVID-19 and looking at the government for help. With regard to education loans, it was targeted to sanction Rs. 160.72 crore by the banks. A sum of Rs. 850 crore was earmarked for housing loans in the credit plan. Mr. Muralidhar Reddy lauded the banks for offering crop loans to 63,000 tenant farmers in the East Godavari district during the financial year 2019-20. He appealed to the bankers to provide crop loans to one lakh tenant farmers in the present financial year. District Lead Bank Manager J. Shanmukeswara Rao, NABARD District Development Officer Y. Somu Naidu, District Revenue Officer Ch. Sattibabu, and other officials were present.
10 June 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘BJP will come to power in State’||The regional parties in Andhra Pradesh will not be in a position to win the next elections and it will be the Bharatiya Janata Party that will take the reins in the State, predicted BJP leader and Rajya Sabha member T.G. Venkatesh here on Tuesday. At a press conference here, the leader said while the Telugu Desam Party(TDP) had come to power with the blessings of the BJP, the YSR Congress Party government also was able to take up welfare programmes with the active support of the BJP.
10 June 2020||NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Voters losing confidence in Jagan govt.: TDP||The Jagan Mohan Reddy Government in Andhra Pradesh has lost the people’s confidence with its acts of omission and commission in a short period of time, Opposition Telugu Desam Party(TDP) contended on Tuesday. Addressing the media, TDP SPSR Nellore District President Beeda Ravichandra said no other government in the country had to face so many “adverse” rulings by the High Court and Supreme court on various issues. But it seemed to be not learning any lessons. The ruling YSRCP, which got the people’s mandate for securing Special Category Status(SCS), had failed to raise the demand effectively in Parliament, he said. ‘Destructive politics’ The rule of the party was marked by “destructive politics” started with demolition of “Praja Vedike” built by the previous TDP government for a public cause, he added. The YSRCP, which raised corruption charges against the then Chandrababu Naidu Government, allegedly to mislead the people while it was in the opposition, could not prove any of them in its one year in office, he contended. Meanwhile, TDP district wing Official Spokesman Anam Venkataramana Reddy alleged that contractors hailing from Nellore had earned a reputation nation-wide for the efficient execution of works. But they were shying away from doing contracts in Nellore unable to put up with the “political pressure” from the ruling party, led by Irrigation Minister P.Anil Kumar Yadav in the district.
10 June 2020||ONGOLE/nellore,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID spreads to remote villages||Three more persons tested positive for the virus in the last 24 hours in Prakasam district, coinciding with the Unlock 2.0, when major curbs on movement of people had been done away with. The virus has now spread to remote villages in the district as a 32-year-old man from Pandirapalli village got infected as also a 80-year-old man and a 51-year-old man, both from Podili village, COVID-19 Nodal Officer John Richards said. Both the persons from Podili were primary contacts of an infected person undergoing treatment at the COVID-19 Isolation Ward at the Government General Hospital With this, the number of confirmed cases rose to 127 in the district, where all but one patient who had returned from Delhi's Nizambuddin were discharged. The surge in new cases was attributed to those who had returned from, among other places, Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra testing positive and spreading it to their near and dear ones. Health officials feared a surge in new cases in the coming weeks after removal of major curbs enforced during the four phases of the lockdown. Alarmed over the spread of the disease to newer areas, health authorities implemented containment action plan in Vetapalem and Podili mandals on Tuesday. No case in Nellore Meanwhile, health officials in SPSR Nellore district said the district did not report any cases on Tuesday. The number of confirmed cases stood at 342 in the district. As many as 209 patients have been discharged on recovery, while four persons succumbed to the disease so far. The novel disease which was initially confined to urban clusters, has started spreading to remote villages like Sangam, Chejerla, Sitarampuram, Ojili, Chittamarru, Vinjamuru, Tada, Jaladanki, Kondapur etc., making the containment task a daunting one.
10 June 2020||Sumit Bhattacharjee,ANDHRA PRADESH||Virus spread shifts from urban to rural, suburban areas in district||The district of late has been seeing a change in pattern in the spread of COVID-19. From the initial spurt in the urban areas, there has been a relative shift towards the rural and suburban areas. Initially, the spread was in the city in areas such as Allipuram, Muslim Thatichetlapalem, Akkayyapalem and Railway New Colony. But in the last few weeks, the focus has shifted towards Anakapalle (urban), Sabbavaram, Atchutapuram, Narsipatnam, Kasimkota, Munagapaka and Anakapalle (rural). This according to Andhra Medical College Principal P.V. Sudhakar is due to the influx of natives who were part of the migrant workforce in other States such as Tamil Nadu. “Initially, the spread was through a few foreign returnees and the spurt was initiated by the New Delhi returnees who attended a religious congregation in Nizamuddin Markaz. Then there were a number cases, which were spread from the returnees of Koyembedu market in Chennai. But now the spread is through the migrants, and it is increased after opening up of the air, road and rail transport,” he said. In the last four days, the district recorded 71 cases and in the last one month the count has gone up by 150. “At least 70% are primary contacts of migrants or returnees from other high risk States,” said Dr. Sudhakar. But the good news is that there is no community spreading. Most of the spread is limited to the primary or secondary contacts, so far. According to him, the contact listing and mapping has been very effective in the district. “Apart from the listing and mapping, the maintenance of the containment zones have been effective. This has paid dividends,” he said. So far the spread is between close clusters, but the clusters are multiple, and that is why we have about 52 active clusters, which includes 26 being very active, nine active and 17 being dormant clusters, he adds. Social distancing According to Dr. Sudhakar, New York city for the first time since the outbreak of COVID-19 recorded zero deaths three days ago. “This is because of strict adherence to the social distancing norm,” he said. Now that things are opening up there is bound to be a spike, but the only way to contain is to maintain social distancing, following the norms of wearing masks and frequent sanitising and strict containment, said the AMC principal. Doctors at the AMC feel that the police should enforce the containment, as they had done in Lockdown 1.0. The containment zones have been redefined and the radius of containment for very active zones is 1 km, 400 metres for active and 200 mts for dormant zones. ‘5,400 beds ready’ Talking about the preparedness, Dr. Sudhakar said that about 5,400 beds are ready in 20 hospitals of which 1,400 have oxygen supply. There are 136 ventilators and over 10,000 quarantine beds. So far about 56,000 tests have been conducted both Truenat and RT-PCR and 6,000 VTM (viral transport media) is always at hand in the district. “Every week we are replenished by 2,500 Truenat kits,” said Dr. Sudhakar.
10 June 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Woman doctor seeks CBI probe into ‘harassment’||Anitha Rani, a doctor posted at Penumur Community Health Centre in Chittoor district, on Tuesday demanded a probe by the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) into the alleged harassment that she was being subjected to by some persons. Dr. Rani has been at the centre of a controversy after Chittoor District Medical and Health Officer (DM&HO) P. Penchalaiah said that the Health Department is mulling action against her based on several complaints of dereliction of duty made by locals. Dr. Rani, in turn, has alleged that she was being harassed by several people as she is a Dalit. Based on her allegations, the Andhra Pradesh Women’s Commission on Monday filed a suo motu case, directing the Chittoor District Collector, Superintendent of Police and the DM&HO to inquire into the allegations and submit a report to the Commission. Commission chairperson Vasireddy Padma said that she would personally visit the Penumur PHC on Wednesday. While a CID probe was ordered into the matter, Dr. Anitha Rani said that she had no confidence that the State Government would deliver justice to her. “I have no confidence either on the Chief Minister, or on the State’s CID police. This is why I am demanding a CBI probe. I will knock on the court’s door if the State insists on a CID probe,” Dr. Rani told reporters. She alleged that some followers of Deputy Chief Minister K. Narayanaswamy and some district leaders of the ruling party were threatening her over phone. Meanwhile, BJP State secretary G. Bhanuprakash Reddy called on Dr. Rani and assured her of the party’s full support.
10 June 2020||Tirupati,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD security personnel facing a double challenge||With the opening of shrines under the purview Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) including the Lord Venkateswara temple at Tirumala for darshan, the security sleuths are facing a double challenge: implementing the COVID-19 guidelines amid the gradual rise in the devotee count and making them less vulnerable to infection. The police personnel on duty have been provided with single-use Personal Protection Equipment (PPE). Despite the strict adherence to social distancing norms, the security personnel can not help coming in contact with the devotees. Strict instruction have been given against frisking of devotees and the checking is being done through doorframe metal detectors (DFMD) and hand-held metal detectors (HHMD). The baggage is being sprayed with disinfectants before getting them pass through X-ray scanners. However, they have been advised to use ropes to control huge crowd for which they can not avoid getting closer to the devotees. COVID training “We have issued clear guidelines pertaining to checking of devotees without frisking. Apart from the 450 trained Special Protection Force (SPF) personnel, we have trained nearly 1000 security staff before their deployment as and when the situation warrants,” says TTD’s Chief Vigilance and Security Officer (CV&SO) Gopinath Jatti. The security wing has procured 2000 face shields and 5,000 single-use PPE kits in the form of donation, while the masks and gloves have been procured by the TTD in bulk. Additional security “The idea is to not expose either the devotees or the security personnel to risk. Dogs specially trained in narcotics will be deployed at crucial spots. We are deploying bomb disposal teams to minimise the man-to-man interface,” says Mr. Jatti.
10 June 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Srikalahasti temple opening deferred||Even as all arrangements were made to open the famed Sri Kalahastheeswara temple in Srikalahasti town from Wednesday, the news of a temple priest testing positive shattered all hopes. Though the other temples are already open, Srikalahasti had to wait for a couple of days more to let its red zones turn green. During a routine check-up of the 71 priests and employees ahead of the scheduled reopening, the reports of 15 were received on Tuesday, which revealed that one of the temple priests tested positive. The process was halted and the samples of the other priests and employees were kept pending. Devasthanam Executive Officer Chandrasekhar Reddy hurriedly closeted with the temple staff and announced to defer the temple opening to a further date. The town attained notoriety after it turned a hotspot in the entire Chittoor district by witnessing a spike in COVID-19 cases in the initial days of the lockdown. Even on Tuesday, the town registered three positive cases.
10 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Film shooting in State all set to resume from June 15||A delegation of senior actors, directors and producers representing the Telugu film industry met Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy at his camp office, near, here, on Tuesday. Speaking to the media later, actor K. Chiranjeevi said that Mr. Jagan had in-principle agreed to allow shooting of films and serials from June 15 and guidelines for it would be issued soon. Also, Mr. Jagan had agreed to waive the fixed minimum power charges levied on theatre owners during the lockdown period. “We have also raised the issue of pending Nandi Awards announcement to which Mr. Jagan decided to resume the awards from 2019-20 and we are also expecting to have an award ceremony this year,” he said. Flexible pricing “Regarding bringing in transparency in ticketing system, Mr. Jagan responded positively and said that a decision would be taken on allowing flexible pricing of tickets based on the budget of the film. Such a system is followed in cities like Chennai and Mumbai, and if it is allowed here the film industry will benefit a lot. This will also check malpractices,” Mr. Chiranjeevi said and added that a meeting with the officials concerned would be convened soon. Mr. Chiranjeevi further said that Mr. Jagan assured of considering the allocation of over 300 acres of land in Visakhapatnam in the past by the State government. If it was reconsidered and allocated to the film industry, it would encourage many entrepreneurs to produce films, build studios and set up outdoor units, he added. The film industry would also develop in the State due to this, he said.  Film personalities, including actors Nagarjuna and Vijay Chander; producers D. Suresh, C. Kalyan, Dil Raju, Damodar Prasad, Prasad V. Potluri; directors Trivikram, S.S. Rajamouli were among those who met Mr. Jagan. “The CM assured to provide land in Vizag for film industry for setting up of studios and other production facilities. The government also agreed to provide land for housing plots for the celebrities who wish to settle in Vizag,” said Minister Perni Venkateswara Rao. Farmers’ bid to meet actors Meanwhile, there was a mild tension as a group of farmers from Amaravati tried to meet the film personalities at Tadepalli. The farmers said they had been agitating against the government’s decision to have three Capitals for the last 175 days . They also demanded that the film heroes, producers and directors express solidarity with their agitation.
10 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Containment zones in city increase to 42 as virus spreads||In an indication of increase in the spread of COVID-19 positive cases to more areas of the city during the past two weeks, the number of containment zones increased to 42 in the Vijayawada Municipal Corporation limits as of Tuesday. Though the officials have not revealed the number of cases reported in the city so far, Collector A.Md. Imtiaz, in a release, said that 42 of the 64 municipal wards have been identified as containment zones. “People residing in the wards identified as containment zones should follow all the rules and lockdown restrictions will be implemented without any relaxations. People should use the Arogya Setu application and report to the local authorities if they have symptoms of COVID-19. “As the number of positive cases is increasing in the State it is important for citizens to strictly follow the rules,” Mr. Imtiaz said. The situation on May 22 was less intense as there were only about 34 wards which were identified as either red zone or orange zone and 30 wards were identified as green zones. The 22 municipal wards not identified as containment zones include 6, 7, 9, 10, 12, 13, 14, 19, 23, 24, 25, 30, 31, 33, 34, 35, 42, 45, 57, 60, 61 and 62.
10 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Eight-member ganja smuggling gang busted||The Police Commissioner’s Task Force personnel arrested an eight-member gang allegedly involved in smuggling and supplying ganja (cannabis). They seized 100 kg of ganja, valued at about Rs. 5 lakh, two cars, a bike and 11 mobile phones from them on Tuesday, the police said. On information that ganja was stored in a house at Poornanandampet in the city, the police team, led by Additional DCP K.V. Srinivas Rao, raided the house and seized the contraband. During investigation it was revealed that N. Vamshi Krishna. Sk. Ghouse Basha and M. Prabhu Kumar were procuring ganja at Narsipatnam and Chintapalli areas in Visakhapatnam and supplying the same to the customers in Vijayawada and the neighbouring areas. The modus operandi of the gang was one person would conduct ‘recce’ on the bike and alert the cars following him on whether any police checking was being done en route. After reaching Vijayawada, the peddlers would store the ganja in a house and supply it to the retailers, said Police Commissioner Ch. Dwaraka Tirumala Rao.
10 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State’s COVID tally crosses 5,000-mark||The State’s COVID-19 tally has crossed the 5,000-mark on Tuesday reaching a total of 5,029 cases with the addition of 216 fresh cases in the past 24 hours. For the first time in three months (91 days) since the first case was reported on March 12, the State witnessed highest single-day tally of 216. The last highest single day increase was 210 on June 6. According to the bulletin by the Health Department, of the 216 cases reported between Monday morning and Tuesday morning, 147 are of locals and 69 are of migrant returnees and people from other States. Two patients being treated in Krishna and Anantapur districts succumbed to the disease taking the toll to 77. Only 64 patients including 16 locals, 12 foreign returnees and 36 migrant workers and other State people have recovered in the past day, leaving 2,177 active patients under treatment and 2,775 have attained full recovery. Excluding the 1,032 cases (20.5%) of people from other States, foreign returnees and migrant workers. The State has 3,990 cases (79.3%) and 1, 510 of them are active cases while 2,403 persons have recovered.  Recovery rate The recovery rate is at 60.25% and has come down slightly owing to the increasing number of cases among locals. The overall recovery rate is at 55.17%.  The State has tested 15,085 samples during the past 24 hours and the total samples tested till date are 4,83,361. The positivity rate is at 1.04%. In other words, to detect one positive COVID case the State on an average has tested 96 samples. Meanwhile, the tests per million ratio has gone up to 9,120 which is one of the highest among States in the country.
10 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP, TDP trading charges for their own benefits: BJP||Alleging that both the ruling YSRCP and the opposition TDP are neck-deep in corruption, BJP State vice president Vishnuvardhan Reddy on Tuesday said that both the parties were trading charges against each other for their own benefits. “Let the leaders of both parties discuss the money amassed by them through corruption. The BJP will make arrangements for a debate if the YSRCP and the TDP are ready to prove the allegations against each other. Andhra Pradesh will not progress as long as both the parties exist in the State,” Mr. Vishnuvardhan told the media here. Dig at Jagan Taking a dig at the Chief Minister, the BJP leader said Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy while in the opposition, had made tall claims that his party would probe into the alleged irregularities during the TDP’s tenure, if the YSRCP was voted to power. “Now, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy needs to clear air on the number of inquiries conducted against the TDP leaders in his one year at office,” said Mr. Vishnuvardhan. Assistance to farmers The BJP leader alleged that the YSRCP was extracting mileage by calling the Central schemes of its own. “The YSRCP had promised farmers that it would provide a financial assistance of Rs. 12,000 per annum if voted to power. However, it is providing only Rs. 7,500 to farmers under the Rythu Bharosa scheme. In fact, of Rs. 12,500 being paid to farmers includes the Centre’s share of Rs. 6,000,” the BJP leader pointed out. “Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy also owes an explanation to the people as to how many promises made to the people during his padayatra have been implemented?” he asked. Virtual rally today Mr. Vishnuvardhan Reddy said that party was organising virtual rallies marking its completion of one year at the Centre in view of the COVID pandemic. “Three virtual rallies will be organised covering coastal Andhra, Rayalaseema and north Andhra region. BJP leader Ram Madhav will inaugurate a virtual rally on Wednesday at 5 p.m,” he added.
10 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naidu asks partymen to gear up for budget session||Telugu Desam Party (TDP) national president N. Chadrababu Naidu has asked the party leaders to gear up for the coming budget session. During a conference with the party MLAs and in-charges through video link on Tuesday, Mr. Naidu asked the later to expose the ‘misdeeds of the YSRCP government’ in the Assembly. “Farmers and the poor are leading miserable lives under the YSRCP rule. Injustice is being meted out to common man due to scrapping of schemes,” he said. Land acquisition The TDP chief alleged the government has cancelled 5,721 pattas issued to beneficiaries during the TDP rule. “The YSRCP leaders have swindled Rs. 1600 crore in the name of land acquisition. In Tanuku town alone, irregularities worth Rs. 14 crore have taken place. Relative of a Minister wrote a letter to the Chief Minister in this regard,” alleged Mr. Naidu. Accusing the YSRCP leaders of amassing wealth by illegall means, Mr. Naidu said, “the ruling party leaders haven’t left even COVID testing kits and bleaching powder. All these issues need to be highlighted in the Assembly,” he said. The TDP chief called upon the party leaders to highlight the plights of farmers. In an oblique reference to former Minister Siddha Raghava Rao, who is all set to join the YSRCP, the TDP chief asked the party members to be wary of the ‘betrayers’. Laterite mining Raising the allegations of Chief Minister extending lease and sanctioning water to his own company, some TDP leaders said that it was an unfortunate decision. “The 50-year mining lease extension for Saraswathi Power Industry at Dachepalli is a burning instance of misuse of power,” they said.
10 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Need to remove stigma surrounding coronavirus’||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Tuesday urged officials to scale up awareness among people on COVID-19, asserting that there was an urgent need to do away with the stigma that has come to surround the pandemic. Addressing a video-conference with district Collectors as part of the Spandana programme, Mr. Jagan said there was no need for panic as the recovery rate among people affected by the virus was high, as compared to a mere 1% mortality rate in the State. The Chief Minister said Collectors and officials of the Health Department should make people aware of all aspects of the virus so that they could identify the symptoms and volunteer to get themselves tested. “There should be no stigma or fear among the people and they should be willing to get themselves tested. If people don’t come forward voluntarily for treatment, the death rate may eventually rise. Nearly 85% of the positive cases can be cured with simple medication and by staying at home,” he said.  New medical colleges The Chief Minister lauded the role of village volunteers, ASHA workers, doctors, lab technicians and sanitation workers in the fight against the pandemic. Mr. Jagan asked the Joint Collectors to identify suitable lands for establishment of 15 new medical colleges, with 50 acres of land for each college. He wanted officials to identify the required land at the earliest.
10 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vehicle scam: criminal cases booked against owners||Joint Transport Commissioner (Task Force) S.A.V. Prasada Rao on Tuesday said that criminal cases were registered against the owners of 154 BS-III-compliant vehicles that were allegedly fraudulently being operated as BS-IV-compliant vehicles. At a press conference, he said following complaints a probe initiated by the department found that 154 BS-III vehicles bought as ‘scrap’ from Ashok Leyland and illegally registered as BS-IV-compliant vehicles at Kohima in Nagaland, were being operated in the State. The scam allegedly involved former Anantapur MP J.C. Diwakar Reddy’s brother J.C. Prabhakar Reddy’s family. Of the total 154 vehicles, 50 were bought by a firm named Jatadhar and 104 by C. Gopal Reddy firm, of which J.C. Uma Reddy and J.C. Asmit Reddy are the directors respectively. Mr. Rao said 101 of these vehicles were operating in Andhra Pradesh, 33 in Karnataka, 15 in Telangana, three in Nagaland and one each in Tamil Nadu and Chhattisgarh. Three more vehicles were yet to be identified, he said. Mr. Rao said further probe was on to ascertain the role of the department personnel in the scam.  Fake documents  Besides, the firms also created fake third party vehicle insurance documents in violation of the clauses of the Motor Vehicle Act. Mr. Rao said the department had apprised the Union Ministry of Road Transport and Highways of the vehicle scam, recommending that these vehicles be blacklisted. He said the registration of 96 scam-tainted vehicles operating in the State had been cancelled, while cases relating to the remaining six vehicles were in court since a third party had bought the vehicles. The Joint Transport Commissioner said the department was yet to identify 12 vehicles belonging to the Jatadhar company and four belonging to the C. Gopal Reddy firm operating in Telangana. Mr. Rao said that of the 101 vehicles operating in the State, 62 had been seized – 48 from Anantapur, two each from Kadapa and Guntur districts, five from Chittoor, four from Kurnool and one from Nellore.
10 June 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Centre to take stock of Krishna, Godavari water usage||The Centre will take stock of the water utilisation of the Krishna and Godavari rivers in the wake of Telangana and Andhra Pradesh lodging complaints against each other. Jal Sakthi (water resources) Secretary U.P Singh in a video conference with the chairpersons of the Krishna and Godavari River Management Boards (KRMB and GRMB) on Tuesday asked them to submit details of the number of irrigation projects in Maharashtra and Karnataka to the Centre within a month. It appears the move aims at assessing if surplus water was available for the new projects . Mr. Singh elicited information about the various projects A.P. and Telangana had on the rivers. The Telugu States share stretches of the two rivers and also own tributaries and sections of these two rivers. While the A.P. Reorganisation Act,2014, made it mandatory to get prior clearance from the river boards, Central Water Commission (CWC) and the Apex Council , both States have reportedly embarked on taking up several projects without following this procedure. This has resulted in the two States lodging complaints to the respective boards and even the Centre. While the Godavari river on an average discharges over 3,000 tmcft into the sea, the Krishna has almost dried up with Maharashtra and Karnataka taking up several large projects on it. Telangana also took up several projects on both the Krishna and Godavari after bifurcation. No new projects in A.P. In A.P., however, no new projects were taken up. The previous TDP government expedited several projects to increase the water utilisation of the State. The YSRCP government, however, proposed a few projects to increase the utilisation of the Krishna water above the Srisailam Reservoir. This led to the Telangana filing a complaint. The A.P. retaliated saying that Palamuru-Rangareddy, Dindi lift schemes on the Krishna and Kaleshwaram, Tupakulagudem schemes and some barrages proposed across the Godavari were new projects.
10 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||New academic calendar: packed curriculum awaits students||Students have COVID-19 to blame for curtailment of festival holidays in the fresh academic year, to make up for the lost time. Sankranthi and Christmas are the two major festivals that bring with them holidays in bulk for students. In the new academic year, students will have to make do with ‘shrunken’ holidays, according to the officials of the State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT) which is preparing the academic calendar for 2020-21. The outbreak of coronavirus and the subsequent raging of the virus prevented the School Education authorities to resume classroom teaching, resulting in loss of almost two precious months of the academic calendar. The virus brought about many changes in every sphere of life. In the education sector, it has prompted alterations in the academic calendar. In a deviation from the practice of starting a new academic year from June to June, the new academic year is said to be starting from August 1 and ending on July 31. A packed curriculum with fewer holidays awaits students. In view of the lockdown , students of classes I to IX have been promoted to the next class without having to write any exams. But with regard to the Secondary School Certificate (SSC, 10th class) Board examination, the government is particular about conducting the examinations. “No doubt that conduct of the SSC examinations in this situation, on a large scale is a major challenge,” admitted Education Minister Adimulapu Suresh. “As far as completion of syllabus in the fresh academic year is concerned, we are not really worried. We may have to curtail holidays to make up for the lost time. We have so far not heard anything from any of the stakeholders also. There should not be any problem as long as we are able to fulfil the stipulated 220 days of classroom teaching,” said the Minister, referring to the provision laid down in the Right to Education Act (RTE) in respect of mandatory 220 working days in an academic year. ‘Litmus test’ Speaking about the major tasks ahead including the spot valuation of intermediate examinations and conduct of the common entrance tests, he said the SSC was the actual litmus test.
10 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Retired bank staff donate to CMRF||The Andhra Pradesh Bank Retired Employees' Federation handed over a cheque of Rs. 8.50 lakh to Endowments Minister Velampalli Srinivasa Rao towards the Chief Minister Relief Fund (CMRF) at the Minister's camp office on Tuesday. The Minister lauded the retired bank employees for their noble gesture. Federation chairman Sankar Rao, general secretary Yella Rao, and others -- Narayana Rao, Jagan, P. Veera Reddy, Subrahmanyam, Venu, and Krishna Mohan -- were present. They said that they were impressed by the services of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and the State government during the lockdown
10 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP wants govt. to stop land acquisition||The TDP on Tuesday demanded that government put an immediate end to the ongoing land acquisition drive, alleging that the entire exercise was riddled with financial irregularities. TDP spokesperson Panchumarthi Anuradha said while the government was claiming that it was acquiring lands for distribution of house sites to the poor, the programme had become a money-spinner for it. “Hundreds of crores of public money has been looted in over 200 out of 625 mandals. The government has paid ten times more than the actual value only to benefit the YSRCP leaders. Farmers and landowners, however, got a raw deal ,” Ms. Anuradha alleged. ‘Massive fraud’ Ms. Anuradha deplored that while Mr. Jagan accused the TDP regime of insider trading , the YSRCP leaders were now committing massive frauds through insider trading in land acquisition.
10 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Policy changes sought to improve lives of migrants||Speakers in a webinar on “COVID-19: Social Economic and Traumatic Challenge Impacting Migrant Workers” highlighted the need for consideration of migrant workers’ community as one of the major stakeholders in nation-building. The webinar was organised by Andhra Loyola Institute of Engineering and Technology via Zoom software and over 600 persons from various parts of the country and abroad took part on Tuesday. Ken Saldanha from Eastern Michigan University, U.S., who was one of the resource persons, emphasised the need for policy-level changes to be made to increase the visibility of migrant workers and for better working and living conditions, access to food, children's education, identity and access to healthcare among others. Brinelle D’Souza of Tata Institute of Social Sciences, Mumbai, said that social distancing during the lockdown had worked for the middle class and higher class sections of society but not among the poor and migrant workers, who struggled to get food and money to meet their expenses.
10 June 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM bats for time-bound implementation of schemes||A.P. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Tuesday said time-bound cards would be distributed for effective implementation of welfare programmes and action would be taken against officials for laxity. Addressing Collectors through video-conference as part of the Spandana programme, he launched the Standard Operating Procedure for effective implementation of the schemes. Rice and pension cards would be given within 10 days of application, the Aarogyasri card in 20 days and house site pattas with registration in 90 days. If the cards were not given within the stipulated time for no valid reason, the official concerned would face stringent action, he said. He wanted the list of beneficiaries displayed at the village and ward secretariats and the cards delivered at the doorstep of the beneficiaries. “We have asked people who have missed out on house site pattas to apply. As of now, the figure is 30.3 lakh, the list should be displayed by June 12, and by June 15, all formalities should be completed,” he said. He wanted the secretariats to display all important numbers and the calendar of welfare schemes and services. Key areas Mr. Reddy asked the Collectors to focus on the functioning of the village secretariats, Rythu Bharosa Kendras and village clinics, besides the work being implemented under Naadu-Nedu in schools. He said the mapping of the YSR Clinics in urban areas would be completed by June 10 and land would be identified by then. He said 31,000 of the total 55,000 Anganwadi buildings were in bad shape.
10 June 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Doctors save kid who swallowed a battery||Five-year-old B. Karthikeya had a brush with death after he swallowed a button battery. His life was saved by an endoscopic intervention by a team of doctors headed by gastroenterologist Ravi Shankar Tata at the Manipal Super Speciality hospital here. The child reportedly suffered for nearly two days unable to swallow any drink or water. The contents of the battery leaked and burnt 7 cm of his food pipe (oesophagus). A team consisting of Dr. Tata and ENT specialist V.V.K. Sandeep removed the button battery endoscopically and implanted a Ryles tube where the food pipe got burnt. Hospital director Sudhakar Kantipudi said the team could remove the battery without any life-threatening complications. Despite their small size, button batteries were a serious threat, he said. The boy has recovered and has been discharged.
10 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ganja trade picks up after brief lull||On June 8, officials from the Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB) arrested two persons and seized 1,140 kg of dry ganja at Pedabayulu mandal. The SEB learnt that that the ganja was being transported to Chhattisgarh via Odisha. In another incident on June 6, the teams seized 900 kg ganja near Jerrela village of G.K Veedhi mandal. Officials said this was an indication that ganja smugglers are beginning to slowly resume their activities in the Agency area of Visakhapatnam district, in the wake of the lockdown being lifted in phases across the country. In a span of three days, SEB officials seized nearly 2,040 kg of dry ganja, which is estimated to be worth over Rs. 2 crore in the black market. Officials said that the prices of ganja would have gone up sharply now, owing to the unavailability of the contraband during the lockdown. “A kg of ganja is bought for Rs. 1,500 to Rs. 2,000 in the Agency, and the same is sold for much higher prices in other States. The lockdown may have increased the rates by up to 30%. In the recent cases, we have nabbed only local smugglers. If the smugglers were from other States, we would have been able to ascertain more details about the demand and price hike,” said an SEB official. Apart from these, between May 18 and June 4, 739 kg of ganja was seized by both SEB and the district police in five more cases. Seventeen people were arrested in these cases. “Not just inter-State borders, but district borders also were closed for over two months. There was no entry for vehicles except for those transporting essential goods. Now, inter-State vehicle movement is being allowed and the smugglers are taking advantage of this,” an official from the SEB said. He said that though vehicle checks are being conducted at a few entry points, smugglers are aware of routes that lack proper enforcement. Officials suspect that the smugglers might have been using the Vizag Agency-Odisha route to shift contraband towards Chhattisgarh, for which surveillance has been stepped up. Surveillance in city Assistant Commissioner of Police (City Task Force) A. Trinad Rao said that they are ramping up enforcement in the city over ganja smuggling. Since the lockdown, we busted a ganja racket in which 200 kg of ganja was seized. The smugglers who were stuck in the city with the ganja were nabbed, he said. “Generally the smugglers use trains for transportation if they try to smuggle the contraband from the city. But due to restricted train movement, such activities have come to halt in the city limits,” said a police officer from the city.
10 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan has undone all of Naidu’s good work: TDP||MLA and TDP Urban district president Vasupalli Ganesh Kumar has alleged that Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has undone all good work of the Chandrababu Naidu government, within one year of assuming office. Mr. Ganesh Kumar along with MLC Duvvarapu Rama Rao and TDP leaders released a booklet ‘Vidwansaniki oka chance’, brought out by the TDP to highlight the alleged failures of the Jagan Mohan Reddy government, at the party office here on Tuesday. Addressing the media on the occasion, Mr. Ganesh Kumar made a scathing attack on what he called ‘destructive policies” of the Jagan Mohan Reddy government . Describing Mr. Chandrababu Naidu as a visionary leader, Mr. Ganesh Kumar recalled that the former Chief Minister had established the hi-tech city, in Hyderabad, which was providing employment to 13 lakh employees today. He said that the vision of Mr. Naidu was to develop Amaravati like Hyderabad. Referring to the criticism that 34,000 acres was not needed for the capital, he said that Mumbai, which has 603 sq. km. was cramped and subsequently Pune had to be developed to overcome the space constraints. The proposal of the government to take over the Millennium Towers in Visakhapatnam to house the Chief Minister’s office resulted in several IT companies leaving the city. Similarly, the agreements made with Lulu Group and the Adani Data Centre in the city had been cancelled. He wondered as to how Visakhapatnam would progress, when it was being ‘ignored’ on all fronts. Refuting the claims on provision of 2.81 lakh jobs by the YSRCP government, Mr. Ganesh Kumar said they were volunteer jobs and they were being paid a meagre Rs. 5,000 a month. Ridiculing the statement of Rajya Sabha Member V. Vijaya Sai Reddy that the YSRCP was formed on Gandhian principles, he said that the manhandling of Dr. Sudhakar, arrest of former MP Harsha Kumar and suppression of the agitation by farmers at Amaravati reflect the attitude of the YSRCP government. He alleged that the YSRCP government had failed to take stringent action against the LG Polymers management and it was booking cases against the TDP and the Left parties for waging struggles on behalf of the victims.
10 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bandh call evokes good response in Visakha agency||Raising objection to the Supreme Court’s quashing of the order providing 100% reservation to the Scheduled Tribe (ST) candidates for the posts of teachers in the schools in the Scheduled Areas, the tribals in the Visakha agency observed a one-day bandh on Tuesday. The bandh call given by the Girijan Sangham, left parties and other Opposition parties such as the TDP and the Congress and supported by the CPI (Maoist), evoked a good response. The bandh was near total and peaceful in all the 11 mandals in the agency area of Visakhapatnam district. All shops and establishments remained closed and all modes of transport, including the APSRTC buses, remained off the road. Security beefed up Since the Maoists supported the bandh call, the police intensified the surveillance and stepped up the combing operation by deploying more forces. Additional forces from the AP Special Police and Greyhounds were deployed. “We cannot allow anyone to take advantage of the bandh. All high-value targets and those in the Maoist hit-list have been advised to remain at home and security has been beefed up for them and at all vital installations,” said Superintendent of Police Attada Babujee. The police have set up 15 checkposts to curtail the movement of people in the Visakha agency. ‘Tribal rights affected’ “The judgement is against the tribal rights and we will oppose it till the State government goes for a review and passes an ordinance rejecting the judgement,” said Killo Surendra of the Girijan Sangham. In the Visakha Agency, there were about 800 tribal schools and close to 1,400 government schools. Most of the teachers were from the tribal community and if the Supreme Court’s order was implemented, it would be disadvantageous to tribals. The order was also against the letter and spirit of the Schedule V of the Constitution,” said V.S. Krishna of the Human Rights Forum. CPI(M) State Secretariat member Ch. Narasinga Rao said that the purpose of providing 100% reservation for tribals was to improve the education system in the Schedule V areas, prevent absenteeism and provide employment to tribal youth. Araku MLA Chetti Phalguna said the matter had been brought to the notice of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and it is learnt that the government is taking steps to file a review.
10 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CUO sees 76% surge in applications, says V-C||The Central University of Odisha (CUO) has registered a new high in the number of applications for its PG programmes in the academic year 2020-21, as the number of applications rose from 8,255 last year to 14,520 registering a 76% growth over the previous year. This was announced by CUO Vice-Chancellor I. Ramabrahmam, whohoped that the best of them get selected for admission to the CUO programmes through the CUCET-2020. Mr. Ramabrahmam said that the entrance examination will be conducted in offline mode in 141 examination centres across the country. “For more details about syllabus, exam pattern and guidelines, students are informed to visitwww.cucetexam.inandwww.cuo.ac.in,” he said.
10 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. ‘surrenders’ EO of Simhachalam temple||M. Venkateswara Rao, Executive Officer of Sri Varaha Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy temple at Simhachalam, has been surrendered to the Revenue Department, his parent department, pending an inquiry into allegations of illegal quarrying of Simhachalam hill. He has been directed to report to the General Administration Department at the Secretariat in Velagapudi. Mr. Venkateswara Rao was made EO of Simhachalam temple on a deputation basis in August 2019. On May 26, this year, the Special Commissioner Endowments had requested the government to take action against the EO based on a report on allegations of illegal quarrying at Simhachalam hill, levelled against the EO. The government in its order on Tuesday surrendered Mr. Rao to his parent department. D. Bhramaramba, Regional Joint Commissioner-I, Endowments Department, Rajamahendravaram, has been given Full Additional Charge (FAC) as EO of Sri Varaha Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy temple until further orders.
10 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tobacco products seized, 5 held||Officials from the City Task Force (CTF) raided a storage point and arrested five persons from whom they recovered banned ghutkha and khaini products worth Rs. 60,000, at Malkapuram in Visakhapatnam on Tuesday. Based on credible information, the CTF team led by Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP) A. Trinad Rao conducted the raid and seized various brands of the chewing tobacco products. The case was handed over to Malkapuram police station.
10 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||With 13 new cases, tally rises to 212 in district||COVID-19 cases in the district crossed the 200-mark, as 13 new cases were reported from various areas on Tuesday, taking the tally to 212. Among the 13 cases include a former corporator from Shivajipalem area in the city. Health Department officials said that the political representative had a travel history to Guntur to attend last rites of his mother. It was also learnt that a number of leaders met him in the last couple of days. Health officials are on their toes as it took 70 days (March 19 to May 28) to reach first 100 cases, but another 100 new cases were reported in just 12 days. The number of active cases also crossed the 100-mark for the first time in the district. With the new cases, the total number of active cases in the district rose to 111. Meanwhile the number of discharges as on Tuesday stand at 100, as two patients were discharged after testing negative. It was learnt that the new cases were reported from Sujatha Nagar, Swathanthra Nagar and Pleasant valley and a few others from the rural areas. According to Special Officer, COVID-19, P.V Sudhakar, the total number of clusters in the district have increased to 55 from 52 on Tuesday.
10 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Heavy rainfall in store for coastal A.P. in next few days||The southwest monsoon further advanced into some more parts of west-central and north Bay of Bengal on Tuesday. Conditions are becoming favourable for further advance of southwest monsoon into some more parts of central Arabian Sea, Goa, some parts of Maharashtra, some parts of Karnataka and Rayalaseema, some parts of Tamil Nadu and Telangana, and coastal Andhra Pradesh in the next 48 hours, according to a press release from the Indian Meteorological Department (IMD). A low pressure area has formed over east central Bay of Bengal and neighbourhood under the influence of the cyclonic circulation over the same region, the IMD said. It is likely to move west northwestwards and become well marked during the next 48 hours, it added. Thunderstorm and lightning are likely at isolated places over north-coastal AP and Yanam. Heavy to very heavy rainfall is likely to occur at isolated places in Visakhapatnam, East Godavari districts and heavy rainfall is likely in Srikakulam, Vizianagaram and West Godavari districts of north-coastal Andhra Pradesh and Yanam and at isolated places in Krishna, Guntur, Prakasam and Nellore on June 10, 11 and 12 and at isolated places over Rayalaseema on June 10 and 11. Meanwhile, the Cyclone Warning Centre (CWC), Visakhapatnam, has warned of squally weather, with wind speed reaching 45-55 km/hr along and off coastal AP till June 12 evening. Fishermen have been asked not to venture into the sea along and off coastal A.P.
10 June 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Lokesh has no moral right to criticise CM’||Taking strong exception to the comments made by N. Lokesh on the performance of the YSRCP government,Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao on Tuesday said that TDP leader had no moral right to criticise Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy. “Mr. Lokesh who could not even win an MLA seat in the polls has no rights to comment against the YSRCP which had won with a huge majority,” he said.
10 June 2020||VIZIANAGARAM/SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||With sluggish sales, petrol pumps stare at huge losses||As many as 440 petrol bunks in the North Andhra region are incurring huge losses even after various relaxations offered to the dealers. Vehicular movement has significantly come down in spite of the graded relaxation of the nationwide lockdown. Fear of COVID-19, restrictions on inter-State movement, low economic activity, work from home options and the absence of leisure travel have had an adverse impact on fuel sales. Maintenance costs Maintenance costs are almost the same for the petrol pumps although petrol and diesel sales have plummeted. Dealers have to keep the bunks open round the clock, and pay salaries to their staff even when there are no customers. As petrol bunks fall under essential services, oil marketing companies and the government have insisted for their opening without any break. Due to this reason, the bunk owners have kept their outlets open from March 24 to June 7, at a time when the lockdown was being implemented in earnest. Vizianagaram Petroleum Dealers Association president Golugiri Nagireddy said that many bunks located in semi-urban and rural areas have been facing a severe financial crisis owing to the huge gap between the establishment’s income and expenditure. Each medium-range bunk has to sell at least 5,000 litres of diesel and 2,000 litres of petrol a day in order to be able to pay for its maintenance costs, which include staff wages and electricity bills among other overheads. Sales have dropped by almost 50% even after the relaxation in the lockdown as many bunks in rural areas are hardly selling 1,000 litres of diesel and 600 litres of petrol a day. Change in business model OMCs pay the dealers a profit margin of Rs. 2.56 on diesel and Rs. 3.38 on petrol per litre. Petrol is sold at Rs. 75.80 per litre while diesel is selling for Rs. 69.58 per litre in Srikakulam. Diesel is cheaper by Rs. 3 per litre in Odisha, which prompts many vehicle owners living close to the border to buy fuel in the neighbouring State. The variation in the prices has not helped dealers with the restricted movement of vehicles between neighbouring States. Sardar and Sirisha Petroleum Products Dealer Yarlagadda Venkanna Chowdary said that the dealers would be able to stay afloat in the future only with a change in their business model and with the effective utilisation of their premises. “Petrol bunks have to utilise their space by extending financial, banking, insurance and RTA services to generate additional income,” he said. “In the future, more competition is anticipated from bowser/mobile petrol pumps which sell fuel in all places. So, dealers have to change their business module to survive in a competitive world,” he added. Appeal to govt. The All India Petroleum Dealers Association, which is anticipating a steep financial crisis, has urged the Union Government to come out with a bailout package for dealers.
10 June 2020||June 10 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sand booking facility at village secretariats from tomorrow||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on Tuesday announced several measures aimed at easing the sand shortage in the State. “Sand booking can be done at village secretariats from June 11 (Thursday),” he said. Buffer stock Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy asked the District Collectors and the SPs to open all the sand reaches and stockpile 70 lakh tonnes of sand which could be used during the monsoon season. There is need to intensify sand mining in Srikakulam, Krishna, Guntur, Nellore and twin Godavari districts and at least 3 lakh tonnes should be extracted. “Sand mining activity should be stepped up in the districts which have more number of reaches. New reaches should also be identified,” said Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy. Referring to sand booking facility at village secretariats, he said the Joint Collectors concerned should be assigned with the responsibilities and the Collectors should supervise the transactions. “People with smaller needs can draw sand from any source within 5 km of their living. But, it should be informed to the village secretariats concerned,” he said. Bulk orders should be dealt by Joint Collectors and the SOP will come into force from June 10, he said. .
10 June 2020||June 10 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Reprieve from heat||
10 June 2020||June 10 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Water under the bridge||
10 June 2020||ADILABAD,TELANGANA||Bandh called by Adivasis partial||The State bandh called by Adivasi Hakkula Porata Samithi, also known as Tudum Debba, on Tuesday demanding that the State government file a review petition in Supreme Court on scrapping of GO Ms. 3 turned out to be partial in old united Adilabad district. Markets in Agency mandals, however, were closed completely. The Tudum Debba has been demanding a review petition as well as an ordinance to restore the provisions of the scrapped GO.
10 June 2020||ADILABAD,TELANGANA||BRF||A constable working in Ramakrishnapur police station in Mancherial district tested positive for COVID-19 on Tuesday. The constable was discharging court duties. He has been shifted to Gandhi Hospital in Hyderabad. Three of his family members have been put in home quarantine. The total number of COVID-19 cases in Mancherial district is now 37, out of which 35 are Mumbai returnee workers.
10 June 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Roads in tribal pockets get greater connectivity||Rural road connectivity, mainly in the tribal pockets of the district, is set to get a fillip following the sanction of four rural roads with a total length of 26.40 km at an estimated cost of Rs. 14.57 crore under the third phase of Pradan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana (PMGSY). Proposals for 61 rural road works covering a length of 470.96 km in the erstwhile composite Khammam district have already been submitted under the PMGSY-phase III. These proposals envisage improving rural road connectivity in Madhira, Wyra, Kothagudem, Aswaraopeta, Palair and Sattupalli constituencies, sources said. The proposed road works are intended to strengthen rural road network and improve connectivity of villages with agricultural markets, hospitals and educational institutions. As many as four proposed rural road works in Bhadradri-Kothagudem district received nod under the Centrally sponsored PMGSY-III (Batch-I) recently. A 10.90 km road from Yanambailu to Pandurangapuram covering several tribal habitations in Palvancha mandal is among the four works sanctioned over a week ago. Khammam MP Nama Nageswara Rao, floor leader of the TRS in the Lok Sabha, had submitted a series of memorandums to the Centre earlier this year seeking all-weather road connectivity to the far-flung villages and spur economic growth in the tribal heartland of Telangana.
10 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Surge in COVID cases||The number of COVID-19 cases in Telangana rose to 3,920 as 178 more samples tested positive for coronavirus on Tuesday evening. Six more COVID-19 patients died taking the toll to 148. Of the 178 new cases, 143 are from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) area, 15 from Rangareddy, 10 from Medchal, two each from Mahbubnagar, Sangareddy and Medak, one each from Jagtial, Asifabad, Sircilla, and Warangal (Rural). Of the total 3,920 cases, 2,030 are active cases, 1,742 were discharged, and 148 died. The total number of people discharged (1,742), was the same on June 7 too. Senior officials in the Telangana Health department said the 393 people sent home from Gandhi Hospital on Monday was for ‘home isolation’ and that no one was discharged. Of the new cases detected on Tuesday, eight are from Nizam’s Institute of Medical Sciences (NIMS). The institute authorities said it includes four resident doctors, one technician and three patients. NIMS Resident Doctors Association (RDA) president Dr G Srinivas said that a total of 16 resident doctors, four senior doctors and 19 nurses, para medical staff, lab technicians and others were detected with COVID-19 till date. Altogether, 49 cases were detected among healthcare professionals and staff at NIMS. Dr Srinivas said that not all healthcare professionals were provided isolation facility at the institute. He requested the State government to issue orders to isolate all healthcare professionals at NIMS.
10 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Follow Centre’s guidelines to control virus spread: Kishan||Expressing serious concern about the increase in coronavirus cases in the twin cities and across Telangana, Union Minister of State for Home Affairs G. Kishan Reddy, on Tuesday, urged Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao to meticulously follow the guidelines issued by the Union Ministry of Health & Family Welfare to control the rapid virus transmission. In a letter addressed to the CM, a copy of which was released to the media, the Union Minister stated that several citizens from the capital have been calling him regularly as they were anxious about the way COVID-19 was spreading during the last 10 days. ‘Act swiftly’ “It is the responsibility of both the State and Central governments to control the situation as expeditiously as possible. The TS government needs to act swiftly in the field by taking up testing extensively on a larger scale so that cases can be identified at an early stage because saving people’s lives is the ultimate responsibility of both the governments,” he pointed out. Mr. Reddy underscored the need to identify vulnerable sections such as children and the elderly by way of conducting proactive tests and extend medical help. “Medical infrastructure in all hospitals should be strengthened and senior doctors as well as experts in the related fields should be deployed to get necessary medical advice and take up house-to-house surveys to identify those likely to be affected,” he said. Proactive steps “All these measures should be taken up immediately in identified containment zones and proactive steps are necessary to protect the corona warriors like healthcare workers and others. Instructions should be issued to the general public to practice personal hygiene and maintain social distancing,” he added. The Union Minister assured all possible help from the Centre and urged the Chief Minister to take adequate measures to minimise the impact of COVID at the earliest by acting promptly and provide confidence to the general public.
10 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||All-party meet to oppose SCCL privatisation plans||An all-party meeting held here on Tuesday has decided to work together with the trade unions of Singareni Collieries to build pressure on the Centre against its plans of privatising public sector coal mines, thereby protecting the 79-year-old coal company in the State. The meeting attended by leaders of several Left parties, Congress, Telugu Desam Party (TDP), Telangana Jana Samithi and representatives of several trade unions sought to know why Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao, who had opposed the amendments proposed by the Centre to the Electricity Act, was keeping quiet on the issue of privatisation of coal mines in Singareni along with other public sector coal companies. They demanded that the State government, which has 51% stake in Singareni Collieries Company Ltd (SCCL), make its stand clear on the move of privatisation and suggested that the CM come forward to lead the fight against Singareni’s privatisation, which was the most profitable public sector undertaking in the State. They noted that the Centre was planning to privatise at least 11 coal blocks in Singareni. The meeting presided over by State secretary of Communist Party of India (CPI) Chada Venkat Reddy termed the Narendra Modi government’s move as a conspiracy to privatise profit-making PSUs with the excuse of coronavirus pandemic. The all-party meeting also extended support to the protest programmes of Central trade unions slated for June 10 and 11. On their part, the all-party leaders would stage protest in front of the SCCL corporate office here on June 11 and submit representations to Governor, Chief Minister as well as Chief Secretary to the government towards protecting Singareni. Mr. Venkat Reddy sought to know the rationale behind privatising Singareni which had contributed Rs. 3,650 crore revenue to the Centre, Rs. 3,400 crore to the State in the forms of different taxes and provided Rs. 2,000 crore funding to six districts over which the Singareni coal mines were spread. Besides, it had also kept Rs. 2 crore each at the disposal of every legislator in mining areas for taking up welfare measures of their choice. CLP leader M. Bhatti Vikramarka alleged that the Centre was trying to hand over the country’s economic activity to the private sector completely and it would lead to a situation where the private forces would dictate democracy.
10 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Rs. 20-lakh bill for 23-day coronavirus treatment!||Distressing tales of COVID-19 patients or suspects being charged exorbitantly by corporate hospitals have started surfacing. A 53-year-old man, who recently got admitted to a plush corporate hospital in Banjara Hills for COVID-19 treatment, was charged nearly Rs. 20 lakh for 23 days of treatment. What’s more, his medical insurance claim was approved for just around Rs. 7.5 lakh; he had to pay the remaining amount of Rs. 12 lakh from his own pocket. TN example After information about the steep charges began circulating, citizens have demanded that the State government declare a cap on the billing by corporate hospitals, just like the Tamil Nadu government has done. The fears are pronounced as officials in the Telangana Health department said that more cases are expected in coming days. This could mean more COVID-19 patients might get admitted to corporate hospitals which will necessitate a cap on charges. Though there has been confusion over whether private hospitals are allowed to treat COVID-19 patients, senior officials in the Health department clarified there was no such restriction on private hospitals. “In fact, we asked them to attend to more patients,” a senior official had earlier said. The Tamil Nadu government announced slabs on maximum daily tariff for COVID-19 treatment at private hospitals and charges based on severity of the infectious disease. Private hospitals in that State have been placed in two different categories, but irrespective of the category, ICU charges cannot exceed Rs. 15,000 a day. Need for insurance While some have insurance policies, not every one opts for it which could land one in deep financial crisis. Insurance advisor P. Ravinder Reddy says if people neither have insurance cover nor sufficient money, they might have to sell financial assets, or worse, borrow money at huge interest rate to pay the hospital bills. “This can be avoided if the government decides a slab on the hospital charges and exercises control over pricing at corporate hospitals,” Mr Reddy said, adding that people are advised to buy insurance to minimise financial stress.
10 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Kin of scribe who died of COVID allege negligence||A day after journalist D. Manoj Kumar died of COVID-19 at Gandhi Hospital, his brother has alleged that there was delay of over four hours in shifting him to Intensive Care Unit (ICU) even as he was struggling to breathe. Even after being taken into the ICU, the 33-year-old was allegedly made to wait on a wheelchair for around an hour before before being provided medical care. A screenshot of Whatsapp chat between Manoj and his brother, Sai Nath, is being widely shared on social media platforms, evoking sharp reaction from netizens. In the chat, Manoj wrote, “ICU is not good…pls will go to private hospital. Evar patichkuntaleru ikada kooda (No one is taking care here too).” Upon developing symptoms, Manoj and his brother first went to Fever Hospital, Nallakunta, on June 3 to give swab samples for testing. His brother, too, gave the samples. After both tested positive, they were admitted to the seventh floor of Gandhi Hospital at around 1 a.m. of June 4. Manoj suffered from Myasthenia Gravis, a neuromuscular disorder in which all muscles, including respiratory muscles, develop weakness. Along with the co-morbidities, he had COVID-19, bilateral pneumonia with Type-1 respiratory failure and Acute Respiratory Syndrome (ARDS). However, Mr. Sai Nath alleged that no one asked them about associated health conditions when they got admitted. Both of them were allotted the same ward. “He complained of difficulty in breathing. I went out of the ward but could not find anyone except cleaning and maintenance staff who asked me to wait inside the ward till the doctor comes. He continued to suffer in the morning also. Two doctors checked him at around 11 a.m. and left,” said Mr Sai Nath, who also released a video in which he made the allegations. As his brother struggled, Mr. Sai Nath sought the intervention of Manoj’s colleagues and friends. “A doctor instructed nurses to shift him to the ICU. But he stayed where he was for four hours. When I raised the issue, he was taken to ICU at around 4 p.m. where he was made to wait in a wheelchair for another 90 minutes or so. After I put pressure on the hospital staff, they started taking personal care of Manoj,” Mr Sai Nath said. Contacted for their version, Gandhi Hospital authorities on Tuesday afternoon said they were in a meeting. They did not respond to calls and messages thereafter. On Sunday, Hospital Superintendent M. Raja Rao said doctor teams including physicians, anaesthetists, pulmonologists and himself frequently attended Manoj, who could not be revived though they tried their level best.
10 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Enforce orders on financial aid to BPL families: HC||The Telangana High Court on Tuesday asked the State government as to why its instructions to extend Rs. 1,500 financial assistance and 12 kg rice to each of 8,35,222 people below poverty line were not complied with. Earlier, a division bench headed by Justice M.S. Ramachandra Rao directed the government to provide the financial aid and rice to those BPL families during the lockdown. The direction was given by the bench after hearing two PIL petitions. The petitioners contended that government deprived the financial aid to 8,35,222 people from BPL families (who had white ration cards) citing that they had not withdrawn rice allotted to them for three months preceding the lockdown. Not drawing rice for that long makes them ineligible for further allotment of rice. When the two pleas came up for hearing on Tuesday, the bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy wanted to know what prevented the government from implementing the clear direction issued by a coordinate bench of the HC. Advocate General B.S. Prasad told the bench that the State government had filed a SLP before the SC on the HC order. But that cannot be a ground not to enforce the HC order, the Chief Justice said observing that he had a feeling that HC directions were falling on the deaf ears of the government. The AG said that the apex court was yet to hear the matter. The government would be readily enforcing the HC order if it could not secure an order from the SC, the AG said. The CJ, however, made it clear to the AG that the government was duty-bound to follow the HC order until and unless the SC stayed it. The bench also said there was no rule which mandated that a beneficiary should be deprived of allotment of rice if he or she failed to draw it for three successive months. The pleas were posted to June 22 for next hearing.
10 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||AC coaches to have more air changes||Indian Railways running 230 special trains across the country has ensured that the air inside air-conditioned (AC) coaches is replaced 15 to 16 times every hour as against five to six changes in vogue earlier for making the journey safer and comfortable for passengers. “We did a lot of research and our medical team had suggested we change air 12 times an hour, but we decided to enhance it to 15-16 times for utmost safety, even if it means we cannot keep temperatures at 22 degree C. We are keeping the AC coaches temperatures at about 25 degree C and not supplying linen,” explained Railway Board Chairman Vinod Kumar Yadav on Tuesday. This is not the only significant change forced on the Railways following the outbreak of COVID-19. The Railway Board is seriously contemplating to totally dispense with the linen supplied to AC coaches altogether. In the place of cooked meals, pre-packed food items are being given like airlines do to passengers, on long-distance Rajdhani trains. This has gained popularity and could be continued, he said, during his exclusive interaction. The Chairman asserted that various wings did extensive trial runs and planning before launching the special trains. “We are not looking at income generation, but to give confidence to people to achieve some kind of normalcy. These operations may continue for six months as people are apprehensive about travel. We are also advising against unnecessary travel as these trains are meant for those stranded in other places, for economic activity, for emergency travel and for migrant labour returning,” he explained. Mr. Yadav revealed that just 40-50 trains are running full and most are having low occupancy, but the railways will continue to run these services allowing 120 days advance reservation. Operations could be ramped up wherever a rise in demand is noticed on a particular route. “It was a conscious decision to connect high-density traffic routes but we had to change schedules and halts at last minute to accommodate requests of Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Jharkhand and Kerala,” he said. Shatabdi Trains running for 500-600 km too may be operated in the coming days. “Travel is safe provided precautions like usage of face masks, sanitisers and personal hygiene is maintained,” said the Chairman.
10 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||GHMC keeps details under wraps||Ill-advised confidentiality beyond reasonable extent mars transparency in sharing the COVID-19 data pertaining to the city. Contrary to this, all other metropolitan cities have dedicated pages on their web portals for sharing the information. Barring a bulletin issued by the Telangana Medical & Health department on daily basis about the number of cases reported each day, any other information about COVID-19, especially containment zones, is strictly under wraps. All top officials, right from the Principal Secretary to the GHMC Commissioner, are tight-lipped about the areas barricaded as containment zones, saying they have instructions from the government not to reveal the details. According to the data last obtained on June 6 through unofficial sources, there are a total of 159 containment zones in the city, with the highest in Khairatabad zone at 35. Secunderabad had 33 zones, Charminar 28 and L.B.Nagar, 21. They all are said to be only one house or building shut off to public, while there are several other containment zones with multiple residences where the number of cases is high and from different households. However, no official confirmation could be received for the data. The purpose of declaring an area or a building a containment zone is to keep public away from it, and to ensure that the persons from the infected area do not venture out, so as to keep the COVID-19 spread at bay. Admitting that the purpose stands defeated when the information is not shared on public platform, officials still say they do not have government’s nod. With respect to other cities, information about containment zones is shared and updated without any restrictions on the corresponding municipal corporation websites. Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation’s website has a dedicated icon on its home page, which leads to a treasure of information. Apart from day-wise Twitter updates starting March 13, the website also has consolidated data sheets and a map of Mumbai with containment zones marked. Greater Chennai Municipal Corporation too has a dedicated page on its website opening on a button click from home page, which contains all COVID-related information and services. Donations are received, volunteers are enlisted, and passes and relief are applied for through this page, among many other services. A complete list of containment zones, both in text and map views, is available here.  GHMC’s web portal, on the other hand, stands out by absence of the word ‘COVID-19’ anywhere on it. Let alone dedicated COVID-19 information, the online platform does not even display the emergency number to contact in case anybody has symptoms of the infection.
10 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||COVID patient’s attendants assault medico at Gandhi||Around 300 junior doctors at Gandhi Hospital boycotted COVID duties after a third-year post-graduate who declared death of a COVID-19 patient at the hospital was allegedly attacked by the patient’s attendants on Tuesday evening. A similar incident had occurred in April. Attendants of a COVID patient attacked another junior doctor after the patient died. The alleged attackers, too, had coronavirus. Post-graduate medical students and House Surgeons (MBBS interns) come under the umbrella term of junior doctors. Telangana Junior Doctors Association (TJUDA), Gandhi Hospital unit president Lohit Reddy said the PG student Vikas was attending a 55-year-old patient admitted to Acute Medical Care ward three days ago and suffered from mild respiratory failure and was supported by CPAP (medical device). “Though poor prognosis was explained, the patient went to washroom removing CPAP mask where he had cardiac arrest. He died at around 7.30 p.m., ” Dr Lohit said. The patient’s attendants were informed of the critical health condition and two of them were allowed into hospital. When Dr Vikas declared the death, the two attendants allegedly attacked the junior doctor. It remained unclear whether there was any argument before the assault. “The patient attendants attacked the PG with plastic chair which was broken. They took iron stool and hit him again. In defence, he moved away but the iron stool struck his hip. There were other doctors, house surgeons and five nurses. Chairs were thrown at the other staff,” Dr Lohit alleged. TJUDA members demanded Special Protection Force (SPF) at all emergency section as assured earlier by the government. They also demanded to decentralise COVID-19 cases, from Gandhi Hospital to other hospitals.
10 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Degree exam schedule not announced yet, but students asked to pay fee||Degree colleges are objecting to collection of examination fee by Osmania University even as colleges are closed and students have been away for long. The managements are agitated as the university has fixed June 10 as the last date for fee payment and warned of hefty penalty thereafter. “How can the managements force students to pay when they are away,” asks Byreddy Lakshma Reddy, president of Association for Strengthening of Private Initiative in Rural Education (ASPIRE). “It is unfair to fix the colleges for non-payment of fee by students when there is no clarity on the reopening and conduct of examinations,” he says. Several private college managements are expressing similar views saying there are several practical issues, which the university is not willing to consider. “They have sent a circular saying exams will be held from June 20. But till now there is no schedule and students are not informed,” says the principal of a private college. Moreover, the varsity has asked for exam fee from first and second year students although colleges may not open any time soon. “Even the Telangana State Council for Higher Education has said their focus is on finishing the exams for final year students while first and second year students can wait,” says the principal of another college. While private colleges can somehow reach out their students and convince them to pay online, government colleges are facing a dilemma as most students have gone to their hometowns and are difficult to reach now. “There are several issues with e-payments for them,” says a government college lecturer. Complaints over technical issues like rejection of fee from students’ end and payment platforms are also haunting them. “Given these circumstances, OU should extend the date for students and managements,” the colleges demand.
10 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Four arrested on charge of selling spurious seed||The Rachakonda police on Tuesday apprehended four persons on the charge of selling spurious seed to farmers, and seized from their possession 2.8 tonnes of seed, processing and packaging equipment, all worth an estimated Rs. 50 lakh. The accused who were arrested were Chinthala Venkateshwarlu, Putta Venkata Ramana, Nomula Venkanna, and Vagalagaani Ashok. Pathlavath Krishna Naik, another accused, was absconding. According to police, Venkateshwarlu, hailing from Kothpet in Kurnool district, had moved to Hyderabad a decade ago and worked as cable operator. He was said to be a friend of the other accused Krishna Naik and Ramana, both of whom were in the seed business. The trio allegedly hatched a plan, with Venkateshwarlu managing the operations, to sell spurious seed to farmers and make a quick buck. They then allegedly began to mix spurious seed with seed chemical and began to pack them in covers of existing brands and sold them to unsuspecting farmers at lower prices. Venkateshwarlu leased a godown in Brahmanapally with the help of Venkanna and Ashok, a marketing professional. Police said that the accused did not have a licence under Seed Act 1966 to manufacture or sell cotton seed. Acting on information, the L B Nagar Special Operations Team, Hayathnagar police and officials of the agriculture department raided the godown and apprehended the accused. A cheating case was booked against them. Sections of the Seed Act 1966 too were invoked.
10 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Police crack daylight murder case||The South Zone Task Force personnel cracked the case of a youth who was murdered in broad daylight on June 5, and apprehended four persons who are the victim’s half-brothers. The accused persons were identified as Mohammed Mehtab Khan (25), Mohammed Taleb Khan (28), Mohd Arbaz Khan (19), and Mohammed Amir (19). A fifth accused, Mohd Ghouse Khan, is absconding. ‘Nursed grudge’ According to police, Mohammed Ghalib Khan, now deceased, had two wives – Habeebunnisa and Rukhsana. While the former’s children are residents of Chandranagar in Yakutpura, the latter’s stay in Murtuza Nagar, also in Yakutpura. Police said that after Ghalib’s death, Habeebunnisa’s elder son was given a government job on compassionate grounds. It was due to this that the accused, who are Rukhsana’s sons, allegedly nursed a grudge. They then allegedly decided to murder one of her sons. The accused persons allegedly waited for a chance and attacked Mohd Imran Khan, who is Habeebunnisa’s second son. They allegedly attacked him with knives on Jaffar Road, when he went out to recharge his mobile, and fled the scene, the police said. Based on information, the Task Force personnel apprehended the accused persons. They also seized three knives and two two-wheelers from their possession.
10 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Govt. charged with failing to curb COVID||Telangana Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), on Tuesday, has accused the government of “totally failing to control and contain the spread of coronavirus” in the twin cities and across the State in the wake of spike in cases and deaths. “People have lost faith in this government especially after 70 government doctors had tested positive. If this is the plight of frontline healthcare personnel, we can imagine the common man’s condition,” said party president Bandi Sanjay. Addressing the media through digital mode from the party office, he demanded that the government explain why so many doctors had tested positive and claimed that the junior doctors and interns are being made to treat patients without any protective equipment like kits, masks or sanitisers. “What is the point of restricting PPE kits to those treating ICU patients alone? It should be made available to doctors and paramedical staff in all wards. Testing should be taken up extensively for all doctors and medical staff and they should be provided with alternate accommodation because of the danger of their families being infected,” he said. The BJP leader questioned the government’s adamant stance in not taking up testing in large scale when other States were doing it. “If tests are increased, people can seek medical help as soon as they are tested positive,” he observed.
10 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||HC dismisses PIL plea for total lockdown||Telangana High Court on Tuesday dismissed a PIL plea filed by human rights activist Sunitha Krishnan seeking direction to State government for complete lockdown till July 15 in the backdrop of alarming rise in COVID-19 cases. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy, after hearing the petitioner’s contentions, said lifting the lockdown was a policy decision of the government. There was little scope for the courts to interfere in the matter, the bench said. A Padmasree awardee, Ms. Krishnan of Prajwala Homes said in the petition that completely lifting the lockdown even as COVID-19 cases shoot up was against the constitutional provisions. Opening up religious places was likely to result in further spread of the virus. She said that complete lockdown till July 15 was a better option and it would be better to handover implementation of the lockdown to para-military forces while making available essential services. Religious places should be opened only after July 15 after reviewing the situation then, she contended. ‘Misplaced contentions’ The bench said the petitioner’s contentions were misplaced as no one was compelling people to visit religious places with the virus still spreading. It would be better for people to stay indoors if they want to be safe. It referred to the observations made by World Health Organisation that spurt in COVID-19 cases would be unavoidable once the lockdown is lifted. The bench also said that Telangana was not the only State in the country to lift the lockdown. Majority of the States had already taken a decision to lift the restrictions in a phased manner while some had completely lifted it. “We cannot be indoors for eternity,” the bench remarked,
10 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||8 IAS trainee officers attached to Secretariat||Eight IAS officers of 2018 batch of Telangana cadre, after the completion of their 50-week district attachment as assistant collectors (under training) in their respective districts, have been attached to the Telangana Secretariat for two weeks (from June 9 to 20). Each IAS trainee has been allotted to the following departments: Education, Health, Medical & Health Family Welfare, Irrigation & Command Area Development, Finance, Municipal Administration and Urban Development, Industries & Commerce, Agriculture, Panchayat Raj & Rural Development. The Secretariat attachment was preceded by a de-briefing session on District Attachment at the MCR HRD Institute on Monday. After the completion of the Secretariat attachment, the IAS trainees will report to Lal Bahadur Shastri National Academy of Administration in Mussoorie on July 6 to undergo Phase-II of their professional training. All the eight IAS officers are from the engineering stream, including IAS-2017 topper Anudeep Durishetty. Among the eight, three are natives of Telangana, two each from Bihar and Maharashtra and one is from AP. These officers include Koya Sree Harsha (Telangana), Abhilasha Abhinav (Bihar), Kumar Deepak (Bihar), Bhorkhade Hemant Sahadeorao (Maharashtra), Tejas Nandlal Pawar (Maharashtra), Adarsh Surabhi (Telangana) and Budumajji Satya Prasad (Andhra Pradesh). Director General of the Institute and Special Chief Secretary to government B.P. Acharya said that the objective of the Secretariat attachment was to enable the trainees get an exposure to the working dynamics of the State government at the headquarters level. Additional directors general Harpreet Singh and Benhur Mahesh Dutt Ekka attended the session.
10 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||GO permitting film shoots issued||The government on Tuesday issued orders relaxing the lockdown guidelines and permitting shooting of films and television shows by adhering to the standard operating procedures for post-production services during COVID-19 pandemic. Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar in the Government Order said the post-production of films for which shooting process was completed would be allowed with immediate effect. Shooting for all films and TV shows which were already half-way through but stalled due to lockdown could be resumed. However, cinema halls would continue to remain closed till further orders, the Government Order said.The government also issued detailed guidelines and protocol to be followed for post-production activities like editing, dubbing, sound mix, visual effects, computer graphics, colour correction /digital intermediate and all other post-production works, script sessions/production planning. All these activities should be standalone by not exceeding 10 persons at any point of time. Social distancing norms, mandatory thermal screening of every one entering and exiting the studio/office premises for checking body temperature and fever, provision of sanitisers, water and soap, wearing face mask, disinfecting all work areas including canteens, pathways on a daily basis, total ban on non-essential visitors, display of a list of identified authorised hospitals and clinics to treat COVID-19 patients at work places among other things were enlisted in the SOP to be followed strictly. Large gatherings and meetings should be avoided, the GO added.
10 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Two IPS probationers at NPA test positive||Two Indian Police Service (IPS) probationers at Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel National Police Academy, Hyderabad, tested positive for COVID-19 on Tuesday. As they were asymptomatic, the administration has quarantined them at their hostel accommodation on the campus. The two are among 137 probationers of 71 Regular Recruit (RR) 2018 batch, which returned to the academy after 28 weeks of District Practical Training (DPT) for the Phase II of their training. Between June 5 and June 7, the probationers, who were stranded in their allotted cadres after completion of DPT, reported at the academy for further training of three months. “We collected their swab samples and according to the test results received so far, two of them tested positive. They had very mild symptoms,” a highly placed source in the academy told The Hindu . The duo were frontline warriors during their district training in New Delhi and Bathinda in Punjab, the officer said. One of the two positive tested cadets was attached to New Delhi DCP (North) Monika Bhardwaj who also turned out to be coronavirus-positive a few days ago. As soon as the news broke, it created panic among the cadets of both the 2018 and 2019 batch undergoing training at the premier police school here.
10 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||17 palliative care services vehicles rolled out||Health Minister Eatala Rajender flagged off 17 more Palliative Care Services vehicles at the State Health campus, Koti, on Tuesday. The palliative health and home care services are provided by the Health department to enhance the quality of life at the end of life stage to patients suffering from cancer, organ failure, etc. Medical and healthcare providers attend problems experienced by the elderly or terminally ill patients. The problems attended includes pain control, symptom management, physiotherapy services, infection management, etc. A total of 19,479 patients in nine districts were provided the service till Monday — Hyderabad, Adilabad, Yadadri-Bhuvanagiri, Khammam, Siddipet, Jangaon, Warangal Urban, Rangareddy and Mahabubnagar. Now it is expanded to 17 more districts.
10 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Woman ‘kills’ husband over pension||A senior citizen was allegedly murdered by his wife on Tuesday due to differences over pension. According to Rachakonda police, the victim is Mandula Narasaiah (65). The incident took place in Addagudur around 3.30 pm. The victim’s wife, Mandula Lachamma (60), pushed him against a wooden plank, used to dress meat, soon after a quarrel over money broke out between them. The victim sustained head injuries and succumbed later. A case was booked against Lachamma under Section 304 (II) of the Indian Penal Code.
10 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Man ‘murders’ wife, father-in-law||A man, Kaleem, on Tuesday allegedly murdered his wife, Haji Begum, and father-in-law, Gaffar, a registered medical practitioner, in Balampet in Vikarabad district. The couple were said to have a strained relationship. To protect his daughter from harassment, Gaffar asked her, and Kaleem to live with him in his house, to which Kaleem agreed. On Tuesday, Kaleem asked Haji Begum to come with him to Champapet, which proposal she rejected. The accused then allegedly stabbed her and chased Gaffar and stabbed him too. Kaleem was arrested.
10 June 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘KCR cannot threaten ryots’||Congress Legislature Party (CLP) leader Mallu Bhatti Vikramarka has asked Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao not to take ‘unilateral decisions’ on his new proposal of regulated farming and consult the stakeholders, including farmers’ associations and political parties. “Such a crucial policy decision cannot be taken sitting in Pragathi Bhavan or his farm house and threatening farmers with denial of Rythu Bandhu will not be accepted,” he said while speaking at a press conference here along with Manthani MLA D. Sridhar Babu. “Neither the CM nor ministers or even officials are available for farmers to represent their views,” he said. He also accused government of fleecing people with inflated power bills.
10 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||TS to seek review of SC order on ST teachers’ quota||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has announced that a review petition will be filed against the Supreme Court order striking down the GO No.3/2000 reserving 100% teacher posts to the local tribals in the Agency areas. He instructed the officials to examine the constitutional and legal aspects and file a review petition immediately in the Supreme Court. Government Whip Rega Kantha Rao and MLA Atram Sakku met the Chief Minister here on Tuesday and submitted a representation that the Supreme Court judgment would result in injustice to the local tribals and that the government should take up a legal battle. Government previously issued orders providing 100% reservation to local tribals in areas under the Fifth Schedule of the Constitution in teacher posts of local schools. Some people went to court against the GO and finally the SC struck down the GO. Positively responding to the representation of ruling party MLAs, Mr. Chandrasekhar Rao instructed the officials to file a review petition. The Constitution itself provided special rights to the STs and State government would back the STs in protecting their rights, he said.
10 June 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Subordinate courts to reopen in phased manner||A Full Bench of Telangana High Court on Tuesday extended all the stay orders issued by the HC, the District and the Subordinate courts till July 15. Earlier, the Full Bench of the HC on March 27 extended all the stay orders of all the courts following the lockdown imposed due to coronavirus. Despite over two months of lockdown and relaxation of restraints to some extent, the courts could not function at full throttle. Many parties have brought to the notice of the HC that the undertakings they had given could not be implemented due to continuation of lockdown. Hence, it was decided that undertakings given before the courts are also extended till July 15. The HC had also issued Standard Operating Procedures for reopening the district, the subordinate and other courts in phased manner.  Reopening of subordinate courts Phase-I June 15 to 30 Phase-II July 1 to 15 Phase-III July 16 to August 7 Phase-IV August 8 onwards
10 June 2020||KARIMNAGAR,TELANGANA||Rs. 600 cr. for Smart City works||Karimnagar Smart City project works got further boost with the administration sanctioning works to the tune of over Rs. 600 crore during the year 2020-2021. Already, Smart City road works, beautification of Housing Board colony and Ambedkar stadium, construction of parks at the Arts College grounds etc are progressing at a steady pace. Disclosing this to newsmen here on Tuesday, Minister for BC Welfare and Civil Supplies Gangula Kamalakar said a state-of-the-art traffic island would be developed at Alugunur crossroads. In order to provide lung space for people of the town, the shores of LMD reservoir extending to 4.5 km will be lined with plantations, walking track, fountains. As part of e-learning and Smart Classroom programme, all the government schools will be computerised at a cost of Rs. 11.3 crore.
10 June 2020||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Youth arrested for harassing women online||The SHE team police of Nalgonda on Tuesday arrested Parsa Akhil alias Chandu (28), who had been allegedly gathering phone numbers of young women, making video calls in the nude and used the content to solicit sex under the threat of posting it on social media. His latest victim, a home nurse, reported her ordeal to the local SHE team here, which led to his arrest. Superintendent of Police A.V Ranganath, who briefed the press, said interrogation revealed that there were some 30 such victims spread in Jangaon, Khammam, Hyderabad and Secunderabad. Akhil, collected the phone numbers of nurses and their female friends while working as a ward boy at a home care centre in Secunderabad. He used to chat with women on WhatsApp, and offering surprises, would make video calls in the nude. Then threats to post the chats, videos and victims’ numbers on obscene sites started. Police said that he was a repeat offender.
10 June 2020||GURUGRAM,||OPDs operating in tents, under trees in Gurugram hospital||While the maximum temperatures in the city hovers around 45° Celsius, the Outdoor Patient Department services for flu patients at the Civil Hospital in Sector 10 here are being carried out under trees inside the campus because of heavy rush and in an effort to comply with social distancing norms. While two sets of flu OPDs run from inside tents, another OPD service runs from under a grove with the tables and chairs laid out on the road inside the campus. Yet another set of doctors sits at the entry to Gate No.2 of the hospital running a medicine OPD service for COVID-19 suspects. Not willing to be named, a woman doctor, said she felt disoriented working for long hours in the open. “Four OPDs are run for the flu patients out in the open with each catering to around 300 patients on average. Though coolers have been arranged for the doctors running the OPD services, it is still very difficult to sit in the open with the temperatures being extremely high and the sun moving,” said the doctor. Another doctor said they had the choice to sit indoors, but it was a unanimous decision to run the OPD services from outside to maintain safe distance. “The patients need to stand in queues or sit close to each other indoors, making it difficult to maintain safe distance. Also, when they enter the room they cannot keep the mandatory distance from the doctor. We have tied ropes around the trees to ensure safe distance between them and us. It is safe for both,” said the doctor. Headded the administration should make better arrangements for them and the patients. Ram Prakash, who accompanied his wife, said she had COVID-19 like symptoms and they had come for her examination but they had been waiting for their for almost an hour. “Though doctors are sitting in front of the coolers, the patients are left to fend for themselves in extreme heat,” said Ram Prakash, an autorickshaw driver.
10 June 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi belongs to all, Baijal tells Sisodia at meeting on COVID-19||It is the responsibility of the State to provide universal healthcare to all patients coming to hospitals in accordance with constitutional provisions, Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal told Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia at a meeting of the Delhi Disaster Management Authority on Tuesday. Raj Niwas stated that Mr. Baijal then added: “We are all Indians and Delhi belongs to all.” Mr. Baijal, chaired the meeting of DDMA with Mr. Sisodia, Health Minister Satyendar Jain and senior Delhi government officials. Later in the day, the L-G called an all-party meeting, which as per a tweet by Mr. Baijal was “held in a constructive atmosphere where many constructive suggestions were made”. After Mr. Sisodia told reporters that Mr. Baijal had said he had “no idea now” on how to arrange 80,000 beds for treatment of Delhi residents and outsiders — in relation to the reversal of the Delhi government’s order to reserve city hospitals for “bona fide” residents, the L-G’s office issued a statement. “In the meeting, it was clarified… that the L-G had reversed the order of the Delhi government as it violated the constitutional rights of Equality and Right to Life, which include Right to Health. A similar directive by the Delhi government was stuck down by the High Court,” Raj Niwas stated. “A committee under the chairmanship of the Divisional Commissioner has been constituted to explore the possibility of creation of additional bed capacity. It has suggested Pragati Maidan, Talkatora Indoor stadium, Thyagaraj Indoor stadium, Indira Gandhi Indoor stadium, Jawaharlal Nehru Stadium, Dhyanchand National Stadium etc. to be used as makeshift hospitals,” the statement read. It added that the L-G directed the authorities to have “realistic projections” of requirement of physical infrastructure and human resources as the city ramps up medical capacity. In the meeting, the Health Department said that as of June 8 the case fatality rate is 2.92% as compared to the national average of 2.81%. Meanwhile, recovery rate is 38%, doubling of cases stands at 12.6 days; and tests per million is 13,543 as compared to the national average of 3,531. The L-G was also told that there are 8,821 hospital beds, 582 ICU beds, 468 ventilators beds and 3,590 oxygen-supported beds in dedicated COVID hospitals. IAS officers have been posted as administrative officers at the hospitals and that bed capacity is being increased by attaching hotels. Mr. Baijal also directed all stakeholders to formulate containment zone strategies as per ICMR guidelines and instructed field officials to delineate sealed areas properly to ensure their effective management to contain the spread of infection in addition to taking lessons of best practices from other cities.
10 June 2020||New Delhi,||Over 2K more beds in private hospitals||The Delhi government on Tuesday allocated 2,015 more beds in 22 private hospitals for COVID-19 treatment. The number of beds in these hospitals has gone up from 1,441 to 3,256.    The Delhi government also noted that beneficiaries of the Delhi Government Employees Health Scheme (DGEHS) were being asked to deposit a “hefty amount” prior to admission for COVID-19 treatment.  In an order, the government directed empanelled hospitals to adhere to DGEHS-approved rates and cashless treatment to pensioners, for all ailments, including COVID-19. Official infected A senior official of the Health Department has tested positive for the virus, according to official sources. In a related development, the Delhi Medical Association (DMA) said in a statement that they met Health Minister Satyendar Jain on the issue of nursing homes getting repeated letters from the government for renewal of registration and added that the Minister promised to issue an order to extend the registration till December 31. CM tests negative Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal, who has been suffering from fever and sore throat, was tested negative for COVID-19 on Tuesday evening, said AAP sources. Mr. Kejriwal’s sample was collected for the test on Tuesday morning and the result came out in the evening. He had developed a fever and sore throat on Sunday and had not been meeting people since then and was under home isolation. “His fever has reduced from last night, but he still has a cough,” the AAP source added.
10 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Congress leader urges NHRC to intervene in Delhi ‘health crisis’||Senior Congress leader Ajay Maken on Tuesday wrote to the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) urging its intervention to “protect public life in Delhi in view of the unprecedented health and governance crisis”. Mr. Maken said hospitals are turning away patients despite the Capital having 57,194 beds. He added that the ignorance of the Delhi government towards medical facilities during the current crisis has put the Right to Life of citizens in grave danger and it was necessary for the NHRC to step in. “It is extremely painful to see that only 12% of Delhi government, 8% of Central government and 7% of private hospital beds are presently occupied and used to treat COVID-19 patients,” he said. Mr. Maken added that in the Delhi government’s case, around 70% of dedicated beds are vacant. The former Union Minister used the data on bed capacity in Delhi according to the Economic Survey 2018-19 and compared them to the figures on the ‘Delhi Corona’ app to arrive at the numbers. Mr. Maken requested the NHRC to issue appropriate directions to the Delhi government to ensure that COVID-19 patients must be given admission. “At least 70% of the bed capacity should be prepared and reserved for COVID-19 patients,” he said, adding that only five of a total of 38 hospitals under the Delhi government were designated COVID-19 hospitals. ‘Tests have reduced’ The letter also highlighted that the total number of tests being conducted on a daily basis had fallen by half and has been at its lowest since May 15, “at a time when tests needed to be conducted on a war-footing”. “The positive test ratio in Delhi has jumped to 27 per 100 tests and the recovery rate is the lowest in the country,” Mr. Maken said.
10 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Police withdraw personnel deployed at private hospitals||After a steep surge in COVID-19 cases among police personnel, the Delhi Police has decided to withdraw officers deployed at private hospitals and quarantine centres, a senior officer said on Tuesday. The officer said that around 1,000 personnel have been infected till date and four have died due to COVID-19. “It was found that policemen deployed at containment area, quarantine centres, and outside private hospitals have higher chances of getting infected. After a detailed study, we have decided to withdraw forces from these locations or deploy minimum required force,” he added.  Officers die The order came on a day when a 59-year-old Delhi Police officer died of COVID-19 at Base Hospital. A senior police officer said that Sub Inspector Karambeer Singh was posted in the North East district and was a driver for the Seelampur Assistant Commissioner of Police. The police said that Mr. Singh was diabetic and was on ventilator support for the last five days. He is survived by his wife, daughter (23) and son (26). In another development, Head Constable Ajay Kumar (50), a resident of Ghaziabad, passed away at Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital late Monday. His COVID-19 report is awaited, however, he had developed symptoms four days ago. In May, three Delhi Police officials posted in the Crime Branch died of COVID-19. On June 3, Constable Rahul, who was posted in North East district and had been undergoing treatment for tuberculosis for six months, passed away. He also tested positive for COVID-19. Meanwhile, all SHOs and DCPs have been instructed to keep watch on restaurants and religious places to make sure no mass gatherings take place.
10 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||My family and I are infected, scribe pleads for help||A journalist with an application-based news channel whose entire family, including himself, has tested positive for COVID-19 criticised the healthcare system in a video which surfaced on social media on Tuesday. The journalist’s video was shared by former Congress president Rahul Gandhi after which help poured in from all corners. In the video, Ajay Jha, a resident of north-west Delhi’s Outram Lines who works with Go News , said that he, his wife, and two minor daughters aged 9 and 5, are infected; and that his mother-in-law and father-in-law died within a span of 10 days. Sharing the ordeal he faced after his mother-in-law’s death two days ago, he said: “ Bohot der tak body yahan rakhi rahi, ambulance aaya vo le nahi gaya, aapas main sab ek doosre ke upar zimmedaari daal rahe hain [The body stayed in our house for hours, an ambulance came but didn’t take away the body, everyone is putting the onus on someone else]”. “[Arvind] Kejriwal and the [Delhi] government is claiming that everything is being provided, but in reality, everyone is on their own,” he said, adding that he and his family are in trouble and need help. Mr. Jha’s colleague and editor-in-chief of Go News Pankaj Pachauri told The Hindu that Mr. Jha’s father-in-law died of a heart ailment and mother-in-law of a kidney ailment. Mr. Pachauri said that he and his office are in touch with Mr. Jha and have been providing them help. “He informed me about his positive report on June 3. The office helped him financially. Also, because he and his family are asymptomatic, they don’t wish to be admitted in a hospital. However, our health correspondent has been in touch with Ajay and has helped him with information,” Mr. Pachauri said. After the video was shared online, the office of Delhi Health Minister Satyendra Jain and Union Health Minister Dr. Harsh Vardhan have reached out to him. It has been learnt that regular medical check-up will be done at his residence. Several journalists also pooled in resources to help Mr. Jha.  “The Delhi government is claiming that everything is being provided, but in reality, everyone is on their own  Ajay Jha  Journalist
10 June 2020||New Delhi,||‘List steps taken to deal with quakes’||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday asked the AAP government and civic authorities about the steps taken or proposed to be taken to ensure safety of people in the event of a major earthquake. An HC Bench asked the Delhi government, the municipal corporation, Cantonment Board, DDA and New Delhi Municipal Council to file affidavits before June 15. The court’s direction came on an application moved by advocates claiming that the authorities have not done anything despite several directions.
10 June 2020||New Delhi,||‘Delhi govt. has failed to conduct tests’||The Opposition BJP demanded immediate action in regard to the Capital’s healthcare system and submitted a memorandum to L-G Anil Baijal on the prevailing pandemic. Delhi BJP president Adesh Kumar Gupta and Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri stated in the memorandum that COVID-19 was spreading rapidly in the city and, so far, more than 29,000 people had been infected, including many health and police personnel. “Experts are predicting that the number of COVID-19-infected patients will reach 1 lakh and can reach 5.5 lakh by July 31, 2020. If this happens, Delhi's creaking health services will collapse. In such a situation, there is a need to improve health services, only then the fight against COVID-19 is possible,” it stated. “We request that in view of the well-being of the people of Delhi, you should direct the Delhi government to improve health services. The BJP is ready to give its full support,” it also stated. The Centre and experts were of the opinion that testing was the biggest weapon to stop the virus from spreading, but, the Opposition leaders alleged, the Delhi government had “failed” on this front, the memorandum said.
10 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Provide relief to patients: Cong. to govt.||Delhi Congress chief Ch. Anil Kumar on Tuesday demanded that a cash transfer of Rs. 10,000 be immediately made to the accounts of every COVID-19-affected family in Delhi to help them survive the financial and health crisis. He also suggested that the same financial assistance be extended to all such families living in containment zones as they are also going through severe financial crisis. “Mr. Kejriwal raked up the “Outsiders vs Delhiites” issue, advocating that only the people of Delhi be given admissions in city hospitals, only to fool the people of Delhi,” Mr. Kumar said. He added that Delhi has been testing fewer people every day, which is a very dangerous situation.
10 June 2020||BERHAMPUR,||Few takers for trains in Odisha||Threat of COVID-19 is discouraging people from taking intra-State train journeys within Odisha. Only 28 passengers got down at the Berhampur railway station from the Bhubaneswar-Berhampur-Bhubaneswar special train on Monday night. Ninety-seven out of a total of 107 persons who had booked tickets boarded the train at Berhampur station on Tuesday morning on its return journey. The train compartments had around 650 seats. After disruption of services since the lockdown, it was the first passenger train to travel from Berhampur to Bhubaneswar. The passengers had been advised to reach Berhampur station 90 minutes before start of the train. All passengers had to undergo thermal screening before entering the railway station. Intra-State train services resumed in Odisha from Monday, with six special trains connecting Bhubaneswar with Berhampur, Sambalpur, Rourkela, Bhadrak, Koraput, Bolangiri. According to East Coast Railway (ECoR) sources, these six trains will run as special trains between June 8 and July 1. According to railway sources, passenger strength in all the six trains was low. Highest number of passengers — 150 to 200 — travelled in the trains between Bhubaneswar and Sambalpur, Bolangir or Rourkela as well as their return journeys. Railway officials expect the number of passengers to rise in the coming days.
10 June 2020||Bhopal,||Police to probe man’s ‘thrashing’ in custody||The Vidisha police have divested a sub-inspector of important duties and launched an inquiry into the alleged thrashing of a man, a suspect in a kidnapping case, by personnel at a police station on June 4. “We are totally against such behaviour,” said Vinayak Verma, district Superintendent of Police. The Additional Superintendent will conduct the inquiry and submit a report within a week. “It is yet to be established whether the man was present at the Sironj police station when the alleged incident took place.” The reported victim, Santosh Vanshkar, a labourer, was named by a family in a police complaint regarding their missing daughter. Based on this, a case was registered, said Rajesh Sinha, in charge of the police station. “Later Mr. Vanshkar complained to the police about the reported thrashing, based on which the officer has been line-attached,” he said. Meanwhile, the M.P. Human Rights Commission took suo motu cognisance of the incident on June 8 and directed Mr. Verma to submit a report by June 10. Referring to news reports, the Commission said, “The police thrashed him with belts and pipes so severely that even now parts of his body are sore and two fingers are broken.” The Commission has asked the police if Mr. Vanshkar was called to the Sironj police station on June 4 and kept inside a lock-up on the intervening night of June 4 and 5. It has also asked the crime for which a case was registered against him.
10 June 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||12 firefighters from Odisha test positive||Disaster response personnel, who were deployed in cyclone-hit West Bengal for rescue and restoration works, continued to test positive for COVID-19 with 12 men from Odisha Fire Service found infected by the novel coronavirus on Tuesday. This information came after 49 personnel of the third battalion of the National Disaster Response Force based at Mundali in Cuttack district were tested positive on Monday evening. “Twelve of our firefighters who returned from Kolkata tested positive for COVID-19. The State government has ensured the best possible medical care,” tweeted Satyajit Mohanty, Director General of Fire Service, while wishing the men fast recovery.
10 June 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Haryana excise, taxation revenue down by 24%||Facing revenue losses in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic and the lockdown, Haryana’s excise and taxation revenue collection between April and June first week has been around Rs. 4,881 crore, down by 24% against the corresponding period of last year. The government data shows the net revenue collection from various sources under the excise and taxation between April 1, 2019 – June 7, 2019 was Rs. 6432.30 crore, which in year 2020 (April 1-June 7) has been Rs. 4881.37 crore, down by 24.11%. The State collected Rs. 804.03 crore under Value Added Tax (VAT) plus Central Sales Tax (CST), which was Rs. 1,438.90 crore in 2019 (-44.12%). The net State Goods and Services Tax (SGST) collection in year 2020 is Rs. 1,278.74 against last year’s Rs. 3,277.92 crore (-60.99%). The collection under SGST compensation is Rs. 1,849.11 crore this year. To make up for the losses incurred during the lockdown, the State government on May 5 decided to impose a variable ‘covid cess’ on liquor. “We are expecting between Rs. 32 crore and Rs. 35 crore from ‘covid cess’ on liquor sales,” said an official.
10 June 2020||GUWAHATI,||Assam govt. slammed for decision on schools||The Communist Party of India (Marxist) and the Students’ Federation of India have slammed the Assam government’s decision to shut down 17 schools that recorded zero pass percentage in this year’s Class X exams announced on June 6. A total of 3,42,224 students had appeared for the exams, 2,21,756 of whom had cleared. A total of 6,513 students did not turn up for the exams while 161 were expelled for cheating. “A total of 17 schools have zero pass percentage this year. So, the government has decided to close down the schools,” Assam Education Minister Himanta Biswa Sarma had said on Sunday. “Instead of focussing on improving the infrastructure of such schools and posting adequate teachers, such a move will affect the already-weakened education system,” said CPI(M) State secretary Deben Bhattacharya. He added the government had in 2018 closed down 217 schools for lack of students, while 2,600 others were merged with neighbouring schools. “The decision to regularise 46,000 teachers appointed through teacher eligibility test is appreciable. But there are some 40,000 more TET-passed people who are yet to be appointed. Moreover, 22,000 teachers are affected as their venture schools are yet to be provincialised,” SFI’s general secretary Nirankush Nath said. Venture educational institutions are set up by local communities and many of them have been recognised by the State government.
10 June 2020||JAIPUR,||Rajasthan plans special drive on COVID-19||A 10-day-long special campaign will be launched in Rajasthan on June 21 to spread awareness about the COVID-19 pandemic. The public will be apprised of the need to remain alert, follow all health protocols and save themselves from the infection after the restart of commercial activities. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot said here on Tuesday that people residing in villages, hamlets, wards and city neighbourhoods would be made aware through various means between June 21 and 30 to protect themselves against the disease. The campaign will be conducted with the support of anganwadi workers, auxiliary nurse midwives, accredited social health activists, revenue officials, panchayat officials and the local public representatives. Awareness material, including banners and pamphlets, will be distributed door-to-door.
10 June 2020||LUCKNOW,||The curious case of Anamika Shukla||A woman from Gonda district on Tuesday alleged that her educational certificates were “misused” to provide jobs to several “fake” teachers at Kasturba Gandhi Balika Schools across Uttar Pradesh, adding a new twist to the controversy over teacher recruitment. The woman, identifying herself as Anamika Shukla, submitted her certificates at the office of the Basic Education Officer, Gonda, and lodged a complaint with the police. She demanded action against those who had got recruited in her name. “I am the real Anamika Shukla,” she said, asserting that she came out to clear her name after the media reported that a woman with her identity had been drawing lakhs in salary through postings in several districts. ‘Not worked’ Ms. Shukla said that though she had applied for the post of science teacher at Kasturba Gandhi Balika Schools in Sultanpur, Jaunpur, Basti, Mirzapur and Lucknow districts since 2017, she did not appear for counselling. She clarified that she had not worked at any of these schools. The Basic Shiksha Adhikari, Ghonda, said Ms. Shukla’s emergence in public made it clear that the “real Anamika Shukla” was from Gonda. Ms. Shukla, a resident of Kamrawan in Gonda, cleared the teacher eligibility test in 2015 and B.Ed. in 2014. The controversy unfolded after reports said a woman named Anamika Shukla had grabbed multiple teaching jobs in several districts and drawn a salary of over Rs. 1 crore. The government started a probe, and Minister of State for Basic Education Satish Dwivedi issued a clarification on Tuesday. ‘Documents in records’ Mr. Dwivedi said the documents of ‘Anamika Shukla’ were found in the records of schools each in Amethi, Ambedkar Nagar, Saharanpur, Baghpat, Prayagraj, Kasganj, Varanasi, Aligarh and Rae Bareli. The government believed some other people were appointed to the post with the documents of ‘Anamika Shukla,’ whose real identity was not yet known. In several cases, the appointed teacher did not join duty or remained absent, but in six schools, those appointed with the documents of Anamika Shukla received Rs. 12.24 lakh in salaries, Mr. Dwivedi said. One such teacher was arrested in Kasganj, but the police were trying to identify the main accused. “The exact Anamika Shukla is not yet in the custody of the police,” he said, hours before Ms. Shukla emerged in Gonda. The government is yet to react to this development.
10 June 2020||Mumbai,||BEML’s internal data, staff email IDs hacked, leaked on dark web||In what is prima facie suspected to be an act of cyber terrorism from Pakistan, the official email ids of seven employees of an Indian Public Sector Undertaking (PSU) working in the defence industry were found to be hacked, and internal data dumped on the dark net. The company targeted, BEML, previously known as Bharat Earth Movers Limited, is headquartered in Bengaluru, and has several crucial business verticals such as defence products, high mobility vehicles, Indian railway products and Metro rail cars. The leak was discovered by Cyble Inc, a global cyber intelligence agency founded by cyber expert Beenu Arora. Cyble Inc researchers said the threat actor who put the data out on the dark web, R3dr0x, seems to be a Pakistani hacker. An update by Cyble on Tuesday said, “The actor has targeted the part of the BEML website detailing about their Indigenisation Levels, which seem to be a warning for the extremist government of India that they would face in the near future for their actions. The Cyble Research Team has identified the actor not only leaking the sensitive data files, which were downloaded from seven email accounts of BEML employees, but also leaked a text file detailing those seven BEML employees’ internal email addresses and their login passwords.” The leaked data includes several email conversations, records, internal memos and invoices, and the hacker has also changed passwords of the hacked emails to anti-establishment phrases like “GoToHellBJP!!1” and “FreeKashm1r!!”.  More players involved Later in the day, Cyble researchers were able to make contact with R3dr0x, who claimed that he was not directly responsible for the leak, which indicates the involvement of other players as well. Central cyber crime agencies have initiated investigations into the incident, but the exact source of the leak remained unknown to them as of now. A BEML official said, “BEML became aware of it [the data breach] through a communication received from Cert-In [Indian Computer Emergency Response Team] on 3rd of June. The communication mentioned that some BEML files are available in dark net and it has been reported that the alleged data breach has taken place as a consequence of compromise of some email ids in the last week of May 2020. The MoD Cyber Security group has also been kept informed.” BEML has formed a high-level committee to investigate the breach. “As an immediate measure,” the official added, “we have deactivated the suspected email ids, all computing devices used to access these emails have been quarantined from the business network. An internal analysis of logs have been carried out and data has been secured for further forensic cyber audit. Security credentials of all email accounts have been changed, urgent communications across the organisation regarding best practices related to cyber security have been sent.” The official also stressed that all devices being used for internet access at remote locations have been segregated from the business network and an internal review of the allegedly leaked documents has been conducted. ‘No adverse impact’ “It has to be noted that the information contained in them is non-classified and has no adverse impact for the company. Vulnerabilities are being further analysed and immediate action is being undertaken with regards to security posture and further steps are being planned to strengthen people level security awareness. Currently, steps are being taken on recommendations on the basis of internal review. A Cyber Security Audit is also being undertaken,” the official said.
10 June 2020||Mumbai,||Pydhonie police issue summons to Arnab||The Pydhonie police have issued a summons to Republic TV editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami asking him to be present for interrogation on Wednesday in connection with the FIRs filed against him last month for allegedly making provocative comments about a community during a news show. While one FIR was registered in Nagpur, the other one was filed in Mumbai based on a complaint submitted by Irfan Shaikh, secretary of Raza Education Welfare Society, on May 3. According to the complaint, during a show about migrant workers gathering in large numbers outside Bandra railway station, Mr. Goswami made references to the Jama Masjid located nearby. The FIR registered with the Nagpur police was later transferred to the Mumbai Police. DCP Pranaya Ashok, Mumbai Police spokesperson, said, “Mr. Goswami has been asked to remain present for interrogation at 11 a.m. on Wednesday. According to the FIR, Mr. Goswami, during his show on April 29, targeted the Muslim community and a mosque in Bandra, which had no links to a protest outside Bandra station by migrant workers.” Plea to quash FIRs Earlier in the day, the Bombay High Court refused to grant relief to Mr. Goswami from appearing before the police. A Division Bench of Justices Ujjal Bhuyan and Riyaz Chagla was hearing a petition seeking the quashing of the FIRs filed against the news anchor. Mr. Goswami was represented by senior counsel Harish Salve who sought exemption for his client from appearing before the Mumbai Police on Wednesday and also later pending the hearing of the petition. Maharashtra government’s counsel Kapil Sibal opposed the plea for exemption and said Mr. Goswami’s interrogation was necessary for investigating the case. The Bench then directed Mr. Goswami to appear before the police station concerned on Wednesday and posted the petition for hearing to June 12. The court rejected his interim plea, but provided him protection from arrest till June 12. Last month, Mr. Goswami moved the Supreme Court seeking quashing of the FIRs. On May 19, the Supreme Court refused to quash the FIRs lodged in Maharashtra and asked him to approach the Bombay High Court for relief. ‘Promoting enmity’ Mr. Goswami has been booked for promoting enmity between different groups on the grounds of religion, race, place of birth, residence, and language, deliberate and malicious intention of outraging the religious feelings of any citizen, and defamation under the Indian Penal Code.
10 June 2020||Mumbai,||Accused in PMC Bank fraud gets bail to undergo surgery||The Bombay High Court on Tuesday granted temporary bail to Jagdish Mookhey (75), an accused in the Punjab and Maharashtra Cooperative (PMC) Bank fraud case, to undergo a surgery. Mr. Mookhey was a director and member of the bank’s audit committee from 2005 to 2019. He was arrested on December 3 last year in connection with the fraud. Fitness report submitted On May 29, a Bench of Justice Anuja Prabhudessai directed a private clinic in Mulund to submit a fitness report after monitoring Mr. Mookhey for three days. On Tuesday, a single judge Bench of Justice Bharati Dangre perused the pre-surgery fitness assessment test and parameter monitoring report, and granted him temporary bail for three months to undergo an epigastric hernia surgery. The report said Mr. Mookhey could undergo the surgery but would require time to get fit as he has other medical complications. Mr. Mookhey approached the High Court after a sessions court rejected his bail plea on May 2. Though he sought bail claiming no role in the fraud, the State opposed his bail on the grounds that his role is yet to be ascertained. ‘Risk posed by COVID-19’ Mr. Mookhey’s advocates, Yusuf Iqbal Yusuf and Zain Shroff, said their client was in and out of hospital during his judicial custody and would prefer to get operated at a private clinic owing to the risk posed by COVID-19. The advocates said Mr. Mookhey was willing to bear all expenses, including the fee for police escort, if he was granted bail to undergo the surgery.
10 June 2020||Mumbai,||Requisitioning pvt. ambulances costly, HC told||The Maharashtra government on Tuesday told the Bombay High Court that it would not be possible for it to requisition privately-operated ambulances, but said people could use taxis, autorickshaws and private vehicles to go to hospitals as the restrictions in place for the novel coronavirus outbreak had been eased. Advocate General Ashutosh Kumbhakoni told a Division Bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice S.S. Shinde that the government would requisition a privately-operated ambulance if it receives a complaint against it for not plying or refusing a patient. The Bench was hearing a petition filed by former MP Kirit Somaiya raising concerns over shortage of ambulances in the city and State. Last week, the court had asked the government to consider requisitioning of private ambulances. To this, Mr. Kumbhakoni said on Tuesday that requisitioning of private ambulances was not possible as it was very expensive. “With the lockdown being eased and travel within city limits permitted, people can use their cars or taxis and autos to go to hospitals if it is a non-COVID-19 issue,” Mr. Kumbhakoni told the court. ‘Database to be created’ He said a database will be created and uploaded on the Regional Transport Office (RTO) website giving details and contact numbers of all private ambulances plying in each area, enabling public to contact the ambulance service directly. The court then suggested that the government should consider putting a cap on the amount levied by private ambulances to ferry a patient, and set the next date of hearing to June 23. As per the petition, the city had 3,000 ambulances, including private ones, until March 20. However, the number drastically reduced to 100 after the COVID-19 pandemic outbreak. Mr. Somaiya’s advocates Gaurav Mehta and Shivani Agarwal said the number of COVID-19 cases in the city was steadily increasing, and during lockdown when there is restricted movement of public transport vehicles and private cars, people were now facing a dearth of ambulances. “The government runs ‘108’ambulance service which has 93 ambulances in Mumbai. There are some 3,000 ambulances run by private operators. It is shocking to note there has been a significant decrease in the number of private ambulances rendering their services during the pandemic,” the petition said. Mr. Somaiya alleged that the State government and municipal body were blatantly ignoring the issue. “The intent of setting up isolation wards, quarantine centres, high functioning hospitals and efforts of so many medical and health care workers shall be in vain if people who are in need of these services fail to get them in time,” it said. ‘Need more ambulances’ Mr. Somaiya sought a direction to authorities to take steps immediately to increase the number of ambulances in the city. The State government, in a public-private arrangement, has nearly 1000 ambulances, with 93 in Mumbai. As many as 60 of these are deployed exclusively for COVID-19 patients.
10 June 2020||Mumbai,||IIMs’ women graduates help migrants get home||A group of Indian Institute of Management (IIM) alumnae has raised Rs. 59 lakh since May 11 to ensure migrant labourers reach their homes. With the amount collected through the fundraising campaign on crowdfunding platform Milaap, the group managed to help over 1,000 migrants stranded in Mumbai reach their homes and sent more than 25 buses across four States using ground support from actor Sonu Sood. Having successfully sent migrants to 11 cities in Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Odisha and Jharkhand, the group is looking at a few more buses in the next few weeks. Formed in March, the IIM Women for Social Action Group (IIMWSA), using a 10-member coordination team, approached the larger IIM alumni network in India and overseas and their friends and families for support, who donated to the cause. Additionally, many IIM alumnae volunteered to help with data collation as well as coordination with migrants for their details to enable proper documentation and processing. “During the lockdown period, seeing the plight of the migrant community, a few of the IIM women decided to help the migrants reach home with dignity. We quickly reached out to Mr. Sood, for collaboration on the on-ground logistics,” said Ashu Tomar of IIM Indore coordination team. Alka Tiwari is an IIM Calcutta alumna who is involved in coordinating with the migrants till they reach their home State and are either taken to a quarantine centre or sent home for quarantine. She said, “Speaking to distressed people, understanding their stories, explaining the process and finally making them get on the buses has been a rewarding and gut-wrenching experience.” The group consists of over 200 members who are graduates of different IIMs.The group has also been running the Kitchen Project in Dharavi to feed migrants and the underprivileged, as well as addressing the water shortage issue in Jawhar and other areas.
10 June 2020||Mumbai,||Aaditya Thackeray asks Air India to operate more Vande Bharat flights||State Environment and Tourism Minister Aaditya Thackeray on Tuesday spoke to Air India CMD Rajiv Bansal and sought more repatriation flights to bring back stranded citizens to Maharashtra. In a letter dated June 6, Mr. Thackeray wrote to Mr. Bansal seeking the initiation of flights to Maharashtra from Dubai, Hong Kong, Singapore and Australia. In a series of tweets, Mr. Thackeray said, “I also requested him to look into the issue of flights from Bishkek. The ones landing in Maharashtra have hardly any citizens from the State. Those flights could land directly in their home States, save them time, and have more flights to Maharashtra for citizens from Maharashtra.”  Pending requests The State government has informed the Ministry of External Affairs of numerous requests to operate flights from Indians stranded in Australia, UAE and Singapore. “We requested this in Vande Bharat 3, but they haven’t been featured as yet. We hope this will be approved soon,” Mr. Thackeray said in his letter.  The Centre has begun preparations for the third phase of the Vande Bharat Mission. In the first phase, May 7 to 15, around 15,000 Indians from 12 countries were brought back. The second phase, scheduled from May 17 to 22, has been extended till June 13
10 June 2020||Mumbai,||Mumbai Metro 3: first set of tracks arrives||The Mumbai Metro Rail Corporation Limited (MMRCL) has received its first lot of rail tracks for Metro 3. The rail tracks, weighing 3,615 metric tonnes, were dispatched by M/s. Mitsui & Co. Ltd. from Yawata in Japan. They will be transported from Mumbai Port to MMRCL yard in Bandra Kurla Complex in the next few days. The remaining lot of 7,125 metric tonnes will arrive in two batches later this year. Ranjit Singh Deol, MD, MMRCL, said the rail tracks were part of a first-of-its-kind technology in India — High Attenuation Low Vibration Track System — which will reduce the noise and vibration levels during train operations.
10 June 2020||Press Trust of India Chandrapur,||Tiger that killed five people in Chandrapur to be tranquilised||The forest department on Tuesday issued an order to tranquilise and capture a tiger that is believed to have killed at least five people in the last four months in Tadoba Andhari Tiger Reserve in Chandrapur district The tiger, KT-1, has been spotted in camera traps during search operations, according to the order. Sources said it is a male sub-adult tiger who got separated from his mother. The order was issued by Nitin Kakolkar, principal chief conservator of forests (wildlife), Nagpur. The tiger has been spotted thrice in Kolara and once each in Satara and Bamangaon in the core and buffer areas of the tiger reserve. The big cat has also been spotted in Devari, Karbada, Madnapur, Kolara, Satara and Bamangaon villages in the tiger reserve.
10 June 2020||Moscow,||Moscow eases lockdown restrictions||Moscow emerged from a strict COVID-19 lockdown on Tuesday despite Russia seeing thousands of new cases every day, as the World Health Organization warned the pandemic was “worsening” worldwide. Muscovites flocked to streets and parks after authorities in the Russian capital lifted restrictions in place since March 30, even as the country registered 8,595 new cases and its total death toll surpassed 6,000. Walking in central Moscow under sunny skies, 33-year-old marketing manager Olga Ivanova said that after weeks stuck at home it felt good to have her city back. “It’s nice out and there are a lot of people on the streets. It’s a beautiful day, in every sense of the word,” she said. With more than 4,85,000 cases as of Tuesday, Russia has the third-highest number of confirmed infections after the United States and Brazil. Officials say the high number is the result of a huge testing campaign, with more than 13 million tests carried out so far, and point to Russia’s relatively low mortality rate as evidence it is safe to ease lockdowns. ‘Toll under-reported’ Critics have accused authorities of under-reporting deaths and say officials are rushing to lift restrictions for political reasons, after President Vladimir Putin rescheduled a high-profile military parade for June 24 and a vote on constitutional reforms for July 1. But as large parts of Europe and the U.S. reopen, the WHO reported a record number of new coronavirus cases globally. Director-general Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus said on Monday that 1,36,000 cases had been reported in the previous 24 hours, “the most in a single day so far,” with the majority of them in the Americas and South Asia. “Although the situation in Europe is improving, globally it is worsening,” he told reporters. ‘Complacency a threat’ Mr. Tedros said that in countries where the situation was getting better, “the biggest threat is now complacency”. “More than six months into this pandemic, this is not the time for any country to take its foot off the pedal,” he said. COVID-19 deaths have passed 406,000 worldwide, with more than seven million infections, since the disease emerged in China late last year before sweeping the globe, subjecting billions to some form of lockdown and paralysing economies. Governments around the world are cautiously peeling back those restrictions to resuscitate their economies while trying to avoid a resurgence of infections. A study by Imperial College London published on Monday estimated that lockdowns prevented 3.1 million deaths in 11 European countries. ‘Lockdown saved lives’ Cyprus on Tuesday welcomed its first tourists after nearly three months on lockdown, with flights scheduled from Israel, Greece and Bulgaria. Desperate to save its summer tourism season, the Mediterranean island’s government has pledged to cover the medical costs of any visitor who tests positive for the coronavirus while on holiday. Other countries have been more cautious. The Health Minister in Spain, one of the hardest-hit countries in Europe, said that wearing face masks in public will be compulsory “until we permanently defeat the virus” with an effective treatment or vaccine. And Britain, which is nearing almost 50,000 suspected and confirmed deaths, has imposed a two-week quarantine for anyone coming into the country, British nationals included. New York City — the epicentre of America’s coronavirus outbreak — began partially reopening its shattered economy on Monday after almost three months of lockdown.
10 June 2020||June 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Democrats unveil police reforms after Flyod’s death||Just two weeks after George Floyd, an unarmed black man, was killed by a white police officer, Democrats in Washington unveiled a Bill that sought to lower immunity standards for police officers, ban racial profiling in federal law enforcement agency and restrict the use of lethal force. The Bill, called the Justice in Policing Act, also bans chokeholds and carotid holds; creates a national police misconduct registry; does away with “qualified immunity” for police and correctional officers; requires federal law enforcement officers to wear body cameras; enhances the ability of the Justice Department to investigate patterns of police misconduct. Sponsored by chairwoman of the Congressional Black Caucus Karen Bass (Democrat, California), the Bill has more than 200 co-sponsors and is likely to pass the Democrat-controlled House. Its passage by the GOP-controlled Senate, however, is far from certain. “A profession where you have the power to kill should be a profession that requires highly trained officers who are accountable to the public,” Ms. Bass said at a press conference on Monday. The legislation was unveiled just after weekend, and a majority of the city council members of Minneapolis (where Floyd was killed) said they would defund the city’s police department, a move not supported by the Democrat Mayor, Jacob Frey. While advocating change to how policing is done, moderate Democrats in Washington stayed clear of the call to defund police departments, a position being adopted by some local governments and with support from the more progressive wing of the party. “That is a local decision, a local level,” House Speaker Nancy Pelosi said, according to the Washington Post . “But to do so that doesn’t say we’re going to pile more money on to further militarise the police,” Ms. Pelosi said. Presumptive Democratic nominee for the presidential race, Joe Biden, also said he was not in favour of defunding police departments. “No, I don’t support defunding the police,” Mr. Biden told a CBS journalist on Monday. “I support conditioning federal aid to police, based on whether or not they meet certain basic standards of decency and honorableness.” Trump slams move Republicans, including U.S. President Donald Trump, have characterised the call by some Democrats to defund police as it as outlandish and radical. . “We won’t be defunding our police. We won’t be dismantling our police,” Mr. Trump had said on Monday, when he held a roundtable with representatives of law enforcement. “LAW & ORDER, NOT DEFUND AND ABOLISH THE POLICE. The Radical Left Democrats have gone Crazy!” he had tweeted on Monday. “We’re already seeing outlandish calls, defund the police. Abolish the police,” Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell said on Monday. “Call me old-fashioned. I think you may want a police officer to arrest a criminal before you try to work through his feelings.” He compared the distinction between peaceful protesters and rioters and looters to the distinction between the “vast majority” of police officers and the “worst examples of heinous behaviour.” On the Democratic side, progressive lawmaker Alexandra Ocasio-Cortez had asked her colleagues not to dismiss calls for defunding police departments, as per a Politico report. “‘Defund’ means that Black & Brown communities are asking for the same budget priorities that White communities have already created for themselves: schooling, police, etc.,” Ms Ocasio-Cortez tweeted on Tuesday.
10 June 2020||SEOUL,||North Korea cuts off all communication with South||North Korea said it was cutting off all communication channels with South Korea on Tuesday, a move experts say could signal Pyongyang has grown frustrated that Seoul has failed to revive lucrative inter-Korean economic projects and persuade the U.S. to ease sanctions. The North’s Korean Central News Agency said all communication lines would be cut off at noon in the “the first step of the determination to completely shut down all contact means with South Korea and get rid of unnecessary things.” When South Korean officials tried to contact their North Korean counterparts after the North’s announcement on Tuesday, the North Koreans didn’t answer, according to the South Korean government. In its announcement, North Korea said Tuesday’s move was a response to South Korea’s failure to stop activists from floating anti-Pyongyang leaflets across their border. “The South Korean authorities connived at the hostile acts against (North Korea) by the riff-raff, while trying to dodge heavy responsibility with nasty excuses,” KCNA said. South Korea’s liberal government said that cross-border hotlines must be maintained as they are the basic means of communication between the two Koreas. For years, South Korean activists, including North Korean defectors living in the South, have floated huge balloons into North Korea carrying leaflets criticising leader Kim Jong-un over his nuclear ambitions and human rights record.
10 June 2020||London,||‘Won’t ignore anger over racial injustice’||The toppling of a statue of a slave trader has reignited demands for the removal of other monuments to Britain’s colonial past, with further protests planned on Tuesday, as Prime Minister Boris Johnson acknowledged anger at racial injustice. Calls have mounted across the country for a reassessment of the way historical figures are portrayed in public spaces, as part of a wider debate about inequality and prejudice. Britain has seen days of protests sparked by the death in police custody of George Floyd, an unarmed black man, in the United States. Mr. Johnson said he understood the “depth of emotion” triggered by Floyd’s death and the anger from black and ethnic minority groups about discrimination in education, employment and law. “We who lead and who govern simply can’t ignore those feelings because in too many cases, I am afraid, they will be founded on a cold reality,” he said in a video message Monday. But he warned he would not tolerate violence, after clashes in central London near his Downing Street office left 35 police officers injured and public monuments vandalised. Instead, he urged those who wanted change to “stand for election, or vote for someone who will”. Uncomfortable truth On Sunday, protesters defaced a central London monument to Second World War leader Winston Churchill, citing policies blamed for the death of millions during famine in the Indian state of Bengal in 1943. In the southwestern city of Bristol, crowds toppled a statue of 17th century trader Edward Colston, who helped build the city but played a leading role in slavery. Years of local debate over what to do with the statue came to an end when it was thrown in the harbour — an act that has stirred debate about other historical monuments. In Glasgow, activists pasted the names of civil rights leaders and victims of racist attacks on streets named after tobacco and sugar traders in the 18th and 19th centuries. In Edinburgh, graffiti was daubed on a 150-feet monument to 19th century politician Henry Dundas, who opposed the immediate abolition of slavery. London Mayor Sadiq Khan on Tuesday announced a review of London’s landmarks and street names. “It is an uncomfortable truth that our nation and city owes a large part of its wealth to its role in the slave trade,” he said.
10 June 2020||HONG KONG,||Hong Kong cannot afford further chaos, says Carrie Lam||Hong Kong leader Carrie Lam warned on Tuesday the city could not afford further “chaos” as it marked the first anniversary of the start of rolling mass pro-democracy protests. More than a million people flooded the streets a year ago to protest a Bill by the government that would have allowed people to be extradited to mainland China, where courts are controlled by the Communist Party, for trial. After wide protests, Ms. Lam withdrew the Bill. “All of us can see the difficulty we have been through in the past year, and due to such serious situations we have more problems to deal with,” Lam said during her weekly media conference, which coincided with the anniversary. “We need to learn from mistakes, I wish all lawmakers can learn from mistakes — that Hong Kong cannot bear such chaos.” Activists have called for people to gather at lunchtime and later on Thursday to mark the anniversary of last year’s mass rally. They have also announced plans to hold a referendum on Sunday about whether to launch a city-wide strike against national security laws proposed last month. That legislation, which authorities insist will focus on ”troublemakers” who pose a threat to national security, has ratcheted tensions higher.
10 June 2020||Washington,||Trump’s support eroding, show new polls||The coronavirus pandemic, a severe economic downturn and the widespread demonstrations in the aftermath of the death of George Floyd in police custody would pose a serious political challenge to any President seeking reelection. They are certainly posing one to President Donald Trump. His approval rating has fallen to negative 12.7 percentage points among registered or likely voters, down from negative 6.7 points on April 15, according to FiveThirtyEight estimates. New polls shows Joe Biden with a significant national lead, placing him in a stronger position to oust an incumbent President. He leads the President by around 10 percentage points in an average of recent live-interview telephone surveys of registered voters. It’s a four-point improvement over the six-point lead he held in a similar series of polls in late March and early April. Since then, Bernie Sanders has left the Democratic race, the pandemic has became severe , and Mr. Trump’s standing has eroded. The erosion has been fairly broad, spanning virtually all demographic groups. But in a longer-term context, the President’s weakness is most stark in one respect: his deficit among women. Women were supposed to carry the first female major-party nominee to victory four years ago, as many assumed that Mr. Trump’s treatment of women, including allegations of sexual assault, would prove to be his undoing. But women might be his undoing this time. Mr. Trump trails Mr. Biden by 25 points among them, far worse than his 14-point deficit four years ago. He still leads among men by 6 points in the most recent polls, about the same margin as he led by in the final polls of registered voters in 2016. Over the shorter term, the decline in Mr. Trump’s standing has been most pronounced among white voters without a college degree. They now back the President by 21 points, down from 31 points in March and April.NY TImes
10 June 2020||June 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Nepali police clash with lockdown demonstrators||Police fired water cannon at about 500 people who staged a demonstration in Kathmandu on Tuesday against the Nepali government’s handling of the COVID-19 crisis. Protesters, carrying banners reading “enough is enough”, demanded better testing and quarantine facilities for returning migrant workers and greater transparency in government spending. Ten demonstrators who gathered near the Prime Minister’s residence were arrested, police said. Nepal imposed a nationwide lockdown on March 24 when the country had two confirmed infections. The number of cases currently stands at 3,762 with 14 deaths. “The economy is in shambles, the government has pushed our health and the health system in crisis and they have been ineffective and incapable,” Jagannath Lamichhane, a mental health expert said.
10 June 2020||Beijing,||China cautions its students on Australia plans||China told students on Tuesday to be “cautious in choosing to study in Australia” citing concerns about the COVID-19 and racism, further ramping up tensions between Beijing and Canberra. The advisory was the latest in an escalating spat, ignited by Australia’s call for an independent inquiry into the origin and handling of the coronavirus in central China last year. Beijing reacted furiously to the demand, targeting Canberra on a number of fronts, including tourism, trade and now Chinese students, the biggest overseas group in Australian universities. “The Ministry of Education reminds all overseas students to do a risk assessment and be cautious in choosing to study in Australia or return to Australia to study,” it added.
10 June 2020||Islamabad,||More than 100 deaths in Pak. in a single day||Pakistan has recorded over 100 deaths in a single day for the first time due to COVID-19, health officials said on Tuesday. Another 4,646 patients were diagnosed in the last 24 hours, taking the total tally to 1,08,317, the Ministry of Health Services said. A total of 105 deaths were reported on Monday in the country, taking the total number of fatalities to 2,172.
10 June 2020||Tehran,||Tehran, June 9, 2020 (AFP) -||Tehran said on Tuesday it will execute Mahmoud Mousavi Majd, an Iranian, for spying for the U.S. and Israel after his conviction was upheld for helping the U.S. to locate a top Iranian general killed in a drone strike.AFP
10 June 2020||Karachi,||Death toll in the Pak building collapse increases to 13||The death toll in the multi-storey building collapse in Karachi’s Lyari area rose to at least 13 after four more bodies were recovered from the debris. Twelve people were injured in the incident on Sunday.PTI
10 June 2020||June 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Flattening the climate curve||Two interrelated curves began their upward trend two centuries ago with the advent of the industrial age. The first curve was the atmospheric concentration of carbon dioxide (or, more generally, all greenhouse gases, GHGs) and the second was the average global temperature curve. An upward trend Actually, the CO2 curve began its upward march about 18,000 years ago when it was a little under 200 parts per million (ppm) and earth was much colder. By the time it reached 270 ppm about 11,500 years ago, the warmer conditions accompanying this curve made it possible for the emergence of agriculture. Over the past million years, CO2 levels never exceeded 280-300 ppm. They always went back to 200 ppm before rising again in a cyclical fashion. They remained steady at close to 280 ppm for 10,000 years until, beginning in the mid-19th century, they began to rise again as humans burnt coal and oil to fuel the industrial revolution, and burnt forests to expand agriculture and settlements. From a mere 0.2 billion tonnes of CO2 emissions in 1850, annual emissions increased to 36 billion tonnes by 2018. If all this CO2 had accumulated in the atmosphere, we can say that human life would have been altered beyond recognition. Nature has been rather kind to us so far — about one-half of all CO2 emissions have been sanitised from the atmosphere, equally by growing vegetation on land and by absorption in the oceans. Thus, the levels of CO2 in the atmosphere reached 407 ppm in 2018, a level last experienced by earth some three million years ago. The second curve of direct consequence to us is the global average temperature curve. From 1850 onwards, for over a century, the global temperature showed a slight warming trend. But there was nothing suggestive of anything serious. From 1975 onwards, the temperature graph has shown a distinct, upward trend. By 2015, the globe had heated by a full degree Celsius relative to a hundred years previously. Climate modellers unequivocally project that under the current trends of emissions the globe will heat up by 4˚C by the end of the century. Climate change involves not just a change in temperature but every other component of weather, including rainfall, humidity and wind speed. Indirect effects follow, such as a rise in sea levels from melting glaciers. Globally there have been several extreme weather events such as hurricanes, heat waves or droughts. While no single event can be directly attributed to climate change, the collective trends are consistent with climate change predictions. For the sake of illustration, let us focus only on temperature change. The 2003 European heat wave killed over 70,000 people. The years 2015-19 have globally been the warmest years on record. Leave aside the Amazon fire of 2019, the bush fires of 2019-20 in Australia were unprecedented in their scale and devastation. While our attention has been on COVID-19, news has just come in that March 2020 has been the second warmest March on record. The Climate Impact Lab at the University of Chicago put out a warning for India last year that if global CO2 emissions continue to gallop at the present rate, average summer temperatures would rise by 4˚C in most States. Extremely hot days (days above 35˚C), which were only five days in 2010, would increase to 15 days by 2050 and to 42 days by 2100 on average across all districts. A more moderate emissions scenario, as a result of countries largely fulfilling their commitments under the Paris Agreement, would keep average global temperature rise below 2˚C compared to pre-industrial levels. Tackling the climate crisis The most common excuse is that the world cannot afford to curb GHG emissions for fear of wrecking the economy. An article in Nature in 2019 highlighted the financial dimensions of tackling the looming climate crisis. Apparently, the wealthy nations are spending over $500 billion each year internally on projects aimed at reducing emissions. The Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, however, estimates that a sustained annual investment of $2.4 trillion in more efficient energy systems is needed until 2035 in order to keep warming below the more ambitious 1.5˚C relative to pre-industrial levels. To put this in perspective, that is about 2.5% of the global GDP. Some of the wrangling over money relates to the amounts that the wealthy nations, which have caused most of the GHGs resulting in global warming, agreed to pay other countries to cope with climate change. At the UN Climate Conference in 2009, the richest nations had pledged to provide $100 billion in aid each year by 2020 to the poorer countries for climate change mitigation and adaptation. In 2017, for which data are available, only $71 billion had been provided, with most of the money going towards mitigation and less than 20% towards climate adaptation. Such numbers had been challenged prior to the 2015 Paris Summit by many countries, including India, because much of the so-called aid provided did not come out of dedicated climate funds but, rather, development funds or simply loans which had to be repaid. It thus seems unlikely that the rich countries will deliver $100 billion in tangible climate finance during 2020. COVID-19 has unwittingly given humanity a brief respite from the climate change curve. Carbon emissions from fossil fuels have surely reduced in recent weeks. How long this respite will last ironically depends on the extent to which the global economy has been wrecked by COVID-19. Commentators are already talking about a paradigm shift in the structure and functioning of societies once the pandemic subsides. This is also a make-or-break moment for the climate trajectory which has to be flattened within a few years if we are to avoid dangerous climate change. Nature’s kindness is not expected to last beyond a 2˚C rise in temperature as the carbon sequestered into vegetation will be thrown back into the atmosphere. Also remember that earth has already warmed by 1˚C and we really have only another 1˚C (or 0.5˚C if we are concerned about island nations) as a safety margin. COVID-19 has elicited an unprecedented response worldwide. Only cognitive psychologists can explain why the spectre of dangerous climate change impacting human civilizations has not yet evoked a comparable response. There seems to be wishful thinking that technology can be used to suck out billions of tonnes of CO2 from the atmosphere and store this safely somewhere, but available ones are extremely slow and expensive. Harebrained schemes to regulate solar radiation by geo-engineering are bound to bring nasty surprises. There is no substitute to reducing GHG emissions. Technologists, economists and social scientists must plan for a sustainable planet based on the principles of equity and climate justice within and across nations. It is the responsibility of leaders to alter their mindset and act on the looming climate crisis with the same alacrity they have shown on COVID-19. R. Sukumar is professor, Centre for Ecological Sciences and Divecha Centre for Climate Change, Indian Institute of Science, Bengaluru
10 June 2020||June 10 2020 00:00 IST,||The anatomy of anti-black racism||Racism has raised its ugly head in full public view once again. It was revolting to see an adult gasping for breath, writhing in pain as the knee of the white policeman crushed his neck, and, within minutes, dying — the umpteenth time that a black life has been barbarically taken away by police brutality in America. Despite the civil war over slavery, and the civil rights movement for dignity and equality, systemic discrimination and violence against blacks persists. Racism continues unabated. My sole focus here is coming to grips with what racism is. In a nutshell, and with slight, only slight oversimplification, it is this: one can tell everything important about a person, his group, its past and future, by noting the colour of his skin. Of course, noticing the physical characteristics of a person, say the colour of her skin, is not itself racist. Good writers are expected to provide a vivid description of a character’s physical features, including skin-colour. This need not imply the idea of race, leave alone racism. For instance, Indian epics describe Krishna as having shyam varna , being the dark-skinned one. This description has no evaluative connotation. Being conscious of the colour of a person, your own or that of the other may be pretty innocent. Idea of race However, when specific bodily features (colour, shape of nose, eye, lips) are permanently clumped together and human beings are classified in terms of these distinct biological clusters, and if, further, it is believed that these shared features are inter-generationally transmitted, then we possess the idea of race, i.e. a group with a common biological descent. Every single human being is not only seen then to be assigned to separate biologically-determined groups but also as born with traits directly inherited from biological ancestors. Each race is then believed to be fundamentally, permanently different from others — differences that are innate and indelible, for one can neither cease to have what one has inherited nor acquire characteristics which one does not already have. The idea of race is deeply problematic. Despite many attempts, particularly in the 1930s to demonstrate its scientific basis, race or racial classifications have virtually no scientific foundation. If anything, the only conclusion from available evidence is that the whole of humanity has the same lineage, that there are no races within humans but only one single human ‘race’. Yet, while scientifically speaking, race is a fiction, a large number of people believe in the existence of races. Race is very much a cultural and social reality. The classification of humans into different races is a necessary but far from sufficient ingredient of racism which depends on two additional, deeply troublesome features. First, a given set of biological characteristics is believed to be necessarily related to certain dispositions, traits of character and behaviour. Biological descent fixes a person’s culture and ethics. Our capacity for reasoning, for ‘civilization’, our propensities towards sexual lasciviousness or ability to make money, can all be read off by examining our face and body. Second, these racial cultures and ethical systems are hierarchically arranged. Those on top are intrinsically superior to those at the bottom. Racism, then, is a systematic ideology, a complex set of beliefs and practices that, on the presumed basis of biology, divides humanity into the ‘higher’ us and a lower ‘them’. It not only sustains a permanent group hierarchy but deeply stigmatises those designated as inferior. This sense of hierarchy provides a motive for say, whites to treat blacks in ways that would be viewed as cruel or unjust if applied to members of their own group. For instance, contact with them is often regarded as contaminating, polluting. It should therefore be avoided or kept to a minimum. To prevent sexual contamination through inter-marriage, the southern States of America had the severest laws sanctioning public lynching. How else could the ‘colour line’ be scrupulously maintained? This explains something important. Though colour-consciousness should not be problematic in theory, in reality, an acute awareness of colour is almost always a symptom of racism lurking somewhere unnoticed. Racism distinguishes even inferior races into two kinds. One inferior race is considered so much beyond the pale that it cannot be lived with, and must be exterminated. This is infamously illustrated by the virulent anti-Semitism in Nazi Germany that led to the final solution, the Holocaust. The second type of race is fit only to be controlled, subordinated, enslaved. Anti-black racism, our main concern here, is an obvious example. Closer home, some Varna-related ideologies (in the Dharmashastras from 1st ACE onwards) that stigmatised the pratiloma castes, particularly the ‘Chandalas’, function as virtual equivalents of racism as do the now somewhat scarce Christian anti-Judaism or contemporary Islamophobia. An ideology on display Racism naturalises a person’s belief, character and culture. For example, being uneducated is seen not as socio-economic deprivation but a sign of inherited low IQ; blacks are predatory and are also seen to have an innate streak of savagery, which unless kept down by brute force from time to time, might explode and destroy civilisation. It is this ideology of anti-black racism that was brazenly on show in the 9- minute video clip of the merciless, life-extinguishing force used by the police on George Floyd. Some Americans notice and seem shell-shocked by racism only when such violence occurs. Hasn’t the civil rights movement been successful in damaging racism, they ask? Is it not difficult now to justify any act by explicit reference to race? Is this not good reason to believe that racism will disappear from America by good laws, education and rational argument? Alas, the very success of the movement that helped develop a motivated blindness to how open discrimination of blacks has been displaced by another system of hidden discrimination. A systematic constraint on avenues for improving the quality of life forces their descent into pretty crime, incarceration, stigma attached to imprisonment and the severe discrimination and exclusion that follows the charge of felony. All these, as scholars such as Jane Hill have shown, have made the criminal system produce results as vicious as generated by colour-based slavery and racial segregation. For example, in a number of southern States in America, once declared a felon, a person is disqualified from voting. So, once the criminal justice system labels people of colour as “criminals”, whites have the sanction to engage in all the practices of subordination that they had apparently abandoned. The United States now has the highest rate of incarceration in the world, surpassing those in highly repressive regimes such as China and Iran. The figures related to African-Americans are shocking. In several States, they are 10 times more likely to go to prison than whites. According to the Death Penalty information Center of the U.S., between 1976-2019, black defendants sentenced to death for killing whites numbered 291, while white defendants killing blacks were only 21, a staggering figure close to 14 times more! (For a quick overview, also see the Netflix film, “13th”). Racialised criminal system It is amply clear that the feel-good anti-racism of some Americans that views racism as an aggregate of mistaken beliefs held by individuals that can be dissipated by education and rational argument simply does not work. True, good education helps in dismantling racism but the fact remains that much of it lies hidden within the social structure, in habits, practices and institutions. Vulnerabilities amassed over centuries of anti-black racism leave African-Americans facing multiple, intersecting hurdles to a good life. As mentioned, the current criminal system that awards unfair advantage and privilege to whites, while inflicting unmerited and unjust disadvantages on blacks exemplifies this invisible monster. Only a peaceful movement to end institutionalised racism, with both blacks and white participants, quite like the recent protests after Floyd’s murder, can break the back of this evil. But can such a movement be sustained? Will it be allowed to? Rajeev Bhargava is Professor, CSDS, Delhi
10 June 2020||June 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Being vocal on the right local||On May 12, Prime Minister Narendra Modi called upon Indians to be “vocal for local”. The way in which we, as citizens and professionals, interpret the local will have far-reaching effects on the country’s landscape and prosperity. We could transform ourselves into a greener and more humane society, with access to affordable health care, functioning public schools, choices over where we work and live, and support for those who cannot work. Cities could breathe again and families could move to opportunity rather than be forced out of their homes by drought and desperation. Or, we could rapidly roll backwards, buying umbrellas with easily broken frames, toasters whose levers have to be held down, office chairs with castors that grip rather than slide, researchers who find it difficult to equip their laboratories and avoid reading research at the disciplinary frontier because they are too far from being able to produce it. And most importantly, there will be people with experience and skills who cannot find the capital, the designs, or the markets to use them. Thousands of them continue to return to their villages each day. A pointer COVID-19 has brought many countries to an unexpected fork in their development trajectories. It has made visible new facts, figures and the feelings of citizens towards these facts and figures. In my quotidian, pre-COVID-19 life, I passed women in their colourful Rajasthani lehengas with plates of wet concrete on their heads, chatted with home and office staff about their villages and their parents, visited my tailor to find he had gone away for a wedding to Medinipur (West Bengal), waited for my carpenter to fix the door handles after he came back from dropping his wife at her parent’s house in Meerut, Uttar Pradesh, and asked the security guard whether he had managed to buy his cow in Jharkhand and arrange for a new ration card for his family. I got the latest news on radio cab contracts and local politics in Bihar when I drove back from the airport with my (inevitably) Bhagalpuri taxi driver. These everyday encounters and conversations made India what it was, they brought colour to my life and warmed my heart. I just did not see the flip side. That for all these people, their minds and hearts were elsewhere much of the time, in places they would have liked to be if they could have earned a living and educated their children. The pandemic, with its fears and lockdowns, has shown us, in painful and graphic detail, the massive numbers who would have liked to be in their ancestral homes in such circumstances. These images, of those who reached and those who did not, should guide our conception of the local. Village demographics have changed dramatically. Pockets of virtually empty villages in the Himalayan foothills have become re-populated and many of the poorest parts of the country have experienced the largest inflows. After the trauma of the last two months, re-united families would like to stay together. They will search for local livelihoods and they desperately need immediate and substantial social transfers. Strengthening these communities would show a real commitment to the right kind of local. This requires making our safety nets wide, accessible and fair. It involves building schools, clinics and hospitals within easy reach, and opening windows of credit to those with ideas without first asking them to label themselves as farmers or micro-entrepreneurs. If we imagine villages as consisting only of farmers and labourers, hit periodically by cyclones and drought, our support to them will not move beyond Kisan credit cards and employment guarantees. Those returning home are from many walks of life and have travelled far and wide. Development policy should help them use their skills and new perspectives to reimagine their communities while they earn a living. How to get it right The wrong kind of local would be to promote goods that are made in India through tariffs, quotas and new government procurement rules. We have attained global competitiveness over the last two decades in many new fields such as software development, pharmaceuticals and engineering products. All of these have flourished through international collaboration and feedback from foreign consumers. It would be short-sighted to imagine that we would reach these consumers if we restricted access to our own markets. I am reminded of a conversation with a friend a few years ago. She said she wanted to design products that were bought in the international market because they were simply the most beautiful; not because they were cheap or supported artisans. She subsequently succeeded in doing just that, and, in the process, probably taught many the elements of good design. Many of our sustainable energy initiatives have also depended on government action elsewhere. For example, solar energy was subsidised in Germany and in California when it was far more expensive than fossil energy, China mass produced solar panels and costs of production came down enough for other countries, including ours, to start adopting them. The pandemic should have made us aware, like never before, of our interdependencies, of the limits of our knowledge and the need for global engagement. Sustainable and resilient communities cannot be built on a fiscal and regulatory structure that is highly centralised. The Centre would have to devolve to the States and the States to locally elected representatives. If we adequately fund, support and trust local governments and remain open to absorbing both the knowledge and products that others produce better than us, we can create a society where all, not just a few, matter. If we insist that everything can be “made in India” and close borders because a crisis sealed them temporarily, we open ourselves to mediocrity and isolation, continued mass poverty and greater vulnerability to future pandemics. We have the capacity to refocus on the right local, if only we could agree on the vision. Rohini Somanathan is Professor, Delhi School of Economics
10 June 2020||June 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Johnson’s adviser, a veritable Thomas Cromwell in influence||Recent events seem to suggest that British Prime Minister Boris Johnson will go to any lengths to protect his powerful chief adviser, Dominic Cummings. Mr. Cummings has been accused of violating COVID-19 lockdown rules by driving from London to his parents’ home in Durham, even while having symptoms of the virus. He claimed he did this to ensure childcare for his son, as both he and his wife feared their condition could have worsened with the virus. In a brazen defence of his chief adviser, Mr. Johnson attributed the alleged violation to Mr. Cummings’s instinct to protect his son. But Mr. Cummings’s lockdown violation did not end here. He was spotted at Barnard Castle, 30 minutes from Durham. His bizarre excuse was that he drove there to check if his eyesight was good enough after his illness, to undertake the longer drive back to London. The dark genius behind Brexit Mr. Cummings is widely believed to be the dark genius behind Brexit. One of the highlights of the movie Brexit: The Uncivil War , in which Benedict Cumberbatch plays Mr. Cummings’s character, is the way Mr. Cummings played a crucial role in misinforming voters that Britain could invest £350 million a week in the National Health Service by simply leaving the European Union. Mr. Cummings is a history graduate from Oxford University who impressed his tutors. One can gain insights into his mind by reading his inordinately long blogs that are about subjects ranging from data analytics to genetics. His project is to recast British politics away from the superficial generality of the existing bureaucratic to the specialised precision of the technocratic. The diversity of Mr. Cummings’s interests, far from representing an eclectic inquisitiveness, reflects a mind convinced of the superiority of its own insights. A measure of Mr. Cummings’s influence is the fact that all his claims and explanations for his recent conduct were made at a press conference in the Downing Street rose garden. He refused to resign and expressed little or no contrition. The press conference and the place where it was held show the kind of power and influence he exercises. This venue is usually reserved for visiting dignitaries and other special occasions. Mr. Cummings’s influence in Westminster seems almost akin to that exercised by the ruthless Thomas Cromwell, Henry VIII’s chief minister, especially as this has been depicted in Hilary Mantel’s Bring up the Bodies . A ruthless politician Mr. Cummings’s ruthlessness was evident in the manner in which the previous Chancellor of the Exchequer, Sajid Javid, resigned. In his resignation speech, Mr. Javid punned on the “comings and goings” of the cabinet, making it clear that he had resigned on account of differences with Mr. Cummings. Rishi Sunak, who replaced him, initially garnered praise for the manner in which he loosened government spending in response to the pandemic, especially through his furlough scheme that guaranteed up to 80% of the salary of individuals across the U.K. However, in an extraordinary display of fealty to Mr. Johnson and Mr. Cummings, Mr. Sunak tweeted in support of the chief adviser when newspapers reported the details of the latter’s violation of lockdown rules. This confirms the slide in British politics that has been on for some time and which Brexit has only made more precipitous. Mr. Cummings’s ruthlessness was again seen in his involvement in the sacking of Mr. Javid’s media adviser, Sonia Khan, who was apparently humiliated by Mr. Cummings and escorted out of Downing Street by armed police. Ms. Khan then brought a sex discrimination claim against Mr. Cummings and Mr. Johnson. The government tried to protect Mr. Cummings by removing his name as a respondent in the case, but ultimately failed. When leaders such as Mr. Johnson are elected to powerful positions through demagoguery and then surround themselves with unelected, shadowy chief advisers such as Mr. Cummings, it is a clear danger to democracy. We saw this in the U.S. too, when President Donald Trump elevated Steve Bannon as chief strategist and adviser. Mr. Johnson’s approval ratings have fallen on account of his bumbling ineptitude in handling the COVID-19 crisis and, more so, in his brazen defence of Mr. Cummings. Mr. Johnson’s slogan that won him the December 2019 parliamentary election was ‘Get Brexit Done’. He certainly won’t achieve that, whatever it may have meant, but the Prime Minister certainly seems to be doing in the British people, with Mr. Cummings’s unsmiling visage watching from behind. Amir Ali is Assistant Professor at the Centre for Political Studies, JNU, New Delhi
10 June 2020||June 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Pincer provocations?||Although the latest news on the Ladakh front suggests that Chinese and Indian forces have begun to disengage in select areas, this does not detract from the reality that in the past few weeks Beijing and Islamabad are making coordinated efforts to challenge India’s presence in the Kashmir-Ladakh region. There is stepped-up activity on Pakistan’s part to infiltrate terrorists into the Valley. China has undertaken provocative measures on the Ladakh front to assert control over disputed areas around the Line of Actual Control (LAC). Overlapping interests In Pakistan’s case the intensification in its terrorist activities is related in part to the dilution of Article 370 that it perceives as undercutting its claims on Kashmir with finality. China seems to have calculated that the division of Ladakh from Jammu and Kashmir, that delinks Ladakh from the Kashmir problem, allows India a freer hand in contesting China’s claims in the region. Increasing road-building activity on India’s part close to the LAC augments this perception. In addition to bordering on China’s most restive provinces of Xinjiang and Tibet, Ladakh is contiguous to Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK), Gilgit and Baltistan, where the Chinese have invested hugely under the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) project. When completed, the CPEC will connect Xinjiang with Gwadar port in Balochistan. External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar’s remark last year that India expects to have “physical jurisdiction over (POK) one day” has alarmed Beijing which sees any such Indian move as threatening the CPEC project. These factors demonstrate the overlapping interests that Beijing and Islamabad have regarding India in this region. Both would like India to be so preoccupied with taking defensive measures in Kashmir and Ladakh as to have little time and energy left to attempt to alter the status quo in POK or in Aksai Chin. However, there are major differences in Pakistani and Chinese objectives regarding India that are related to their divergent perceptions of their disputes and their different force equations with India. For China, Ladakh is primarily a territorial dispute with strategic ramifications. China also believes it is superior to the Indian militarily and, therefore, can afford to push India around within limits as it has been attempting to do in the recent confrontation. For Pakistan, its territorial claim on Kashmir is based on an immutable ideological conviction that it is the unfinished business of partition and as a Muslim-majority state is destined to become a part of Pakistan. Islamabad also realises that it is the weaker power in conventional terms and therefore has to use unconventional means, primarily terrorist infiltration, to achieve its objective of changing the status quo in Kashmir. China is a satiated power in Ladakh having occupied Aksai Chin and wants to keep up the pressure on New Delhi to prevent the latter from trying to change the situation on the ground. Changing the status quo It is true that China is agitated about the recent vociferous revival of India’s claims on PoK but its primary concern with regard to Kashmir is to prevent any Indian move from threatening the CPEC project. It does not challenge the status quo in Kashmir. Pakistan, on the other hand, is committed to changing the status quo in Kashmir at all cost. It has been trying to do so since Partition not only through clandestine infiltration but also by engaging in conventional warfare. Therefore, while it is possible to negotiate the territorial dispute with China on a give-and-take basis this is not possible in the case of Pakistan which considers Kashmir a zero-sum game. India should, therefore, distinguish the different objectives on the part of Beijing and Islamabad and tailor its responses accordingly without conflating the two threats to its security. Lumping the two threats together because of a tactical overlap between them makes it difficult to choose policy options rationally. Mohammed Ayoob is University Distinguished Professor Emeritus of International Relations, Michigan State University
10 June 2020||June 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Wrong priorities||Some things are better kept for later during a pandemic. And, public worship is certainly one of them. When epidemiologists were recently polled in the U.S. on when they would think of attending religious service, 43% of about 200 respondents said they would consider that in three months to a year, and an equal number said not for one year. Their caution on mass religious gatherings, which do not lend themselves to physical distancing and have a history of amplifying the COVID-19 pandemic in more than one country, should sober down governments that are keen to open religious places early in the unlock phase. Even with online registration, e-passes, distance marking and use of personal protective equipment by staff, gatherings in confined spaces go against the grain of infection prevention principles. It is heartening that some temple boards, churches and Islamic religious bodies have wisely decided to remain closed. As among the top five virus-affected nations, India cannot afford to create conditions that lead to mass transmission. The priority today is to refloat a crippled economy safely, while postponing all optional activities to a time when there is better disease control, and prevention and treatment courses are available. The compulsion to unlock when infections have not peaked has already placed the onus of remaining safe on people, a significant section of whom have health vulnerabilities such as diabetes. Going by ICMR-linked studies, the disease burden for diabetes alone has grown 80% since 1990, highlighting the enormous risk of virus exposure. Millions of such citizens now face aggravated community transmission. After pursuing a lockdown strategy that had low impact on the infection curve, but many negative outcomes, India needs to draw up its unlock priorities carefully. It must show the political will to enforce norms on public behaviour such as mask wearing and physical distancing. Yet, the scenes from many cities coming out of lockdown, including hard-hit ones such as Mumbai, show anxious crowding in many situations, including on public transport. Night curfews are weakly enforced. This is worrying, considering the limited medical capacity that exists to care for a large number who might suffer the worst effects of COVID-19. Getting unlocking wrong could mean an explosion of cases, which, WHO has warned, remains a possibility in India, Pakistan and Bangladesh. National policy should not put the cart before the horse, by prioritising activities such as worship at public places. All available resources must be devoted towards productive and essential work. The Centre has to also explain what it is doing to assess the prevalence of infection at the community-level at a suitable scale, which is crucial to identify focus areas and decide the course of further unlock phases.
10 June 2020||June 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Crossing the line||The decision announced by Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal to restrict COVID-19 treatment in Delhi’s private hospitals and those run by the government of NCT only to those with proof of residence in the city was ill-thought-out. As Lieutenant-Governor Anil Baijal noted in his order overruling the decision, ‘Right to Health’ is an integral part of ‘Right to Life’ under Article 21 of the Constitution. While health care is far from being universal in India, positively denying that to someone on the grounds of residency is insensitive and irresponsible. The Lieutenant-Governor has now directed that treatment should not be denied to anyone. Mr. Kejriwal depicted a scenario of “people of the whole country” overwhelming hospitals in the city as justification for his nativism. After the LG’s intervention, the Chief Minister and his deputy, Manish Sisodia, reiterated the argument and preemptively sought to wash their hands of the worsening situation. They expect 5.5 lakh COVID-19 cases by July-end for which 80,000 beds could be needed. The 10-week lockdown was meant to ramp up health infrastructure, and if the AAP government has not done that, it has only itself to blame. In fact, it must come clean on what it has done. Restriction of movement is a crucial tool in pandemic management, but it has to be justifiable. The NCT is functionally contiguous with Gurugram in Haryana and NOIDA in Uttar Pradesh. Thousands cross these borders for work and other needs including health care. People contribute to tax revenues in three different jurisdictions. This makes Mr. Kejriwal’s rhetoric unreasonable as much as Karnataka’s decision to prevent residents of Kasargod in Kerala from accessing hospitals in Mangaluru earlier. The AAP government’s approach is contentious for more reasons, however, as it is using it also as a diversionary tactic. While the city is recording an exponential growth in infections, the government is trying to deflect attention from its inadequacies by hiding the numbers. It has reduced testing dramatically — on June 2 it was 6,070, on June 7, 5,042, and on June 8, 3,700. The AAP government accused private labs of flouting ICMR guidelines and discouraged testing of asymptomatic people. The high positivity rate — the proportion of positives to total tests — indicates that the NCT is not testing enough. The ICMR’s May 18 strategy directed testing of direct and high risk contacts of confirmed coronavirus individuals even if asymptomatic. The government revised this by removing “asymptomatic” from the clause, which was also overturned by the LG who ordered that guidelines must be adhered to in their entirety. Delhi is testing more than the national average for per million population but that does not say much given that it has a population density 30 times the national figure. Delhi needs to get its act together.
10 June 2020||June 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Wise vote in Switzerland||The Swiss have shown wisdom in voting at a referendum against a proposal to curb “over-foreignisation” of their economy and society. James Schwarzenbach, Switzerland’s version of England’s Enoch Powell, had proposed that the percentage of foreigners should be reduced from 16 to 10, by expelling 3,00,000 non-Swiss and by drastically curbing further immigration. The proposal was not based upon racialism as the term is commonly understood, for most of the foreigners in Switzerland have come from southern Europe, especially Italy. Firms in Switzerland, West Germany, Scandinavia, England and France have no prejudice against recruiting south Europeans because they find that these people are hardworking and are thrifty in their habits. But certain social pressures and prejudices arise out of the presence of a large working force of foreigners. In Switzerland, for instance, there is a feeling that south Europeans depress the country’s standard of living. But these immigrants are prepared to take up jobs for which the natives are not available in adequate numbers.
10 June 2020||MUMBAI,||BCCI seeks clarity on T20 WC||The Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) finds itself in a tricky spot ahead of Wednesday’s crucial Board meeting of the International Cricket Council (ICC), which will discuss the staging of the forthcoming editions of the T20 World Cup. While Australia is scheduled to host the T20 World Cup in October-November this year, India has been awarded next year’s event. However, the COVID-19 outbreak has forced the ICC to consider alternative arrangements, such as deferring the two editions to 2021 and 2022. Although Cricket Australia, the Australian government and the ICC are likely to wait another month before making a decision — considering the improvement in the pandemic situation in the country — the BCCI is eager for a quicker resolution. “We are hoping that a decision will be made soon about the 2020 edition,” BCCI treasurer Arun Dhumal said on Tuesday. The IPL angle The BCCI is desperate for clarity — if the 2020 T20 World Cup is deferred, the BCCI hopes to squeeze in the IPL, which was postponed, in some form in October-November. The BCCI is also hoping that the ICC doesn’t take the 2021 edition away from it. There have been discussions between the ICC and Cricket Australia on the possibility of Australia staging the T20 World Cup in 2021. If that happens, India may be asked to host the T20 World Cup in 2022, months before the scheduled 50-over World Cup in India in 2023. In order to decide the BCCI’s stance, top office-bearers — including president Sourav Ganguly, who is set to represent the BCCI as an ICC Director — had a conference call on Tuesday evening. Mani enters fray Wednesday’s meeting is also set to chalk out the procedure for electing Shashank Manohar’s successor as ICC chairman. While Ganguly remains a rank outsider for the post, it is understood that Pakistan Cricket Board chief Ehsan Mani has emerged as a contender to take on the England and Wales Cricket Board’s Colin Graves. Interestingly, the agenda of discussing the scheduling of the T20 World Cup and the chairman election was deferred on May 28 owing to the directors being anguished by the leaks of internal documents to the public domain. The inquiry report on the matter is also set to be tabled on Wednesday.
10 June 2020||June 10 2020 00:00 IST,||It is time we took racism seriously on and off the field||So now we know that Darren Sammy was called “kaalu” by his teammates in the IPL. There’s no way around it; this is a racially charged nickname, and no right-thinking person can condone it. Even if it is hard to believe that Sammy wasn’t aware of meaning and context. Still, he has brought to light an issue that we don’t feel comfortable dealing with. Sammy is the first cricketer from the little island of St Lucia –— its other famous son is the poet and Nobel laureate Derek Walcott — to play for and then captain the West Indies. He is a man with a ready smile and a gentle air about him. The International Cricket Council has in place an anti-racism policy, and countries like England have organisations and sensible rules to deal with racism. The ICC code applies to the Board of Control for Cricket in India and from March 2019, the IPL has adopted it too. If a player makes a racist remark and is reported, he will pay a price. I am not sure if a statute of limitations applies in the Sammy case. Ishant Sharma’s Instagaram post referring to “kaalu” is from 2014. Doubtless there will be others. Casual racism disguised as affectionate name-calling is not new. For racism has never been taken seriously in India. Even Gandhi was a racist early in his life. It was the prevailing orthodoxy then. As his biographer Ramachandra Guha wrote, “In his twenties, Gandhi was unquestionably a racist. He believed in a hierarchy of civilizations, with Europeans at the top, Indians just below them, and Africans absolutely at the bottom. He spoke of the native inhabitants of Africa in patronizing and even pejorative language.” But, as Guha also pointed out, “ (Gandhi) outgrew his racism quite decisively, and for most of his life he was an anti-racist, talking for an end to discrimination of all kinds.” School children often called mates “blackie” or local versions of respective physical handicaps. Teachers didn’t always correct them, and sometimes called the students by such nicknames themselves. It is horrifying to think of that now. Players from the West Indies have had insults hurled at them on Indian grounds. Sometimes with affection (as with some Indian cusswords), often in anger or frustration since these words and their variations are a part of the everyday vocabulary. “ Tera kya hoga kaaliya ?”, a famous line from a popular movie, was used indiscriminately. Colour of skin The misguided saw these as being descriptive rather than insulting. Dark-skinned Indians themselves have had to put up with it, as internationals Abhinav Mukund, Dodda Ganesh and Laxmipathy Balaji have said. The issue in India isn’t racism per se, but colour of skin regardless of race. You only have to read our matrimonial advertisements to understand just how much importance we place on skin colour. Things may be changing slowly, but a generation or two ago it didn’t matter whether a person was intelligent or smart or good-looking or well-salaried so long as he (or she) was fair complexioned. The marriage market seemed to be flooded with the fair (there were short-hand expressions to indicate just how fair or dark a prospective bride or groom was). But a refusal to acknowledge the hurt it causes and ignorance of the fact that the world has moved on, has meant that for many Indians, especially those guaranteed a degree of anonymity in big crowds, all is fair game. Crowds can be brutal. At least one Indian player had a promising career cut short because he couldn’t handle offensive crowds when he fielded near the boundary. The chant was seen as part of the fun of attending a cricket match. Players have been abused on the basis of colour, religion, home life; this was social media trolling in the days before social media. Players haven’t been innocent either. Australia’s Darren Lehmann used an expression against Kumar Sangakkara that should have called for a bigger punishment than a five-ODI ban. Pakistan’s Sarfraz Khan’s diatribe against a Zimbabwe player was caught by the stump mike. And Harbhajan Singh either did or did not use a racial slur against Andrew Symonds, depending on whom you believed, an act that nearly precipitated a crisis in Indo-Australia relations. No crossing the line It doesn’t need a knee on the throat that killed a man to remind us that colour does not matter. As more stories of demeaning conduct emerge, the ICC — and the BCCI — have the responsibility to ensure that behaviour, by players or fans, doesn’t cross a line. For players, the consequences are laid out. For spectators, arrests, fines, and prison are ways to get the message across. Racism has no place on the field or in the dressing room. There is no such thing as “affectionate racism.”
10 June 2020||Bengaluru,||ICC committee ratifies interim changes||ICC’s Chief Executives’ Committee (CEC) has ratified the interim changes to playing regulations proposed by the Cricket Committee which include the ban on the use of saliva to shine the ball, allowing home umpires in international series and permitting COVID-19 player replacements. An ICC media release said that if a player is caught applying saliva to the ball, umpires will manage the situation with some leniency during an initial period of adjustment but subsequent instances will be penalised.  “A team can be issued up to two warnings per innings but repeated use of saliva on the ball will result in a five-run penalty to the batting side. Whenever saliva is applied to the ball, the umpires will be instructed to clean the ball before play recommences,” it said. Teams will be allowed to replace players displaying symptoms of COVID-19 during a Test match and in line with how concussion replacements operate, the Match Referee will approve the nearest like-for-like replacement. However, this regulation will not be applicable in ODIs and T20Is. The requirement to have neutral match officials will be temporarily removed for all formats owing to the prevailing logistical challenges with international travel. An additional unsuccessful DRS review for a team in each innings is permitted “keeping in mind that there may be less experienced umpires on duty at times.”
10 June 2020||Kozhikode,||Nothing to separate Earth and Space||It was a scene straight out of a science-fiction movie. There they were, floating and trying to remain stationary. From the International Space Station, Anatoly Ivanishin and Ivan Vagner made quite a picture — especially when the microphone went away on its own after the cosmonauts finished speaking. Meanwhile, on Earth, Sergey Karjakin could afford not to worry about things like gravity, as he sat in front of the chessboard at the Memorial Museum of Cosmonautics. He did have to think about his reputation, and of the planet. He was representing Earth in the chess game against Space being held on the 50th anniversary of the first such game. That game in 1970, in which Andrian Nikolayev and Vitaly Sevastyanov took on Viktor Gorbakto and Nikolai Kamanin, was drawn. History repeated itself on Tuesday, as Karjakin’s draw offer was accepted by his rivals from Space. “It was a sharp, quality game,” said Karjakin, acknowledging the fine effort from his fellow Russians. “Space seemed to be ready for this specific, very sharp line,” he added. Space was obviously pleased. “It felt great not to lose,” said Ivanishin.
10 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Nothing to separate Earth and Space||Fifty years after the first “Space-to-Earth” chess game ended in a 35-move draw, Russian Grandmaster Sergey Karjakin and fellow-Russian, Cosmonaut Anatoly Ivanishin dished out a 21-move deadlock in a commemorative event of symbolic value. The game marked the 50th anniversary of the first space-versus-earth game, when Cosmonauts Andrian Nikolayev and Vitaly Sevastyanov from Soyuz 9 flight took on General Nikolai Kamanin and cosmonaut Viktor Gorbatko, who played from Moscow. For the record, Karjakin, playing black, offered a draw in the game that followed the opening lines of Ruy Lopez exchange variation. Ivanishin managed to trap Karjakin’s queen and forced Karjakin to make an offer following perpetual checks. “It is an honour not to lose to a player like Karjakin,” said Ivanishin. A smiling Karjakin, the 2016 World championship finalist, immediately returned the compliment, saying, “It was an honour to play a cosmonaut.” Karjakin played from the Moscow Museum of Cosmonautics, while Ivanishin, along with Ivan Vagner, from the ISS — their home in space since April 9, 2020.
10 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Batra reaches out to Bach, refutes forgery allegations||Days after asserting he would formally reply to allegations of forgery and illegality in his 2017 election only after resuming office, IOA president Narinder Batra has reached out to the International Olympic Committee (IOC). In a communique to IOC president Thomas Bach on Tuesday, Batra has refuted allegations levelled by IOA vice-president Sudhanshu Mittal in his mails to the IOC and the FIH. ‘Self-motivated’ Terming the mails by Mittal self-motivated and an attempt to “damage my image and reputation as a means to project himself... as a candidate for president in the 2021 IOA elections”, Batra reiterated that “I have at no stage flouted any of the Rules and Regulations of the Indian Olympic Association or the International Hockey Federation in my election as president of the Indian Olympic Association which was held on 14 Dec. 2017.”
10 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||NIS proposes to drop tennis from curriculum||It is considered one of the best tennis coaching courses in the country, but the National Institute of Sports (NIS), run by Sports Authority of India (SAI), has a proposal to drop it from the curriculum from the next academic year. Lack of response is cited as a reason, but the stringent eligibility criteria may have proved a stumbling block for aspirants. SAI had been reducing the number of students over the years and the current batch has only three. There have been two demands to sustain the course. One was to revise the syllabus, even though it has been generally agreed that the fundamentals remain the same. Second, to relax the criteria so that players at the State or zonal level get to study the course. At the moment, a player should have competed in the National championship or in two editions of the All-India inter-University championship. “It was a wonderful course. We had allied subjects like general training, sports psychology, kinesiology and sports medicine. “There were classes to teach us how to massage, operate ECG and gauge lung capacity,” said former National coach T. Chandrasekaran, who did the course in 1984-85.  It was a wonderful course. We had allied subjects like general training, sports psychology, kinesiology and sports medicine— T. Chandrasekaran,former National coach
10 June 2020||KOZHIKODE,||Warrier to seek NOC from KCA||Sandeep Warrier, who has been spearheading the Kerala attack for the last eight years, is seeking a No Objection Certificate from the Kerala Cricket Association (KCA) so that he could play for Tamil Nadu next season. “I have already spoken to the KCA officials and will formally write to the association on Wednesday,” Warrier told The Hindu over phone from Chennai. “I have been living in Tamil Nadu for a while and have also been playing in the Chennai league.” The 29-year-old swing bowler, who has taken 186 wickets from 57 First Class matches, had also been approached by Andhra and Vidarbha. However, playing for the strong Tamil Nadu side could be an ideal move for Warrier.
10 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Sammy seeks apology||An old social media post by India pacer Ishant Sharma lent credence to Darren Sammy’s allegation that a racist nickname was used to address him during his IPL stint with Sunrisers Hyderabad. The former West Indies skipper is now demanding an apology. Ishant had shared a group picture on May 14, 2014, using Kalu to identify the West Indian. The same year, Sammy called himself Kalu in a social media post while offering birthday wishes to V.V.S. Laxman, SRH’s mentor then. “All those who used to call me that, you guys know yourselves, some of you have my numbers, you have me on Instagram, Twitter, wherever. Reach out to me, let’s have a conversation,” said Sammy. Sammy reiterated that he is very disappointed as he thought of his teammates as family.  All those who used to call me that, you guys know yourselves... Reach out to me, let’s have a conversation
10 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Top IITs and IISc slip in global rankings||The top five Indian Institutes of Technology and the Indian Institute of Science have all dropped in this year's QS World University rankings, released on Wednesday. Only the newer IITs in Guwahati and Hyderabad were able to show improvement. The total number of Indian institutions in the top 1,000 global list has also fallen from 24 to 21, despite the Centre's flagship Institutes of Eminence scheme, launched two years ago in a bid to boost the Indian presence in these global rankings. Up in research “The slight drop in rankings of some institutes is because of the parameter of internationalisation,” a senior HRD Ministry official told The Hindu . India performs poorest on this parameter, while scoring well on research impact, measured through citations per faculty. “We have formed a committee on how we can improve the perception of the premier Indian institutes abroad. The committee comprises of IIT directors among others,” added the official. “Out of the six parameters, Indian institutions get zero score on ratio of international faculty and students. “We also score poorly on faculty-student ratio, because we only count full time faculty, whereas American universities include Ph.D. students who are teaching or research assistants. We do quite well on the research impact parameter,” said IIT Delhi director V. Ramgopal Rao. “The rest is about perception which cannot be changed by an individual institution. Let the government launch a campaign similar to Incredible India,” he said, adding that if a parameter comparing the cost of education to students was introduced, Indian institutions would be among the world’s top 50. The top seven IITs had jointly decided to boycott the Times Higher Education rankings earlier this year, questioning its methodology and transparency. IIT-Bombay still maintains its position as the top institution in India in the QS rankings, but has slipped 20 places from 152 to 172 in the global list. IISc overtook IIT Delhi to make it to the second place, but still dropped a rank to 185. IIT Delhi fell more than 10 places in the rankings to 193 rank, while IIT Madras is at 275. Both IIT Kharagpur and IIT Kanpur crashed out of the top 300. IIT Roorkee maintained its ranking at 383, while IIT Guwahati improved from 491 to 470. IIT Hyderabad entered the top 1,000 for the first time. BITS slips It was a mixed bag for elite private universities. Prestigious names such as BITS Pilani and the Vellore Institute of Technology have dropped out of the top 1,000 list, but OP Jindal Global University, a new entrant last year, has climbed to the 650-700 band in the rankings. “Our success is based on five pillars: our not-for-profit status, strong commitment to faculty hiring and research, a focus on internationalisation, devotion to humanities and social sciences, and the drive to build our reputation through students and employers,” said C. Raj Kumar, Vice-Chancellor at OP Jindal.
10 June 2020||Kolkata,||I can’t wait to return to work, says Paromita||“I can afford being without work for maybe another six months, not longer, but what about my hairdresser?” asked actor Paromita Mukherjee, who last reported on the sets — to shoot for a TV serial and also a Bengali film — on March 17. She was in the studios throughout the night and worked till 5 a.m. on March 18, when the entertainment industry in West Bengal shut down due to the COVID-19 pandemic. On Wednesday, shooting is expected to resume for TV serials and that should come as a big relief to industry professionals who have remained without income for more than three months now. “The moment I finish this call with you, I am going to transfer some money into the account of my hairdresser. Her home was damaged in the cyclone, she desperately needs money,” Ms. Mukherjee said. “I don’t think there are more than five or six people in the entertainment industry in Bengal who can afford to be without work for prolonged periods. The rest are all daily wagers.  We live in uncertainty Entertainment is an unorganised sector and as it is we live in uncertainty. The lockdown has only heightened the uncertainty and everybody — right from actors to technicians — has suffered,” she said. If shooting resumes on Wednesday, crews would have to follow dos and don’ts: only 35 members of an unit can be present in a studio, child actors below the age of 10 are not allowed, and actors above the age of 60 would have to sign a declaration that they are reporting for work at their own risk. “I can’t wait to return to work (for the serial she was shooting, titled Joy Baba Lokenath) . My production house has told me we will be shooting from tomorrow but I have not been given a reporting time yet, so I can’t be sure,” said Ms. Mukherjee, who used the lockdown period to take acting classes on Zoom because “acting is a skill that needs to be honed constantly”.   Depressing moments “I read books on acting during this period. I cooked, I did household chores. But there were depressing moments ... , so depressing that one felt like jumping off the roof. “During such moments I would watch movies. Sometimes it would be a Govinda film, sometimes films like The Boy Who Harnessed the Wind. “In all I watched about 70 films during the lockdown,” Ms. Mukherjee added.
10 June 2020||June 10 2020 08:52 IST,||Sudoku - June 10, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
10 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Couples who volunteer||Saba Dewan calls it an “unconscious pooling of strengths”. She and her partner Rahul Roy started ‘Gurgaon Nagrik Ekta Manch’, a citizens’ platform with the core belief of an inclusive India. It was an initial response to the threats being made to stop Friday namaz, after the banning of the religious practice in public spaces in 2018. Mr. Roy remembers, “There was a group of young men who were disrupting the namaz. Both of us came back and started making calls to various friends in Gurugram.” Like-minded people came together and formed the group, which is today coordinating relief work for migrant workers in Gurugram and surrounding areas, with 200 volunteers on board. Between the two, the person with the qualities better suited for the project and the situation leads by default. While Mr. Roy is steering the work related to food and movement of migrants now, Ms. Dewan was front and centre during the ‘Not in my Name’ campaign against communal hate. “He’s actually a people’s person; I’m not. I am a quieter person. I like focusing on one thing and I am not brilliant at multitasking. He is good at both. He can be doing something with distribution, then talking to the procurement team for some rice-atta, then be doing something else,” she says, adding that Mr. Roy has the ability to get diverse people on board and engage with them. They have known each other for about 35 years now. As film-makers, they are involved in each other’s work too. “We have grown up with each other,” she says, as they ebb and flow, one into the other, instinctively taking up responsibilities as the need arises. “It’s not thought out or worked out. I am better in terms of detailing work – charts, numbers, so it just works out that way.” After so many years, it’s difficult for “old” couples to discover newness, but Mr. Roy says there are certain qualities that come to the fore in heightened circumstances. “I know Saba is a street fighter, so if there is a situation where there is a certain kind of public expression of emotion or anger, she will take that fight on.” Expansion of the person During the lockdown, with people at home and the strain exposing naked wires in relationships, Navin Sellaraju, who has been with his partner for 10 years, says he has discovered that she can be patient. “It’s something I didn’t know was there.” He acknowledges that his parents, who had come for a visit and got stuck in the city, the care of their 14-month-old, post-partum recovery, the lack of house help and of sleep, and her filling every spare minute with getting on the phone to coordinate and connect, have all been new for Shakti Khanna. “The fact that he has noticed it is great,” she says, laughing. As soon as the lockdown was announced, Mr. Sellaraju, who works with ‘Railway Children’, a not-for-profit focused on fighting against exploitation and abuse of children on platforms, realised they would have to go beyond the projects that were already in place. It would have been difficult to kick-start the relief work immediately, but for Ms. Khanna resourcefully reaching out to a wide network of friends to help raise funds and connecting the organisation to a wider network of people already doing relief work. He himself decided to invest his time extending his working hours, often taking calls late at night from his team because a situation had arisen. “Earlier Navin worked for about 10 hours; now it’s 24x7,” says Ms. Khanna. In fact, many professionals, like psychologists and teachers, around the city have extended their services free of cost to help people cope during the pandemic. As they go about doing their daily chores, mopping the house thrice a day because their baby is down on the ground a lot, cooking, washing the dishes, even baking banana bread, all they can talk about is the crisis. “We cried together when we saw the images of the baby [trying to wake up his dead mother] in Muzaffarpur,” she says. There are moments when they are overwhelmed because of the stress and exhaustion when “in the evening we look at our baby who is full of energy and wonder who is going to respond”, but overall, “we’re just so grateful we have each other”. Sense of gratitude This is a sentiment that Sijo Mathai Mukulel and Sonia Sijo, who live in Najafgarh, echo. “We are with each other more now than before, and there’s so much comfort in it, rather than going with someone else,” says Mr. Mukulel, who, with his partner of nine years, distributes rations to needy people in the area. “When we go to areas of sex workers, she takes the lead; when we go to areas where there are bachelors living together, I am in front,” he says of the complementing relationship. The couple, who are embedded into the community through ‘Social Vision India’, a not-for-profit they established, work with women and children across a variety of projects. “We already had a ration programme going, so there are about five to 10 kits always in the building. We know all the families of the children, so if any member loses a job or is unwell, we give them immediate support with these,” he says. With the centre shut because of social distancing, they began reaching out to those who had a disability, women who were widowed, and the sick, so they wouldn’t be left hungry. The couple have three children, and while there was the joint worry about bringing the infection home, they took the decision to go out and serve. “ Hamari  soch  ek hi hai  [Our thoughts are same],” says Ms. Sijo, adding that the children are taken care of by neighbours when they go out together. “I don’t think I would have been able to do this alone,” says Mr. Mukulel. “We would not have had the same kind of understanding. We sometimes get volunteers who come home for work and we ask them to stay for dinner. If she wasn’t involved, she may not have welcomed them the way she does now.” Sharon Immanuel acknowledges the support of her partner Timothy. “He is always supporting me in everything I want to do.” The couple run ‘Haven International Coffee Shop’ in Noida, and they first reached out to labourers at a construction site where Ms. Immanuel teaches children. “It’s unique for men to do the dishes without being asked, feed our seven-year-old, help homeschool him,” she says. “I sign him up for so many things and there are no questions asked.” Now that the cafe has started takeaways and deliveries, Mr. Immanuel, who was involved in the on-ground work, while his partner did the coordination and fund raising, wakes up earlier to deliver rations. It’s the suspension of ego and lack of power play that probably give these couples the drive to focus where it truly matters. As Ishaan Mehta, 18, watched his parents Hemant and Sonali Mehta, from Vasant Kunj, get involved in raising money and carting and distributing water and lassi to people at a local school, he too got into action. “I wouldn’t have been as interested in volunteering if both my parents weren’t,” he says candidly. “There was a lot of conscious talk in the house about what we had done, about what was happening outside our home, which I had never thought about before.” He considers what a long-term relationship could mean: “If you’re together, you need something to work towards – a common goal. I mean, you can have different opinions on music and movies and stuff, but on basic things like human rights or politics – you need to have a common ground.”
10 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Delhi riots: Crime Branch files three more chargesheets||The Crime Branch of Delhi Police filed three chargesheets before a court on Tuesday in cases related to the communal violence in north-east Delhi in February. Two of the three chargesheets were filed in connection with the alleged murder of two locals, Mohd. Furkan and Deepak. The third was regarding mob violence at Maujpur Chowk wherein protesters, both supporting and against the Citizenship (Amendement) Act, resorted to stone-pelting and arson. As per the chargesheets, there was deep-rooted conspiracy behind the riots. A web of conspirators and instigators has been identified and several have been arrested, the police said. During the probe, it has been established that the riots were not impromptu and were triggered to malign the image of the country under the garb of democratically opposing the CAA, the chargesheets said. Murder case The police chargesheeted four persons in the murder of Furkan, who was allegedly shot at on February 24. Furkan was present at Kardampuri, where the rioters were pelting stones and committing arson, the police said. According to the chargesheet, Furkan and four others sustained gunshot injuries and 17 police officials received injuries due to heavy stone-pelting. Furkan later succumbed to his injuries. The second chargesheet in the murder case of Deepak was filed against four persons for allegedly rioting and lynching him near a government dispensary at Kardampuri. The chargesheet said that on February 25, rioters torched vehicles in two parking lots and Deepak, who worked as a battery rickshaw driver, was caught near a dispensary and lynched. The third chargesheet was filed against five persons for allegedly resorting to violence when pro-CAA and anti-CAA protesters clashed at Maujpur on February 24. Shahrukh Pathan, who had allegedly brandished his gun and shot at a constable during the riots, is the main accused in the case. Police claimed that several shots had been fired by him and three empty shells were recovered from the spot. The chargesheet said that initially the protest was peaceful but soon became violent and led to incidents of stone-pelting, arson, firing and sabotage from both sides. Several police personnel as well as civilians were injured. The Crime Branch has filed 20 chargesheets till now in cases related to the riots. It has been investigating 59 cases related to it.
10 June 2020||New Delhi,||Identify labourers stranded at Azadpur Mandi: HC to official||Taking up the cause of the migrant labour issues in the Capital, the Delhi High Court on Tuesday directed the Model Town SDM to undertake an exercise to identify the exact number of labourers, reportedly around 1,000, who are stranded at Azadpur Mandi and are in need of two meals a day and shelter. A Bench of Justice Hima Kohli and Justice Subramonium Prasad also directed the SDM to tally the number of lunch and dinner packets given to the labourers by hunger relief centres as claimed by the Delhi government with the actual number of labourers stranded and stationed at Azadpur Mandi. The High Court’s direction came while hearing a petition filed in public interest (PIL) by the Potato and Onion Masakhour Merchant Association to ensure that about 1,000 labourers stranded at Azadpur Mandi during the lockdown period are provided two square meals a day till normalcy is restored. The association also urged to relocate the stranded workers to a makeshift shelter home within or around Azadpur Mandi. Pursuant to a previous order of the High Court, the SDM, Model Town, in an affidavit, stated that there are two hunger relief centres located within the Azadpur Mandi and two other centres located within a radius of 150 meters. The four centres provide 1,300 lunch packets and 1,300 dinner packets per day to labourers and others in need. The court was also informed that there is a Delhi Urban Shelter Improvement Board (DUSIB) Shelter Home at Sarai Peepal Thala near Azadpur Mandi, where the stranded can stay. Additionally, there are three temporary shelter homes set up in three schools located at Model Town-III, Azadpur Colony and Dhaka Village. During the hearing, the association contested the Delhi government’s claim that the number of stranded labourers in Azadpur Mandi is far below 1,000, saying the figure remains around 1,000 despite a number of labourers having migrated from Delhi.
10 June 2020||New Delhi,||Plea to cap rates for treating COVID-19||The Delhi High Court on Tuesday asked the AAP government to treat as representation a plea seeking direction for capping or fixing rates to be charged by private hospitals for treating COVID-19 patients. The High Court also disposed of a batch of petitions challenging the Delhi government’s June 7 order directing all its hospitals and private hospitals and nursing homes here to admit only bona fide residents of the Capital for treatment. The court made the decision after it was informed by the counsel for Delhi government that Lieutenant Governor Anil Baijal has overruled the decision of Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal. A Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan also asked the Delhi government to treat as representation another petition by a two-year-old boy highlighting the considerable risk faced by him and many other minors due to the Delhi government’s decision to lift the restrictions imposed to contain the spread of COVID-19. The child, in his plea, said he resides in a joint family comprising working members, who would be resuming work/ regular office pursuant to the unlockdown as announced by the Delhi government with effect from June 8, and he is at considerable risk of contacting COVID-19 through these members due to lifting of restriction on movements.
10 June 2020||NEW DELHI,||Party at city restaurant busted, four arrested||At a restaurant in west Delhi’s Rajouri Garden, police busted a party on Monday, flouting social distancing norms. A total of 38 attendees were found, after which four persons including the owner and manager were arrested, police said. DCP (West) Deepak Purohit said that a police team was patrolling Vishan Enclave on Najafgarh Road. When they reached Quibitos restaurant, they observed some suspicious movement. “A surprise check was conducted and it was found that a party was going on. Thirty eight persons were attending the party and were not following social distancing norms ,” Mr. Purohit said. “It is not illegal to visit a restaurant but social distancing was not being followed which led to legal action,” the DCP said.
10 June 2020||New Delhi,||Govt.’s response sought on vacant bed status plea||The High Court on Tuesday sought response from the Kejriwal government on a petition seeking direction to hospitals and nursing homes, who have been permitted to treat COVID-19 patients, to publish on their websites the status of vacancy of beds on a daily basis so that patients are not made to run from pillar to post. A Bench of Justice Hima Kohli and Justice Subramonium Prasad gave two days to the Delhi government to give its reply to the petition, which has sought to make arrangements for proper treatment for COVID and non-COVID patients in hospitals here.
10 June 2020||New Delhi,||Sidharth- DU||Delhi University’s standing committee on admissions is expected to meet on Wednesday to finalise the admission process for the academic year 2020-2021. It was earlier scheduled for Monday. Meanwhile, an admissions tab has been added to the university’s website, containing helpline numbers and emails for applicants. The university in a notice said that it would announce the dates for admission on its website.
