10 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Farmers reject amendment proposals, plan to intensify stir||Farmer leaders on Wednesday rejected the Union government’s proposal to amend the farm laws and vowed to intensify their agitation until they are repealed. They plan to block the capital’s highways to Agra and Jaipur by December 12 and hold a nationwide dharna two days later. The Centre delivered its written proposal to the farmers’ leadership at the Singhu border point on Tuesday afternoon, two weeks after the tens of thousands of farmers began their protest, camping on Delhi’s borders. The proposal offered a written assurance that government procurement at minimum support price would remain, along with proposals to amend the laws to deal with the concerns raised by farmers regarding parity between State-run and private mandis, registration of traders, and dispute resolution mechanisms. “There is nothing different in this from what has been said during the discussions, which we have repeatedly rejected. The government wants to dress up its old proposals in new clothes. It’s an insult to farmers,” said Krantikari Kisan Union president Darshan Pal. He outlined plans to step up the pressure. “By December 12, we will jam the Delhi-Jaipur highway. On that day, we will make toll plazas across the country free for a day,” he said, adding that farmers were calling for a boycott of Jio mobile connections and other products and services of the Reliance and Adani conglomerates. D
10 December 2020||Kolkata,||Doctors’ forum helps stem the spread of COVID-19 in Bengal||The COVID-19 pandemic has seen the emergence of the three-year-old West Bengal Doctors’ Forum (WBDF) as an influential body that has helped prevent the situation in the State going from bad to worse by regularly engaging with the government and the public. West Bengal is known for its festivals and the scale of their celebrations, but considering that the number of COVID-19 cases did not witness a post-festival surge, unlike in many other States, a significant amount of credit for that goes to WBDF. “We have transformed from a social media-based doctors’ group to a drawing-room presence in West Bengal. This is indeed an achievement,” Dr. Arjun Dasgupta, a reputed ENT surgeon and a founding member of WBDF, told The Hindu . “For example, Durga Puja is a cornerstone of Bengali life. This year we advised people to stay home and they did. Without people using their common sense, which eventually prevailed, no court or police can enforce restrictions. Thus we did not see a post-Ganesh Chaturthi-like spike in Maharashtra or a post-Rath Yatra-like spike in Odisha,” said Dr. Dasgupta, adding, “We are now a part of everyday life in Bengal. The COVID-19 situation is still worrying, but you can say we prevented the situation from worsening.” The WBDF had questioned the State Government’s initial handling of the pandemic when several COVID-19 deaths were supposedly being attributed to co-morbidities, but it later went on to partner with the administration in checking its spread. The feedback given by its members, who routinely visited hospitals and facilities, helped the State government refine its strategy against COVID-19. Subsequently, the group, engaging with the public, asked them repeatedly to exercise caution, particularly during festivals. The WBDF was formed in 2017 to fight the West Bengal Clinical Establishments Act that had come into effect earlier that year. The Act prohibited private practitioners from carrying out even the simplest of procedures — such as conducting ECG or administering a vaccine or stitching up a wound — unless their clinic was registered under the Act. Since getting registered and meeting the requirements prescribed under the Act was a cumbersome and expensive process, most clinics had been reduced to consultation chambers. The WBDF had challenged the Act in court, and while the hearing is still on, the State government, on October 1, scrapped the clause that barred private clinics from carrying out primary resuscitation and life-saving procedures, as well as basic procedures such as stitching of superficial injuries, removal of stitches, incision and drainage of superficial abscess, conducting of ECG, and catheterisation for urinary retention.
10 December 2020||Mumbai,||Maharashtra identifies three groups for receiving COVID-19 vaccine on priority||The Maharashtra government has decided to give priority to health workers from government and private hospitals, daily wage workers, and those employed with integrated child development services for the soon-to-be-made-available vaccine on COVID-19. The first meeting of a State-level steering committee formed to finalise the roadmap for the COVID-19 vaccination programme was held on Wednesday, which was chaired by Chief Secretary Sanjay Kumar. A coordination mechanism has been devised at different levels for the programme. The committee will be at the helm of the entire process to be followed by the State task force and the State control centre. At the district level, the vaccination programme will be supervised by the district task force and the district control centre, and a similar mechanism will be set up at the tehsil level as well. Priority list According to an official who attended the meeting, three groups have been identified who will receive the vaccine on the priority basis. The first group will include health workers from government and private hospitals, workers on daily wages, and those employed with integrated child development services. The health workers will be further divided into nine groups to smoothen the process. The second group will include frontline workers such as the police, armed forces, home guards, and civic security services along with employees of the municipal corporations and volunteers with the disaster management system. The third group will include citizens above 50 years and those below 50 years with illnesses. ‘Voting procedure’ “The process of vaccination will run like a voting procedure. Booths will be set up and only those who are registered will be allowed to enter, along with an identity card. The person concerned will get a message on their phone and a certificate with QR code on completion of vaccination,” the official said. Health workers will be vaccinated at primary health centres while those from the second group will receive the vaccine at government or private hospitals, schools, or social centre. The third group will be vaccinated at hospitals, schools, grampanchayat office, or civic body office. Among the health workers who will be vaccinated on priority, 99% data of government health workers has been collected while 78% data from private sector has been compiled. A total of 2.60 lakh government health workers will be vaccinated. As many as 16,245 health workers have been registered for the programme so far, and the total number of registrations as of now is 90,000. Cold storage facility has also been set up which includes one centre at the State level, nine at the divisional level, 34 at the district level, and 27 with corporations. The State-level steering committee includes administrative heads of 18 departments along with representatives from the World Health Organization, UNICEF, UNDP, John Snow International, Clinton Health Access Initiative, Rotary International, Lions Club, Defence establishments, and Railways.
10 December 2020||B. Tilak ChandarMADURAI,||HC closes pleas involving Sri Lankan nationals’ escape from India||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Wednesday closed a batch of connected petitions involving the case of Sri Lankan duo Sanga Sirantha and Mohammed Saffras – both have criminal antecedents in Sri Lanka – who had entered and exited India clandestinely. A Division Bench of Justices K. Kalyanasundaram and T. Krishnavalli was informed by Additional Advocate General K. Chellapandian that the accused who helped the duo escape had been booked and would be produced before the Judicial Magistrate concerned. The court had taken a serious view of the manner in which the two Sri Lankan nationals had entered and exited India. They had escaped to India to evade arrest back home. They were then arrested by Ramanathapuram police for entering India without valid documents. They were remanded in judicial custody in Puzhal Central Prison, Chennai. The two had filed bail petitions before the High Court Bench, but they were dismissed. However, to facilitate their deportation to Sri Lanka the case against them before the trial court was withdrawn. But, the order of the Judicial Magistrate was misconstrued and the two were released from the prison. After their release, they escaped to Sri Lanka with the help of some locals in Ramanathapuram. Earlier, the court was informed by the Centre and the State that the duo had surrendered before a local court in Colombo and it was confirmed to them by Sri Lankan authorities. During the course of the hearing, the State informed the court that disciplinary action had been taken against the erring police officials. Taking cognisance of the submission, the court closed the petitions.
10 December 2020||MADURAI,||No immediate threat of any other cyclones in Tamil Nadu: Minister||Cyclone Burevi had weakened and there was no immediate threat of any cyclone or any warnings at present in Tamil Nadu, said Minister for Disaster Management, IT and Revenue R.B. Udayakumar here on Wednesday. Distributing relief measures to 59 people in Madurai district, who had partially lost their dwellings in the rains, he told reporters that social media was abuzz with posts such as “Five fresh cyclones are going to hit the coastal regions in Tamil Nadu.” These were nothing but rumours, he said. The public should not get carried away by such posts, he cautioned, and said they must look for authentic information from government websites and the IMD forecast. The Minister said the State government’s proactive approach in handling Cyclones Nivar and Burevi had saved not only the lives of people in low-lying areas, but also ensured that damage to vital installations was minimal. Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami and his team worked round the clock during the cyclones. Constantly interactions with officials helped in making decisions quickly. Only water-logging was posing problems, he admitted. Shortly, the work on a survey on the extent of damage to crops across the State would commence, he said, adding the CM had decided to go ahead with distributing compensation to the needy immediately. He said the Centre had released Rs. 650 crore. The Central team would also submit its report to the Union government. The CM had sought Rs. 3,700 crore in assistance, he added. Asked about the criticism by Opposition parties of ‘poor handling of the cyclone’, he dismissed it as a political stunt by DMK president M.K. Stalin. “He (Mr. Stalin) should have the decency to appreciate good work. The AIADMK government does not expect the Opposition to give bouquets, but it would be wiser not to indulge in such politicking during natural calamities,” Mr. Udayakumar said. Onthe Bharat Bandh, he said it was a flop in Tamil Nadu. The farmers were convinced by the repeated assurances of the CM about the three laws and the benefits the farmers might reap. He claimed that in the 2016 DMK election manifesto (page 26), the party had mentioned that if elected to power it would ensure direct marketing of farmers’ produce and thus remove middlemen. Today, the party (DMK) was opposing these laws brought in by the Centre, the Minister said.
10 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Cattle, buffalo meat residue found in Indus Valley vessels||A new study has found the presence of animal products, including cattle and buffalo meat, in ceramic vessels dating back about 4,600 years at seven Indus Valley Civilisation sites in present-day Haryana and Uttar Pradesh. The study, which was published on Wednesday in theJournal of Archaeological Scienceand conducted as a part of the Two Rains project of the University of Cambridge and Banaras Hindu University, analysed the lipid residue in pottery found at the ancient sites. About 50-60% of domestic animal bones found at Indus Valley sites come from cattle/buffalo, the study said. “The high proportions of cattle bones may suggest a cultural preference for beef consumption across Indus populations, supplemented by the consumption of mutton/lamb,” it said. The lead author of the study, Dr. Aksheyta Suryanarayan, said in a statement by the Cambridge University Department of Archaeology: “Our study of lipid residues in Indus pottery shows a dominance of animal products in vessels, such as the meat of non-ruminant animals like pigs, ruminant animals like cattle or buffalo and sheep or goat, as well as dairy products.” She said the analysis of lipid residues involved extraction and identification of the fats and oils that were absorbed in the vessels. “Lipids are relatively less prone to degradation and have been discovered in pottery from archaeological contexts around the world. However, they have seen very limited investigation in ancient ceramics from South Asia,” she said.
10 December 2020||Kolkata,||Kolkata witnessing high air pollution: CSE||After a clean Deepawali, Kolkata and other cities of West Bengal are witnessing high air pollution, according to an analysis by the Centre of Science and Environment (CSE). “In Kolkata, weekly average level of PM2.5 [Particulate Matter] jumped 14 times from the cleanest week of August to most polluted week of December,” a CSE statement issued earlier this week said. Experts’ call While the lower levels of PM2.5 earlier were due to the prolonged lockdown, pollution has gone up with the onset of winter and unlocking of the economy, prompting experts to call for speeding up action on transport, clean fuels in industry, clean power plants, waste management and biomass burning across the region. The analysis also revealed that there were three days this winter in Howrah and one day in Kolkata when the PM2.5 levels were higher than Delhi as Delhi’s pollution subsided during those days. “As the weather gets colder and more adverse, the average pollution in Kolkata continues to climb when Delhi’s pollution levels seem to have plateaued. This year on November 16, 17 and 18, Kolkata and Howrah had higher PM2.5 levels than Delhi. On those days, winter peak pollution in Delhi had got lower,” the statement stated. Avikal Somvanshi, programme manager in CSE’s urban lab team of Sustainable Cities, said the CSE analyzed the air quality of Kolkata, Howrah, Asansol and Siliguri. Real-time data of seven air quality monitoring stations in Kolkata were analysed along with three stations in Howrah; and one each in Asansol and Siliguri under the Continuous Ambient Air Quality Monitoring System (CAAQMS). While the weekly average of PM2.5 in Kolkata rose 14 times, it rose in Howrah nine times, Asansol seven times and in Siliguri 11 times. Anumita Roychowdhury, executive director-research and advocacy, CSE, said that it remained to be seen how the pollution level would play out in the rest of the winter but the region cannot afford to lose the wins already made. Ms. Roychowdhury emphasised that there was need to enforce power plant standards in the larger region, provide clean fuels to the industry, scale up public transport and vehicle restraint measures and manage waste to have a zero waste and zero landfill strategy. “But the peak winter pollution also shows that cities need graded response action plan for emergency response during smog episodes”, she added.
10 December 2020||Mumbai,||BMC setting up storage facility||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) is setting up a new COVID-19 vaccine storage facility at one of its buildings in Kanjurmarg, officials said on Wednesday. The new vaccine storage facility will be in addition to the existing cold storage facilities at four civic-run hospitals in the city, BMC’s additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani told PTI . The BMC has identified its own five-storey building at Kanjurmarg for the new COVID-19 vaccine storage facility, which will be set up on its first floor, another civic official said. Currently, Sion Hospital, Nair Hospital, KEM Hospital, and Cooper Hospital have vaccine storage facilities, he said. These hospitals have a limited vaccine storage capacity, which is sufficient for the ongoing vaccination programmes but is inadequate for the forthcoming COVID-19 vaccination, Mr. Kakani said. The civic body aims to make the facility at Kanjurmarg ready before this year-end and is initiating the process of procurement of coolers and freezers for the storage of COVID-19 vaccines at low temperatures, he said. “We are trying to make the vaccine storage facility ready before December 31,” Mr. Kakani said. The new vaccine storage facility is being set up considering the city’s need for extensive COVID-19 vaccination, and it will be used for long-term, he said. Mr. Kakani said for the storage of vaccines, they are going to install two “walk-in coolers and freezers” each, which could maintain temperature between 2 and 8 degrees Celsius and -25 and -15 degrees Celsius, respectively.
10 December 2020||New Delhi,||SII, Bharat Biotech emergency vaccine clearance on hold||An expert committee of the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) has kept on hold, pending more evidence, proposals by the Serum Institute of India (SII) and Bharat Biotech requesting emergency use authorisation for their vaccine candidates in India, a person closely connected with the approval process confirmed to The Hindu . When evaluating their applications on Wednesday, the committee members opined that both Covaxin (Bharat Biotech) and Covishield (SII) needed more data to gauge their efficacy. “Neither company presented data from their ongoing phase 3 trials. We also wanted more information on the reported case of a volunteer in Chennai, who reportedly had a severe adverse reaction,” the person cited above said,  on condition of anonymity. Last month, a volunteer in Chennai sued the SII for what he believed was an adverse neurological reaction from being administered the vaccine. SII denied the link and counter-sued the applicant. While the Indian Council of Medical Research officials said an “initial” investigation showed the reaction wasn’t due to the vaccine, a fuller explanation is not yet available from the government. The 10-member committee consists of members from multiple disciplines, including microbiology, pharmacology, paediatrics and pulmonary medicine. The committee meets periodically to recommend approval, or rejection, of new drugs and vaccines. India’s law allows a potential vaccine or drug to be commercially approved even without trials on Indians, provided it has been approved in another country.
10 December 2020||CHENNAI,||COVID-19 outbreak, cyclones delayed Ennore Thermal Plant work: Tangedco||Work on the 2x660 MW Ennore SEZ Thermal Power Project at Vayalur village in Tiruvallur district has been further delayed due to the COVID-19 lockdown and the cyclones — only 45% of the work has been completed, the Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation (Tangedco) informed the Expert Appraisal Committee (EAC) of the Union Ministry of Environment and Forests. It made the submissions while seeking an extension of the Environmental Clearance granted in 2014 — which is valid for seven years — for another three years. The project, which was initially configured as a 2x800 MW, was changed to 2x660 MW in 2018. Tangedco informed the EAC that the time schedule now to complete the project is 2022-23 and that 45% physical progress and 55% of financial progress had been achieved. Bharat Heavy Electricals Limited has been contracted to develop the project. “Considering slippages due to cyclones, COVID-19 lockdown and other force majeure, commissioning of the project is delayed. It is estimated that extension of validity of EC for 3 more years is essential to complete the project works, including provision of Flue-gas Desulphurisation (FGD) for compliance of the latest environmental norms,” it submitted. Three more years Tangedco submitted that all work, including pollution measures, require another three years to complete and that units 1 and 2 are expected to be commissioned by May 2022 and August 2022 respectively. The tender for the installation of FGD is in process and it is expected that the work will be awarded for commencement by April 2021 and is scheduled to be completed by August 2023, Tangedco submitted. After deliberations, the EAC decided to grant a further extension of Environmental Clearance by three years.
10 December 2020||New Delhi,||SII, Bharat Biotech emergency vaccine clearance on hold||India may have to wait longer for a locally produced vaccine as an expert committee of the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) has kept on hold, pending more evidence, proposals by the Serum Institute of India (SII) and Bharat Biotech requesting emergency use authorisation (EUA) for their vaccine candidates Covishield and Covaxin. Referring to the SII’s Covishield, the committee said: “....recommended that the firm should submit updated safety data of the Phase II/III clinical trial in the country, Immunogenicity data from the clinical trial in U.K. and India and, the outcome of the assessment of UK-MHRA [the U.K. regulator] for grant of EUA,” according to the minutes of the meeting uploaded on the regulator’s website late on Wednesday. It had a similar response to the data presented by Bharat Biotech on Covaxin, saying that data generated after the completion of Phase 3 trials was needed to make an evaluation. “Neither company presented complete data from their ongoing Phase 3 trials. We also wanted more information on the reported case of a volunteer in Chennai, who reportedly had a severe adverse reaction,” a person connected with the approval process told The Hindu on condition of anonymity. The latter, however, does not find mention in the official minutes. A volunteer in Chennai last month sued the SII for what he believed was an adverse neurological reaction from being administered the vaccine. SII denied the link and counter-sued the applicant. While ICMR officials have said that an “initial” investigation showed the reaction wasn’t due to the vaccine, a fuller explanation is not yet available from the government.
10 December 2020||New Delhi,||SC restores IIT dream to student||The Supreme Court on Wednesday put the life-long dream of 18-year-old Siddhant Batra to study engineering at the Indian Institute of Technology (IIT)-Bombay back on track after his admission was accidentally withdrawn when he clicked the wrong button on the computer mouse during the online admission process. A Bench led by Justice S.K. Kaul directed the elite institution, as an interim measure, to allow him to join the course for the current academic year and pursue his studies to the “fulfilment of all other formalities”. The petition filed by Mr. Batra, represented by senior advocate Basava Prabhu S. Patil and advocate Ankit Acharya, said that he had committed an “apparent mistake” clicking the “freeze” option, thinking that he had already completed his admission process. According to his plea, while filling out the admission process online, he came upon a page with ‘freeze’ option, which he thought meant confirming the seat and the completion of his admission process. In November 2020, when the final list of students was uploaded on the IIT portal, his name was not included. The IIT, however, said the withdrawal option was a “conscious” two-step process. Mr. Batra, who hails from Agra, had got the All India Rank of 270 in the IIT-JEE exam. He approached the apex court after the Bombay High Court asked him to apply again next year. In his petition to the top court, the student has sought a direction to the IIT to consider his case on humanitarian grounds, and requested creation of an additional seat to undo his loss. Mr. Batra, who lives with his grandparents following the death of his parents, said he had worked hard against all odds to crack IIT JEE exams. The petition said he had lost his father when he was a child and was brought up by his mother, who died in 2018. The court fixed the case after the winter break.
10 December 2020||Mumbai,||Crimes against women and children: State clears Bill proposing death penalty for rape||The Maharashtra Cabinet on Wednesday cleared the draft of a Bill prepared on the lines of the Disha Act passed by the Andhra Pradesh government to curb crimes against women and children. The draft of the Maharashtra Shakti Criminal Law (Maharashtra Amendment) Act, 2020, proposes death penalty in cases of rape, acid attack, and serious crimes against children. The State Cabinet also cleared the draft of another Bill: the Special Court and Machinery for Implementation of Maharashtra Shakti Criminal Law 2020. The drafts are likely to be tabled in the winter session of the legislature scheduled to be held on December 14 and 15. The drafts have included new crimes within their ambit. They include threatening and defaming women on social media, false complaint regarding rape, acid attack, and outraging the modesty of women. Non-cooperation in investigation by social media sites and companies providing mobile and internet services, and elected representatives will be considered a crime. The restrictions on publishing the names of rape victims are now applied to victims of acid attacks as well as those in cases of outraging modesty. The Shakti Act proposes death penalty in cases of rape, acid attack, and serious crimes against children. While the period of imprisonment will be increased, a fine has been proposed in cases of acid attacks which will be given to the victims for medical treatment, including plastic surgery. The Bills have also proposed changes in the criminal procedure. The detection period has been reduced to 15 office days from the existing two months, while the court period has been brought down to 30 office days from two months. The appeal period has also been reduced to 45 days from six months. The drafts also propose a new judicial system under which 36 special courts will be set up and a special public prosecutor will be made available to each court. Each district police superintendent or commissionerate will have one special squad to probe crimes against women and children which will mandatorily have one female officer. NGOs will also be notified to extend help to victims. Maharashtra Home Minister Anil Deshmukh had visited Hyderabad earlier this year to study the Disha Act. Later, a committee headed by Ashwathi Dorje, director, Maharashtra Police Academy, was formed to prepare the draft of the Bill for Maharashtra. A Cabinet sub-committee headed by Public Works Department Minister Ashok Chavan was set up in March to finalise the drafts of the Bills.
10 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Cattle meat residue found in Indus Valley vessels||A new study has found the presence of animal products, including cattle and buffalo meat, in ceramic vessels dating back about 4,600 years at seven Indus Valley Civilisation sites in present-day Haryana and Uttar Pradesh. The study, which was published on Wednesday in theJournal of Archaeological Scienceand conducted as a part of the Two Rains project of the University of Cambridge and Banaras Hindu University, analysed the lipid residue in pottery found at the ancient sites. Preference for beef About 50-60% of domestic animal bones found at Indus Valley sites come from cattle/buffalo, the study said. “The high proportions of cattle bones may suggest a cultural preference for beef consumption across Indus populations, supplemented by the consumption of mutton/lamb,” the study said. The lead author of the study, Dr. Aksheyta Suryanarayan, said in a statement by the Cambridge University Department of Archaeology: “Our study of lipid residues in Indus pottery shows a dominance of animal products in vessels, such as the meat of non-ruminant animals like pigs, ruminant animals like cattle or buffalo and sheep or goat, as well as dairy products.” She said the analysis of lipid residues involved extraction and identification of the fats and oils that were absorbed in the vessels. “Lipids are relatively less prone to degradation and have been discovered in pottery from archaeological contexts around the world. However, they have seen very limited investigation in ancient ceramics from South Asia,” she said. She added that the study was the first to look into the absorbed lipid residues in pottery from multiple sites, including Rakhigarhi, Farmana and Masudpur.  Speaking toThe Hindu, she said that while cattle bones have been found in large numbers at Indus Valley sites, the study found little evidence of dairy products. However, she said there could be regional differences as a recent study of vessels in Gujarat had found evidence of dairy products.
10 December 2020||New Delhi,||‘Rules governing CAA still under preparation ’||A year after the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) was passed by the Lok Sabha, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has said that the rules governing the Act are still “under preparation”. Without the rules being notified, the Act remains ineffective. This is the first official response from the MHA on the rules of the contentious Act that saw vociferous protests and riots from December 2019 till early March. As many as 83 persons were killed in various incidents in Assam, Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka, Meghalaya and Delhi. The MHA’s response came in reply to a question filed by The Hindu under the Right to Information Act (RTI), seeking information on the status of framing the rules. B.C. Joshi, Director (Citizenship), Foreigners Division, said in the RTI reply that “it is to inform that the rules under the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, 2019, are under preparation”. The RTI reply also added that the MHA had not sent any letter regarding CAA to the Parliamentary Committee on Subordinate Legislation in the month of August, 2020. “You are requested to provide specific details of the sought information so that this office can locate/identify the same,” the response said.
10 December 2020||new delhi,||Quarantine posters not required: SC||The Supreme Court clarified on Wednesday that State governments and Union Territories are not required to paste posters outside the homes of quarantined COVID-19 patients. The apex court, however, added that such posters can be affixed only in specific cases when the competent authority issues specific directions under the Disaster Management Act. The order came on a petition filed by an advocate who has contended that such posters entail the violation of the fundamental right to privacy of patients.
10 December 2020||KOCHI,||Five more districts head to polling booths today||Five more districts – Kottayam, Ernakulam, Thrissur, Palakkad, and Wayanad – will head to the polling booths on Wednesday in the second phase of the elections to the local bodies. About one crore voters will exercise their right to franchise to elect representatives in 8,116 wards across 451 local bodies, which include the Kochi and Thrissur Corporations, 36 municipalities, five district panchayats, 58 block panchayats, and 350 grama panchayats. The State Election Commission has deployed 63,187 officials for polling at the 12,643 polling stations (1,918 in urban areas and 10,725 in rural areas). All the three major fronts are hoping to put up a good show.
10 December 2020||Siddipet,||KCR to launch several works in Siddipet today||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao will inaugurate and lay the foundation for several developmental works in the district headquarters on Thursday. On Wednesday, Finance Minister Harish Rao reviewed the arrangements for the visit and said that he was fortunate to witness the construction of 2,400 houses meant for the poor. These double bedroom houses will be formally handed over to them on Thursday. The Chief Minister will lay foundation stone for building an IT Tower at Duddeda estimated to cost Rs. 45 crore and expected to provide jobs to over 2,000 people.
10 December 2020||CHENNAI,||I-T raids on at prominent industrial group in T.N.||The Income Tax (I-T) Department on Wednesday knocked on the doors of a prominent business house in the State, headquartered in Chennai. Over 60 places, including factories, offices and residential properties belonging to the group, were searched by Income Tax sleuths, on suspicion of tax evasion. While officially the Income Tax Department did not mention the name of the group, sources said it was the Chettinad Group. “The searches are still on as this is a huge group. Searches happened at Chennai, Coimbatore, Dindigul, Mumbai, Bengaluru and Andhra Pradesh,” said an investigating officer from the Department. “Searches were also conducted at places belonging to a few directors and group heads,” he said without divulging their names. When asked what led to the search operation, the officer said that it was a routine tax evasion check. The IT department put out a tweet on its official page, which said, “The IT department is conducting search operation on prominent business group of Chennai having varied business activities. About 60 premises being covered across Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Maharashtra. More than Rs. 7crore of unaccounted cash found from key person so far. Search is still in progress.” “Searches were also conducted at places belonging to a few directors and group heads,” he said without divulging their names. When asked what led to the search operation, the officer said that it was a routine tax evasion check. The IT department put out a tweet on its official page, which said, “The IT department is conducting search operation on prominent business group of Chennai having varied business activities. About 60 premises being covered across Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Maharashtra. More than Rs. 7crore of unaccounted cash found from key person so far. Search is still in progress.” Late in the evening, the officials said that some Singapore-based accounts were also being probed. “We are verifying the details of these accounts,” an official said adding that more details will be shared after the probe is completed.
10 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,||Tenders for VMRDA’s multi-level car parking project by month-end||The Detailed Project Report (DPR) for the new multi-level car parking (MLCP) project-cum-commercial complex being set up by the Visakhapatnam Metropolitan Region Development Authority (VMRDA) at Siripuram is in final stage of approval. The tendering process is likely to begin this month-end. The project being set up at an estimated cost of Rs. 80 crore is aimed at meeting future needs and can accommodate 450 cars and 500 two-wheelers. According to the design proposed, parking will be accommodated in five floors, including three-floored cellars (G-1, G-2, G-3). Five floors will be accommodated exclusively for commercial purpose. “Officials from AP Urban Infrastructure has prepared DPR for the project. It was scrutinised and we had asked them for some modifications. The amendments will be reviewed this Tuesday and we will be going for tenders by the end of this month and finalise tenders soon. If everything goes well, works for the project should start by January-end or February,” said VMRDA Commissioner P. Koteswara Rao. Speaking to The Hindu , Mr. Koteswara Rao said that the project is aimed at meeting the future needs. Siripuram, being a major junction, houses VMRDA complex, VMRDA Children’s Arena, Gurajada Kalakshetram, HSBC and a few others. During any programmes, people coming to Children’s Arena, Kalakshetram and a few establishments are forced to park their vehicles beside road which is leading to traffic congestions. “With the gradual increase in the commercial establishments and expansion of city, parking problem is likely to be increased in the next few years. Since it is a busy locality, we have incorporated some floors for commercial purpose and we hope they will go good in the auctions after the project finishes,” he said. The VMRDA Commissioner said that as per their estimation, it would take at least one-and-a-half year for the completion of project once it kick-starts. However with the availability of present latest technology, it is also possible to finish within a year, he said. This is going to be the second MLCP in the city, as the first one is being set up by the Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) at Jagadamba Junction as part of the Smart City project.
10 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,||District sees 44 new cases||The district recorded 44 new cases in last 24 hours, taking the total count to 59,042, since the outbreak of the pandemic. According to the health bulletin, there was no death and the count stands at 514. In the last 24 hours, there were 45 discharges or recoveries, taking the tally to 58,239. According to District COVID Special Officer and Principal of Andhra Medical College P.V. Sudhakar, the active cases as on date were 289.
10 December 2020||Kolkata,||CAA a means to deceive people, says Mamata||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Wednesday said that the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) is a means to deceive people and emphasised that she would not allow any National Register of Citizens (NRC) in the State. Ms. Banerjee made these remarks addressing a public rally at Bongaon in North 24 Parganas, an area with a significant population of members of the Matua community, a Hindu religious sect that has largely come from Bangladesh (earlier East Pakistan). “There is no need of new documents and certificates. You people have been deceived in the name of the CAA,” Ms. Banerjee said, addressing the rally. “As the Chief Minister of the State, I am saying that you all are citizens, all Matua are citizens. You do not need new certificates,” she added. The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) leadership has promised that the implementation of CAA would provide citizenship to all Matuas. The CM asked that if Matuas were not citizens, how were they living in the State? She said that her government had regularised all refugee colonies in the State. “I will not allow any NRC or NPR in the State. The BJP wants to drive out all the people of Bengal and make it Gujarat,” she said. Ms. Banerjee accused the BJP of bringing “outsiders” and “goons” from other States to win elections in West Bengal. She also accused the BJP of threatening political opponents with the use of Central agencies and said that their message was, “either leaders from the Opposition should stay at home or they would land in prison”.
10 December 2020||Mumbai,||5,111 more recoveries in Maharashtra||Maharashtra’s COVID-19 tally on Wednesday rose to 18,64,348 as it recorded 4,981 new cases, a State Health Department official said. With 75 more fatalities, the State’s death toll has reached 47,902. A total of 5,111 patients were discharged, taking the tally of recoveries in the State to 17,42,191. There are currently 73,166 active patients in the State. Mumbai city reported 716 new cases during the day, which pushed its overall case load to 2,87,898, while its death toll rose to 10,929 with 15 more deaths being reported during the day. The tally in the Pune division stood at 4,64,638, while the toll at 10,992.
10 December 2020||GUWAHATI,||‘Foreigners’ in NRC: affidavit filed in HC||The National Register of Citizens (NRC) authorities have submitted to the Gauhati High Court an affidavit reportedly containing the details of “illegal foreigners” whose names had crept into the updated list of citizens released in 2019. Some 19.06 lakh out of 3.3 crore applicants were excluded from the complete draft NRC published on August 31, 2019. It was later found that some “ineligible people” — those without papers establishing their domicile in Assam before March 24, 1971 — had been included in the citizens’ list. Some reports citing unspecified officials said there are about 4,800 ineligible people figuring in the NRC.
10 December 2020||Srinagar,||Three militants killed in J&K||Three alleged Al-Badr militants were killed and a civilian was injured in an encounter in Pulwama of south Kashmir on Wednesday. “Terrorists fired indiscriminately upon a joint search party. Zamir Sadiq Lone, a civilian, in whose house the terrorists were hiding, was injured,” IGP Vijay Kumar said.
10 December 2020||December 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Safely goes the process||
10 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Cabinet nod for public WiFi networks||The Union Cabinet on Wednesday approved a proposal for setting up public WiFi hotspots across the country via public data offices or PDOs, which could even be a kirana shop or a paan shop. The move, aimed at helping accelerate the uptake of broadband Internet services, will not require the PDOs to get a license or pay a fee. The public WiFi Access Network Interface, which will be called ‘PM-WANI’, was first recommended by the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI) in 2017. This will involve multiple players, including PDOs, Public Data Office Aggregators (PDOA), app providers, and a central registry. PDOs — comparable to a PCO or a cybercafe — will establish, maintain, and operate WiFi access points and deliver broadband services to subscribers, while the PDOAs will be aggregators of PDOs and perform functions such as authorisation and accounting. The app provider will develop the app to register users and discover PM-WANI compliant WiFi hotspots nearby. The details of all three will be maintained by the registry.
10 December 2020||Rajulapudi SrinivasELURU,||Experts search for source of illness in W.G.||Specialists of various State and Central institutes are scouting for the source of the neurotoxicity symptoms in hundreds of patients, which is creating panic among the residents in West Godavari district. With the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), New Delhi and Mangalagiri, confirming the presence of high contents of nickel and lead elements in the blood samples of some patients, doctors are trying to find out the source of the mysterious disease. However, the medical experts and the officials of various departments, who found that the water and milk samples were normal, are investigating how the toxicants entered the patients’ bodies in Eluru and the neighbouring areas.
10 December 2020||Guwahati,||Too many cattle robbing rhinos of nutrition||Too many cattle are robbing the one-horned rhinos of Assam’s Pobitora Wildlife Sanctuary, referred to as ‘Mini Kaziranga’ for similar features, of their nutritious food. This has been confirmed by the death of two rhinos whose alimentary canals had a high load of worms because of nutritional stress.
10 December 2020||December 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Sportsmen do laundry for free||Sportsmen, both current and former, from Punjab and Haryana take turns washing around 2,000 pairs of clothes daily at a makeshift laundry set up by them near the exit of a vacant shopping mall on the fringe of the farmers’ agitation at the Singhu border in Delhi.Page 11
10 December 2020||December 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Opposition team meets President||The government should not misunderstand that farmers would give up their agitation on the farm legislation without their demands being met, said former Congress president Rahul Gandhi after a delegation of Opposition leaders met President Ram Nath Kovind on Wednesday.Page 11
10 December 2020||December 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Sportsmen do laundry for free||Sportsmen, both current and former, from Punjab and Haryana take turns washing around 2,000 pairs of clothes daily at a makeshift laundry set up by them near the exit of a vacant shopping mall on the fringe of the farmers’ agitation at the Singhu border in Delhi.Page 13
10 December 2020||December 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Punjab scientist declines award||Varinderpal Singh, an agriculture scientist with the Punjab Agricultural University, refused to accept an award being presented to him by a Union Minister to express his solidarity with the farmers agitating against the Centre’s farm laws on Wednesday.Page 11
10 December 2020||BENGALURU,||Assembly adopts anti-cow slaughter Bill without debate||The Legislative Assembly on Wednesday adopted the Karnataka Prevention of Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle Bill, 2020, that has stringent penal provisions ranging from imprisonment of three to seven years and penalty of Rs. 50,000 to Rs. 7 lakh for violations. The Bill was adopted without any discussion amidst dharna by the Opposition Congress and JD(S) members who argued that the proposed legislation had been tabled in the House much against the decision of the Business Advisory Committee (BAC) to desist from taking up any new Bills in the ongoing session as its duration was being curtailed. The hasty adoption of the Bill led to Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah declaring that his party would boycott the legislature session and JD(S) members staging a walkout. Speaker Vishweshwara Hegde Kageri permitted tabling of the Bill on the grounds that BAC had decided to allow any important Bills to be taken up. Though the Opposition sought time till the next day to participate in the debate as the copies of the Bill were provided to them only after tabling it, the Bill was adopted.
10 December 2020||Bengaluru,||Panel suggests 30-month tenure for Mayor||The State legislature’s Joint Select Committee, formed to review the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike Bill, 2020, has recommended that the number of wards in the BBMP be between 225 and 250 and the Mayor and the Deputy Mayor have a term of 30 months.
10 December 2020||Bengaluru,||COVID-19 RT-PCR test rate slashed to Rs. 800||The Department of Health and Family Welfare has slashed the rates for COVID-19 tests. The revised rate for an RT-PCR test in a private lab has been capped at Rs. 800.
10 December 2020||Bengaluru,||Clarity on use of mask in car||A person driving a car alone with all windows closed, need not wear a mask, but if the windows are rolled down, mask is mandatory, said a State government order. Meanwhile, the government reduced the penalty it had introduced making owners of marriage halls, restaurants, malls, etc., and organisers of events accountable for guests not wearing masks.
10 December 2020||Srinagar,||Three militants killed in Pulwama encounter||Three alleged Al-Badr militants were killed and a civilian was injured in an encounter in Pulwama, south Kashmir, on Wednesday. “Terrorists fired indiscrimin-ately upon a joint search party in Pulwama’s Tiken area. Zamir Sadiq Lone, a civilian, in whose house the terrorists were hiding, was injured,” IGP Vijay Kumar said.
10 December 2020||New Delhi,||Curbs remain on CM’s movement, says AAP||AAP national spokesperson Raghav Chadha said that one entry to Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal’s residence remained closed even on Wednesday. “Today [Wednesday] also, in a way, there was a restriction in his [Mr. Kejriwal’s] right to free movement. One door was opened yesterday [Tuesday] evening,” said Mr. Chadha, terming the situation an unannounced “emergency”.
10 December 2020||Kolkata,||Kolkata nearby||Former West Bengal chief minister and veteran Communist leader Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee was put on ventilator support at a private health facility on Wednesday. Mr. Bhattacharjee, 76, was brought to the hospital in an unconscious state with his oxygen level dropping alarmingly. Though his oxygen level improved, the concentration of carbon dioxide in his blood remains a concern for doctors treating him at Woodlands Hospital.
10 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC seeks A-G’s inputs in Maratha quota case||A five-judge Constitution Bench of the Supreme Court, examining the Maratha quota law, sought the assistance of Attorney-General (A-G) K.K. Venugopal on Wednesday to decide whether a State legislature can specify a community as “socially and educationally backward” for granting reservation benefits. The Bench will examine if the Maharashtra legislature had violated the Constitution (One Hundred Second Amendment) Act of 2018 to provide the reservation. Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, for Maharashtra, said the 50% restriction on reservation is “not cast in stone”. The Constitution Bench has scheduled a hearing on January 25, 2021.
10 December 2020||MANGALURU,||Yakshagana melas resume tours||Yakshagana artists hit by the pandemic are relieved to some extent as melas in the coastal and Malnad belts resumed their daily tours in a phased manner amid COVID-19 cases showing a decreasing trend since a month.
10 December 2020||MANGALURU,||MUDA to plant saplings around waterbodies||The Mangaluru Urban Development Authority (MUDA) in association with Green Tigers, a body of green enthusiasts, has chalked out a plan to promote Mangaluru as the city of fruits by planting fruit-bearing saplings around waterbodies.
10 December 2020||Mangaluru,||‘Patients with cold should get tested for COVID-19’||Udupi DC G. Jagadeesha said on Wednesday that patients approaching private hospitals for treating cough, cold, fever, and ILI should get tested for COVID-19 compulsorily. If the hospitals are found treating such patients without conducting the COVID-19 test, their registration will be cancelled.
10 December 2020||Chennai,||Rajini meets aides to discuss party formation||Actor Rajinikanth held meetings with political aides Tamilaruvi Manian and R. Arjunamoorthy at Raghave-ndra Kalyana Mandapam on Wednesday, said sources. The actor will announce the date of the launch of his party on December 31.
10 December 2020||New Delhi,||Curbs remain on Kejriwal’s movement, alleges AAP||AAP national spokesperson Raghav Chadha said that one entry to Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal’s residence remained closed even on Wednesday. “Today [Wednesday] also, in a way, there is a restriction in his [Mr. Kejriwal’s] right to free movement. One door was opened yesterday [Tuesday] evening,” Mr. Chadha said.
10 December 2020||Chandigarh,||Punjab agriculture scientist declines award||Varinderpal Singh, an agriculture scientist with Punjab Agricultural University, who refused to accept an award from a Union Minister to express his solidarity with farmers amid their ongoing agitation, toldThe Hinduthat it was the attempt by a section of media to label farmers as “terrorists” that prompted him to decline the award and voice his concerns.
10 December 2020||Bengaluru,||COVID-19 RT-PCR test rate slashed to Rs. 800||The Department of Health and Family Welfare has slashed the rates for COVID-19 tests.
10 December 2020||Bengaluru,||Reopen schools, say students in rural areas||Students in rural areas staged protests demanding that schools be reopened. While colleges in the State resumed classes on campus on November 17, the State government is yet to take a call on when students can return to schools.
10 December 2020||Hyderabad,||Foreign envoys visit vaccine facilities||A delegation of foreign envoys visited the manufacturing facilities of vaccine makers Bharat Biotech and Biological E in Genome Valley here on Wednesday as part of a visit to familiarise them with the work under way for COVID-19 vaccines. Bharat Biotech said a team comprising Ambassadors, High Commissioners and government representatives of 70 countries, from across the world, visited the facility and had interacted with the company officials. They “extensively discussed about Covaxin,” the company said. Coming in the backdrop of a growing interest globally in India’s work on the vaccines, including the indigenous Covaxin that Bharat Biotech is developing with the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), the visit is the first of many the Ministry of External Affairs is expected to organise for members of the diplomatic corp. The envoys, who earlier in the day arrived by a special flight in Hyderabad, were provided a project update on Covaxin by Chairman and Managing Director of Bharat Biotech Krishna Ella. The indigenous, inactivated vaccine is developed and manufactured at Bharat Biotech’s BSL-3 (Bio-Safety Level 3) bio-containment facility. The vaccine has been evaluated in approximately 1,000 subjects in Phase I and Phase II clinical trials. The Phase III trials began in November, involving 26,000 volunteers across India. The company said it is India’s first and only Phase III efficacy study for a COVID-19 vaccine and the largest phase III efficacy trial ever conducted for any vaccine in the country. Joint Managing Director Suchitra Ella said “Covaxin has garnered interest from several countries worldwide for supplies and introduction. It is an honour to have with us today ambassadors of various countries. It not only makes us proud but also reminds us that the world is looking up to India in the common fight against the deadly pandemic.”
10 December 2020||New Delhi,||Opposition team meets Kovind||The government should not misunderstand that farmers would give up their agitation on the farm laws without their demands being met with, said former Congress president Rahul Gandhi after a delegation of Opposition leaders met President Ram Nath Kovind. The delegation comprised Mr. Gandhi, NCP leader Sharad Pawar, CPI(M) general secretary Sitaram Yechury, CPI general secretary D. Raja and DMK leader T.K.S. Elangovan. “We urge upon you, as the custodian of the Indian Constitution, to persuade ‘your government’ not to be obdurate and accept the demands raised by India’s annadata,” a joint memorandum signed by the five leaders read. “Our point to the President was that this was passed in an undemocratic manner and a proper consultation and discussion would have prevented this kind of situation. The farmers are carrying out a very heroic and courageous strike and keeping this in mind the government should immediately repeal the laws,” Mr. Yechury told reporters. Mr. Gandhi said the way the laws had been imposed on farmers, it was an insult to them. Farmers have lost faith in the government, which is why they have taken to the streets. “Prime Minister Narendra Modi claims that these laws are in favour of the farmers. If that is the case, why are they on the streets? Why is the farmer angry? Because the target of these laws is to hand over the agricultural system to the PM’s select few friends,” he stated. “The government should not have any misunderstanding that the farmers will cow down. India’s farmers are not going to move and are not going to give up,” he added. Mr. Pawar said the most disturbing aspect of the three laws was the fact that there was no provision to implement a minimum support price (MSP). “The Bills do not protect the farmers’ interest. For the last 12-13 days, in this cold, the farmer is on the street and very peacefully they are expressing their unhappiness. It is the duty of the government to resolve the issue and despite discussions nothing has happened.” Mr. Raja said no one should live under the illusion that these laws would impact only the farmers who are agitating for the past two weeks. “These laws will subject the agricultural workers to live in horrific conditions. We cannot remain mute spectators when farmers are on the streets fighting for justice,” he said.  Mr. Elangovan pointed out that two years ago, the government promised to implement the MS Swaminathan Commission’s recommendations. “This Bill has negatived that promise considering it does not mention the MSP at all,” he said.
10 December 2020||New Delhi,||‘China ties hit like never before’||External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar said on Wednesday China had given India “five differing explanations” for deploying large forces at the LAC, adding this violation of bilateral pacts had “very significantly damaged their relationship that is now at its most difficult phase” in the last 30-40 years. The comments by Mr. Jaishankar during an online interactive session organised by Australian think tank Lowy Institute came against the backdrop of the over seven-month-long military stand-off between India and China at the Line of Actual ControL (LAC) in eastern Ladakh. “We are today probably at the most difficult phase of our relationship with China, certainly in the last 30 to 40 years or you could argue even more,” Mr. Jaishankar said, highlighting various aspects of the bilateral ties in the last three decades. “The relationship this year has been very significantly damaged. We are very clear that maintaining peace and tranquillity along the LAC is the basis for the rest of the relationship to progress. You can’t have the kind of situation you have on the border and say let’s carry on with life in all other sectors of activity. It’s just unrealistic,” he said. Mr. Jaishankar further said, “We have this problem because from 1988, our relationship had its hiccups, we had our issues and differences but the direction of the ties broadly were positive.” The External Affairs Minister said the relationship progressed in trade, travel and various other domains as both sides inked several pacts to maintain peace and tranquillity along the LAC. “All of this was posited on the fact that while we were trying to solve the boundary question, we would maintain peace and tranquillity along the border areas,” he said, adding there were incidents of arguments between patrols along the border “but you never had a major breach of understanding.” He said multiple agreements between the two sides were inked from 1993 with a commitment that both parties would not bring large forces to the border areas. “Now for some reason, for which the Chinese have to date given us five differing explanations, the Chinese have violated it. The Chinese have literally brought tens of thousands of soldiers in full military preparation mode right to the LAC in Ladakh. Naturally the relationship would be profoundly disturbed by this,” he said. Galwan clashes Referring to the Galwan Valley clashes in eastern Ladakh in which 20 Indian soldiers were killed, Mr. Jaishankar said the incident “completely changed national sentiment.” The Minister also said the “very big issue” was how to get the relationship back on track. He also mentioned various diplomatic and military engagements between the two sides in the last few months. “We have multiple layers of communication. Communication is not the issue, the issue is the fact that we have agreements and those agreements are not being observed.”
10 December 2020||New Delhi,||Sporting laundry by champions, for farmers||Sportsmen, current and former, from Punjab and Haryana take turns washing an estimated 2,000 pairs of clothes daily at a make-shift laundry set up by them near the exit of a vacated shopping mall on the fringe of the farmers’ agitation at the Singhu border. The laundry comprises two washing machines and over half-a-dozen plastic tubs, used for soaking garments both before and after being machine-washed. The collective also provides everything from hair oil and toothpaste to undergarments and shawls to the protesting farmers, from their open camp at the Kessel Grand Mall, located at the beginning of Kundli in Haryana’s Sonipat. “How do you like our set-up?” asked Nishant Singh, a young kabaddi player in charge of receiving dirty garments and handing over washed ones to their rightful owners. “We also have mosquito repellent coils, creams and hair oil,” he said. “Shawls, socks, blankets, mattresses, biscuits and, of course, bottles of mineral water – we try to provide every sewa (service) to make the farmers’ stay as convenient as possible; especially for the elderly ones,” added Telu Bhatti, an ex-kabaddi player. Prabhjot Singh Jhaj, a kabaddi coach from Phagwara, said the collective has been offering its services for the last five days. “Ours is the only laundry here so far. A few days ago, sportsmen from the rural part of our State [Punjab] and Haryana — hockey, kabaddi and the like — decided to do something to help the farmers who set up camp here two weeks ago and we have been here since,” Mr. Jhaj said. ‘We work 12 hours a day’ “Both machines work non-stop for 12 hours each and so do we. Our service will continue till the agitation continues,” he said as he squeezed excess water from a shirt. Gurdeep Singh Deepa, also from Phagwara, said players from different sports took turns to offer their services at the camp. “We have sportsmen – both current players and formers ones from each State – taking turns to do sewa here. We took different career decisions but what binds us with the agitating farmers here is that our fathers were farmers just like them,” Mr. Deepa said. “These laws will destroy the average farmer in ways that are irreversible. We cannot watch that happen. We have represented our State and sometimes even the country in the name of pride and honour. This time we are here for the farmers’ honour even if by cleaning their dirty clothes,” he added.
10 December 2020||Srinagar,||Three militants killed in Pulwama encounter||Three alleged Al-Badr militants were killed and a civilian was injured in an encounter in Pulwama of south Kashmir on Wednesday. “Terrorists, who were offered the surrender option, fired indiscriminately upon a joint search party in Pulwama’s Tiken area. Zamir Sadiq Lone, a civilian, in whose house the terrorists were hiding, was injured,” Inspector-General of Police (IGP) Vijay Kumar said. All the three trapped militants were killed in the encounter. They were identified as Mehraj-ud-Din Lone, Umer Ali, and Owais Farooq. “The trio was affiliated to Al-Badr,” Mr. Kumar said. These militants were behind the planning and execution of several major terror attacks on security forces. “Arms and ammunition, were recovered,” the police said. The bodies were not handed over to the families for burial due to COVID-19. “The bodies shall be sent to Baramulla in north Kashmir for burial. The nearest family members shall be allowed to participate in the last rites,” the police stated. Grenade attack In another incident, terrorists hurled a grenade at a Sashastra Seema Bal vehicle near Singhpora around 9:55 a.m. in the Pattan area of Baramulla. “The grenade missed the intended target and exploded on the road. Four civilians received splinter injuries and were hospitalised,” the police added. Peoples Conference leader Imran Reza Ansari has demanded a probe into the grenade attack. “It raises many questions. Listening to the senior superintendent of police’s statement in which he says ‘there is no militant presence in his jurisdiction’. To me, it seems a conspiracy so that voters don’t come out to vote in huge numbers. An impartial enquiry is needed,” he tweeted.
10 December 2020||Thrissur,||Crocodile comes calling at Athirappilly home||Thachiyath Sabu, who stays with his family close to the Chalakudy river in Athirappilly, had an unusual guest on Wednesday. A crocodile came calling at his house early in the morning. But it was quite unwelcome, as Mr. Sabu’s wife, who found the crocodile first, raised an alarm. “We heard strange sounds from the courtyard in the morning, but thought it must be monkeys or stray dogs that are plenty in the area. But my wife, who opened the front door early in the morning, screamed in shock to find the crocodile on the verandah,” said Mr. Sabu, who is still in shock. “When I ran to the door after hearing my wife’s screaming, the crocodile was lying near the sofa kept on the verandah,” he said. The scared family alerted forest officials and Forest Protection Samiti workers, and unsuccessfully tried to chase the animal back into the river. Later, local people, along with forest officials, trapped the reptile using a snare, tied it with a rope, and carried it back to the river. Mr. Sabu’s house is situated nearly 100 metres from the river. Though crocodiles are common around the Chalakudy river, it is for the first time one has strayed into human-inhabited areas. Tourists are not allowed to venture into the river due to the presence of crocodiles. According to forest officials, the crocodile that ventured into the Sabu home is around 10 years old. Crocodiles rarely attack humans, they said, but may react aggressively if they felt threatened.
10 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Rajasthan local polls win is a mandate given by farmers’||The BJP on Wednesday claimed that its win in the local body election in Rajasthan and election victories in other States after the three farm Bills were passed by Parliament were a “mandate” accorded by farmers for the agricultural reforms initiated by the Modi government. In a tweet, BJP president J.P. Nadda said the party’s win in Rajasthan symbolised “the trust the poor, farmers and labourers” have in Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s leadership. ‘Trend reversed’ Senior party leader and Union Minister Prakash Javadekar stressed that people, especially farmers, had given the government a “decisive”victory. At a press conference at the BJP’s headquarters in New Delhi, Mr. Javadekar said the victories in rural Rajasthan should be especially noted. The BJP won 353 of 636 zila parishads and 1,990 of 4,371 panchayat samitis, leaving the Congress behind. By opting for the BJP, Mr. Javadekar said, voters had reversed the trend of the State’s ruling party winning most seats in the local polls. The Congress is in power in the State. “This is a huge victory. This is farmers’ mandate for farm reforms,” said Mr. Javadekar. The Central government had engaged in talks with the protesting farmer union leaders with an open mind, he observed, and expressed the confidence that a resolution would be reached. ‘BJP everywhere’ Mr. Javadekar noted that the BJP had recently put up impressive shows in a spate of elections, from the Bihar Assembly polls to bypolls in a number of States, besides local elections in Hyderabad and Arunachal Pradesh. “Be it the northeast, east, south; whatever direction you go it is the BJP everywhere,” he said. The wins had come after the farm laws, COVID-19 and economic troubles and “despite the misinformation campaign” by the Opposition, he added.
10 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Quad is U.S. anti-China game: Russia||Russia hit out at the four-nation quadrilateral strategic dialogue or Quad, calling it a “devious policy” by western powers to engage India in “anti-China games”. While Moscow has expressed concerns about the U.S. Indo-Pacific policy and criticised the Quad, comprising the U.S., Australia, Japan and India, as a “divisive” and “exclusivist” concept, this is the first time it has suggested that India-Russia ties could be affected by it. “India is currently an object of the western countries’ persistent, aggressive and devious policy as they are trying to engage it in anti-China games by promoting Indo-Pacific strategies, the so-called “Quad”, while at the same time the West is attempting to undermine our close partnership and privileged relations with India,” Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov said at Moscow-based think tank Russian International Affairs Council. “This is the goal of the U.S.’s very tough pressure on New Delhi in the MTC [military and technical cooperation] area,” Mr. Lavrov stated, which diplomats said indicated growing MTC between India and the U.S. In the past month, India hosted military exercises with all the members of the Quad, and signed the final pending ‘foundational agreement’ BECA, which facilitates Indian and U.S. militaries in sharing intelligence. The incoming Biden administration is also expected to press harder on India against its purchase of the S-400 anti-missile system from Russia, which could attract U.S. sanctions. In his comments, Mr. Lavrov said the U.S. and European countries were trying to “restore” the unipolar model with U.S. leadership, but that other powers or poles such as Russia and China would not be “subordinate to it”.The “U.S.-led West” had launched what he called a “game” that seeks to “isolate” Russia, as well as China, he said. No comment from MEA The Ministry of External Affairs declined to comment on Mr. Lavrov’s remarks, and whether they represent a strain in India-Russia ties. In the past few months, Prime Minister Narendra Modi has taken part in multilateral events with Russian President Vladimir Putin, while External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh made separate visits to Moscow where they met their counterparts. However, former diplomats suggested that the remarks signalled gaps in understanding between Moscow and New Delhi. “[Mr.] Lavrov’s comment suggests that the two sides, despite a regular dialogue at the highest levels, have not developed enough understanding of India’s point of view and its security concerns about Indo- Pacific and the Quad to avoid a public statement of this nature,” said former Foreign Secretary and former Indian Ambassador to Russia Kanwal Sibal, pointing out that India had not expressed concerns about Russia’s growing strategic ties with China publicly. “If Russia is concerned about the U.S. pulling India into its orbit, it should express some public concern about China’s unacceptable territorial aggression against India,” Mr. Sibal said, adding that India had maintained its independence in ties with the U.S.
10 December 2020||GUWAHATI,||‘Foreigners’ in NRC: affidavit filed in Gauhati High Court||The National Register of Citizens (NRC) authorities have submitted to the Gauhati High Court an affidavit reportedly containing the details of “illegal foreigners” whose names had crept into the updated list of citizens released in 2019. Some 19.06 lakh out of 3.3 crore applicants were excluded from the complete draft NRC published on August 31, 2019. It was later found that some “ineligible people” — those without papers establishing their domicile in Assam before March 24, 1971 — had been included in the citizens’ list. “Yes, we have submitted an affidavit. I am not allowed to say anything beyond this,” NRC State Coordinator Hitesh Dev Sarma told The Hindu on Wednesday. Some reports citing unspecified officials said there are about 4,800 ineligible people erroneously figuring in the NRC. The NRC authority had on February 19 written to the Deputy Commissioner and District Registrar of Citizen Registration of all the districts, seeking details of all such ineligible people, often referred to as “Bangladeshi” in Assam. The ineligible persons were specified as DV (doubtful voters), DF (declared foreigners), PFT (cases pending in Foreigners’ Tribunal or FT), DVD (DV’s descendants), DFD (DF’s descendants) and PFTD (descendants of cases pending in the FT). The NRC was created in 1951 to determine who was born in Assam and is therefore Indian, and who might be a migrant from erstwhile East Pakistan, now Bangladesh. The demand for updating the NRC was first raised in 1980 during the anti-foreigners Assam agitation spearheaded by the All Assam Students’ Union. A 2009 petition before the Supreme Court by the NGO Assam Public Works led to the updating exercise through a notification in December 2013. The apex court-monitored exercise that cost at least Rs. 1,600 crore saw some 55,000 officials sifting the applications of 3.3 crore people across 2,500 NRC Seva Kendras on the basis of documents to establish them as residents of Assam. The ruling Bharatiya Janata Party, unhappy with the number of excluded people, wants the NRC reverified.
10 December 2020||BENGALURU,||Karnataka Assembly adopts Bill against cow slaughter||The Legislative Assembly on Wednesday adopted the Karnataka Prevention of Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle Bill, 2020, that has stringent penal provisions ranging from imprisonment of three to seven years and penalty of Rs. 50,000 to Rs. 7 lakh for violations. The Bill was adopted without any discussion amid dharna by the Opposition Congress and Janata Dal (S) members who argued that the proposed legislation had been tabled in the House much against the decision of the Business Advisory Committee (BAC) to desist from taking up any new Bills in the ongoing session as its duration was being curtailed. The hasty adoption of the Bill created a furore, with Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah declaring that his party would boycott the legislature session itself while the JD(S) staged a walkout. Speaker Vishweshwara Hegde Kageri permitted tabling of the Bill on the grounds that the BAC had decided to allow any important Bills to be taken up, though the Opposition members sought time till the next day to participate in the debate as the copies of the Bill were provided to them only after tabling it. The Bill, piloted by Animal Husbandry and Fisheries Minister Prabhu Chauhan, makes even selling/disposing the cattle for slaughtering or intentionally killing the cattle an offence. If the accused is convicted, then the court can forfeit the confiscated cattle, vehicle, premises, and material on behalf of the State government. The government can appoint a tahsildar or officer not below the rank of veterinary officer of the Animal Husbandry and Fisheries Department as competent authority to look into various issues related to slaughtering under the proposed legislation.
10 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Cattle, buffalo meat residue found in Indus Valley vessels||A new study has found the presence of animal products, including cattle and buffalo meat, in ceramic vessels dating back about 4,600 years at seven Indus Valley Civilisation sites in present-day Haryana and Uttar Pradesh. The study, which was published on Wednesday in the Journal of Archaeological Science and conducted as a part of the Two Rains project of the University of Cambridge and Banaras Hindu University, analysed the lipid residue in pottery found at the ancient sites. About 50-60% of domestic animal bones found at Indus Valley sites come from cattle/buffalo, the study said. “The high proportions of cattle bones may suggest a cultural preference for beef consumption across Indus populations, supplemented by the consumption of mutton/lamb,” it said. The lead author of the study, Dr. Aksheyta Suryanarayan, said in a statement by the Cambridge University Department of Archaeology: “Our study of lipid residues in Indus pottery shows a dominance of animal products in vessels, such as the meat of non-ruminant animals like pigs, ruminant animals like cattle or buffalo and sheep or goat, as well as dairy products.” Fats, oils extracted She said the analysis of lipid residues involved extraction and identification of the fats and oils that were absorbed in the vessels. “Lipids are relatively less prone to degradation and have been discovered in pottery from archaeological contexts around the world. However, they have seen very limited investigation in ancient ceramics from South Asia,” she said. She added that the study was the first to look into the absorbed lipid residues in pottery from multiple sites, including Rakhigarhi, Farmana and Masudpur. Speaking to The Hindu , she said that while cattle bones have been found in large numbers at Indus Valley sites, the study found little evidence of dairy products. However, she said there could be regional differences as a recent study of vessels in Gujarat had found evidence of dairy products.
10 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Not viable to extend moratorium: RBI||The Reserve Bank of India (RBI) on Wednesday told the Supreme Court that extending the loan moratorium date was “not viable”. Appearing before a three-judge Bench led by Justice Ashok Bhushan, the RBI, represented by senior advocate V. Giri, referred to clause 3 of its August 6 circular for ‘Resolution Framework for COVID-19-related Stress’ to point out that lending institutions, guided by their respective board-approved policy, would prepare viable resolution plans for eligible borrowers. But lenders would ensure that this resolution was provided only to the borrowers stressed on account of COVID-19. The board-approved policy shall, inter alia , detail the eligibility of borrowers in respect of whom the lending institutions may be willing to consider the resolution, and lay down the due diligence considerations to be followed by the lending institutions to establish the necessity of implementing a resolution plan in respect of the borrower concerned, the RBI reiterated in court on the August 6 circular. Borrowers needed to only invoke their interest in the benefits enumerated under the circular, Mr. Giri said. “So, borrowers have to only come and say that they want to take the benefit of the RBI circular of August 6,” the Bench queried. Solicitor-General Tushar Mehta, for the Centre, suggested that the RBI could even, once again, clarify the contents of the circular for the benefit of borrowers, which include corporate and industry sectors stressed by the pandemic. The RBI said the framework issued by it on August 6 was aimed at facilitating revival of real sector activities and mitigating the impact on the ultimate borrowers, which were under financial stress owing to the pandemic. Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, for the State Bank of India, said that “for every borrower, there are lakhs and lakhs of depositors”. The court had been prodding banks almost everyday for loan relief, but now it was time to leave the fiscal policy to the government, he said. The court scheduled the case for further hearing on December 14.
10 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||UDF attempts to resurrect Sabarimala issue once again||The Congress-led United Democratic Front (UDF) on Wednesday attempted to resurrect the issue of the entry of women of childbearing age into Sabarimala Ayyappa temple. United Democratic Front (UDF) convener M.M. Hassan said the coalition would bring in a law to defend the customs of the ancient temple if voted to power. The law would only allow women below the age of 10 and above the age of 50 to offer prayers at the hill shrine. It would protect ancient temple customs and traditions and uphold the interests of devotees. Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee president Mullappally Ramachandran also echoed a similar sentiment. However, Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) State general secretary M.T. Ramesh struck a cautious tone. He said the Supreme Court was considering the matter. The talk of a new law was pointless at this stage. He said the UDF had taken a back seat during the Sabarimala agitation. None of its rank and file was jailed or faced arrests and police cases. The BJP had borne the brunt of the Pinarayi Vijayan government’s police brutality. Its leaders spend months in jails and police stations. The UDF had no right to talk about Sabarimala, he said.
10 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Probe ordered into Swapna’s allegations||The State Prisons and Correctional Department found itself in a spot on Wednesday after gold smuggling case accused Swapna Suresh told a court in Kochi on Tuesday that she was the target of an influence operation at the Attakulanagara Women’s Prison here. Rishiraj Singh, Director General, Prisons, told The Hindu that he had ordered an informal inquiry into the allegation. Swapna’s claim Swapna, a COFEPOSA detainee, had told the Economic Offences Court that a set of persons, possibly jail or police officials, had met her in prison and threatened her against cooperating with the Customs or implicating any higher-ups in the State government. Swapna claimed she felt intimidated and feared for her safety in prison and that of her family outside. Court order The court had ordered her protection. An official said several agencies, including the Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau (VACB), had questioned Swapna in prison. In the event the Customs demanded a criminal inquiry into Swapna’s averments, the police would be constrained to probe the conduct of the officials who met Swapna in prison. The probe into the “leak” of Swapna's purported voice clip damning Central agencies seemed to have made scant progress. The Crime Branch was yet to get the original device used for recording the questionable voice, an official said.
10 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC seeks A-G’s inputs in Maratha quota case||A five-judge Constitution Bench of the Supreme Court, examining the Maratha quota law, sought the assistance of Attorney- General (A-G) K.K. Venugopal on Wednesday to decide whether a State legislature can specify a particular community as “socially and educationally backward” for granting reservation benefits in education and jobs. The Bench led by Justice Ashok Bhushan will examine if the Maharashtra legislature had violated the Constitution (One Hundred Second Amendment) Act of 2018 to provide the Maratha community reservation.. Contentious Act The Constitution Amendment Act introduced Articles 338B and 342A in the Constitution. Article 338B deals with the newly established National Commission for Backward Classes. Article 342A empowers the President to specify the socially and educationally backward communities in a State. It says that it is for Parliament to include a community in the Central List for socially and backward classes for the grant of reservation benefits. However, the Maharashtra State Reservation for Socially and Educationally Backward Classes (SEBC) Act of 2018 has declared the Marathas as socially and educationally backward. “We are of the view that looking into the issues raised in this appeal and the consequences to the followed, it is necessary that final hearing of this appeal be completed as early as possible. One of the issues before this Constitution Bench being interpretation of Constitution (One Hundred Second Amendment) Act, 2018, let a notice be issued to the Attorney General for India,” the Constitution Bench directed on its first day of hearing. Senior advocate Mukul Rohatgi, for Maharashtra, said the 50% restriction on reservation is “not cast in stone”. The Bench scheduled a hearing on January 25, 2021.
10 December 2020||New Delhi,||NIA chargesheets ‘Khalistani’ activists||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Wednesday filed a chargesheet against 16 “foreign-based Khalistanis”. The accused, based in the United States, the United Kingdom and Canada, have been chargesheeted under the anti-terror Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act for allegedly indulging in seditious activities and promoting enmity on the grounds of region and religion in the country. The chargesheet alleged that the seven accused from the U.S, six from the U.K and three from Canada were involved in a conspiracy for launching a secessionist campaign under the banner of ‘Referendum 2020’ for the creation of ‘Khalistan’. The case was registered on January 15. The accused include Gurpatwant Singh Pannun, Hardeep Singh Nijjar and Paramjit Singh, who have been designated as terrorists by a Home Ministry notification under the anti-terror law. Pannun stays in the U.S, Nijjar is at present in Canada, and Singh is in the U.K. The others named in the chargesheet are Avtar Singh Pannun, Harpreet Singh, Amardeep Singh Purewal, Harjaap Singh, Sarabjit Singh and S. Himmat Singh (all from the U.S.); Gurpreet Singh Baagi, Sarabjit Singh Bannur, Kulwant Singh Mothada, Dupinderjit Singh and Kulwant Singh (from the U.K.) and J.S. Dhaliwal and Jatinder Singh Grewal (from Canada). These people, according to the NIA, are members of Sikhs for Justice (SFJ), an organisation declared ‘unlawful association’ under the UAPA. SFJ members An NIA spokesperson said the SFJ, a secessionist outfit floated as a ‘human rights advocacy group’, with its offices in various countries such as the U.S., Canada, the U.K., Australia, is a frontal organisation of Khalistan terrorist outfits operating from foreign countries, including Pakistan. “Under this campaign, numerous social media accounts on Facebook, Twitter, WhatsApp, YouTube Channels and a number of websites have been launched, which are being used to propagate sedition as well as enmity on the grounds of region and religion, to radicalise impressionable youth, to cause disturbance to peace and harmony and to raise funds for terrorist activities,” it said. The SFJ has been attempting to undermine the security of the Indian State by instigating Sikh personnel in the Indian Army to rise in mutiny against India, besides trying to radicalise youth of Kashmir and openly extending support for the secession of Kashmir from India, it said.  The spokesperson said the NIA identified immovable properties belonging to Pannun in Amritsar and Hardeep Singh Nijjar in Jalandhar. “Based on the request of NIA, the Government of India, Ministry of Home Affairs, in exercise of powers conferred under Section 51-A of Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act 1967, has ordered attachment of these properties,” it said.
10 December 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab scientist declines award from Union Minister||Varinderpal Singh, an agriculture scientist with Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), refused to accept an award from a Union Minister to express his solidarity with farmers agitating against the Centre’s farm laws on Wednesday. “Farmers have been struggling and agitating for their just demands peacefully and a section of media tried to label them as ‘terrorist’I was heartbroken and pained on hearing that the annadata (provider of food) was being labelled as a ‘terrorist’ ...” said Dr. Singh. “I have a humble submission that at this time of crises for the nation, when our farmers are on the roads, my conscience does not allow me to receive this award.”  Dr. Singh, a principal soil chemist at PAU in Ludhiana, was chosen for the ‘FAI Golden Jubilee Award for Excellence’ for best work done in plant nutrition. On December 7, at an event held by the Fertilizer Association of India in New Delhi, he refused to accept the award from the Union Minister for Chemicals and Fertilizers, D.V. Sadanand Gowda.
10 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC dismisses appeal by solar scam accused||The Supreme Court on Wednesday dismissed an appeal filed by Kerala’s solar scam accused, Saritha S. Nair, against the rejection of her nomination papers for contesting the 2019 Lok Sabha elections as an independent candidate from the Ernakulam constituency. A Bench led by Chief Justice of India Sharad A. Bobde refused her appeal on the ground that Ms. Nair, who was convicted in two criminal cases, remains disqualified under Section 8(3) of the Representation of People Act from contesting elections unless her conviction has been stayed. Mere suspension of her sentence would not qualify her to contest the polls. “Disqualification under Section 8(3) will continue so long as there is no stay of conviction. In the case on hand, the petitioner could not obtain a stay of conviction but obtained only a stay of execution of the sentence. Hence her nominations were validly rejected by the Returning Officer,” Justice V. Ramasubramanian said. Under Section 8(3), a person convicted of any offence and sentenced to imprisonment for not less than two years shall be disqualified from the date of such conviction and shall continue to be disqualified for a further period of six years since his or her release. However, the top court said the High Court was wrong in rejecting her election petition on the ground of existence of “incurable of defects”.
10 December 2020||Srinagar,||Illegally detained again, says Mehbooba||Former Jammu and Kashmir (J&K) Chief Minister and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) president Mehbooba Mufti alleged for the second consecutive day on Wednesday that she was stopped from campaigning by the Union Territory administration for the District Development Council (DDC) election. “Illegally detained today (December 9) for the third time in less than a fortnight. Too much (of) democracy indeed. If my movements are curbed due to ‘security concerns’ then why are BJP ministers allowed to campaign freely in Kashmir while I’ve been asked to wait until the culmination of DDC elections?” Ms. Mufti tweeted, in an oblique reference to NITI Aayog chief Amitabh Kant’s remarks that “India is too much of a democracy”. The authorities also stopped mediapersons from interacting with Ms. Mufti by erecting barricades on the high-profile Gupkar Road, housing the official residence, Fairview, of the former Chief Minister. Earlier, Ms. Mufti was stopped from visiting the family of incarcerated PDP leader Waheed-ur-Rehman Parra in Pulwama. On Tuesday, her scheduled visit to “evicted families” of Budwag was also disallowed. Senior Congress leader Saifuddin Soz condemned the action on Ms. Mufti. “She is put under house arrest illegally and undemocratically,” Mr. Soz said. National Conference president, Farooq Abdullah, also criticised the authorities for the treatment meted out to Ms. Mufti. “Putting restrictions on mainstream political leaders has sadly become the order of the day,” he said.
10 December 2020||December 10 2020 00:00 IST,||MHA says CAA rules are still ‘under preparation’||B.C. Joshi, Director (Citizenship), Foreigners Division, said in the RTI reply that “it is to inform that the rules under the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, 2019, are under preparation”.  The RTI reply also added that the MHA had not sent any letter regarding CAA to the Parliamentary Committee on Subordinate Legislation in the month of August, 2020. “You are requested to provide specific details of the sought information so that this office can locate/identify the same,” the response said.  The Hindu had reported on July 20 that the MHA was yet to inform the Parliament regarding the delay in framing of rules, to be done if the rules are not framed within six months of the legislation being passed by the Parliament. Following the report, the MHA sent a letter to the Parliamentary Committee on Subordinate Legislation seeking three months extension, which expired in November. It is not clear if the MHA sought another extension. As per the Manual on Parliamentary Work, in case the Ministries/Departments are not able to frame the rules within the prescribed period of six months, “they should seek extension of time from the Committee on Subordinate Legislation stating reasons for such extension” which cannot be more than for a period of three months at a time. The CAA was passed by the Lok Sabha on December 9, 2019 and by the Rajya Sabha on December 11 and assented by the President on December 12 the same year. The MHA issued a notification later that the provisions of the Act would come into force from January 10, 2020. The CAA provides citizenship on the basis of religion to six undocumented non-Muslim communities from Pakistan, Afghanistan and Bangladesh who entered India on or before December 31, 2014. The Act says all legal proceedings against them for illegally entering the country or cases for obtaining citizenship through fraudulent means will be closed.
10 December 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,||Footfall at Sabarimala inches towards 50,000||Amidst fears of an economic ruin that has engulfed a severely restricted Sabarimala pilgrimage, the number of devotees who have visited the hill shrine this season is inching close to the 50,000 mark. Going by the estimates with the Travancore Devaswom Board (TDB), around 44,000 pilgrims — mostly from Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Telangana and Andhra Pradesh — have visited the temple over the first 23 days of the ongoing pilgrimage season till December 8. The number, however, comes in stark contrast to the estimated one lakh pilgrims a day earlier during season. The income stood at just Rs. 4.08 crore as against Rs. 82 crore recorded during the same period last year. TDB president N. Vasu said the falling revenue would only add to the mounting liabilities of the board. “Sabarimala pilgrimage is not about keeping a profit and loss account. Still, the cost of organising the pilgrimage this year is estimated to be at least four times the revenue recorded so far,” he said. “The number of COVID-19 cases in Sabarimala currently remains well under control. An upward revision of pilgrims may be made after taking into consideration various factors, including the trends of COVID-19 spread during the local body polls,” he said.
10 December 2020||December 10 2020 00:00 IST,||SII, Bharat Biotech vaccine clearance on hold||A volunteer in Chennai last month sued the SII for what he believed was an adverse neurological reaction from being administered the vaccine. SII denied the link and counter-sued the applicant. While ICMR officials have said that an “initial” investigation showed the reaction wasn’t due to the vaccine, a fuller explanation is not yet available from the government. The 10-member committee, called the Subject Expert Committee, consists of members from multiple disciplines, including microbiology, pharmacology, paediatrics and pulmonary medicine. The committee meets periodically to recommend approval, or rejection, of new drugs and vaccines. India’s law allows a potential vaccine or drug to be commercially approved even without trials on Indians, provided the same has been approved in another country. However, such decisions usually rely on the discretion of the committee members who may ask for minimal, or several, lines of evidence before arriving at a decision. Pfizer-BioNTech — whose vaccine has been approved for use in the United Kingdom and Bahrain — had applied to Indian regulators before SII and Bharat Biotech, and was scheduled to present its data to the committee but did not turn up, the source added. The committee also gave permission to Pune-based Gennova Biopharma, which is developing an m-Rna vaccine, to begin human trials. The SII is testing a vaccine candidate developed by Oxford University and AstraZeneca on 1,600 volunteers in India, and Bharat Biotech has begun testing its vaccine in 28,500 volunteers across the country. SII’s vaccine is yet to be approved by regulators anywhere for public use.
10 December 2020||December 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Cabinet gives nod for public WiFi networks||The Union Cabinet on Wednesday approved a proposal for setting up public WiFi hotspots across the country via public data offices or PDOs, which could even be a kirana shop or a paan shop. The move, aimed at helping accelerate the uptake of broadband Internet services, will not require the PDOs to get a license or pay a fee. The public WiFi Access Network Interface, which will be called ‘PM-WANI’, was first recommended by the Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI) in 2017. This will involve multiple players, including PDOs, Public Data Office Aggregators (PDOA), app providers, and a central registry. PDOs — comparable to a PCO or a cybercafe — will establish, maintain, and operate WiFi access points and deliver broadband services to subscribers, while the PDOAs will be aggregators of PDOs and perform functions such as authorisation and accounting. According to TRAI, in most major economies, for 50%-70% of their total usage time, mobile users use WiFi technology to communicate. However, in India, this figure is less than 10%. Service providers had in 2018 stated that they aimed to provide 5 lakh hotspots by March 31, 2019 and 10 lakh hotspots by September 30, 2019. However, these targets have not been achieved.
10 December 2020||December 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Farmers reject govt.’s amendment proposals||“There is nothing different in this from what has been said during the discussions, which we have repeatedly rejected. The government wants to dress up its old proposals in new clothes. It’s an insult to farmers,” said Krantikari Kisan Union president Darshan Pal. He outlined plans to step up the pressure. “By December 12, we will jam the Delhi-Jaipur highway. On that day, we will make toll plazas across the country free for a day,” he said, adding that farmers were calling for a boycott of the Jio mobile connections and other products and services of the Reliance and Adani conglomerates. The farmers allege that the three laws will benefit large corporates at the expense of the small farmer. Other leaders said BJP offices would be gheraoed in every district, and that the Taj Expressway from Delhi to Agra would be blocked. On December 14, they plan a dharna, or sit-in, with farmers from North Indian States urged to come to Delhi, while others begin indefinite protests in their own home States. Late night discussions between Home Minister Amit Shah and a select group of farmer leaders on Tuesday, at the end of a day-long Bharat bandh, failed to break the impasse. With regard to MSP, the document says the Centre is prepared to give a “written assurance” that the current system of procurement of crops at MSP will continue. Farmers have been demanding a legal guarantee, preferably in the form of a new law that specifically says crops cannot be bought below MSP rates.
10 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Cabinet approves EPF subsidy for new workers||The Union Cabinet on Wednesday approved a scheme that would entail the government paying Employees Provident Fund (EPF) contributions of both the employee and employer for two years for new workers hired from October 1 to June 30, 2021. Announcing the decision taken by the Cabinet at a meeting chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Labour and Employment Minister Santosh Kumar Gangwar said the Atmanirbhar Bharat Rojgar Yojana would boost the economy and formal employment. The Cabinet approved spending Rs. 1,548 crore for the current financial year, he said. It would benefit lakhs of workers, he added. Salary cap of Rs. 15,000 For companies that employ up to 1,000 workers, the government would pay the entire contribution – 12% of wages paid by the employee and the employer each. For establishments with over 1,000 workers,it would pay the 12% share of the employee alone. The scheme will apply to those earning less than Rs. 15,000 a month. The Employees Provident Fund Organisation would credit the amount into the Aadhaar-seeded accounts of the members
10 December 2020||New Delhi,||Rules governing CAA still ‘under preparation’: MHA||A year after the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) was passed by the Lok Sabha, the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) has said that the rules governing the Act are still “under preparation”. Without the rules being notified, the Act remains ineffective. This is the first official response from the MHA on the rules of the contentious Act that saw vociferous protests and riots from December 2019 till early March. As many as 83 persons were killed in various incidents in Assam, Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka, Meghalaya and Delhi. The MHA’s response came in reply to a question filed by The Hindu under the Right to Information Act (RTI), seeking information on the status of framing the rules. B.C. Joshi, Director (Citizenship), Foreigners Division, said in the RTI reply that “it is to inform that the rules under the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, 2019, are under preparation”. The RTI reply also added that the MHA had not sent any letter regarding CAA to the Parliamentary Committee on Subordinate Legislation in the month of August, 2020. “You are requested to provide specific details of the sought information so that this office can locate/identify the same,” the response said.  The Hindu had reported on July 20 that the MHA was yet to inform the Parliament regarding the delay in framing of rules, to be done if the rules are not framed within six months of the legislation being passed by the Parliament. Following the report, the MHA sent a letter to the Parliamentary Committee on Subordinate Legislation seeking three months extension, which expired in November. It is not clear if the MHA sought another extension. As per the Manual on Parliamentary Work, in case the Ministries/Departments are not able to frame the rules within the prescribed period of six months, “they should seek extension of time from the Committee on Subordinate Legislation stating reasons for such extension” which cannot be more than for a period of three months at a time.
10 December 2020||December 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Cattle meat residue found in Indus Valley vessels||She added that the study was the first to look into the absorbed lipid residues in pottery from multiple sites, including Rakhigarhi, Farmana and Masudpur. Speaking to The Hindu , she said that while cattle bones have been found in large numbers at Indus Valley sites, the study found little evidence of dairy products. However, she said there could be regional differences as a recent study of vessels in Gujarat had found evidence of dairy products.
10 December 2020||New Delhi,||‘Curbs remain on Kejriwal’s movement’||Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) national spokesperson Raghav Chadha said that one entry to party chief and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal’s residence remained closed even on Wednesday morning. “Today also, in a way, there is a restriction in his [Mr. Kejriwal’s] right to free movement. One door was opened yesterday [Tuesday] evening. But today also, on directions of Home Minister Amit Shah, Delhi Police has put restrictions on Arvind Kejriwal’s movement,” Mr. Chadha said. He termed the situation as an unannounced “emergency”. The Delhi Police was under the “ambit of the Central government,” he said. On Tuesday morning, the AAP alleged that Mr. Kejriwal was kept “under house arrest” by the “Central government’s Delhi Police”, a claim which was denied by the police.
10 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Lakshadweep to get optical fibre cable||The Union Cabinet on Wednesday approved laying of undersea optical fibre cable to connect 11 islands of Lakshadweep with Kochi by May 2023, to help improve broadband connectivity in the Union Territory. The project is estimated to cost about Rs. 1,072 crore, including operational expenses for five years, and will be funded by the Universal Service Obligation Fund. Under sea optical cable Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who launched the submarine cable connectivity to Andaman and Nicobar Islands in August, had announced the aim to connect Lakshadweep with undersea optical fibre cable as well in 1,000 days during the Independence Day speech. “The project envisages provision of a direct communication link through a dedicated submarine Optical Fibre Cable (OFC) between Kochi and 11 Islands of Lakshadweep viz. Kavaratti, Kalpeni, Agati, Amini, Androth, Minicoy, Bangaram, Bitra, Chetlat, Kiltan and Kadmat,” an official release said. Telecom facilities The government said this would improve telecommunication facilities in Lakshadweep by providing large bandwidth, and will play a vital role for delivery of e-governance services, potential development of fisheries, coconut-based industries, high-value tourism, educational development and healthcare. State-owned Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited (BSNL) has been nominated as project execution agency and Telecommunications Consultant India Ltd. (TCIL) is the technical consultant for the project. “The ownership of the asset under the project will rest with USOF, the funding agency, under DoT. The project is targeted to be completed by May 2023,” the release said.
10 December 2020||Hyderabad,||Consultations for new TPCC chief begin||After the resignation of TPCC president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy, taking responsibility for the party’s debacle in the recent GHMC polls, the exercise for picking up the new Congress chief began on Wednesday with AICC in-charge Manickam Tagore eliciting individual opinions of senior Congress leaders. The three-day exercise will include personal interactions with Members of Parliament, MLAs, MLCs, former PCC chiefs, former parliamentarians, District Congress Committee leaders and key persons of all frontal organisations of the party. Mr. Tagore will confine himself to seeking the opinions and submitting a report to AICC president Sonia Gandhi, who will take the final call. Despite the party faring quite badly in the last few elections, the race for the top post in the State is pretty strong with almost every leader claiming it. A senior leader confided that nearly 100 people want to try their luck. “I have received applications from DCC presidents and several party functionaries not so active in politics as well,” a top TPCC functionary told The Hindu . A DCC president from North Telangana district, requesting anonymity, said, “When everyone is in the race, why can’t I try my luck. After all I served the party for more than 20 years since my student days.” Seniors who have lost consecutive elections too, want to throw their hat in the ring. The vacancy existed ever since Mr. Uttam sent his resignation to the High Command after the loss of Huzurnagar by-poll. All top leaders have been making their efforts. According to party sources, strong contenders include TPCC working president A. Revanth Reddy, Bhongir MP Komatireddy Venkata Reddy, CLP leader Bhatti Vikramarka and Manthani MLA D. Sreedhar Babu. However, seniors like Sangareddy MLA T. Jayaprakash Reddy, AICC secretary Madhu Yashki and TPCC working president Ponnam Prabhakar never hid their intentions to lead the party. Former Ministers T. Jeevan Reddy and G. Chinna Reddy are staking their claim albeit discreetly. Former Deputy CM Damodar Rajanarsimha too has the experience and seniority. AICC secretary Sampath Kumar also sounded that he is in the fray. The caste combinations will come into play apart from the acceptability factor while choosing the new chief. The very idea of Mr. Tagore spending three days to have wider consultations is an indicator of how tough the choice is going to be. He will weigh the pros and cons of each individual in his final report to the AICC president. Mr. Tagore indicated that the final announcement will take three to four weeks depending on Ms. Gandhi’s time. Mr. Tagore is also likely to focus on the chairman of Campaign Committee that has equal importance in Mr. Rahul Gandhi’s scheme of things. So, the post will go to one among the three top contenders that the party is likely to figure out. Among the remaining two, one will be the PCC chief and the other will be accommodated at the national level. A senior leader close to the Delhi leadership said that the party is definitely looking for an aggressive leader who can rejuvenate the cadre.
10 December 2020||STAFF REPORTER,||MANUU gears up for return of students||The Maulana Azad National Urdu University (MANUU) is gearing up for the physical return of students, albeit in a phased manner, on December 22. According to varsity officials, the move comes after the University Grants Commission issued guidelines on reopening of universities and colleges post the COVID-forced lockdown.  Plans drawn up MANUU staff said that they received a copy of the guidelines on November 5 after which they began to draw up plans in meetings to facilitate return of students with due adherence to COVID-19 precautions.  Prof Syed Alim Ashraf Jaisi, Dean, Students Welfare, said after deliberations, a file haf been sent to in-charge Vice Chancellor S. M. Rahmatullah for final approval and a decision would be taken soon. 50 students in phase I “In the first phase, we are planning for the return of around 50 students. Depending on the circumstances, we could have the same number of students coming back to the university in the second phase. We have planned for the return of research scholars whose dissertation submissions are due in 90 days. Final year post-graduate students of science and technology courses too are likely to return. The reason for this is that final year science and technology students have to complete lab coursework. We will be strictly adhering to the UGC guidelines,” Prof Jaisi said. Upon their arrival, students will be quarantined in a hostel building, likely in the Muhammad Ali Johar block, for a period of 14 days. Each student will be allotted a room and will have to remain in isolation for the fortnight. COVID measures “We are planning to take an undertaking from students that they will abide by the rules in connection with COVID- 19 measures. They will venture outside. They will have to report to the university’s health centre upon arrival. They can contact the respective heads of departments. Food will be served to them at their rooms,” Prof Jaisi said.
10 December 2020||London,||U.K. PM gets it wrong in the Commons||British Prime Minister Boris Johnson on Wednesday seemed to confuse two separate issues when Labour MP Tanmanjeet Singh Dhesi, who has been leading a drive to keep the protests by Indian farmers against the government’s farm laws in the news in Britain, repeated one of his previous Twitter statements on the issue in the House of Commons during the weekly Prime Minister’s questions session. Mr. Johnson, in response, said, “Our view is that, of course, we have serious concerns about what is happening between India and Pakistan but these are pre-eminently matters for those two governments to settle.” Mr. Dhesi later posted the exchange on Twitter, adding, “But it might help if our PM actually knew what he was talking about!”
10 December 2020||New Delhi,||IAF moves court against RTI disclosure||The Indian Air Force (IAF) moved the Delhi High Court on Wednesday challenging a Central Information Commission (CIC) direction to provide an RTI activist details regarding every foreign visit undertaken by Prime Minister Narendra Modi and former Prime Minister Manmohan Singh on lAF aircraft. The IAF, in its plea, said the information sought to be disclosed by the CIC in its July 8, 2020 order was “extremely sensitive in nature” as it related to details of the Prime Minister’s security apparatus. “It can potentially affect the sovereignty and integrity of India,” IAF said.
10 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Delete scenes in Anil Kapoor film, says IAF||Raising objection to the “inaccurate” donning of its uniform and the language used by actor Anil Kapoor in the trailer of a new Netflix film AK vs AK , the Indian Air Force (IAF) has written to Netflix asking them to delete the objectionable scenes before the film is released. Netflix responded with a message on Twitter saying their intention “would never be to disrespect” the armed forces of India in any regard. Mr. Kapoor too put out a video to “sincerely offer humble apology for unintentionally hurting anyone’s sentiments.” “The IAF uniform in this video is inaccurately donned and the language used is inappropriate. This does not conform to the behavioural norms of those in the armed forces of India. The related scenes need to be withdrawn,” the IAF said on Twitter. The movie, directed by Vikramaditya Motwane, is scheduled to premiere on Netflix on December 24.
10 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Don’t paste quarantine posters: SC||The Supreme Court clarified on Wednesday that State governments and Union Territory administrations are not required to paste posters outside the houses of quarantined COVID-19 patients. “No State or Union Territory is required to paste posters outside the residence of COVID-19 positive persons, as of now. The State governments and Union Territories can resort to the above exercise only when any direction is issued by the competent authority under the Disaster Management Act, 2005,” a three-judge Bench led by Justice Ashok Bhushan cleared the air on the issue in an 11-page order. The order came on a petition filed by advocate Kush Kulra, who said such posters entail the violation of the fundamental right to privacy of patients. ‘Details publicised’ Mr. Kalra had argued that these placards divulge, even “widely publicise”, the names of the patients and other details to strangers, other residents in the colony or apartment complex, as well as household staff of neighbours, vendors, passers-by and others. In its order, the Bench referred to the Centre’s submission that its guidelines on home isolation for patients have no mention of pasting posters outside their residences. The government had referred to its “Revised guidelines for home isolation of very mild/pre-symptomatic/asymptomatic COVID-19 cases” in July in this regard. ‘No such direction’ “Neither any such direction has been issued by the Government of India nor it is obligatory to any State or Union Territory to paste the posters outside the residences of COVID19 positive persons,” the Bench reproduced the submission made by Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, for the Centre, in its order. The Centre had said that its November 19 letter to States and Union Territories does not contain any instruction or guidance on affixing posters or signage outside the residences of those found COVID-19 patients. The court noted that the Delhi and Punjab governments have already withdrawn orders to paste posters.
10 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||BJP rules out change in Tripura govt.||The national leadership of the BJP on Wednesday stepped in to defuse the crisis in the Tripura government, with party president J.P. Nadda and State prabhari (in-charge) Vinod Sonkar urging Chief Minister Biplab Deb not to go forward with a support rally on December 13. Mr. Sonkar ruled out a change in leadership in the State at present, but having met all party MLAs during his recent visit to Agartala, he said the party would “sort the organisational issues out”. He also confirmed that both he and Mr. Nadda had asked the Chief Minister to desist from the public meeting. Things had taken an ugly turn for Mr. Deb in the State when Mr. Sonkar, recently appointed State prabhari , had been greeted with slogans of “ Biplab hatao (remove Biplab)” when he landed at the BJP office in Agartala. Party workers surrounded Mr. Sonkar, who then decided to speak to each MLA in confidence. A few months ago too, at least six MLAs led by Sudip Roy Barman had landed in Delhi seeking a meeting with the national leadership. An emotional Mr. Deb on Tuesday declared that he would be holding a rally to demonstrate public support for his government.
10 December 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Withdraw farm laws, Akali Dal asks Centre||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Wednesday urged the Centre to immediately and unconditionally withdraw the three controversial farm Acts and accept all the other demands made by the agitating farmers. Senior Akali leader Bikram Singh Majithia said the SAD fully backed the farmers’ rejection of the proposals sent by the Centre, adding that these proposals were nothing but “delaying and diversionary tactics and tricks which have rightly been rejected by the farmers”. Asking the Central government to “abandon its stubborn refusal to listen to the farmers and announce unqualified and unconditional acceptance of their demands”, Mr. Majithia said, “If the farmers don’t want these, it is absolutely unreasonable, wrong and undemocratic to thrust these upon them.”
10 December 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Withdraw farm laws, Akali Dal asks Centre||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Wednesday urged the Centre to immediately and unconditionally withdraw the three controversial farm Acts and accept all the other demands made by the agitating farmers. Senior Akali leader Bikram Singh Majithia said the SAD fully backed the farmers’ rejection of the proposals sent by the Centre, adding that these proposals were nothing but “delaying and diversionary tactics and tricks which have rightly been rejected by the farmers”. Asking the Central government to “abandon its stubborn refusal to listen to the farmers and announce unqualified and unconditional acceptance of their demands”, Mr. Majithia said, “If the farmers don’t want these, it is absolutely unreasonable, wrong and undemocratic to thrust these upon them.”
10 December 2020||Mumbai,||Bill proposing death penalty for rape cleared||The Maharashtra Cabinet on Wednesday cleared the draft of a Bill prepared on the lines of the Disha Act passed by the Andhra Pradesh government to curb crimes against women and children. The draft of the Maharashtra Shakti Criminal Law (Maharashtra Amendment) Act, 2020, proposes death penalty in cases of rape, acid attack, and serious crimes against children. The draft is likely to be tabled in the winter session of the State Assembly scheduled to be held on December 14 and 15.
10 December 2020||December 10 2020 00:00 IST,||MNF sweeps Lai council polls in Mizoram||The Mizo National Front (MNF) took the wind out of the sails of an “upbeat” BJP by sweeping the Lai Autonomous District Council (LADC) polls in Mizoram. The Zoramthanga-led MNF, the State’s ruling party, won 20 of the 25 seats. The BJP managed a solitary seat, as did the Congress.
10 December 2020||New Delhi,||Verify if e-commerce firms show ‘country of origin’ on products, HC tells Centre||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday asked the Centre if e-commerce entities such as Flipkart, Amazon and Snapdeal, are complying with the requirement of displaying ‘country of origin’ on products offered for sale on their websites. A Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan directed the Centre to verify it.
10 December 2020||New Delhi,||Plea seeks legal framework for regulating tech firms like FB in financial sector||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday asked the Centre and the Reserve Bank of India to respond to a petition seeking a legal framework for regulating operations of tech companies such as Facebook, Google and Amazon in India’s financial sector. The petition said unregulated operations could adversely affect the nation’s financial stability.
10 December 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi doctor with disabilities moves NHRC over unpaid salary||A doctor with disabilities working at a COVID-19 testing centre since June, has moved the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC), alleging that his employer, the North Delhi Municipal Corporation, had not paid him salary for six months. Dr. Sumit Anand, who was left with locomotor disabilities from a surgery in 2018, filed the complaint on Tuesday.
10 December 2020||New Delhi,||ED chargesheet against Embraer SA and others on aircraft deal||The Enforcement Directorate has filed a chargesheet against Embraer SA (Brazil) and others in connection with the $210 million Embraer deal in 2008 for sale of three aircraft to the DRDO. Among those arraigned are Interdev Aviation Services Pte. Ltd., KRBL Limited, its director Anoop Kumar Gupta and his nephew Anurag Potdar.
10 December 2020||Kolkata,||Buddhadeb on ventilator support||Former West Bengal chief minister and veteran Communist leader Buddhadeb Bhattacharjee was put on ventilator support at a private health facility on Wednesday. Mr. Bhattacharjee, 76, was brought to the hospital in an unconscious state with his oxygen level dropping alarmingly. Though his oxygen level improved, the concentration of carbon dioxide in his blood remains a concern for doctors treating him at Woodlands Hospital. “He remains critical but responding to treatment,” a hospital statement said. An RT-PCR test ruled out COVID-19. He has been suffering advanced chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and has been ailing for some time. A host of political leaders, including Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, visited the hospital.
10 December 2020||Kolkata,||Mamata synonymous with intolerance: Nadda||BJP president J.P. Nadda on Wednesday launched a scathing attack on West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee, saying she is synonymous with intolerance. Mr. Nadda, who is on a two-day visit to the State, quoted Jana Sangh founder Syama Prasad Mukherjee on cultivating the habits of discipline and tolerance. Political violence Targeting the Trinamool Congress government on numerous fronts, he stated that West Bengal had seen highest political violence and the State “has reached the heights of political intolerance”. One hundred and thirty BJP workers have been killed so far, including one killed on Wednesday and one on December 7. The BJP chief spoke about the rise of his party in the State and expressed the hope that in the 2021 Assembly polls, it would come to power. “Few years ago, our vote percentage was 4 per cent. From there, in 2014, it increased to 18 per cent and we won two seats. In 2019, we won 18 seats and the percentage increased to 40 per cent. In 2021, we will overthrow the Mamata Banerjee government”, he asserted. Like Union Home Minister Amit Shah, Mr. Nadda also claimed that the BJP would win more than 200 of the 294 seats in the State. Mr. Nadda, who inaugurated nine party offices virtually, said other parties operated from houses of party leaders because they (parties) were run by families. “They are all parties of family and the Trinamool Congress is no exception to it”, he alleged. In his half an hour speech, Mr. Nadda drew references to the Jana Sangha founder a number of times. The BJP government under Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Mr. Shah had been able to realise the dreams of Mookerjee by abolishing Article 370 in Jammu and Kashmir. Black flags to Nadda Earlier in the day, when Mr. Nadda reached the party office in Hastings area of the city, a group of youths held posters saying “Go back BJP”. The youths also waved black flags. Speaking to journalists, the protesters said they were protesting against the Central farm laws. Soon BJP supporters gathered and tried to push away the protesters. The situation remained volatile. The BJP leadership said the protests were held at the behest of Trinamool Congress. Mr. Nadda is likely to visit Bhawanipur, the constituency of the Chief Minister.
10 December 2020||ANDIPATTI,TAMIL NADU||Lorry driver held under POCSO ACT||A 35-year-old man from Andipatti was arrested on the charges of POCSO Act here on Wednesday. Police said that following a complaint from a 14-year-old girl’s parents that the accused had lured the victim and was found missing, a case was registered. Investigations revealed that the man had gone to Tirupur and was arrested. He had lured the girl into marrying her, but allegedly indulged in sexual abuses. He claimed to be a lorry driver. When the girl had been to tuition, he became friends by giving her a mobile phone. After producing him before a Judicial Magistrate court, the accused was sent to jail.
10 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||ASI explores ways to prevent flooding in Darasuram temple||The Archaeological Survey of India (ASI) is exploring ways to find a permanent solution to prevent flooding in the Airavatesvara temple in Darasuram, near Kumbakonam in Thanjavur district. “This is not happening for the first time. Flooding is a perennial problem and we are planning a brainstorming session with experts in the field of civil engineering to find a permanent solution,” said T. Arun Raj, the Superintending Archaeologist of the newly-created Tiruchi circle of the ASI. The ASI is pumping out the water from the temple which was constructed by Chola King Rajaraja II. Additions were made by Kulotunga III also. It is a UNESCO World Heritage site. Mr. Arun Raj said the help of the district administration was vital in achieving a solution as there was a need to restore the channels, which have been encroached upon. There is also a tank, which will receive water through the channel from the temple. “When the town around the temple grew in size, construction activities increased. The development rendered the temple complex a low-lying area and it gets inundated during monsoon,” he explained.  Plenty of fish Mr. Arun Raj said there was plenty of fish in the water, and it was a clear indication of a link to waterbodies outside, which were in bad shape because of encroachments. Collector N. Subbaiyan, who visited the temple last week, said there was an outlet reaching up to a tank. “But it is not adequate. Moreover, the temple is in a low-lying area. We will work out a solution,” he said.
10 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Residents protest as Corporation clears hutments in Park Town||Tension prevailed in Gandhi Nagar, Park Town, after a group of residents entered Cooum river, protesting against the eviction drive carried out by the Greater Chennai Corporation on Wednesday. The protesters were demanding that the State government allot them houses in the nearby flats belonging to the Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board (TNSCB). A large number of hutments had come up along the banks of the Cooum near Island Grounds on Anna Salai. The Corporation, assisted by the police, demolished over 350 houses as part of the Cooum Restoration Project. A senior official of the Royapuram zone, under whose limits the locality falls, said a total of 2,060 houses were identified for encroachment removal under the Chennai City River Restoration Project on the banks of the Cooum. The civic body was assisting in shifting the residents from the site, which belongs to the Water Resources Department. While more than 1,720 houses were removed last year, more than 350 houses were demolished on Wednesday. He said the residents have been rehabilitated by allocating them houses at the TNSCB tenements in Perumbakkam. S. Elumalai, living in the locality for more than 45 years, said, “When a survey was conducted around May by the officials of the Corporation, the WRD and the TNSCB, they assured the residents that they would be shifting them to tenements nearby. But now they are going back on their word and asking us to move to Perumbakkam.” An auto driver by profession, he said his family would face severe hardships in making a living. He said the education of his grandchildren, who are studying in the nearby Army-run school, would also be affected.  A petition was given to the managing director of the TNSCB on Tuesday, seeking his intervention to allot the residents houses in nearby areas.
10 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Collect only 50% toll till highway stretch is fixed’||The Madras High Court on Wednesday directed the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) to collect only 50% of the toll at the two booths situated between the Maduravoyal and Ranipet stretch of the National Highway 48, which connects Chennai and Bengaluru. Justices M. Sathyanarayanan and R. Hemalatha said only half of the toll amount should be collected until the NHAI uses scientific methods to repair the highway stretch, which is covered with deep craters and potholes. When Assistant Solicitor-General G. Karthikeyan told the court that the highway would be repaired within 10 days, the judges asked him to make a mention before the court after completing the work so that the interim order could be vacated.   suo motu PIL The order was passed on a suo motu public interest litigation (PIL) petition taken up by the court last year, based on a letter written by Justice Sathyanarayanan to Chief Justice Amreshwar Pratap Sahi about the poor maintenance of the stretch despite the collection of toll. Expressing anguish over the NHAI not maintaining the stretch properly even after the court took suo motu cognisance of the issue, the judges said they were tired of hearing repeated statements made in the court that the stretch would be repaired at the earliest. Stating that the NHAI should at least strive to maintain the national highways as per the Indian Road Congress norms, the Bench pointed out the absence of proper lighting facilities, sign boards and reflectors on the stretch. They wondered why the NHAI was not laying all-weather roads and why it always went for temporary patch work that did not last long. The judges said the day was not far when somebody who met with an accident due to the condition of the road would come to the NHAI for compensation. The judges also took judicial note of the death of a 50-year-old woman and her 20-year-old daughter, after their two-wheeler skidded and they fell into an open storm water canal abutting the Irumbuliyar-Maduravoyal bypass service road on Sunday. After directing the NHAI to pay compensation to the victims’ family, the judge recorded the submission of Mr. Karthikeyan that all storm water drains abutting national highways would be covered.
10 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. power demand up 9% in Oct.||Tamil Nadu’s electricity demand increased over 9% to 9,086 million units in October this year from 8,266 million units in the same period last year, posting a positive growth for the first time since the lockdown was imposed in March to curb the spread of COVID-19. Power demand is one of the metrics used to measure the level of economic activity. Power-intensive sectors Tamil Nadu has the highest number of factories among the States, and is a hub of power-intensive sectors such as automobile, auto-components and electronics. According to data gathered from the Central Electricity Authority (CEA), the all-India power demand increased about 11.5% to 109,630 million units in October this year from 98,363 million units in the comparable period last year. Tamil Nadu’s peak demand in October this year was 14,323 MW; it remained flat, compared with 14,335 MW in the same month last year. The State’s power demand had crashed 25.6% in April and 14.5% in May amid the total lockdown. The recovery was slower till September. Tamil Nadu further relaxed the lockdown in September, even allowing big showrooms and shopping malls to reopen, as part of the Union government’s Unlock 4 guidelines. The State in October extended the time for restaurants to function by an hour till 9 p.m. and for takeaway services till 10 p.m. From April to October this year, the State’s power demand was 59,099 million units, down nearly 10% from 65,627 million units recorded in the same period last year. Distribution companies The weakening power demand amid COVID-19 has also caused a stress in the finances of the State distribution companies. Tangedco has been sanctioned over Rs. 30,000 crore under the Union government’s COVID-19 liquidity infusion package. Tangedco’s outstanding dues to power generating companies stood at about Rs. 20,600 crore as in October, up 56% from Rs. 13,200 crore in the same month last year. The outstanding dues had declined 5% since September. Tamil Nadu has the second highest outstanding dues among the State distribution companies, after Rajasthan.
10 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||File report on ECR stormwater drain project soon, says NGT||The Southern Bench of the National Green Tribunal has directed a joint committee to inspect the area between Kottivakkam and Uthandi at two different locations, where the Municipal Administration Department is constructing a stormwater drain, evaluate the project and submit a report within a short time. The bench directed the joint committee, which was already constituted nearly 10 days ago to inspect and evaluate the project and submit a report. Double applications The direction came on yet another application against the stormwater drain project, citing that it would affect marine ecology and the aquifer recharge zone which in turn will affect the recharge of groundwater. The applicant also said a huge amount of public money was being wasted without any planning. The Bench also combined the earlier application filed against the project with the current application. The committee has been directed to evaluate whether the project requires any CRZ clearance, if it will have any environmental impact on the aquifer and the coastal zone due to the construction of concrete stormwater drains in the aquifer region, to see if alternate methods by which the apprehension of people affecting natural percolation and water recharge system in the aquifer can be eased, and if the project has to proceed while causing the least environmental damage. “The MoEF & Climate Change and the Coastal Zone Management Authority are directed to take appropriate action against the authorities who are engaged in this project, if found in violation of any environmental laws, including stopping of the project till necessary clearance is obtained,” the bench said. The Committee has also been directed to suggest and recommend methods by which the project can be progressed without causing much environmental impact on the coastal areas and aquifer regions, if such work is legally permissible to continue. The Tribunal directed the Committee to file a consolidated report. Interim report If it is not able to file a final report within such time, the Committee should at least file an interim report regarding the prima facie violation if any, so that the Tribunal can consider whether the project can be proceeded with or not. “Urgency in this matter must be understood by the Committee. Especially, when serious environmental issues have been raised affecting the coastal ecosystem, which plays a greater role in protecting the environment,” the bench said and directed the consolidated report to be filed on or before January 11, 2021. The Bench said any construction made in the project would be subject to further orders.
10 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Rajini meets political aides to discuss setting up of party||Actor Rajinikanth held consultative meetings with political aides Tamilaruvi Manian and R. Arjunamoorthy at Raghavendra Kalyana Mandapam in Chennai on Wednesday, said sources. The actor recently said that he would announce the date of the launch of his party in January and contest the Assembly election in 2021. While the three reportedly discussed the nitty gritty of the party’s launch, its constitution, structure and ideology, district secretaries have been told to only use photographs of Mr. Rajinikanth or his appointed office-bearers. A district secretary said they had been informed not to identify anyone as the face of the party, through posters or banners, until the launch in January. “We have been asked to wait until the official party launch so that the right people could be identified as the face of the party,” he said. RMM office-bearers are also planning to celebrate the actor’s birthday, on December 12, in a grand manner.
10 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tamil Nadu reports 1,232 fresh infections and 14 fatalities||Another 1,232 persons, including 15 returnees, tested positive for COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu on Wednesday. While 1,315 persons were discharged after treatment, 14 persons succumbed to the infection. Till date, a total of 7,94,020 persons have tested positive for COVID-19 in the State. Presently, 10,491 persons are under treatment, including 3,236 persons in Chennai and 924 in Coimbatore. Chengalpattu, Salem and Tiruppur account for 500-plus active cases each. So far, 7,71,693 persons have been discharged from hospital after treatment. Another 14 persons succumbed to the infection, taking the toll to 11,836. Of these, Chennai accounted for the most number of deaths with eight, while Chengalpattu, Krishnagiri, Madurai, Salem, Theni and Tiruvallur reported only one death each. All 14 persons had co-morbidities. Among them was a 40-year-old man from Chennai, who had systemic hypertension, diabetes, chronic kidney disease and coronary artery disease. He was admitted to the Rajiv Gandhi Government General Hospital on December 7 and died the next day due to COVID-19 pneumonia and respiratory failure. Two persons aged 92 died at the Government Corona Hospital in Guindy. A woman with carcinoma breast died on December 5 due to severe COVID-19 pneumonia, while a man with systemic hypertension and diabetes died on December 8 due to viral pneumonia and respiratory failure. A total of 347 persons tested positive in Chennai and 133 in Coimbatore. Chengalpattu and Salem reported 78 and 72 cases respectively. There were 50 cases in Tiruvallur, 48 in Tiruppur and 48 in Kancheepuram. As many as 21 districts recorded less than 20 cases each. Fifteen returnees, including four from Bihar and three from West Bengal, tested positive for COVID-19. A total of 70,262 samples were tested in the last 24 hours, taking the total figure to 1,26,75,551.  A total of 347 persons tested positive in Chennai and 133 in Coimbatore. Chengalpattu and Salem reported 78 and 72 cases respectively
10 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Railways increases speed limit to reclassify high-speed trains||The Railways have changed the classification of high-speed trains by increasing the maximum speed limit to more than 130 kmph. However, the norm for levying superfast surcharge on passengers remains at 55 kmph on broad gauge and 45 kmph on meter gauge trains. The Railway Board, in a recent order to general managers of all zonal railways, said, “Trains with maximum permissible speed up to 130 kmph shall not be treated as ‘high speed’. Only trains having maximum permissible speed of more than 130 kmph shall be treated as ‘high-speed’ trains.” The board was responding to queries raised by different zonal railways on the need to revise the definition of ‘high-speed’ trains with the proposed increase in speed up to 130 kmph of a majority of trains due to the proliferation of Linke Hoffman Busch (LHB) rakes. The deployment of co-drivers or co-locopilots on ‘high-speed’ trains was also flagged. After the issue was examined by a team comprising the Chairman, Railway Board; member, Traction & Rolling Stock; member, Operations & Business Development; and others, it was decided that no co-locopilot needs to be deployed on trains having speed up to 130 kmph. However, a duly qualified assistant locopilot (ALP) could be deployed for these trains. Such ALPs should be sufficiently experienced and capable of attending failures en route, and in the event of the locopilot getting immobile/incapacitated, he should take the train to the nearest station. In the new scheme that would be implemented on an experimental basis for a period of six months, the board said the co-locopilots could be deployed on all trains having a speed of more than 130 kmph irrespective of continuous driving duty, minimum distance between terminals, average speed of the train, length of route, etc. This arrangement of redefining ‘high-speed’ trains and deploying co-locopilots comes months after the Ministry of Railways decided to raise the speed of trains to 130 kmph along the Golden Quadrilateral and Diagonals routes. In June 2019, the board directed that the sectional speed on the Delhi-Mumbai and Delhi-Howrah route be enhanced to 130 kmph, with the approval of the Commissioner of Railway Safety. On other routes (Howrah-Chennai, Chennai-Mumbai, Delhi-Chennai and Howrah-Mumbai), the increased speed was planned by 2020-21. These routes, running over a stretch of 9,100 km, constitute a sizable volume of passenger and freight traffic in the railway network, sources in the Railways said. Superfast surcharge However, despite the fact that a majority of trains are running on double-line BG and electrified routes with LHB rakes, the criterion to levy superfast surcharge remains at an average of 55 kmph on the BG routes, the sources said. In a note issued in 2007, the Railways said if the average speed of a train is minimum 55 kmph on BG and 45 kmph on MG, it would be treated as a Superfast Train for the purpose of levying superfast surcharge. The average speed is calculated by dividing the end-to-end distance by the total journey time. The superfast surcharge on trains varies between Rs. 50 per passenger in AC First Class and Rs. 20 in Sleeper Class.
10 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Schools mull holding tests, giving holidays||During a regular academic year, December would mean half-yearly examinations and a long break for the students. However, with campuses remaining shut since March, schools are now mulling putting in place some form of assessment while also factoring in a short break from the online classes for the students. State board schools are yet to receive information on whether there will be changes to the syllabus or if they need to conduct virtual exams at the end of the second term. Most schools that have been conducting online classes are already considering conducting exams, in a virtual format, which is feasible for the students. “While students from the senior classes have been attending online classes regularly, taking an initiative to learn, we have been facing challenges while ensuring that students of Classes 6 to 9 learn in some way or the other,” said G.J. Manohar, headmaster and correspondent, MCC Higher Secondary School. For these classes, the school was planning on having term papers that would mainly act as a way to review learning over the last few months, he said. ‘Not mandatory’ In accordance with the guidelines issued for conducting online classes, schools have been holding assessments that have not been mandatory for students, so far. While the second-term breaks start after December 23, usually extending till around January 2, schools are considering the possibility of working for a few days after Christmas and before New Year. A few holidays are expected in January as well, and the schools are keen on having classes for a few days in between, particularly for the senior classes. The principal of a private school said that while there would be holidays for Christmas and New Year, they were considering a shorter break, compared to the previous years. “We are awaiting directions from the School Education Department in this regard,” he added. Analysing efficiency Stressing the need to have some form of assessment or evaluation, R. Visalakshi, president of the Tamil Nadu Private Schools’ Association, said schools could consider having short exams, with multiple choice or one-mark questions, for a majority of the classes. “Only this way can we get an idea of how much the students have learnt, all these months, through online classes. The idea is to analyse how effective the learning has been and to bring about some seriousness among the students,” she added.  We have been facing challenges while ensuring that students from Classes 6 to 9 learn in some way or the other G.J. Manohar Headmaster and correspondent, MCC Higher Secondary School
10 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Changes in train timings||Southern Railway has asked passengers to take note of changes in train timings before commencing their journeys. The schedule of long-distance special trains has been revised for the convenience of passengers, Southern Railway said. According to a press release, information and updates on train timings, their schedules, stoppages and running status can be accessed on the official websites of the Railways. Passengers can use the mobile app of the Railways too for the purpose.
10 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Airport authorities remind passengers about water bottle rule||In post-COVID-19 times, air passengers think twice before taking a flight. And when they do deem it essential to fly, a list of precautions is the first thought that comes to their minds. Besides masks, face shields and a small sanitiser bottle, a lot of travellers are bringing in their water bottles, which only end up being confiscated during the security check. Officials of the Airports Authority of India (AAI) said they had been witnessing a slight rise in those carrying water bottles, unaware that liquids over 100 ml cannot be taken past security. Half or one litre bottles are immediately confiscated and disposed of, an official said. “It is not clear why we see more people carrying water bottles now. They can always purchase them in the security hold area if they want. Maybe some are worried about buying food and water, and hence prefer bringing their own,” he added. Some of them could also be first-time passengers who do not know the rules, another official said. “Earlier, we did not have so many shops open, so people may have assumed that they may not get water. They can always purchase it in the security hold area if needed,” he added.  They can always purchase it in the security hold area if needed Official
10 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Decomposed bodies of mother, daughter found||Decomposed bodies of a woman professor and her 14-year-old daughter were found in their house in Taramani on Wednesday. It is suspected that they ended their lives. The police recovered the bodies of Kalpana, 36, assistant professor at a private college, and her daughter Gunali Sri, 14. After foul smell emanated from the house, the house owner broke in and found the bodies. The Kotturpuram police sent the bodies for post-mortem examination. Her husband Geethakrishnan and another daughter are missing. The police found a suicide note, reportedly written by Geethakrishnan, in which he mentioned that two men had cheated them. Further investigation is on. (Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.)
10 December 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Stalin urges CM to release relief to farmers||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Wednesday said it was highly condemnable that the government had failed to distribute relief to farmers, fishermen and general public who were affected by Cyclone Nivar and Burevi even though Rs. 74 crore had been allotted from the State Disaster Response Fund a week ago. “Even after witnessing lakhs of acres submerging in water, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami is not able to understand the pain and agony of the farmers,” he said in a statement. Mr Stalin said as a first instalment the government should release Rs. 5,000 to each family and Rs. 10,000 to farmers.
10 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||6-year-old girl undergoes surgery for rare condition||Suffering from a rare condition that left her unable to play like other children her age, six-year-old Joyesmita Chando limped severely and had difficulty in walking. Her mobility was also restricted. Her parents, who lived in Guwahati, Assam, consulted multiple doctors. The family was finally referred to Vijay Kishore Reddy, an arthroscopic surgeon at the Apollo Hospitals in Chennai. Dr. Reddy said the girl had been suffering for over seven months. “She came with a 45 degree flexion and was limping. She could not bend her knee, straighten it, stand or sit. The child could have ended up with a condition found in people over the age of 50,” he said. Rare in children “This condition is very rare in children. The meniscus is a soft piece of cartilage that acts as a cushion shock absorber to protect the knee. There are two of these C-shaped, or crescent-shaped, pads in each knee. A discoid meniscus is thicker than normal and has a different shape and texture. It is more likely to be injured than a normal shaped meniscus.” “Discoid meniscus may not cause injury in some people but a few may face issues because of this, especially during childhood. Though discoid meniscus may be present from birth, injuries can occur due to the twisting motions of the knee, while pivoting or changes in direction while playing sports,” Dr. Reddy added. Since the equipment used for surgery of the meniscus is usually for adults, the surgeon decided to use surgical equipment used for smaller bones, such as the wrist. Ms. Joyesmita underwent arthroscopic lateral discoid meniscus saucerisation and repair through the keyhold procedure. She was discharged the next day and put on physiotherapy to help her regain the use of her limb.
10 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DVAC refuses to share inquiry report||The Directorate of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption (DVAC) on Wednesday refused to share with the complainants a copy of its preliminary inquiry report giving a clean chit to Municipal Administration Minister S.P. Velumani on allegations of irregularities in award of civil contracts by Greater Chennai and Coimbatore Corporations. Appearing before a Division Bench of Justices M. Sathyanarayanan and R. Hemalatha, State Public Prosecutor A. Natarajan said it was sufficient if the DVAC informs the complainants about the reasons for not having found prima facie material warranting registration of a First Information Report (FIR) against the Minister. There was no necessity to share the entire preliminary inquiry report with the complainants, Jayaram Venkatesan of NGO Arappor Iyakkam and DMK MP R.S. Bharathi, he asserted. The SPP also said the exhaustive report had already been placed before the court and the State government which had dropped further action. On the other hand, advocate R. Neelakandan, representing Mr. Bharathi, said the DVAC was duty bound to share the entire inquiry report with the complainants as per the dictum laid down by the Supreme Court in the famous Lalita Kumari’s case. He said the complainants had a right to know whether the inquiry was conducted properly. An advocate representing Mr. Venkatesan’s counsel V. Suresh sought time to file a detailed reply to the submissions made by the State Public Prosecutor and hence the judges adjourned further hearing on the case, seeking registration of FIR, to January 18.
10 December 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||‘Use of mike while recording videos for The Hindu Margazhi contest preferable’||A common question from people interested in participating in The Hindu Margazhi Classical Music Competition has been if they should use a microphone while recording their videos. Audio crucial Musician Abaswaram Ramjhi, who is also the founder of Issai Mazhalai music choir for children, explained that recording the singing or performances without a mike would not capture the crucial audio properly. “The judges after all need to listen to the audio,” he added. It will take performers at least 50 concerts to understand how the mike works, what acoustics is and how important feedback is. “Unless you have a good audio system, you cannot take your performance to the audience. The microphone is a micro-deivam (mini god),” said Mr. Ramjhi, who has trained hundreds of youngsters. Even if participants use mobile phones to make the recording, a small lapel mike would make all the difference. “Unless there is a mike, the audio won't be picked up properly. In fact the tonal quality in various rooms in the home differs. Some rooms have more echo effect than others. Those who make recordings should listen to what they have recorded, check if it is fine and then send,” said actor S. Ve. Shekhar. Deadline The last date for sending in entries to thmargazhi@thehindu.co.in is December 12, 2020. For more details about the competition, log on to: https://www.google.com/ amp/s/www.thehindu.co m/news/national/tamil-na du/the-hindu-announces- margazhi-competition-for -young-indian-classical-m usicians/article33231111.ec e/amp/
10 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DGP apprises HC of cases booked against anti-CAA protesters, ‘Vel Yatra’ participants||The Director General of Police (DGP) on Wednesday informed the Madras High Court of criminal cases booked against those who had indulged in unauthorised protests in public places against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act early this year, and those who had taken out a ‘Vel Yatra’ recently in violation of COVID-19 safety norms. A status report filed on behalf of the DGP before Justices M. Sathyanarayanan and R. Hemalatha, said 1,241 cases had been booked across the State against those who had indulged in authorised protests and agitations in 786 places between February 14 and 26 demanding the repeal of the Citizenship (Amendment) Act, the National Population Register and the National Register of Citizens. Similarly, 135 cases had been registered against those who indulged in unlawful activities in connection with the ‘Vel Yatra’, taken out at the instance of BJP State president L. Murugan. The government had banned such processions. The court was also told that as many as 397 cases were booked by the Greater Chennai police alone in connection with the anti-CAA protests, and the investigation had been completed in some cases. Status reports were filed following a contempt of court petition moved against police officials for having allegedly failed to prevent anti-CAA protests held on February 19.
10 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC orders enhanced compensation for farmlands acquired 30 years ago||The Madras High Court on Wednesday came to the rescue of agriculturists whose farmlands were acquired between 1991 and 1997 for establishing Muthambalayam housing scheme in Erode district and directed the government to pay them enhanced compensation. Justice N. Anand Venkatesh ordered that the enhanced compensation must be paid even to “land losers” who had not insisted upon redetermination of the compensation amount offered by the State government at the time of acquiring their properties. “In the present case, it is quite unfortunate that some of the petitioners are complaining that they have not even received the original compensation that was fixed. These agricultural lands have been taken away from the poor agriculturists almost 30 years ago and till now they are struggling for getting a reasonable compensation,” the judge lamented. Allowing a batch of writ petitions, Justice Venkatesh pointed out that the Land Acquisition Officer had fixed Rs. 50,000 per acre as the market value of the properties at the time of acquisition. Some of the landowners objected to it and sought Rs. 50 per square feet. Hence, the matter was referred to a court and the reference court fixed the price ranging from Rs. 16 to Rs. 30 per square foot. The State challenged the fixation before the High Court which reduced the quantum to somewhere between Rs. 8 and Rs. 12 per square foot. Immediately, the landowners went on appeal to the Supreme Court and obtained favourable orders for enhanced compensation. Those who got left out had now approached the High Court seeking the benefit of the apex court verdict passed in favour of other landowners.
10 December 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||TVS Automobiles files insolvency proceedings against KPN Travels||TVS Automobiles Solutions Pvt Ltd has filed insolvency proceedings against KPN Travels Solutions Pvt Ltd for alleged non-payment of dues of over Rs. 5 crore. In its petition before National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT), Chennai , TVS Automobiles said KPN is a travel agent company owning more than 200 vehicles for transportation purposes and alleged that it is disposing of its moveable and immovable assets and creating third party encumbrances. NCLT directed KPN to file the list of its assets, vehicles and other details before the next date of hearing on January 5, 2021. KPN shall not sell any of its moveable or immoveable assets till the disposal of the petition, it added.
10 December 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||‘Use of mike while recording videos for The Hindu Margazhi competition preferable’||A common question from people interested in participating in The Hindu Margazhi classical music competition, has been if they should use a microphone while recording record their videos. Musician Abaswaram Ramjhi, who is also founder of Issai Mazhalai music choir for children, explained that recording the singing or performances without a mike would not capture the crucial audio properly. “The judges after all need to listen to the audio,” he added. It will take performers at least 50 concerts to understand how the mike works, what acoustics is and how important feedback is. “Unless you have a good audio system, you cannot take your performance to the audience. The microphone is a micro-deivam (mini god),” said Mr. Ramjhi, who has trained hundreds of youngsters. Even if participants use mobile phones to make the recording, a small lapel mike would make all the difference. “Unless there is a mike the audio won't be picked up properly. In fact the tonal quality in various rooms in the home differs. Some rooms have more echo-effect than others. Those who make recordings should listen to what they have recorded, check if it is fine and then send,” said actor S. Ve. Shekhar, who has worked on the audio of many movies and dramas. The last date for sending in entries by participants in the three categories tothmargazhi@thehindu. co.inis December 12, 2020. For more details clickhttps://www.google.com/ amp/s/www.thehindu.com/ news/national/tamil-nadu/ the-hindu-announces- margazhi-competition- for-young-indian-classical- musicians/article33231111. ece/amp/
10 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Webinar on dentistry careers to be held on December 12||A webinar on the Challenges of Dental Counselling during the pandemic, organised by SRM along with The Hindu EducationPlus, will be held on December 12. Dr. Vivek N., dean and head, maxillofacial surgery, SRM Kattankulathur Dental College, SRMIST; Dr. Dhandapani Arunachalam, consultant periodontist, adju- nct professor, Sri Ramach-andra Dental College; and Dr. S. Senthil Kumar, endodontist and professor, J.K.K. Nattraja Dental College, Komarapalayam, will speak as part of the webinar. The session will be moderated by R. Sujatha, Deputy Editor, The Hindu . The webinar is a part of the Career Counselling series. To register for the free webinar, which will be held from 3 p.m. to 4.30 p.m., visit https://bit.ly/SRMDENTAL or scan the QR code given.
10 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||TV actor found dead in hotel||K. Chitra, a popular television actor, was found dead in a hotel room in Nazarathpet on Wednesday. The police suspect she ended her life, though no suicide note was found. An enquiry by a Revenue Divisional Officer has been ordered. Chitra was well known for her character in the television series Pandian Stores . A few months ago, she was engaged to Hemanth, a businessman. As she was working at a studio in Nazarathpet, she had been staying at a hotel nearby, and Mr. Hemanth was with her. “He claimed he was waiting outside the hotel room, and informed the hotel staff when she did not respond. When they entered, they found her dead,” a senior police officer said. (Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.)
10 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||132 MBBS and 29 BDS seats returned||A total of 132 MBBS and 29 BDS seats have been returned to the State on Wednesday. The State had surrendered nearly 900 MBBS seats and 30 BDS seats under the all-India quota. The State had surrendered 15% of its sanctioned seats to the DGHS under seats reserved for the all-India quota, to which students from across the country could compete. Each State government college would surrender 15% of its seats to the AIQ category annually. Counselling ended on Wednesday with 50 seats being filled in government medical colleges and 350 remaining vacant. In self-financing colleges, 102 seats were filled and 202 seats remained vacant.
10 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||3 girls drown in pond||Three girls, aged between four and six, drowned while having a bath in a pond near their house in Thiruporur on Wednesday. The victims were H. Ragini, 6, her sister H. Ramya, 4, and V. Sadhana, 5. They were missing and as they did not return home for lunch, their parents started searching for them. Childline operates a helpline — 1098 — for children in distress across the country.
10 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Fire guts ATM in Poonamallee||An unknown amount of cash was burnt after a fire broke out at the ATM kiosk of a private bank on the Chennai-Tiruvallur Road in Poonamallee on Wednesday. The police said passersby spotted smoke from the ATM and informed the Tamil Nadu Fire and Rescue Services. The flames were doused in an hour.
10 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Others not entitled to MGR’s legacy, says Jayakumar||State Fisheries Minister and AIADMK’s organisation secretary D. Jayakumar said non-AIADMK personalities should not try to appropriate the legacy of former Chief Minister M.G. Ramachandran. As the ruling party was set up by MGR, it alone had the right to claim the founder’s legacy. “MGR, too, would have loved only his party to be the sole claimant of his legacy. It would be proper for others to project themselves through their individuality,” he said, replying in the negative to a question whether he was referring to actor Rajinikanth, who recently announced his decision to launch a party.
10 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Others not entitled to MGR’s legacy’||State Fisheries Minister and AIADMK’s organisation secretary D. Jayakumar said non-AIADMK personalities should not try to appropriate the legacy of former Chief Minister M.G. Ramachandran. As the ruling party was set up by MGR, it alone had the right to claim the founder’s legacy and utilise his image and ideals. “MGR, too, would have loved only his party to be the sole claimant of his legacy. It would be proper for others to project themselves through their individuality,” he said, replying in the negative to a question whether he was referring to actor Rajinikanth, who recently announced his decision to launch a party.
10 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Dhinakaran’s appeal to Chief Minister||Terming the Supreme Court’s nod for the proposed Chennai-Salem green corridor project “disappointing”, Amma Makkal Munnetra Kazhagam (AMMK) general secretary T.T.V. Dhinakaran on Wednesday said it was sad to note that justice had not been rendered to the “sentiments and tears” of those who would be affected by the project. In a statement, the AMMK leader said Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami should not implement the project, and must see to it that land “forcibly acquired” from farmers is returned to the persons concerned.
10 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Postal Dept. advisory||The Department of Posts has asked post office savings account-holders to maintain Rs. 500 as minimum balance in their accounts by December 11 to avoid paying a penalty. According to an official press release, the minimum amount required to be maintained in the savings account has been raised from Rs. 50 to Rs. 500.   Orders were already issued by the Central government last December. If a postal customer fails to maintain a minimum balance of Rs. 500 in the account, the post office will deduct Rs. 100 as penalty on the last working day of the financial year, the order said.
10 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Insolvency proceedings against KPN Travels||TVS Automobiles Solutions Pvt. Ltd. has filed insolvency proceedings against KPN Travels Solutions Pvt. Ltd. for alleged non-payment of dues of over Rs. 5 crore. In its petition before National Company Law Tribunal (NCLT), Chennai, TVS Automobiles said KPN was a travel agent company owning more than 200 vehicles for transportation purposes, and alleged that it was disposing of its moveable and immovable assets and creating third party encumbrances. NCLT directed KPN to file the list of its assets, vehicles and other details before the next date of hearing on January 5, 2021. KPN shall not sell any of its moveable or immoveable assets till the disposal of the petition, it added.
10 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Pregnant woman killed in hit-and-run||A 40-year-old woman, who drove her relative’s car and allegedly killed a pregnant woman in Villivakkam on Tuesday afternoon, has been booked by the police on Wednesday. According to the police, Ghousarbi, 28, wife of Azharuddin, who was pregnant, had come to her husband’s workplace in Rangadas Colony. She was hit by a car while sitting on a verandah near a tea shop. Passersby rushed her to a hospital, where she succumbed to injuries. The police registered a case and sent her body for post-mortem examination. The car involved had a plate mentioning it belonged to an Income Tax officer. “During investigation, we found that the person who drove the car was Rupavathy, 40. She has been learning driving for some time and was driving the vehicle of her relative, who works in the Income Tax Department, when the accident happened,” a senior police officer said.
10 December 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin urges CM to release relief to farmers||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Wednesday said it was highly condemnable that the government had failed to distribute relief to farmers, fishermen and the general public, who were affected by cylone Nivar and Burevi even though Rs. 74 crore had been alloted from the State Disaster Response Fund a week ago. Humiliation “Even after witnessing lakhs of acres being submerged in water, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami is not able to understand the pain and agony of the farmers,” the DMK leader said in a statement. Mr. Stalin alleged that the Chief Minister had humiliated farmers by saying that he was supporting the three farm legislation enacted by the BJP-led Central government. ‘Not realised’ “He has not realised the difficulties of farmers. Mr. Palaniswami is the only person who is supporting the legislation that have no reference to the minimum support price,” he said. Mr. Stalin said as a first instalment the government should release Rs. 5,000 to each afffected amily, and Rs. 10,000 to farmers.  Even after witnessing lakhs of acres being submerged in water, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami is not able to understand the pain and agony of farmers
10 December 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Protests against farm laws continue in districts||The Communist Party of India and the Communist Party of India (Marxist) members staged protests at several places in Coimbatore district on Wednesday and burnt the effigy of Prime Minister Narendra Modi in Sulur. Coimbatore MP P.R. Natarajan led the protests at Sultanpet. Similar protests were held in Sulur and Mettupalayam, expressing support to the farmers protesting in New Delhi and demanding repeal of the three farm laws. In Sulur, the protesters raised slogans in support of the farmers and burnt the effigy. The police arrested the protesters in all the three places and released them later. The left parties held protests in Pollachi, Coimbatore, and Annur in the last few days in support of the protesting farmers.  Staff Reporter adds: In Tiruppur, members of Thanthai Periyar Dravidar Kazhagam, Democratic Youth Federation of India and other outfits staged a protest outside the railway station demanding the repeal of farm laws. According to the police, 35 protesters were removed following the protest, which was organised by the Federation of Periyarist Thinkers. The entrance to the railway station was barricaded as the protesters were planning to stage a rail blockade. Armed with replicas of ploughs painted in black, the protesters raised slogans against the Central government and attempted to enter the railway station at 10.30 a.m. Around 75 City Police personnel, who were deployed at the spot, blocked the protesters at the entrance and removed them. They were detained at a private hall in Khaderpet and were released later.
10 December 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Raw material price increase: micro units to stage protest on Dec. 15||Micro unit owners in the engineering sector plan to stage a protest here on December 15 seeking measures from the Central and State governments to control raw material prices. The Federation of Coimbatore Industrial Associations, representing nearly 19 organisations, will organise the protest. According to J. James, co-ordinator of the federation, the micro units are hit by shortage in availability of the raw materials. “There is an artificial shortage. The units in Tamil Nadu get majority of the raw materials from the north. We do not know if the price rise is so steep there too,” he said. The micro units mostly do job orders for larger industries and public sector undertakings. "The units will be able to absorb 10% increase in raw material prices. The hike now is, however, 20 % or more. The larger industries and even government organisations are unwilling to increase the cost at which they source products from the micro units. Hence, the units are staring at huge losses," he said. The cost of steel, copper, aluminium, zinc and PVC, etc have all gone up by more than 20%. The Central government should establish a price monitoring committee, with representation for the micro sector too, and control the prices of essential raw materials, he said. The government should also announce a maximum allowed price for the basic raw materials. It should import the basic metals through State trading corporation and distribute these to the Micro, Small, and Medium-scale Enterprises (MSMEs). The federation also demanded re-opening of the SAIL yard in Coimbatore and other industrial cities to ensure availability of steel products at affordable prices. The government should waive off the Customs Duty and Countervailing Duty for import of copper, iron, and steel. Till the prices stabilise, the government should reduce the GST on basic metals to 5%. This will ensure that the MSMEs are not hit by financial crunch. The government should also consider fixing a maximum stock limit of essential raw materials for private sector traders and distributors, the federation said.
10 December 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Jewellery, cash stolen from house||Unknown persons broke open a house near Saravanampatti and took away nine sovereigns of jewellery and Rs. 20,000, the police said. According to the police, the burglary was reported at the house of Vijayakumar, a resident of Lakshmi Nagar. The police said that the family members left the home on December 3 and returned on Tuesday evening. The family found the front door of the house broken open. When checked inside, they found that the jewellery and money were missing, police said. A complaint was lodged at the Saravanampatti police station (Crime). The Saravanampatti police (Crime) are yet to trace persons involved in the burglary of 25 sovereigns of jewellery and Rs. 40,000 from another house in the locality, a few days ago. Two held with ganja The Rathinapuri police arrested two persons with 1.2 kg of ganja from Kannappa Nagar in Coimbatore on Tuesday. The arrested have been identified as Jaffar Sheriff (25) and A. Ajithkumar (21), both residents of Kannappa Nagar. The police also seized a scooter which the accused allegedly used for selling ganja. They were remanded in judicial custody.
10 December 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Change in public hearing||The public hearing that the Coimbatore Corporation will hold on December 15 at three places to hear suggestions and objections from the public to the underground drainage project has undergone a change. A release from the civic body said the meeting it had proposed to hold between 10 a.m. and 11.30 a.m. at S.S. Kamalesh Wedding Hall in Thudiyalur was for residents from Kavundampalayam and Thudiyalur and not Saravanampatty and Thudiyalur as mentioned in an earlier release. The meeting for residents from Vadavalli and Veerakeralam would be held, as announced, at K.C. Wedding Hall in Kalveerampalayam, between noon and 1 p.m., it said. And, the public hearing for Singanallur, Ondipudur and Peelamedu residents would be held, as announced, at Mani Mahal, near Manis Theatre, between 4 p.m. and 5 p.m., the release added.
10 December 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Salem woman, son get 10 years jail in country chicken scam||The special court for the Tamil Nadu Protection of Interests of Depositors Act cases in Coimbatore on Wednesday sentenced a woman from Salem and her son to undergo 10 years of imprisonment for cheating 76 investors of Rs. 1.15 crore in a country chicken scam that took place in Erode district in 2012. Special court judge A.S. Ravi awarded the punishment to G. Mallika (47) from Kamaraj Nagar at Omalur near Salem and her son G. Mukesh (27). The court issued non-bailable warrants against the mother-son-duo as they did not appear to hear the conviction. As per the chargesheet filed by the Economic Offences Wing (EOW), Erode, Mallika, her husband S.K. Ganesan, Mukesh and another son aged 17 started two companies named Raja Rajeswari Poultry Farm and Sri Raja Rajeswari Poultry Farm based at Vijayamangalam near Perundurai in Erode in March, 2012. The accused promised investors of providing 375 country chicken chicks, shed for their rearing and feeds for an investment of Rs. 1 lakh. They assured them of paying Rs. 7,000 per month for maintenance and an annual bonus of Rs. 8,000. The investors were also assured that they would get the initial investment of Rs. 1 lakh after three years. In December 2012, EOW registered a case against the two companies and the four persons after one of the investors V.P. Natchimuthu from Kuppandampalayam near Bhavani complained that he was duped. As per the chargesheet, 76 persons invested Rs. 1.15 crore in the two companies. A source in the know of the case said that Ganesan died during the trial. Ganesan's second son, who was a minor at the time of the offence, will be trialled by a court in Erode district, said the source. The court imposed a total fine of Rs. 75 lakh against Mallika (Rs. 52.50 lakh) and Mukesh (Rs. 22.50), out of which Rs. 70 lakh should be given as compensation to the victims.
10 December 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||TNAU begins online admission for PG courses||Tamil Nadu Agricultural University has begun the online admission process for its postgraduate and doctoral programmes. A release said Vice Chancellor N. Kumar kickstarted the process on December 8 for admission to PG programmes in 32 departments and research programmes in 29 departments. Interested candidates could visitwww. admissionsatpgschool. tnau. ac.infor further details. They could also dial 0422-6611261 or 6611461 on working days, between 9 a.m. and 5 p.m. for more details. The University would receive application forms till December 31 and hold entrance examination on January 12, 2021, the release.
10 December 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Special train via Pollachi||Southern Railway on Wednesday announced that a special train no. 06343/06344 between Thiruvananthapuram and Madurai via Pollachi will be operated from December 23.
10 December 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Two-day valuers’ conference from December 11||The Institution of Valuers (IOV) will organise a two-day national-level conference here on Friday and Saturday. About 200 delegates are expected to take part in the 51st Indian Valuers Congress to be held from December 11. Over 12 speakers, including two international valuation experts, will present papers at the event. The participants will deliberate on the emerging challenges and trends in valuation of different kinds of assets.
10 December 2020||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||9 test positive in Cuddalore||Cuddalore district reported nine fresh cases of COVID-19 on Wednesday, taking the tally to 24,381. While 24,039 persons have been discharged, the active cases stand at 36. In Villupuram district, 10 persons tested positive, taking the total to 14,743. Kallakurichi district reported one positive case.
10 December 2020||Dindigul,TAMIL NADU||Athur Kamarajar dam reaches maximum level||After five years, the storage level at the Athur dam has touched its maximum level bringing in cheers among the farmers and residents under the Corporation limits on Wednesday. Though the dam's capacity is 23.5 feet, it had always remained bonedry or had very low storage levels below five feet. The dam has been the prime source of drinking water for the residents under the Corporation limits, expressed happiness. Till a few months ago, prospects of drinking water distribution to towns, including Dindigul, Sembatti, Chinnalapatti, Athur and Sithayankottai appeared thin as the water level in the dam was dwindling. The officials recalled that the water level in the reservoir had reached the maximum storage capacity in 2016 and had repeated now and added that many tanks were also fast filling up or had already reached the surplus levels. The ensuing year may not face water shortage in the present situation as both consumption at dwellings and water for irrigation may be sufficient. The rainfall had intensified along the western ghats thanks to the influence of the Cyclone Burevi, which had weakened on December 4, while it was expected to cross anywhere between Pamban and Kanniyakumari.
10 December 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Four arrested for attempt to buy baby||Three women and a man, who attempted to buy a baby from a Primary Health Centre (PHC), were arrested by the police here on Wednesday. Search is on for another woman involved in the case. On December 6, Agila, a nurse at the PHC at B.P. Agraharam, received a call in which the caller asked her whether a child was available for sale. The caller told her that they would receive the child in the presence of a lawyer and hence no legal disputes would arise. She alerted the officials at the District Child Protection office, who inturn alerted the Karungalpalayam police. The police asked the nurse to inform the caller that a child was available and asked them to come to a spot near the petrol bunk at B.P. Agraharam. Three women and a man arrived at the spot and the police nabbed them. They were identified as Sangareswari (30) of Coimbatore, Kokila (32) and Mohanapriya (24), both from Salem, and Nandakumar (34) from Pallipalayam. They told the police that Shanmuga Priya of Bhavani had sent them to buy the child and they were unaware of other details. A case under Section 81 of The Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children Rules), 2007 r/w Section 511 (attempting to commit offences) of the IPC was registered. All the four were arrested and produced before the court and lodged in prisons. The police said that only after the arrest of Shanmuga Priya, who is still at large, further details would be known.
10 December 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Texvalley to transplant 100 trees to facilitate Athikadavu – Avinashi scheme||Texvalley, an integrated textile market at Gangapuram, has decided to transplant 100 trees that will be removed for laying pipelines for the Athikadavu – Avinashi Ground Water Recharge and Drinking Water Supply Scheme. Under the scheme, pipelines are proposed to be laid along a stream located near the Kochi – Salem National Highway. About 100 trees in the area need to be removed. The trees were raised by Texvalley, which planted the saplings seven years ago. Instead of felling the trees, a team comprising Texvalley chairman P. Periyasamy, and directors Uma Rajasekar and D.P. Kumar decided to uproot the trees with the help of excavators and transplant it on their premises and other private lands.  On Wednesday, the process of uprooting the trees began as the members said that it would take 15 days to transplant all the 100 trees. They said that Texvalley was the first to introduce the Miyawaki method in the district and had planted 1,000 saplings on the premises. “The move will ensure protection of native tree species and the environment,” they added.
10 December 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||16 street vendors receive loan under PM SVANidhi||Under the PM Street Vendor’s AtmaNirbhar Nidhi (PM SVANidhi), a loan amount of Rs. 10,000 each was given to 16 registered street vendors in the corporation limits here on Wednesday.  The Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs had launched the special micro-credit facility scheme in June this year for providing affordable loan to street vendors to resume their livelihoods hit due to COVID-19 lockdown. Street vendors who had received the Certificate of Vending (CoV) by the Town Vending Committee can avail the loan. At a function held at the Canara Bank at Karungalpalayam branch, Corporation Commissioner M. Elangovan handed over the cheques to the vendors in the presence of branch manager Gopal, and City Health Officer Murali Shankar. Officials said that the loan can be repaid in 12 monthly instalments and there was no need for collateral security. Vendors engaged in sale of vegetables, fruits, tea, breads, eggs, textile, apparel, footwear, books and stationery and laundry services are eligible to avail the loan.
10 December 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||MGNREGS workers seek outstanding wages||Workers under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS) on Wednesday submitted a petition to M. Balaganesan, Project Director, District Rural Development Agency, Sathyamangalam, seeking payment of outstanding wages. Works under the scheme are implemented in 15 panchayats in the Sathyamangalam Panchayat Union for which a wage of Rs. 256 a day has been fixed by the Central government. The workers said that they were not paid wages for four weeks now. Mr. Balaganesan said the issue would be taken up with the government at the earliest.
10 December 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Power shutdown||Due to underground cabling works in the Collectorate electric line from Erode sub-station, power supply will be disrupted from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. on December 10 at Perundurai Main Road, Gandhi Nagar, Muthukaruppan Street, Palaniyappa Street, Ramasamy Street, EB Colony, Meenatchi Sundaranar Street, Balasubramaniam Nagar, Uzhavar Sandhai and Radhakrishnan Street.
10 December 2020||Krishnagiri,TAMIL NADU||Potential linked credit plan for Krishnagiri released||The potential linked credit plan prepared by the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) envisions a credit outlay of Rs. 7,036 crore for the Krishnagiri district for the financial year 2021-22. The credit outlay is 8% above the potential linked credit assessment for the current fiscal of 2020-21. Of the total potential linked credit outlay of Rs. 7,036 crore, agriculture sector has been allotted Rs. 4,609.12 crore (65.51%) that includes farm credit outlay of Rs. 3,939.66 crore (56%); agriculture infrastructure has been allocated Rs. 370.34 crore (5.26%) and ancillary activities Rs. 299.12 crore (4.25%). The MSME sector has been earmarked Rs. 1,083.16 crore (15.39%), export Rs. 96 crore (1.36%), education Rs. 105.53 crore (1.5%), housing Rs. 132.75 crore (1.89%), social Infrastructure Rs. 52.50 crore (0.75%), renewable energy Rs. 18.39 crore (0.26%). The PLP also envisions loan to SHGs and overdraft under PMJDY at Rs. 938.55 crore (13.34%). The potential linked credit plan forms the basis for preparation of Annual Credit Plan for the district. The potential linked credit plan was released by Collector V. Jaya Chandra Bhanu Reddy at the District Level Consultative Committee Meeting of Bankers held here. Speaking at the release, Mr.Bhanu Reddy urged the banks to provide timely and adequate credit to the poor. According to Nasreen Salim, District Development Manager, NABARD, the plan was prepared in consultation with the government departments, banks and other stakeholders.
10 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||High Court seeks details about CBI||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Tuesday put forth a series of queries for the Centre and the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) to respond with regard to recruitment procedure, total strength and infrastructure available with the premier investigating agency. Hearing a public interest litigation petition that sought a direction to transfer the Ramanathapuram chit fund scam case to CBI, a Division Bench of Justices N. Kirubakaran and B. Pugalendhi observed that it had become a fashion to seek such transfer of serious cases to CBI. Taking cognisance of the fact that the investigation by the Economic Offences Wing into the chit fund scam case was progressing well, the court said the transfer of the case to CBI for investigation was not required. While the CBI had a reputation as the premier investigating agency, many cases investigated by the agency, even serious cases, had ended in acquittal, which reflected badly on the investigating agency. The judges observed that it was not known as to whether the CBI was recruiting its own officers independently or if it was dependent upon officers deputed from other sources. The court sought response to the set of queries. It also sought to know from the Centre and the CBI whether the allotment of funds was sufficient, the number of cases referred to the CBI in the last 20 years, the status of the cases, acquittal and conviction details. The case was adjourned till December 14.
10 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC raps hiring of over-qualified candidates to lower posts||Deploring the fact that highly qualified candidates were getting selected for posts that required lesser qualification, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Wednesday observed that the public administration was suffering as a result of this. Justice S.M. Subramaniam observed that degree holders were being appointed to the post of office assistants, sweepers, conservancy workers and residential assistants in High Court and many such posts in the other departments. A classic example was the recruitment to the posts of ‘Residential Assistants’ in the High Court which was mainly created for a specific purpose of providing effective assistance to the judges in their residences. The High Court administration is struggling to extract work from these appointees as most of them are over qualified and not suitable and eligible for the post of ‘Residential Assistants’, with reference to the terms and conditions stipulated in the recruitment notification. Whether few candidates have suppressed the fact regarding the over qualification is to be verified by the competent authority. The fact remains that these employees are reluctant to perform their duties and responsibilities, the judge said. Various government departments were also facing similar issues, particularly the Police Department. Even post graduates in Engineering were being recruited to the post of constables, the court said. The judge observed that recruiting a large number of highly qualified candidates to lower posts would offend the principles of social justice which in turn will lead to inefficiency in public administration. The judge suo motu impleaded the Chief Secretary and the Registrar General of the Madras High Court to consider the issues raised by the court in the light of constitutional principles and take appropriate decisions in the matter of recruitment to public posts. The court was hearing the petition filed by M. Vijayalakshmi who sought to be considered for the post of Junior Engineer (Civil) to the Chennai Metro Rail. Taking into account the fact that the petitioner was an Engineering graduate and the recruitment notification had stated that Diploma candidates and not Engineering graduates would be considered for the job, the court dismissed the petition.
10 December 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC transfers petition against inquiry on V-C to principal seat||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Wednesday transferred a public interest litigation petition, challenging a government order to initiate an inquiry against Anna University Vice-Chancellor M.K. Surappa over allegations of financial and administrative irregularities, to the principal seat in Chennai. With the Vice-Chancellor filing an impleading petition in the case, a Division Bench of Justices N. Kirubakaran and B. Pugalendhi observed that the principal seat in Chennai had the jurisdiction to hear the petitions, and directed the Registry to place them before the Chief Justice for it to be placed before an appropriate bench. The court was hearing a public interest litigation petition filed by S. Manithanigai Kumar from Kanniyakumari district, who said the allegations levelled against Mr. Surappa were without any substance. The petitioner alleged that no explanation was sought from the Vice-Chancellor and the inquiry was ordered in haste. ‘Revolutionary moves’ The petitioner said Mr. Surappa had made many revolutionary and reformatory decisions for the betterment of Anna University. He had earned the wrath of politicians for not accommodating their views and for avoiding their interference, the petitioner said, seeking a stay on the government order. Earlier, the State had questioned the maintainability of the PIL petition.
10 December 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||With Burevi weakening, no other threat: Minister||Cyclone Burevi had weakened and there was no immediate threat from any other cyclone warnings for Tamil Nadu, said Disaster Management, IT and Revenue Minister R.B. Udayakumar here on Wednesday. Distributing relief material to 59 people in Madurai district who had partially lost their dwellings due to heavy rain, he told presspersons that social media was abuzz with posts such as “five fresh cyclones are going to hit the coastal regions in Tamil Nadu”. The public should not get carried away by such posts, he said, adding that they should look for authenticated information from government websites. He said the State government’s proactive approach in handling Cyclones Nivar and Burevi had not only saved lives, but also ensured that the damage was minimal. Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami and his team worked round the clock during the period, he added. Only water-logging was an issue. A survey on the extent of damage to crops across the State would commence soon, he said, adding that the Chief Minister had decided to go ahead with the distribution of compensation to those in need and not wait till the Centre released funds. While the Centre had released Rs. 650 crore, the Central team that visited for a survey would soon submit its report to the Union government. The Chief Minister had sought Rs. 3,700 crore as relief, he added. When asked about the criticism by the Opposition parties on the poor management of the cyclones, he dismissed it as a political stunt by DMK president M.K. Stalin. “He (Stalin) should have the decency to appreciate the good work. The AIADMK government does not expect the Opposition to give bouquets, but it would be wise not to indulge in such politicking during times of natural calamities,” he said. On the Bharat Bandh, he said it was a flop in Tamil Nadu. Farmers were assured by the Chief Minister about the three laws and the benefits they would reap from it. The 2016 DMK election manifesto had mentioned that the party, if elected, would ensure direct marketing of the produce of farmers and remove middlemen, he said.
10 December 2020||NAGAPATTINAM,TAMIL NADU||CM makes unscheduled visits to places of religious significance||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, who is on a two-day trip to the delta districts to assess damage in flood-hit areas, visited places of religious importance pertaining to the three major faiths in the district on Wednesday. Mr. Palaniswami, who spent a good part of the day meeting farmers who suffered heavy losses due to the heavy rain caused by the two successive cyclones, made an unscheduled trip to Dharmapuram Adheenam, an age-old Saivite institution in Mayiladuthurai, and sought the blessings of Srilashri Masilamani Desika Gnanasambanda Swamigal. The pontif honoured the Chief Minister with a shawl and a garland. The meeting lasted for about half an hour. The Chief Minister, accompanied his Cabinet colleagues S.P. Velumani, O.S. Manian and C. Vijayabaskar, then drove to Vailankanni and offered prayers at the Basilica of Our Lady of Good Health. He also met Rector Rev. Fr. A.M.A. Prabakar and received his blessings. Nagore was Mr. Palaniswami’s third religious stop on Wednesday, where he paid a visit to the dargah and participated in a prayer. Though the Chief Minister’s tour schedule in Nagapattinam, Tiruvarur and Mayiladurai districts were made public, his visits to the religious places were kept confidential till the last minute. DMK youth wing leader Udhayanidhi Stalin had also visited Dharmapuram Adheenam recently, and sought the blessings of Srilashri Masilamani Desika Gnanasambanda Swamigal, shortly after kick-starting his public outreach programme.
10 December 2020||PERIYAKULAM,TAMIL NADU||Six-year-old boy drowns in construction pit, relatives stage road roko at Periyakulam||Harish, a six-year-old boy here, reportedly fell into a construction pit, which was filled with rainwater and died. As the news spread, the parents and relatives refused to take the body on Wednesday and squatted on the Theni-Periyakulam Road demanding action against the contractor. Police said a godown for storing paddy by the Department of Agriculture was being constructed at Noolthope near Periyakulam. Deputy Superintendent of Police Muthukumar and team rushed to the spot and pacified the agitators. The body was sent to Government Hospital for post-mortem. Devadanapatti police have registered a case against the contractor identified as Jagannathan.
10 December 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Virus infection rate falls below 1% in Puducherry||The coronavirus infection rate touched a new low of less than 1% as Puducherry added 30 new cases to the COVID-19 tally on Wednesday. No deaths were reported in the last 24 hours in the Union Territory. Puducherry accounted for 11 of the new cases followed by Mahe (10) and Karaikal (nine). No new cases were reported in Yanam in the last 24 hours. The test positivity rate was 0.95%, case fatality rate 1.65% and recovery rate 97.36%. After two cases were transferred to Tamil Nadu and the recovery of 46 patients, the Union Territory had 370 active cases. Of these, 208 patients were in hospital and 162 in home isolation. The toll remained at 615 and the cumulative caseload was 37,339 cases, while the number of recoveries stood at 36,354. Test for passengers To date, the Health Department has tested an estimated 4.25 lakh samples, with 3.84 lakh being negative. Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi said passengers boarding PRTC buses from Mahe to Puducherry would be subjected to a test at the boarding point. A mask compliance survey has been completed and a serosurvey is in progress. A team of ICMR experts held a virtual meet with the health team in Mahe on Wednesday for analysing the situation and to recommend measures. Meanwhile, the Covid-19 war room has been asked to structure meetings with health and wellness centres here and in the outlying regions. Community halls would be utilised by wellness centres for conduct of yoga and other classes in coordination with the Local Administration and the Rural Development Departments.
10 December 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Electricity Dept. staff withdraw strike against privatisation||The employees of the Puducherry Electricity Department have decided to call off their ongoing agitation against the Centre’s decision to privatise power distribution in the Union Territory. The unions took the decision to withdraw the agitation after Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy held talks with the striking employees at his chamber on Tuesday evening. The Chief Minister intervened after official-level talks failed to yield any breakthrough. The Chief Minister’s Office said the government had assured the workers that it would arrange a meeting with the Union Power Minister. After the workers demanded putting on hold the privatisation process till the delegation met the Union Minister, the Chief Minister agreed to write to the Chief Secretary not to proceed with the move for the time being. The government also brought to the knowledge of workers its intent not to privatise the power distribution network by adopting legislation urging the Centre to withdraw the decision, said an employee. Resume agitation “We will re-start the agitation if the Centre goes ahead with the plan to privatise the department. It will not be in the interest of the Union Territory and the workers. The move is only to support some corporates,” he charged.  The government has assured the workers that it will arrange a meeting with the Union Power Minister
10 December 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||‘RBI’s digital payment ecosystem project for Karaikal will be over next year’||A pilot project of the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) for deepening the digital payment ecosystem, which has been rolled out in Karaikal is expected to be completed early next year, M. K. Bhattacharya, executive director, Indian Bank and chairman of the State-level Bankers’ Committee (SLBC), Union Territory of Puducherry, has said. Addressing a recent meeting of the SLBC for fixing the Potential Linked Credit Plan (PLP) 2021-22 for the Union Territory at Rs. 3457.14 core, Mr. Bhattacharya said the RBI initiative aimed at expanding and deepening the digital payment ecosystem to make the district 100% digitally enabled within one year. This would enable every individual in the district to make/ receive payments digitally in safe, secure, quick, affordable and convenient manner. The timeline has been extended up to March 31 due to COVID-19 pandemic, he said. According to Mr. Bhattacharya, even during COVID-19, banks barely missed the targets under the Annual Credit Plan as on September 2020. Banks in the Union Territory are lending more to all the sectors and the target achievement improved from 79.94% as on June 2020 to 94.44% up to September 2020. “With the situation improving further, banks have more role to play in improving the economy. Hence, banks can improve lending and achieve more in the coming quarters,” he said. He commended the efforts during the pandemic for ensuring the functioning of branches, ATMs and BC (banking correspondents) network by following all the government guidelines of social distancing and sanitation at all the banking points. Banks have also provided various emergency loans to different sectors, in addition to normal schemes. Towards expanding and deepening digital payments as on March 31, 2020, 77.14% of active savings bank account holders had been covered with at least one of the facilities — Debit/ Rupay Cards, Net Banking/Mobile Banking, UPI or USSD. In the case of current accounts, 71.71% of operational account holders had been covered by at least one of the digital platforms. High points The Credit Deposit Ratio in the Union Territory has been maintained at 74%. Against the RBI stipulated target of minimum 40%, the priority sector advances were 64.69% as of September 2020. Agriculture advances level had improved to 24.82% as of September 2020, against the minimum stipulated target of 18% prescribed by the RBI. It was heartening to note that the percentage was maintained over 22% since March 2016, Mr. Bhattacharya said. The weaker sections advances had also improved to 17.45% as of September 2020 against the mandatory level of 10%, showing a healthy trend indicating that the government-sponsored programmes were well implemented by the stakeholders in the Union Territory of Puducherry. Advances to the SC/ST community under priority sector lending is at 7.45% and lending to minority communities was at 15.98% as of September. On the deposit front, the Union Territory witnessed year-on-year growth of 7.27%, advances growth of 6.76% and priority sector advances growth of 7.55% as on September as against last year. Noting that Puducherry had started harvesting the benefits of financial inclusion as was evident from the achievement level of ACP and improvement of CD ratio, he felt that the depth of financial inclusion had stood the Union Territory in good stead during the pandemic.
10 December 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Municipality publishes names of tax defaulters||The Pondicherry Municipality has published the names of as many as 1,731 property tax defaulters on its website. Commissioner of Pondicherry Municipality S. Sivakumar said the names of the defaulters had been published as a warning before initiating penal action, including attachment of property. Apart from individuals, there are public sector undertakings, including textile mills, which owe the municipality several lakhs as property tax, said an official. Besides publishing the names of defaulters, the civic body had formed a 21-member team to make personal visits to serve notice, said the official. The recovery of the amount was vital to the survival of the civic body as its monthly expenditure was around Rs. 3. 5 crore, including payment of salary to 500-odd workforce and payment of pension, the official said.  Names have been published as a warning before initiating penal action, including attachment of property S. Sivakumar, Commissioner of Pondicherry Municipality
10 December 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Electricity Dept. to hire 42 engineers||The Puducherry Electricity Department will recruit 42 junior engineers on contract basis for three years. A press note said eligibility is a degree in electrical engineering/diploma in electrical or electronics engineering with three years post-qualification experience in the field of operation and maintenance of power system transmission and distribution in a reputed industry/utility. The age limit is between 18 and 30 years (age relaxation is applicable as per government rules). The window is open for natives of Puducherry. They are eligible to apply through online mode. Details are available at recruitment.py.gov.in The closing date is 5 p.m. on January 4.
10 December 2020||PUDUKOTTAI,TAMIL NADU||Credit plan for Pudukottai district released||The potential linked credit plan, prepared by the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD), projected credit potential of the banks for 2021-22 in Pudukottai district at Rs. 5,918 crore. This plan document would act as a guiding tool to bankers for optimal utilisation of credit needs under priority sector lending. Based on the infrastructure and natural resources available, the potential for credit flow has been assessed at Rs. 5,918 crore for the year 2021-22 as against Rs. 4,719 crore during 2020-21 reflecting an increase of 25 %. The credit projection for the agriculture sector is Rs. 4,555 crore of which crop loan amounted to Rs. 3,101 crore and term loan Rs. 1,173 crore. The credit project for the MSME sector amounted to Rs. 276 crore. Collector P. Uma Maheswari, who released the plan document on Monday, said that the plan had vital inputs required for planning by banks at the branch level. She advised bankers to increase the credits to MSME sector and term lending in agriculture as there was a good potential to promote animal husbandry, horticulture, farm mechanisation, storage and marketing infrastructure and agro processing. S. Jayashree, District Development Manager, NABARD, briefed the credit potential of each sector and highlighted that banks should focus on lending under agricultural marketing infrastructures such as scientific construction of rural godowns/ warehouses, cold storages for storing agricultural produces to avoid distress sale and reduce storage losses. To boost marketing infrastructures, the Agriculture Ministry had recently launched Agriculture Infrastructure Fund and Agricultural Marketing Infrastructure Scheme wherein the focus was on construction of godowns, small cold storages, pack houses, primary processing units - grading and sorting of grains and pulses without change of form. Subsidy was available for setting up these infrastructural facilities through NABARD, she said. Another focus was on forming and promoting Farmer Producers’ Organisations to combine farming activities and increase their income, Ms. Jayashree said. R. Ramesh, Lead District Manager, Indian Overseas Bank, Pudukottai, said that the banks should increase their lending to self help groups to achieve the target. Banks should focus on lending under MUDRA, Standup India, District Industries Centre and TAHDCO schemes, a press release from NABARD here said.
10 December 2020||Rajapalayam,TAMIL NADU||Farmers urged to increase cotton yield||The Agriculture Department has advised farmers of Rajapalayam to nip the terminal portion of the main stem in cotton plants, in order to get increased yield. Cotton has been raised on around 500 hectares of land in and around Rajapalayam and the standing crops were 30 to 70 days old. “The plant will unnecessarily grow taller due to nitrogen-based fertilizers. This leads to pest attacks, and to avoid this, nipping the terminal portion of the main stem will help,” Assistant Director (Agriculture), Rajapalayam, Subbiah, said. Nipping the terminal portion will help in the growth of more side branches that would result in more flowers and cotton bolls and help in bursting of cotton bolls at the right time, he said. For varieties with less than 160 days duration, the terminal portion of the main stem beyond the 15th node should be nipped between 75 to 80 days. For varieties and hybrids with more than 160 days duration, nipping should be done beyond the 20th node between 85 to 90 days. This will ensure growth of bigger cotton bolls. Spraying of 2% DAP on the 45th and 75th day and naphthalene acetic 40 ppm during the budding state and again on 90th day should also be done. This will prevent shedding of bolls. Magnesium deficiency often leads to reddening of bottom leaves, said Agriculture Officer, G. Dhanalakshmi. Eventually the reddened leaves would shed prematurely. To prevent shedding of leaves, 20 grams of magnesium sulphate and 10 grams of urea mixed in one litre of water should be sprayed at an interval of 15 days till reddening symptoms disappear, she said. Farmers can get Rs. 300 per hectare subsidy from the Tamil Nadu Cotton Cultivation Mission.
10 December 2020||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||‘405 students got MBBS, BDS seats under 7.5% quota in State’||Collector Dinesh Ponraj Oliver has said that through the 7.5 % horizontal reservation system introduced this year by the State government, a total of 313 students had been selected for pursuing MBBS and 92 for dental sciences in the State. The students in the government schools should utilise the opportunity as it was a boon to step into the premier medical colleges in the State. This year, the district had benefited with nine students, including five getting selected for MBBS in various colleges. In the ensuing years, more and more students should work hard and qualify themselves to study medicine and help the society free from diseases. The Collector was interacting with the ‘elite’ students from the government schools as part of the counselling activities. In Ramanathapuram, it was unique that a couple of years ago, the then Collector Nandakumar was instrumental in picking up the bright students and giving them extra attention which was coined as 'elite' school. This had produced tremendous results in the past, the teachers said. The Education department officials said that the students in the 'elite' category were given special attention in respect of hostel, laboratory and the frequency of model exams and coaching for NEET by a special team of senior teachers throughout the final year of schooling. Earlier, the students studying in government schools felt that the coaching for even the bright students lacked. To match the students studying in private schools, the concept of 'elite' was launched. This helped the students to score centum in more than one subject and thus pushed the district's tally to the top of the board. Moreover, the teachers who were well trained in handling the senior school students offered coaching on a personalised note. Sub-Collector N.O. Sukaputra, Chief Educational Officer A. Pugalenthi and other officials from the education department and senior teachers participated in the session. The teachers said that more number of girl students were competing in ‘elite’ school than the boys from the district.
10 December 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||26 govt. school students from Salem get medical admission||Twenty-six students from the district were admitted to medical courses under the new 7.5% reservation for government school students.  Allotment letters Under the reservation, 313 seats in MBBS and 92 seats in BDS were allotted to the students who studied in government schools. On November 18, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami handed over the allotment letters to the students and announced that the government will pay their fee by creating a revolving fund with the Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation Limited. On Wednesday, District Collector S.A. Raman felicitated the students at the Collectorate in the presence of Chief Educational Officer T. Ganeshmoorthy and other officials. The students and their parents thanked the State government for bringing in the reservation. 23 students in Erode In Erode, a total of 23 students were admitted to MBBS and dental courses at various government and private colleges in the State. District Collector C. Kathiravan felicitated the students at the Collectorate. Students thanked the State government and the district administration.
10 December 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Congress workers stage protest against farm laws||Condemning the Central government for the three farm laws and expressing solidarity with the farmers protesting in Delhi, functionaries and workers of the Congress party took out a march here on Wednesday. Led by former Union Minister K.V. Thangkabalu, the protesters took out a march with plough, sugarcane and other crops from Gandhi Statue. While they were marching on the Tiruchi Main Road, they were stopped by the police and removed from the place. They raised slogans against the BJP-led government for enacting the farm laws, which they claimed would affect the livelihood of the farmers. The laws would only help the corporate companies to increase their profit, they said adding that the farmers’ protests would intensify if the Centre failed to repeal the three laws.
10 December 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||No drinking water supply||In view of maintenance works to be carried out in the dedicated water supply pipelines, there will be no water supply in areas under the Salem Corporation limits on December 10 and 11, a press release issued by Corporation Commissioner N. Ravichandran said.    Members of the Periyariya Unarvalargal Koottamaippu who attempted to enter the Erode Railway Station urging the Central government to repeal three farm laws were removed by the police, here, on Wednesday. Police erected barricades at the entrance and the members, who marched from Kalaimadu Silai, were stopped and taken in a police vehicle. Twenty-two persons, including five women, were removed.
10 December 2020||TENKASI,TAMIL NADU||Dharna staged on college premises||Demanding the retrieval of a private college at Melaneelithanallur from the present administration, a group of people staged a dharna on the college premises on Wednesday. As the Pasumpon Muthuramalinga Thevar College at Melaneelithanallur, which was established in 1969 by Tirunelveli Thevar Educational Society, is reportedly administered by a group of people after the demise of its secretary Ponniah, people belonging to Thevar community are objecting to it. As members of 14 caste outfits staged the dharna, police made security arrangements in the college. As Minister for Dairy Development K.T. Rajenthra Bhalaji and Minister for Adi Dravida Welfare V.M. Rajalakshmi held talks with the protesters at Sankarankovil in the presence of Superintendent of Police Suguna Singh, it was decided to submit a petition to the Chief Minister. “We’ll take the representatives of the college retrieval committee to the Chief Minister who will take a decision as per law,” Mr. Bhalaji said. Accepting it, the protesters left the college premises.
10 December 2020||THENI,TAMIL NADU||CM to lay stone for veterinary college in Theni district today||Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami will lay the foundation stone for the new Veterinary College and Research Institute through the video-conferencing facility on December 10. Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam told reporters here on Wednesday that the institute would come up on a sprawling 253.64 acres of land at Thappakundu near Veerapandi near here on an outlay of Rs. 265 crore. The VC & RI officials said that initially 40 students would be admitted to the 2020-21 academic year. The proposed college would have aesthetically designed administrative blocks with smart classrooms, separate hostels for boys and girls, Dean’s bungalow, warden quarters and guest house. Further, it comprises 15 specialised departments with modern laboratory facilities, including dairy and meat processing plants, livestock farm complex to demonstrate animal production techniques and a veterinary clinical complex to train the students in veterinary services with state of the art facilities. Tamil Nadu Veterinary and Animal Sciences University at present has five constituent Veterinary Colleges at Chennai, Namakkal, Orathanadu, Tirunelveli and Salem. Establishment of the VC&RI here would fulfill the livestock/ poultry service requirements of Madurai, Virudhunagar and Dindigul districts. Since the proposed location is being the boundary of the nearby Kerala State, there would be immense scope for processing and marketing of livestock products including milk, meat and egg, officials added.
10 December 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||‘Completion of Smart City works will put an end to water stagnation’||Rainwater stagnation will be a thing of the past in the port town as the ‘Smart City’ projects will be completed by 2021, Minister for Information Kadambur C. Raju has said. The port town residents are struggling a lot after water stagnation is everywhere due to recent rains even though the Corporation is working overtime to pump out the water to the sea via Puckle Channel. After inspecting a few water stagnation areas in the town on Wednesday along with Collector K. Senthil Raj and Corporation Commissioner V.P. Jayaseelan, Mr. Raju said 70% of the ‘Smart City’ projects had been completed and the remaining 30% of the works would be completed by 2021. Hence, there would be no water stagnation once the ongoing works were completed. “Over 200 pumps are being used to drain the stagnant rainwater to solve the problem as of now. The completion of the ‘Smart City’ projects will put an end to the crisis permanently,” Mr. Raju said. Assistance handed over Mr. Raju handed over assistance of Rs. 25,000 each to 4 government school students who have secured admission in medical colleges, thanks to the 7.50% reservation horizontal reservation ensured by the Tamil Nadu Government. Mr. Raju handed over the assistance to Ayisha of Kaayalpattinam, Sharmila of Savalaaperi, Sudha of Vaanaramutti and Velmathi of Srivaikundam in the presence of the Collector. The Minister also handed over battery-operated wheelchair to 10 physically challenged persons, two-wheelers to 69 women under the ‘Amma Two-wheeler Scheme’ and a few more assistances to the beneficiaries.
10 December 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||1.50 tonnes of turmeric seized||Police seized 1.50 tonnes of turmeric even as it was about to be smuggled to Sri Lanka on Wednesday. Following information about smuggling of turmeric from Thoothukudi to Sri Lanka, the Thoothukudi Marine Police, led by Inspector Cyrus, were monitoring the coastal areas. When they got information that turmeric was to be loaded into a boat anchored between Vembar and Periyasamypuram, the police intercepted a tractor and two bikes following it. After abandoning the vehicles, the unidentified persons escaped. When the police checked the tractor, they found 1.50 tonnes of turmeric packed in 34 gunnies. The police seized the tractor with turmeric bags and the bikes, which were handed over to Soorangudi police for registration of case.
10 December 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Drop in cases and no deaths||The central region on Wednesday recorded a further dip in COVID-19 cases with 107 patients testing positive for the viral infection. No death was reported in the region according to the health bulletin released by the State Health Department. All districts in the region reported below 25 fresh cases for the viral infection on Wednesday. Thanjavur and Nagapattinam reported an equal number of cases with only 21 patients testing positive in each district. Among them were primary contacts, local index cases and asymptomatic patients identified through fever camps. Tiruvarur reported 18 fresh cases, while Tiruchi reported 17 cases reflecting a significant decline over the last week. Patients in both districts were primary contacts and those with a history of respiratory illnesses. Meanwhile, five patients who had been undergoing treatment at the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital were discharged after recovering from the viral infection on Wednesday. In Karur, 15 fresh cases for the viral infection was recorded. Among the patients who tested positive in Karur were residents of Pugalur, Kulithalai and Gandhigramam. Pudukottai reported a sharp decline in the number of cases on Wednesday, with nine patients testing positive. In Ariyalur, five patients tested positive, while in Perambalur, one patient tested positive for COVID-19, recording a sharp fall in cases in the two districts. Among the five who tested positive in Ariyalur were three residents of Ariyalur block, and two from Thirumanur block. Meanwhile, 405 new throat swabs were lifted in Perambalur while 440 were lifted in Ariyalur and sent to testing facilities in the districts for processing.
10 December 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Demonstration triggers tension||Tense moments prevailed during a demonstration on Wednesday by a section of members of the All India VOC Peravai opposing the Chief Minister’s recent statement that the State government would recommend to the Centre to include seven Scheduled Caste sub-sects in the Devendrakula Velalar Community, after some of them sat on the road leading to a scuffle between them and the police. The police resorted to mild force to chase the protesters who ran helter skelter only to be arrested eventually. Sources said a group of around 500 Peravai members, after garlanding the statue of freedom fighter V.O.Chidambaram, came in a procession to stage a demonstration near a hotel close to the Central Bus Stand. They were led by the outfit’s state president Lena Lakshmanan. After staging a demonstration, some of the members sat on the road to express their protest. The police tried to evict the protesters which led to a scuffle between them. The police resorted to mild force wielding lathis triggering tension. Those staging the road roko ran helter skelter but were chased by the police and arrested. Sources said 65 of them were arrested and later released.
10 December 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Facelift for corporation schools||The corporation has undertaken a drive to modernise and renovate 42 schools to improve enrolment of students. It has spent Rs. 20 crore to repainting and equip classrooms with new benches from the Education Fund, S. Sivasubramanian, Corporation Commissioner, said. While such work is undertaken every year, this year, it has been decided to maintain uniformity among all schools. All school blocks have got a fresh coat of pink and blue while all classrooms have been provided with newly made iron benches, with a facility to hang a bag on the side and place books underneath. Classrooms in many schools did not have windows and only had grills. Sliding windows have been added while the old black boards have been replaced by newer green boards for better visibility. ‘Each school has been equipped with a minimum of two smart classes, and all classrooms have been fitted with speakers for audio-visual learning,’ he said. All work has been completed at the Corporation Primary and High School in Senthaneerpuram. ‘We have got new fans, lights, boards. The old toilet block was demolished and a new, modernised toilet block has been constructed,’ said D Thiyagarajan, headmaster. A total of four smart classes have been set up in the school, where at total of 300 students study. The civic body hopes that the renovation will bring more admissions. ‘Parents assess the infrastructure when they seek to enrol a child in a school. If a corporation school can provide the same facilities as available at a private school, then parents will enrol their wards here,’ he said.
10 December 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||More appointments given at POPSK||Eight Post Office Passport Seva Kendras have been opened in the Central Postal Region at Chidambaram, Cuddalore, Kallakurichi, Karur, Perambalur, Sirkali and Tiruthuraipoondi Head Post Offices and Karaikal MDG Sub Post Office. Maximum appointments were fixed at 10 persons at Cuddalore, Chidambaram and Kallakurichi and 20 at Perambalur and Tiruthuraipoondi due to lockdown. The number of appointments in all the Post Office Passport Seva Kendras (POPSK) has been increased to 40 excluding Karaikal POPSK which handles a maximum of 50 appointments per day. The applicants who apply for their passports online through the passport portal can register and schedule an appointment in the websitehttp://portal2.passport india.gov.inand then visit the designated POPSK to complete the formalities similar to those at the Passport Seva Kendra. A press release here said 88,301 applications have been processed at the POPSKs in the Central Postal Region, Tamil Nadu, till November 2020 since its inception. The Department of Posts has requested the public to utilise the service available at the designated post offices. An initiative was taken by the Ministry of External Affairs and the Department of Posts to open Post Office Passport Seva Kendra. Under this project, one PSK would be set up in post offices in each Lok Sabha constituency where there is no PSK.
10 December 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||12 women rescued||The police on Wednesday busted a prostitution racket operating under the guise of Spa centres here and arrested 10 persons including two women. Twelve women victims who were pushed into prostitution by the gang by exploiting their poverty were rescued by the special police teams. Based on information, the teams conducted checks at Spa Centres at Annamalai Nagar, Thillai Nagar and TVS Tollgate areas and found that they were being run under fake names in rented buildings and engaging women in prostitution. Separate cases were registered in this connection at Woraiyur, K.K. Nagar and Thillai Nagar police stations by the Anti-Vice Squad.
10 December 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Govt. keen on commissioning river-linking project: Collector||As the Tamil Nadu Government is keen on commissioning the much-awaited but much-delayed Tamirabharani – Karumaeniyar – Nambiyar river-linking project before next Assembly polls, Collector V. Vishnu reviewed the progress of this ambitious project on Wednesday to ensure early inauguration. The objective of this scheme is diverting the surplus water of the Tamirabharani to the dry regions of Tirunelveli and Thoothukudi districts by digging a 73-km-long flood carrier channel from Kannadiyan Channel at Vellankuzhi near Cheranmahadevi in Tirunelveli district up to M.L. Theri near Sattankulam in Thoothukudi district. The flood carrier channel proposal to link Tamirabharani, Karumaeniyar and Nambiyar was mooted to divert at least 2,765 million cubic feet water of this 13,758 mcft to the dry regions of Tirunelveli and Thoothukudi districts. When the three rivers are linked by the channel, 33,298.07 acres of lands in Palayamkottai, Nangnueri and Radhapuram Assembly segments and 23,610.73 acres of lands in Srivaikundam Assembly constituency in Thoothukudi district will get water for irrigation. In other words, 32 villages in Tirunelveli district and 18 hamlets in Thoothukudi district will get immensely benefited.  Though this project, designed in 2007, required Rs. 369 crore as per the initial estimates, the undue delay in ensuring availability of funds has increased the project cost to Rs. 872.45 crore now. While the first two phases of the project has almost been completed with the execution of 98% and 96% works respectively, the remaining two phases have to be expedited as Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami is keen on dedicating the project before the ensuing Assembly elections. Since only 89% of the third phase has been completed and the fourth and last phase of the project was started only recently, efforts are on to move the pace of the project to top gear.
10 December 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Water released from two dams||Cultivable lands to the extent of 12,018 acre under the third and the fourth reaches of Manimuthar Dam will shortly get water for irrigation as water from the largest reservoir of the district was released on Wednesday. Collector V. Vishnu, Minister for Adi Dravida Welfare V.M. Rajalakshmi, MLAs released water from the dam in the third and fourth reaches to nourish the crops to be raised in Nanguneri, Thisaiyanvilai and Radhapuram taluks in Tirunelveli district and Eral, Srivaikundam and Sattankulam taluks of neighbouring Thoothukudi district. Though it has been planned to sustain the release of water till March 31 next year, discharge of water will be regulated as per the influx and the storage of water. If the influx of water dwindles due to poor rainfall in the catchment areas, the quantum of discharge will either be reduced or even closed completely to meet drinking water requirements during next summer. After water was released in the first and the second reaches of Manimuthar dam a couple of months ago, the State ordered the release of water in the remaining two reaches also as water level in the reservoir touched 100 feet on Wednesday. Water was also released from Kodumudiyar dam near Thirukkurunkudi also on Wednesday for the benefit of 5,781 acres of land in 16 villages – 6 villages in Nanguneri taluk and 10 villages in Radhapuram taluk – through 44 system tanks. Water was released from the dam even as the water level stood at 35 feet against its maximum capacity of 52.50 feet.
10 December 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||174 stolen mobile phones recovered, returned to owners in Tirunelveli and Thoothukudi||Superintendent of Police N. Manivannan handed over 114 mobile phones, worth about Rs. 13 lakh, to the rightful owners here on Wednesday after the Cyber Crime Wing police recovered the communication gadgets. So far, the police have recovered 164 stolen mobile phones as 50 phones were handed over to the owners on October 8 last. Based on the complaints received in all the police stations of the district, the Cyber Crime Wing police, led by Sub-Inspector Rajarathnam, recovered the phones with the help of the IMEI (International Mobile Equipment Identity) numbers. Handing over the recovered mobile phones, Mr. Manivannan appealed to the public not to store in the phones their personal photographs, bank account details, credit / debit card details etc. as it could be misused by the anti-social elements on stealing the phones. “Since these information and the photos can be used for nefarious activities, such sensitive data should not be stored in the phones,” Mr. Manivannan said. In a similar event organised in Thoothukudi, Deputy Inspector General of Police, Tirunelveli Range, Praveen Kumar Abinapu handed over 60 phones, worth about Rs. 6 lakh, to the owners in the presence of Superintendent of Police S. Jayakumar. So far, the 162 stolen phones have been recovered in the district as 102 phones were returned to the owners by Mr. Jayakumar on October 15.
10 December 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Special trains to Bilaspur, Dadar from Tirunelveli||The Railway Board has given nod for operation of four special trains, including two trains from Tirunelveli to Bilaspur and Dadar. Train Number 06070 Tirunelveli-Bilaspur weekly superfast special train will leave Tirunelveli at 1.15 a.m. on Sundays and reach Bilaspur at 9.35 p.m. on Mondays from December 13 to 27. In the return direction, the train (No.06069) will leave Bilaspur at 8.15 a.m. on Tuesdays and reach Tirunelveli at 3.15 a.m. on Thursdays from December 15 to 29. The train will stop at Nagercoil Town, Thiruvananthapuram, Kollam, Kayankulam, Alappuzha, Ernakulam Junction, Aluva, Thrissur, Palakkad, Coimbatore, Tiruppur, Erode, Salem, Jolarpettai, Katpadi, Renigunta, Vijayawada, Warangal, Balharshah, Chandrapur, Nagpur, Bhandara Road, Tumsar Road, Gondia, Dongargarh, Raj Nandgaon, Durg, Raipur and Bhatapara. The composition of the train will be one AC-II tier, three AC-III tier, 10 sleeper, six general second class coaches and two general II class-cum-luggage van. Train Number 06072 Tirunelveli-Dadar weekly superfast special train will leave Tirunelveli at 7.15 a.m. on Wednesdays and reach Dadar at 3 p.m. on Thursdays from December 16 to 30. In the return direction, it (No.06071) will leave Dadar at 8.40 p.m. on Thursdays and reach Tirunelveli at 4 a.m. on Saturdays from December 17 to 31. The train will stop at Kovilpatti, Virudhunagar, Madurai, Dindigul, Karur, Erode, Tiruppur, Coimbatore, Palakkad, Shoranur, Kozhikode, Kannur, Mangalore Junction, Udupi, Honnavar, Karwar, Madgaon, Thivim, Kankavali, Ratnagiri, Chiplun, Panvel and Thane. Train No.06071 will not stop at Kovilpatti. Its composition will be one AC-II tier, two AC-III tier, seven sleeper, three general second class coaches and two general II class-cum- luggage van. Train No. 06065 Tambaram-Nagercoil Tri-weekly Super Fast special train will leave Tambram at 7.25 p.m. on Sundays, Mondays and Wednesdays and arrive at Madurai at 2.30 a.m. and will reach Nagercoil at 7.30 a.m. the next day from December 16. In the return direction, it (No.06066) will leave Nagercoil at 4.15 p.m. on Mondays, Tuesdays and Thursdays and arrive at Madurai at 9 p.m. and reach Tambaram at 4.15 a.m. the next day from December 17. The train will stop at Chengalpattu, Villupuram, Vridhachalam, Tiruchi, Dindigal, Madurai, Virudhunagar, Sattur, Kovilpatti, Tirunelveli and Valliyoor. The composition of the train will be one AC-I class, one AC –II tier, two AC-III tier, eight sleeper, three general second class coaches and two general II class-cum-luggage van. Train No.06343 Thiruvananthapuram–Madurai (Daily) special train will leave Thiruvananthapuram at 8.30 p.m. and reach Madurai at 10.10 a.m. the next day from December 23. In the return direction, it (No.06344) will leave Madurai at 4.05 p.m. and reach Thiruvananthapuram at 5.20 a.m. the next day from December 24. The train will stop at Varkala, Kollam, Karunagapalli, Kayankulam, Mavelikara, Chengannur, Tiruvalla, Chenganaseri, Kottayam, Ernakulam Town, Aluva, Thrissur, Ottapalam, Palghat, Palghat Town, Kollengode, Pollachi, Udumalaipettai, Palani and Dindigul. Train No.06344 will not stop at Chenganaseri, Tiruvalla, Mavelikara and Karunagapalli. The composition of the train will be one AC-II tier, two AC-III tier, 10 sleeper, three general second class coaches and two general II class-cum-luggage van. These special trains will run as fully reserved specials, according to an official statement.
10 December 2020||TIRUVARUR,TAMIL NADU||DMK’s opposition to farm laws opportunism: CM||Reiterating the AIADMK government’s support to the Centre’s new agricultural laws, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Wednesday said the DMK’s opposition amounted to “sheer opportunism”. “The laws contain important aspects on agriculture, present in the 2016 election manifesto of the DMK. It had, in the manifesto, clearly assured the farmers of good prices for their produce, in the national and international markets. The new laws are also aimed at addressing the same issue. The DMK is now opposing the laws; it is perplexing,” Mr. Palaniswami told reporters in Thennavarayanallur, near here, after visiting inundated paddy fields in various villages in Nagapattinam and Tiruvarur districts, affected by the two successive cyclones. On whether he would support the laws “in his capacity as a farmer”, especially after vociferous protests by farmers across the country, the Chief Minister said he would, for sure, extend his support, owing to the assurance of guaranteed prices for the produce. “As a proud farmer, I know the sufferings of the agricultural community, caused by the inability to get adequate prices for the produce due to various reasons. I support the laws as they will protect agriculture and interests of the farmers,” he said, adding that the AIADMK would support any scheme that would generate income for the farmers, and oppose any programme that would affect the community. The Chief Minister said that farmers of Punjab had been under the control of agents and middlemen. Since the laws had provisions to avoid their role in fixing prices, they had instigated the farmers to protest. The mandi system was not prevalent in Tamil Nadu. The State government had been at the forefront, ensuring minimum support price for the farmers’ produce, he said. Taking strong exception to a comment by DMK president M.K. Stalin that the caste-wise census was a stunt of the AIADMK, Mr. Palaniswami said his party had been a pioneer in social justice since its inception. The government had constituted a commission for caste-wise census to ensure due opportunity for all castes in jobs and education, he said. The Chief Minister said the Chennai-Salem eight-lane expressway was a project of the Centre. The role of the State is to facilitate land acquisition for it. It is the need of the hour because a State has to improve infrastructure, taking into consideration the growth in the number of vehicles. Several countries have 16-lane expressways. Several hundreds of hectares of farmland were acquired by the Centre when DMK leader T.R. Baalu was the Transport Minister, the Chief Minister said.  Cyclone-hit fields Earlier, Mr. Palaniswami, accompanied by Cabinet colleagues O.S. Manian in Nagapattinam and K.P. Anbalagan and K. Kamaraj in Tiruvarur, visited several cyclone-hit areas. With his dhoti folded, Mr. Palaniswami waded through paddy fields, fully and partially inundated due to heavy rain caused by the impact of Cyclones Nivar and Burevi. Stating that the survey on flood damage was on, he assured the affected farmers that they would be duly compensated.
10 December 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Community kitchen project launched in the Nilgiris||The Nilgiris Collector J. Innocent Divya inaugurated a community kitchen project aimed at providing tribal women and children with nutritious meals every day, at Pudukadu near Burliar on Monday. Ms. Divya inaugurated the Astitva-MSDS Tribal Woman and Child Nutrition, Education and Empowerment Programme. According to a release, Astitva is a project under the umbrella of the Manava Dharma Seva Samvardhini (MSDS) Trust in Chennai, and focuses on women and child development. The initiative will involve two programmes in the four tribal hamlets of Pudukadu, Kozhikarai, Kurumbadi and Chinna Kurumbadi – a nutrition and awareness programme for tribal women and children through a year-long community kitchen programme that will provide nutritious meal to the women and children, as well as education for 25 adolescent girls in these communities. “The project at Pudukadu is being run to improve the health, nutrition and awareness levels of tribal women and children, covering around 138 households, with an expectation to subsequently scale up to cover all the 172 tribal hamlets in the Nilgiris,” the release said. As part of the project, Astitva is also working with the Horticulture Department and the communities to set up a community kitchen garden where the villagers can grow their own vegetables and herbs. Ms. Divya inaugurated the kitchen garden and planted seeds of beans and spinach. The Collector said tribal communities had lost touch with their traditional cooking methods, as well as their food, and the nutrition it provided to them. The project will also involve an education module. Sub-Collector Ranjeet Singh and Project Director of the District Rural Development Agency Getzi Leema Amalini were present.
10 December 2020||Udhagamandalam,TAMIL NADU||Leopardess found dead in tea estate well||A leopardess was found dead inside a well in a private tea estate at Sholur Mattam in the Kotagiri Forest Range on Wednesday. Forest department officials said that the leopardess, believed to be around 5-year-old, was found dead inside the tea estate belonging to a person, identified as Bomman. He had alerted the forest department who reached the spot and extricated the carcass of the leopardess. K. Saravanakumar, Assistant Conservator of Forests, Nilgiris division, said that the well had been covered with a mesh to prevent animals from falling inside. However, the leopardess is believed to have jumped onto the mesh to catch a bonnet macaque. “Due to the force of the attempt to catch the macaque, both animals fell inside and drowned,” said Mr. Saravanakumar. Forest department officials also found the carcass of the macaque that was being hunted by the leopardess. A postmortem was conducted and the carcasses of both animals was destroyed. Mr. Saravanakumar said that special teams have been formed to inspect each and every well in areas surrounding forest ranges in the coming days to ensure that they are covered to prevent animals from falling inside.
10 December 2020||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Three persons murdered by gang in Vellore||Three persons, including a warden of Puzhal prison, were murdered by a seven-member gang in two different places under the Ariyalur police station limits in Vellore on Tuesday night. A total of seven men, including two main accused, were secured within an hour in connection with the crime. The victims were identified as Thanigaivel, 26, the jail warden, Kamesh, 29, and Divakar, 25. The gang first murdered Divakar and Thanigaivel at G.R. Palayam in Ariyalur and then murdered Kamesh near a private nursing college in the same locality. It is suspected that the murders were an outcome of previous enmity. The police have sent the bodies for post-mortem examination to the Government Vellore Medical College Hospital, Adukkambarai. “Kamesh and the other two victims are suspected to have been leaking information about rowdy Raja alias ‘MLA’ Raja to his rival Ashok Kumar’s gang. When Raja came to know about this, he called Thanigaivel and Divakar separately and took them to G.R. Palayam. He then made Thanigaivel call Kamesh and asked him to come near the nursing college,” said S. Selvakumar, Superintendent of Police, Vellore. The gang went to the spot where Kamesh was waiting and murdered him too. “We received information about a vehicle moving suspiciously in the locality and I ordered vehicle checks. The gang was nabbed,” added Mr. Selvakumar.
10 December 2020||Virudhunagar,TAMIL NADU||DMK MLA seeks ad hoc relief for crop damage||Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam MLA, Thangam Thennarasu, sought ad hoc compensation for paddy and shallot crop that have been destroyed by incessant rain in and around Kariyapatti in his constituency. The MLA, representing Tiruchuli Assembly Constituency, on Wednesday handed over a memorandum to Virudhunagar Collector, R. Kannan, in which he also sought compensation for crops damaged by wild boars. Mr. Thennarasu said that he had visited various villages like Mudukkankulam where paddy crops on over 150 acres were submerged by rainwater. Similarly, he found that shallot crops in over 175 acres were destroyed in Arasankulam, Kurandi following incessant rain. “Kariyapatti has received highest amount rainfall in the district in the last few days and the farmers could not drain the water. The crops have been destroyed beyond any recovery,” he said. Stating that the poor farmers who had toiled for nearly two months have lost huge investments made for the crop, he said the district administration should not wait till the insurance company paid the compensation under crop insurance scheme. “Physical assessment clearly reveals that the loss was only due to incessant rain due to Cyclone Nivar. Officials should try to get compensation under natural calamity at the earliest so that the farmers can go ahead with next crop making use of the available water,” the MLA said. Mr. Thennarasu said that the magnitude of loss was high and the district administration should act fast. He wanted the Collector to prevent wild boars that were damaging crops.
10 December 2020||December 10 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Will authorities make this road safe?||The death of a mother and daughter after they fell into a roadside drainage in Chennai while riding a two-wheeler a couple of days ago has revived the demand for making Moondrumavadi-Iyer Bungalow-Uchchaparambumedu road safe. For a narrow, but deep PWD channel runs in the middle of the road for the entire eight-km stretch and without a proper parapet. “In the last two months, I have seen at least two accidents when two motorbikes fell into the channel within a gap of one week,” said A. Nagarajan, 43, of G.R. Nagar. Whenever motorists try to overtake a heavy vehicle, or try to give way for a bigger vehicle, they tend to go near the channel on the extreme right side of the lanes and face the peril of falling into it, he pointed out. The primary reason, according to him, is lack of proper parapet. “Initially, when PWD constructed the channel before the widened road was laid, the parapet was constructed up to three feet height in some stretches. But when the work was completed, most of the stretches are devoid of any protection,” he said. Both sides of the road have residential and commercial buildings that keep the road busy with multitude of vehicles. Later, the Highways Department took up constructing parapet on some stretches on both sides of the road, while leaving many places dangerous for road users. “The entrance of the road at Alagarkoil Road junction is dangerous without any structure to prevent vehicles falling into the channel,” said S. Nagoor Mohideen, 40, who runs a shop on the road. He is a witness to an auto falling into the channel at the spot last month. A PWD engineer has suggested that the channel be covered to ensure safety.
10 December 2020||December 10 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Teppakulam is Madurai’s Marina, thanks to civic efforts: Minister||Mariamman Teppakulam, which is filled to its brim with water released from the Vaigai, has become an entertainment spot for residents of the city. It has become Madurai’s Marina, said Cooperation Minister Sellur K. Raju here on Wednesday. He was addressing mediapersons, along with Madurai Corporation Commissioner S. Visakan, after inspecting the starting point under AV bridge from where water from the river was released to Mariamman Teppakulam through Panaiyur channel. He also inspected the teppakulam. The Minister said the efforts of Madurai Corporation had helped to fill water in the teppakulam for the third time through Panaiyur channel. Two check dams had been constructed in the Vaigai under AV Bridge as part of the Smart Cities Mission and a shutter has been constructed to ensure smooth flow of water from the river to Mariamman Teppakulam through Panaiyur channel. It takes 12 days to fill Mariamman Teppakulam, a temple tank constructed under the rule of king Thirumalai Nayak. “Water will be diverted to the tank whenever there is flow in the Vaigai. Currently, the water level in the tank is around 15 feet,” he said. Apart from Mariamman Teppakulam, a total of 10 ooranis (ponds) within the Corporation had filled to their brim. Following the recent rain, the water level in Koodal Azhagar Perumal Temple tank had improved. Similarly, Sooravalimedu oorani and Kalthaar oorani were filled. “All these measures will help in improving the groundwater level in the city and ensure that there is no water shortage,” said Mr. Raju. The works undertaken under the kudimaramathu scheme had also reaped benefits as many tanks in rural Madurai were full following the recent rain. The Mullaperiyar drinking water project, for which the Chief Minister laid the foundation on December 4, would be completed in 2023. Once the project was completed, there would be no drinking water shortage in the city, the Minister added.
10 December 2020||December 10 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||72 new cases, one death in Salem||Coimbatore district had 924 COVID-19 patients under institutional care on Wednesday. This included 133 new cases reported in the district on the day. According to the Health Department, 86 persons from Coimbatore district recovered from COVID-19 and returned to their homes. So far, 48,408 persons from the district have recovered from the disease. The department said that Coimbatore district did not report any death due to the disease on Wednesday. Salem district reported 72 cases taking the district’s tally to 30,527. While 65 persons were discharged, 526 continue to be under treatment. One person died, raising the toll in the district to 446. Tiruppur district reported 48 fresh cases. Its overall tally stood at 15,972 cases. No deaths were reported on Wednesday. A total of 15,214 have recovered, so far, and 547 patients were active cases. The district reported 211 deaths overall. As many as 50 patients were discharged from various treatment centres on Wednesday. Erode district reported 37 new cases taking the district’s tally to 12,845. While 55 persons were discharged and 362 continue to be under treatment. Namakkal district reported 27 cases taking the district’s tally to 10,658. As many as 33 persons were discharged, while 187 continue to be under treatment. In the Nilgiris, 14 persons tested positive. The total number of confirmed cases in the Nilgiris stands at 7,619. The death toll in the district stood at 42 on Wednesday, while the district administration said that 205 are undergoing treatment. Krishnagiri recorded 14 new cases and 14 discharged cases. This has taken the total number of current cases to 162 and the total number of infections in the district to 7,554. Dharmapuri recorded eight new cases and nine discharged cases. This has taken the total number of current cases to 130 and total number of infections to 6,194 cases.
10 December 2020||December 10 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||I-T raids on at prominent industrial group in T.N.||“Searches were also conducted at places belonging to a few directors and group heads,” he said, without divulging their names. When asked what led to the search operation, the officer said it was a routine tax evasion check. The I-T Department put out a tweet on its official page, which said, “The I-T Department is conducting search operations on a prominent business group of Chennai, having varied business activities. About 60 premises are being covered across Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Maharashtra. More than Rs. 7 crore of unaccounted cash has been found from key persons so far. The search is still in progress.” Late in the evening, the officials said some Singapore-based accounts were also being probed. “We are verifying the details of these accounts,” an official said, adding that more details would be shared after the probe is completed.
10 December 2020||December 10 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||32 new cases reported in Vellore district||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district reached 19,674 with 32 new cases reported on December 9. While a total of 19,002 have been discharged, the active cases stand at 336. The district's death toll is 336. In Ranipet district, 12 cases were reported positive taking the total to 15,712. In Tirupathur district, the total number of positive cases stood at 7,328, with eight new cases on Wednesday. In Tiruvannamalai district, 26 new cases were reported, taking the total number of cases to 18,828. Out of this, 18,391 have been discharged and the number of active cases stands at 161.
10 December 2020||December 10 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||10-12-2020-city-cinema||MUSIC DANCE DRAMA  Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan's Cultural Festival 2020, Chennai  Open-Air Live Programme up to 19.12.2020 in association with South Zone Cultural Centre ( Ministry of Culture, Government of India ) at Bhavan's Rajaji Vidyashram Campus, No.6, Kilpauk Garden Road, Kilpauk, Chennai-600 010. Dr. Nithyashri Mahadevan ( vocal ) with Parur Sri M.A. Krishnaswamy (violin), Shertalai Sri Ananthakrishnan (Mrudangam ) and Sri S. Sivaramakrishnan (Ghatam). Tomorrow 11th at 6.00 pm: Sri Abishek Raghuram ( vocal). Programme supported by : Sriram Group, Ramco Cements & Ramco Industries, AVA Cholayil Health Care ( Medimix ), Larsen & Toubro, Seshasayee Paper & Boards, MGM Health Care, SMK Fomra Institute of Technology, Kauvery Hospitals., Nalli Silks, Sri Krishna Sweets, Sri K.V. Rangaswamy ( L & T ), Dhanvantari Nano Ayushadi, Newry Properties & Indian Oil Corporation. Admission subject to following S.O.P. Temperature check, Hand Sanitizing, Wearing Mask and Distance Seating. .NO TICKETS Also Watch Live telecast today:http://krishnansons.com/bhavans -art-festival-2020  NAADA INBAM, 9940197993, email: naadainbam@gmail.com Naada Inbam December Music Festival 2020 from 10.12.20 to 04.01.21 at Parivadini Music YouTube channel. Kindly tune in to www.youtube.com/parivadinimusic Refer our blog naadainbam.wordpress.com for daily info. Today 6.15pm Sikkil C.Gurucharan, Sayee Rakshit, Sumesh Narayanan, Anirudh Athreya. All online concerts free for rasikas. RASIKA RANJANI SABHA (Regd.) Mylapore, Chennai-600 004 Today Music Concert at 4.00 P.M. Anjana Thirumalai, G.Badrinath, Sai Raghavan-6.30 P.M.Dr.S.Sowmya, Embar Kannan. Neyveli Narayanan. Website: rasikaranjanisabha.org. E.Mail :rasikaranjanisabha1929@gmail.comPHONE: 044-24641767
10 December 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||1,100 AYUSH teachers across India get termination notice||The Central Council of Indian Medicine (CCIM), the Union government agency regulating AYUSH education in the country, has issued termination and debarment notices to over 1,100 teachers of Ayurveda and other colleges across India, on the charge of illegally serving in more than one college. In a bulk email sent to such teachers, the CCIM has debarred them from serving as teachers in Ayurveda colleges for 10 years. The emails were received from November 10 to 27. This follows a circular issued a few months ago by the AYUSH Ministry that colleges had to clean up their roster list, by removing duplicate teachers, `on paper’ teachers, `ghost’ teachers, or teachers who were serving in more than one college at the same time, in violation of norms. The emails, titled `Withdrawal of Teacher codes’, say the recipient cannot teach for the next decade. Teachers say the notices are unlawful as they do not mention reasons for dismissal, not based on the penal provisions of any law, and do not have provisions for grievance redressal or appeal. The All-India Ayurveda Teachers’ Association action committee and other bodies are urging the Union government to repeal the order. Its members say they will fight against the orders. “The Union government has issued us notices in the form of emails, without either letterheads or signatures of any officer. We will not accept them. We will move the court against these orders. They are unjust and malicious. They have been issued without due diligence or application of mind. They are like photocopied pamphlets issued by a nameless body to random people in the market,” said a teacher from a college in Belagavi who has received such a notice. The action committee has filed over 1,000 RTI applications to the CCIM and State AYUSH ministries seeking information on which the debarment notices were issued. Copies sought “We have sought copies of all documents like records, advices/opinions, reports, papers, file notings, email communications and audio and video data , meeting notices/agenda copy, minutes of meetings, details of members present in meetings, and the relevant laws, sections, rules, regulations, and gazette notification copies that led to the change in teacher code status. We know that the Indian Medicine Central Council Act of 1970, which regulates AYUSH education, does not have any penal provisions. There is no mention of debarring teachers for 10 years. That is why, we have sought on what basis is the action being taken against us,” said another teacher who has filed a RTI application. “We are seeking the details of the offence committed by teachers, the punishment prescribed for each such offence, the authority empowered to punish, quantum of punishment, and the mode of punishment,” said a teacher. “We have written to the government demanding the constitution of a grievance redressal mechanism like a board of hearing, and the officers to be empanelled for it. Once we get replies to these questions, we will begin by asking the Union government to withdraw these orders. If it does not help us, we will go to the High Court as this order violates our fundamental right to work anywhere in the country and the legal right to be heard,” a teacher added.
10 December 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Police arrest prime accused in Vijayapura shooting||The Vijayapura police arrested Madiwalayya Panchayya Hiremath, alias Madu, who is said to be the prime accused in the shooting of Mahadev Bhairagonda, a repeat offender in November. As many as 28 persons have been arrested in connection with the case till now. A pistol, a bullet, a car, and a mobile phone have been recovered from him. Ambush planned According to investigators, Madu allegedly planned an ambush against Bhairagonda on November 2. He came to the spot along with over 30 persons and laid a trap for Bhairagonda by causing an accident. Bhairagonda received bullet injuries and two of his associates were killed. Five other associates were injured in the incident. They were treated in a private hospital in the city. “Investigation will reveal whether it was an act of vengeance or a supari shooting,” a police officer said. Investigating clues at the spot, and other information, police arrested the accused. SP praise Superintendent of Police Anupam Agrawal has congratulated the team led by Additional SP Ram Arasiddhi, Deputy SP K.C. Lakshminarayana, and Inspectors Ravindra Naikodi and Sangamesh Palabavi.
10 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Farmers, Kannada activists continue stir||Farmers and organisations supporting them held protests on Wednesday and staged rallies against the Karnataka Land Reforms (Second Amendment) Bill that seeks to remove restrictions on the purchase of agricultural land. The Bill was passed in the Legislative Council on Tuesday amid protests. Kodihalli Chandrashekar, president of the Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha, warned that the protests would continue on Thursday with more farmers joining in. Karnataka Rakshana Vedike members marched from Town Hall and tried to reach the Raj Bhavan to submit a memorandum to the Governor, but were stopped at K.R. Circle. A small delegation was allowed entry. Stopped on the way Meanwhile, thousands of protesters — wearing green shawls and holding whips — marched from Krantivira Sangolli Rayanna railway station to Freedom Park and then attempted to move towards the Vidhana Soudha. However, police personnel were deployed to prevent them from laying siege to the Vidhana Soudha and they were sent back to Freedom Park. Farmers’ leaders vented their ire against the government, shouted slogans, and tried to burn an effigy. They expressed anger against the BJP government in Karnataka, the JD(S) which supported the Bill in the Council, as well as the Union government that has passed farm laws leading to nationwide protests. Police escort In an attempt to control the crowds, the police initially stopped farmers coming from the outskirts of the city at Rani Circle in Devanahalli. However, as the situation became tense, farmers were allowed entry with a police escort. “We escorted them into the city to ensure that there were no untoward incident,” said a senior police official. Disrupted Traffic movement in and around Majestic area was disrupted for over two hours in the morning. As the rally swelled, vehicular movement came to a crawl at Anand Rao Circle flyover and Racecourse road till afternoon. Two ambulances had to be diverted.
10 December 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||New Bill seeks to ban slaughter of all cattle; has stringent penal provisions||The Karnataka Prevention of Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle Bill, 2020, which was adopted by the Karnataka Legislative Assembly on Wednesday, seeks to ban slaughtering of all cattle, including cow, calf, and even bull. With respect to he/she buffalo, it seeks to ban their slaughter if the animals are below 13 years of age. The violation of the legislation, on conviction, would attract imprisonment ranging from three years to seven years with a fine not less than Rs. 50,000 per cattle and may be extended up to Rs. 7 lakh or both. In the case of second and subsequent offence, it will be a fine not lesser than Rs. 1 lakh that may be extended to Rs. 10 lakh along with imprisonment, which may be extended to seven years. The Bill, piloted by Animal Husbandry and Fisheries Minister Prabhu Chauhan, makes even selling/disposing the cattle for slaughtering or intentionally killing the cattle an offence. If the accused is convicted, then the court can forfeit the confiscated cattle, vehicle, premises, and material on behalf of the State government. The government can appoint a tahsildar or officer not below the rank of veterinary officer of the Animal Husbandry and Fisheries Department as competent authority to look into various issues related to slaughtering under the proposed legislation. The Bill allows police officer not below the rank of sub-inspector or competent authority to visit the premises where suspicious slaughtering is taking place. He can seize the premises, cattle and materials. He has to make a report before the sub-divisional magistrate who can order confiscation of the property, if convicted. The sub-divisional magistrate is also allowed to sell the confiscated property through public auction, if need be. However, the cattle are not supposed to be sold or returned to the owner in such cases. The Bill prescribes that they be handed over to cow shelters recognised by the government. The Bill also provides for constitution of special courts for the speedy disposal of disputes under the proposed legislation. Interstate transport of cattle is banned without prior permission from the competent authority. The Bill has exempted cattle operated for vaccine lymph, serum, or any experimental or research purpose at any government or recognised institute from its provisions. It has also allowed slaughter if it is certified by a veterinary officer as being necessary in the interest of public health and in the case where the cattle is suffering from any disease which is certified by veterinary officer as contagious and dangerous to other cattle. Similarly, the slaughter of terminally-ill cattle and buffalo which is above the age of 13 will be allowed upon certification by veterinary officer. ‘Acting in good faith’ Interestingly, the new Bill seeks to protect persons acting in good faith to prevent cow slaughter. It says that no suit, prosecution or other legal proceedings shall be initiated against the competent authority or any person exercising powers under this legislation in “good faith”.
10 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||IMA case probe: Shocking affairs, says HC on posting officers with doubtful integrity||Terming as “shocking affairs, to say the least” the posting of officers facing corruption cases to the office of the Competent Authority (CA) in the I Monetary Advisory (IMA) scam case, the Karnataka High Court on Wednesday said that the government has shown the audacity in posting officers with doubtful integrity. The court asked the Secretary of the Department of Personnel and Administrative Reforms (DPAR) why these officers were posted to the office of the CA without a proper background check. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice S. Vishwajith Shetty passed the interim order during the hearing of a batch of PIL petitions on IMA scam after noticing the remarks made by Harsh Gupta, who is special officer and CA in IMA case, in his status report. Pointing out that he had returned the services of several officers in the cadre of joint secretary, assistant commissioner, tahsildar, etc., who were posted to the office of the CA, on finding that they were facing probe by Lokayukta or Anti-Corruption Bureau, Mr. Gupta informed the court that he has requested the government to post the officer with the consent of CA as repeatedly officers having doubtful integrity were being appointed. The Bench recalled how the then Deputy Commissioner of Bengaluru Urban district B.N. Vijayashankar was appointed as CA without background check and later he was arrested in connection with the IMA case. As Mr. Gupta stated in the report that many posts in the CA remained vacant due to return of officers with doubtful integrity and some officers not reporting for duty citing illness, the Bench directed the Secretary, DPAR, to assure the court that adequate number of officers are posted to ensure that CA discharges its duties without hindrance. It was informed to the court that already around 40,000 claims have been received by the investors since opening of the online process to submit claims on November 25.  Meanwhile, the Bench directed the Union government to take appropriate decision to extend the tenure of deputation of Joint Director A.Y.V. Krishna, who is on deputation to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) and heading the Multi Disciplinary Investigating Team probing IMA case, till the completion of the probe. The Bench issued the direction as it was pointed out that the CBI is making efforts to complete the probe into the case by the end of April 2021 and Mr. Krishna’s tenure with CBI is coming to an end on January 17.
10 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||COVID-19 RT-PCR test rate slashed to Rs. 800||The Department of Health and Family Welfare has slashed the rates for COVID-19 tests. In an order issued on Wednesday by the Additional Chief Secretary of the department, the revised rate for an RT-PCR test in a private lab has been capped at Rs. 800. The rate for the RT-PCR test in a private lab if the person is referred by a government hospital is Rs. 500. The cost of a Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) will now stand at Rs. 400, but there is no revision in the Rapid Antibody Test, which will remain at Rs. 500. The cost of a TRU-NAT test for COVID-19 is Rs. 1,250, while the cost of CB-NAAT test has been capped at Rs. 2,400. The order also stated that if laboratories are collecting the samples at home, the additional charge for home visits is Rs. 400 per house. The rates will be applicable with immediate effect. However, all the tests done at government-run establishments will be conducted for free. Several other States had slashed the rates over the last few weeks. C.N. Manjunath, director of Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences and Research, who is also part of the State’s COVID-19 expert committee, said that the cost of the tests was reduced as many more manufacturers were producing testing kits. Another factor, he said, is a reduction in the price of the reagent. Prior to this, the rate for the RT-PCR test in private labs was Rs. 1,200 and Rs. 800 if the government referred samples for testing in a private lab. The cost of a TRU-NAT test for COVID-19 was earlier Rs. 2,200, while that of CB-NAAT test has been capped at Rs. 3,800. The cost of a Rapid Antigen Test (RAT) earlier was Rs. 700.
10 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Yediyurappa orders probe into RO water units scam||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Wednesday ordered a probe by the joint legislature committee into an alleged scam in installation of thousands of Reverse Osmosis (RO) water plants across the State by the Karnataka Rural Infrastructure Development Ltd. (KRIDL). As members of both ruling and Opposition parties complained about the dysfunctional water purification plants installed for ensuring potable water to residents of rural and urban areas, Mr. Yediyurappa said “a mega scam” had occurred and the price paid was three to four times higher than the actual rate. Probe report The probe report of the joint legislature committee would be tabled in the House, he said. Earlier, Basangouda Patil Yatnal (BJP) said that agencies involved in the execution of the RO water plants had indulged in “daylight robbery” and looted the taxpayers’ money. Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Minister K.S. Eshwarappa, who promised action against erring agencies, has now become silent, Mr. Yatnal said. Araga Jnanendra (BJP) said RO plants costing Rs. 4-Rs. 5 lakh were installed by paying Rs. 16-Rs. 17 lakh, and he sought a probe to punish officials or private agencies involved in corruption. In a reply to Venkatareddy Mudnal (BJP) during the Question Hour in the Legislative Assembly, Mr. Eshwarappa said he agreed with the Chief Minister’s statement that there was a need to conduct a probe to punish the corrupt.  Mr. Eshwarappa said Max Aqua, Water Life, and Tata Projects have installed plants in the State. According to a survey, nearly 70% of RO water plants are functioning, 26% stopped functioning temporarily, and 4% of them have become dysfunctional. In Yadgir Assembly constituency alone, out of 123 plants, 29 were not functioning, Mr. Eshwarappa said.
10 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘There is hardly any implementation of law prohibiting manual scavenging’||Observing that there is hardly any implementation of the provisions of the Prohibition of Employment as Manual Scavengers and their Rehabilitation Act, 2013 in the State, the Karnataka High Court on Wednesday directed the State government to submit comprehensive data about the survey of insanitary latrines and details about their conversion/demolition. The court also directed the State to immediately initiate awareness campaign on a large scale, involving the NGOs, for elimination of the practice of open defecation and ensure that all the local authorities comply with their obligation of eliminating the practice in their jurisdiction. Noticing that a data published by the Union government shows that there are 53,15,715 insanitary latrines in Karnataka, the Bench observed that this data was an indication to the failure on part of the local authorities and the government to implement the provisions of the law in its letter and spirit. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice S. Vishwajith Shetty issued a series of directions while deciding to continuously monitor the process of implementation in the State. The All India Council for Trade Unions and the High Court Legal Services Committee had filed PIL petitions complaining about non-implementation of law banning manual scavenging. The Bench directed the government to ask all the local authorities to comply with the obligations under the manual scavenging prohibition law to immediately ascertain the requirement of number of sanitary community latrines within their respective jurisdictions, and then to construct such latrines, while observing that insanitary toilets were required to be converted or demolished with certain period after the law came into force in December 2013. The Bench also directed the government to submit particulars related to district and State-level committees set up to carry out survey of manual scavengers, the list of manual scavengers identified in each district, and the steps taken to rehabilitate the identified manual scavengers and schemes available for their rehabilitation. Also, the government has been directed to submit the number of First Information Reports (FIRs) registered, the charge sheets submitted for violating prohibition of manual scavengers law, and details of such cases that ended in acquittal or conviction in the designated trial courts. Further hearing has been adjourned till February 2.
10 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Widespread opposition to WTE plants by local communities||The State government’s announcement of five waste-to-energy (WTE) plants likely to be commissioned in two years has riled people living around the proposed sites. Residents and citizens’ groups have for long been demanding closure of the waste processing plants, seeking prioritisation of decentralised waste processing by the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP). In response to the government’s plan to set up a plant at Kannahalli, Channappa from the Kannahalli-Seegehalli Kasa Vilevari Horata Samiti said that neither the government nor the civic body had any knowledge of the ground reality. The Kannahalli and Seegehalli waste processing plants are a stone’s throw from the Kempegowda Layout which has several colleges and schools. The Seegehalli plant has not been functioning for the past several months now. “Why has no one spared a thought for the problems that could arise for the communities living in the locality? Neither has the local community been consulted, nor has the local body (gram panchayat) given permission for the waste-to-energy plant,” he said, and alleged that even the directions of the court have not been followed. Residents in Mavallipura, where two waste-to-energy plants have been proposed in the 45-acre dumping yard, expressed a similar sentiment. B. Srinivas, Dalit Sangharsha Samiti activist, who had filed a PIL petition in the High Court in 2012 on the unscientific dumping of waste, said: “Though the dumping of waste has stopped, there has been no attempt made to repair the environmental damage caused. The groundwater is contaminated and the leachate has polluted the lake. According to a preliminary health survey, several people in the area have developed health issues,” he said. Deepu Chandran, a resident of Electronics City, who has been working on waste management, pointed out that the city generates around 5,000 tonnes of waste every day. The proposed waste-to-energy plants would require a total of 4,000 tonnes a day. “This only means that unsegregated waste will be sent there. The impetus on segregation, dry waste collection centres will be gone... it will negate whatever progress the city has achieved in waste management,” he said. BBMP forges ahead Even in the face of stiff resistance, BBMP officials defended the move to set up these plants. A senior official, who spoke to The Hindu on condition of anonymity, said that power purchase agreements (PPA) have almost been finalised for plants to be set by Satarem in Kannahalli and Indiem in Doddabidarakallu. The PPA for plants by Firm Green and NEG proposed in Mavallipura are yet to be submitted to the Karnataka Electricity Regulatory Commission (KERC). For the plant proposed in Marenahalli, the BBMP had written to Deputy Commissioner, Bengaluru Urban, to allot the quarry. The official claimed that only segregated wet waste and refuse derived fuel (RDF) would be sent to the five proposed plants in line with the Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016. “The other waste to energy plants that failed did not follow SWM Rules. This will not be the case with these plants,” the official added.  Though the dumping has stopped, there has been no attempt to repair the damage caused. The groundwater is contaminated and leachate has polluted the lake. B. Srinivas activist, Dalit Sangharsha Samiti
10 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State can’t mechanically fell trees even for which no permission is needed: HC||The High Court of Karnataka on Wednesday asked the State government whether it was willing to refer to the committee of experts the issue of felling 872 coconut, mango, and a few other varieties of trees falling in the alignment of the metro project, though permission under the Karnataka Preservation of Trees (KPT) Act, 1976 is not required to fell such varieties of trees.  Sustainable development Though prima facie the provisions of the KPT Act are not applicable to these trees, the doctrine of public trust requires the State and its agencies such as the Bangalore Metro Rail Corporation Ltd. to protect environment, the Bench said while observing that the State cannot mechanically remove these trees without applying mind as the endeavour should be to save maximum number of trees for sustainable development. Projects A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice S. Vishwajith Shetty passed the order during the hearing of a PIL petition, filed by Dattatraya T. Devare and Bangalore Environment Trust, through which the court is examining the legality of removal of trees for the metro project and widening of some roads by the Karnataka Road Development Corporation Ltd. No permission of the Tree Officer is required for felling certain varieties of trees, including coconut and mango, that are listed in Section 8 (7) of the Act. However, the definition of “trees” in Section 2 (g) does not grant exemption to the varieties of trees, listed in Section 8 (7), from application of the provisions of the Act, the Bench noted. Moreover, the Tree Authority has been entrusted with the duty of protecting “all trees” in its jurisdiction, the court observed. The Bench passed the order on an application filed by the BMRCL seeking the court’s nod to fell 872 trees while pointing out that no permission of tree authority is required to fell these trees.
10 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Stationing of ‘108’ ambulances on hospital premises impacting service, says CAG||Absence of a policy on positioning of ‘108’ ambulances under the Arogya Kavacha scheme and them being parked on hospital premises and not in the vicinity of black spots (accident areas) has impacted the delivery of emergency medical service (EMS), said a report of the Comptroller and Auditor General of India (CAG). The report on the general and social sector for the year ending March 2019, which was tabled in the State Legislative Assembly on Wednesday, said that stationing of ambulances in hospitals results in undertaking round trips and thereby impacting the response time. “The ambulances are not stationed in a dispersed manner and instead, multiple ambulances are stationed at a single location,” it observed. There 746 active ambulances under the project. The government entered into a pact with GVK EMRI group to provide ‘108’ ambulance service in the State. “During 2015-19, ‘108’ ambulances were involved in 453 accidents. However, these accidents were not investigated with a view to understanding the pre-crash activities of the persons involved and the circumstances contributing to the crash,” the report said. Though the government has agreed to position ambulances by identifying black spots as was being done in Tamil Nadu, still many ambulances were located on premises of hospitals as it was feasible to provide basic facilities to the crew, the report said. It said there were 20% and 22% vacancies in the posts of ambulance drivers and emergency management technicians, respectively. Shortage of staff had led to ambulances remaining off the road for many days.
10 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC castigates Karnataka State Pollution Control Board chief for failing in his duties||Deprecating the conduct of Karnataka State Pollution Control Board Chairman Vijaykumar Gogi, the Karnataka High Court on Wednesday observed orally that he shouldn’t be continued in the post if he does not understand law and deserves to be “suspended” for not initiating criminal prosecution in case of a violation of noise pollution rules. The court directed Mr. Gogi, an Indian Forest Service officer and also the Principal Secretary, Department of Ecology and Environment, to explain why he has not launched criminal prosecution against a mosque for violation of noise pollution rules and how can he decide whether the violation under the law was “not prosecutable offence.” A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice S.Vishwajith Shetty found that the Chairman, despite noticing that a mosque in Vijayanagar grossly violated rules by using loudspeaker during night, has boldly stated that “it is not prosecutable offence” and chose not to initiate criminal prosecution as per the law by stating that it is for the police to take action. ‘Bold stand’ Even after the court, on several instances earlier, had pointed out the power vested with the officers of the KSPCB to initiate criminal prosecution against violators of noise pollution laws, the Chairman has taken a bold stand that “it is not a prosecutable offence,” the Bench noted in the order. The Bench also pointed out that a notification issued by the Union government in 1987 authorised designated officers of pollution control boards to launch criminal prosecution against violators. Observing that the Chairman of KSPCB cannot usurp the functions of the courts whether an offence is prosecutable or not, the Bench directed him to explain what is a “prosecutable” offence, while orally observing that “we want to learn from him what is a prosecutable offence.” Sixty-five-year old senior citizen and city-based advocate Sumangala A. Swamy said that the mosque is still blatantly using loudspeakers during dark hours even after cancellation of licence, issued illegally by the jurisdictional police, after intervention of the court.
10 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||APMC (Amendment) Bill adopted amidst Cong. walkout||The Legislative Council on Wednesday adopted the Karnataka Agricultural Produce Marketing (Regulation and Development) (Amendment) Bill, 2020, which seeks to permit farmers to sell their produce outside the APMC, amidst walkout by the Opposition Congress members. Although Janata Dal (S) members too opposed the Bill and sought a division of votes, chairman K. Pratapchandra Shetty did not allow it. This came a day after the Council adopted the controversial land reforms Bill amidst protests. The APMC Bill too has been widely opposed by farmers. While Cooperation Minister S.T. Somashekhar maintained that the Bill was brought to “help farmers” by relieving them from the clutches of middlemen, Leader of Opposition in the Council S.R Patil described it as “anti-farmer” and expressed concern that it would sound the death knell for farmers. He alleged that the APMC amendment was being pushed by the Centre to benefit multi-national companies. Arguing that the Centre did not have powers under the Constitution to intervene with respect to APMCs that came under the State list, he urged the State government to desist from ‘succumbing’ to the Centre’s pressure. Congress members P.R. Ramesh and B.K. Hariprasad pointed out that the provisions under the amendments will prevent the government from procuring grains from farmers for public distribution. While Mr. Hariprasad termed the Bill as “draconian” and demanded that it be referred to a joint select committee for further deliberations, Mr. Ramesh alleged that now farmers would be at the mercy of private companies. “Despite objections from the Opposition parties, the government had promulgated an Ordinance in May that aimed at amending the laws to curtail the powers of the Agricultural Produce Market Committees (APMC). The Ordinance has diluted the APMC laws and affected farmers’ interests. The amendments will only help big private companies as it will clip the powers of the APMCs,” Mr. Ramesh charged. JD(S) member Marithibbe Gowda alleged that the Centre was under pressure from multi-national companies and corporates to take up such an amendment. “The Central government is akin to British government,” he charged. Referring to the concept of MSP, he wanted to know if such measures to protect farmers’ interest would continue in the new system. However, Mr. Somashekhar said the State government is committed to the welfare of farmers. Assuring members that the government would not allow any “injustice” to farmers, he said the MSP system would continue. “After the Ordinance was promulgated, we did not receive a single complaint from farmers. The amendment was necessary because farmers and traders were being harassed by traffic police and vigilance department officials. They have paid a penalty of nearly Rs. 25 crore so far. Our aim is to stop this. The amendment will enable anyone with a PAN card to do business with farmers,” he said. Not satisfied with his reply, the Congress members staged a walkout.
10 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||It’ll be another day of rallies today||It will be a day of protests again on Thursday with different organisations planning to take out rallies in the city. On Thursday, Aikya Horata, a coalition of farmer, labour, and Dalit groups, has planned a ‘Raj Bhavan Gherao’ after a rally from the Krantivira Sangolli Rayanna railway station to protest against “anti-farmer laws”. Another rally in the morning will see the road transport corporation employees marching towards the Vidhana Soudha demanding benefits accorded to government employees. Harish Gowda from the Karnataka Rajya Raste Sarige Nalku Nigamagala Okkaliga Adhikarigalu Mattu Naukarara Kshemabhvridhi Sangha and employees’ union said they were expecting close to 1,500 to 2000 people to participate. “The Vidhana Soudha Chalo rally will see participation from employees who are off, on rest, etc., so services are not affected. We want road transport corporation employees to be treated as government employees with the same benefits,” he said. Farmers’ leader Kodihalli Chandrashekar from the Karnataka Rajya Raitha Sangha said the road transport employees’ rally was being supported by the organisation.
10 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Kumaraswamy defends helping passage of Bill||Former Chief Minister and JD(S) leader H.D. Kumaraswamy on Wednesday defended the party’s decision to help the BJP pass the Karnataka Land Reforms (Second Amendment) Bill, 2020, in the Legislative Council, arguing that suggestions made by his party on the earlier draft had been incorporated in the final one. While farmers’ leaders have accused him of “betraying” farmers by helping passing of the legislation, he said that those talking about the new law were ignorant about its provisions and consequences. The JD(S) and party supremo H.D. Deve Gowda had always worked for the welfare of farmers, said Mr. Kumaraswamy, recalling the loan waiver scheme introduced by him as the Chief Minister. “The JD(S) initially opposed the Bill proposed and some of its provisions. We pointed out what needed to be changed and it was incorporated,” he said in Kolar. His party had succeeded in ensuring that fundamental principles of the law, such as ‘land to the tiller’, remained intact, Mr. Kumaraswamy claimed. There has been a lot of debate within and outside the legislature regarding the merits of Article 79 (A) and 79 (B) of the Act, he said.  The JD(S) initially opposed the Bill proposed and some of its provisions. We pointed out what needed to be changed and it was incorporated. The party has succeeded in ensuring that fundamental principles of the law, such as ‘land to the tiller’, remained intact.H.D. KumaraswamyFormer Chief Minister
10 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||House committee for extending BBMP limits||The State legislature’sJoint Select Committee has recommended that the boundary of the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), which is over 800 sq.km, be expanded to cover an additional 1-km radius. This will lead to subsuming parts of gram panchayats, town panchayats, town municipal councils, and city municipal councils that are currently outside the BBMP limits. The proposal, however, has been met with scepticism from residents in the outer areas and citizens’ groups. Jagadish Reddy from Varthur Rising sought to know if the increase in the BBMP’s limits was warranted. “Much of the resource concentration is in the core areas. Since the limits were expanded in 2007, not much has been done for the outer areas. There is a need to have a proper administrative structure in place,” he said, suggesting that the BBMP be split into multiple corporations for administrative purposes. The former Opposition Leader in the BBMP council Abdul Wajid pointed out that overall development had not happened in all 198 wards. Srinivas Alavilli from Janaagraha Centre for Citizenship and Democracy said the BBMP was too big and unmanageable. “The Bangalore Mahanagara Palike to BBMP experiment has clearly not worked over the past 13 years. There is infrastructure deficiency in outer zones,” he said.
10 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||1,279 fresh cases registered in State||As many as 1,279 new COVID-19 cases were reported on Wednesday. With this, the total stands at 8.96 lakh. There were as many as 3,218 new discharges on Wednesday, taking the total number of discharges to 8.61 lakh. According to the media bulletin issued by the Department of Health and Family Welfare, 20 COVID-19 deaths were reported on Wednesday, taking the total number of deaths to 11,900. Of 23,056 active cases, 265 are in ICUs. As many as 1.01 lakh tests were conducted on Tuesday. The positivity rate for the day stood at 1.26% and the case fatality rate for the day stood at 1.56%.
10 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Government reduces penalty on owners of premises for violations||Bowing to pressure from the hospitality and entertainment sector, the State government, on Wednesday, reduced the penalty amount it had previously introduced making owners of marriage halls, restaurants, malls, etc., and organisers of events accountable for guests not wearing masks or maintaining social distance. In an order issued on Wednesday, the Department of Health and Family Welfare capped the penalty to Rs. 10,000 when earlier it was up to Rs. 1 lakh. Fines levied will now be in the range of Rs. 5,000 to Rs. 10,000. The rules have been made under the Karnataka Epidemic Diseases Third Amendment (Regulations), 2020. With this, the Health Department has withdrawn its order issued on October 7. Incidentally, it was only last week that the BBMP had issued its own order enforcing this. This, too, will now be withdrawn According to the order issued on Wednesday, the penalty for owners of non-air conditioned party halls and department stores is Rs. 5,000. The penalty for owners of AC party halls, departmental stores, branded shops, malls, star hotels, marriage or convention halls and organisers of public functions or rallies is Rs. 10,000. Govt. criticised While proprietors have welcomed the move, public health experts have criticised the government for its ‘leniency’. “It is wedding season and people will take part in a lot of gatherings. At the same time, public health experts say that there will be a second wave soon. The government should have not gone easy on the owners of these places,” said an activist. P.C. Rao, president, Bruhat Bangalore Hotels’ Association, hailed the move and said that they had recently given a representation to the State government to reduce the penalty.  Revised fines  Non air-conditioned party halls: Rs. 5,000  AC party halls, departmental stores, branded shops, shopping malls: Rs. 10,000  Star hotels, marriage or convention halls with minimum capacity of of 500 persons or similar public places: Rs. 10,000  Organisers of public functions or rallies or gatherings or celebration: Rs. 10,000
10 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Furore in Council over no-confidence motion against chairman||An attempt by the ruling BJP members to move no-confidence motion against Legislative Council chairman K. Pratapchandra Shetty on Wednesday led to a furore, resulting in the House being adjourned for over two hours. Raising the issue, BJP member Ayanur Manjunath sought to move the motion and demanded the subject be included in the day’s agenda. Mr. Manjunath said he along with 11 other members had submitted a notice in this regard. On discussion Congress MLCs led by B.K. Hariprasad argued that the subject could be taken up only after 14 days of submitting the notice. Urging the chairman not to allow any discussion on the subject, they jumped into the Well of the house and protested. This resulted in a heated argument between members of both the parties. However, Mr. Manjunath argued that the notice was submitted on November 25 and hence, it was possible to take up the subject as per rules. Other BJP members seconded him. Intervening, the chairman said as per rules it was not possible to include any subject in between the agenda. He said he will consult legal experts for an opinion. The subject is likely to figure in Thursday’s proceedings.
10 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Land reforms Bill adopted in Assembly||The Karnataka Land Reforms (Second Amendment) Bill, 2020, was passed in the Legislative Assembly on Wednesday amidst walkout by the Opposition Congress. The Bill was passed in the Council on Tuesday. The Bill removes restrictions on purchase of agricultural land. H.K. Patil (Congress) moved an amendment to the Bill but it was rejected by the Speaker.
10 December 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||People supported farmers’ struggle: SUCI||The Socialist Unity Centre of India (Communist), Karnataka State committee, on Wednesday said that the Bharat Bandh proved that people have wholeheartedly supported the present peasant’s struggle and rejected the “anti-farmer” acts of the Union government. In a release, SUCI State committee said: “We firmly believe peasants will continue their struggle till their demands are met.”
10 December 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Cow puja’ in front of Vidhana Soudha||The ruling BJP legislators and Ministers offered puja to a cow in front of the Vidhana Soudha when the Karnataka Prevention of Slaughter and Preservation of Cattle Bill, 2020, was adopted in the Assembly on Wednesday. BJP national general secretary C.T. Ravi, senior minister K.S. Eshwarappa, and Animal Husbandry Minister Prabhu Chauhan were among those who offered the puja. Also, soon after tabling of the Bill, all the BJP members, including Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, came to the Assembly sporting a saffron shawl to express solidarity with the spirit of the Bill. When Opposition Congress member H.K. Patil raised objection to saffron shawls in the Assembly, Speaker Vishveshwar Hegde Kageri overruled the objection pointing out that the Congress members had sported black bands in the House on Tuesday during the ‘Bharat Bandh’.
10 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Pedestrian mowed down||A 30-year-old pedestrian was killed in a hit-and-run case at Veerasandra junction on Hosur road early on Wednesday. The man was crossing the road when an unidentified vehicle knocked him down and sped away. According to the police, he sustained severe head injuries and was killed on the spot. The Electronics City police have taken up a case.
10 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Reopen schools, say students in rural areas||Students in rural areas staged protests demanding that schools be reopened. While colleges in the State resumed classes on campus on November 17, the State government is yet to take a call on when students can return to schools. In the over eight months since schools closed their doors, the education divide between students hailing from privileged families and those from lower economic sections of society has further widened. While private school managements have been conducting classes online, students enrolled in government and aided schools have been struggling. Some schools do not have the infrastructure to hold online lessons, and in others, students cite poor internet connectivity and lack of smartphones, tablets and laptops as a deterrent. ‘Learning hampered’ The students who staged protests held banners such as ‘Reopen school immediately’ to get their message across. “Those of us in rural areas are in significant distress, and our learning has been completely hampered this academic year,” said protesters, demanding that the government reopen schools by December 15. Nagasimha G. Rao, State convenor, RTE task force, said several students had written letters to the task force with similar demands. “Students have said that they will follow all the safety protocols and guidelines for COVID-19 if physical classes resume,” he said and added that the letters will be sent to the Department of Primary and Secondary Education. Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar held a meeting with stakeholders on Wednesday to discuss when schools can safely conduct physical classes. He said a decision will be taken in consultation with Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa. The problems faced by class 10 and class 12 students who have to appear for the board examinations in 2021 was also discussed at the meeting.
10 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Double payment by BDA’||The report by Comptroller and Auditor General of India said owing to lapses in the Bangalore Development Authority, double payment of refunds were made to the tune of Rs. 8.55 crore in 307 cases. Though the BDA claimed that the entire amount except Rs. 12.11 lakh was recovered, it failed to produce recovery particulars for Rs. 1.14 crore, the CAG said.
10 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Prostitution racket: Woman from Uganda held||Central Crime Branch (CCB) officials on Wednesday unearthed a prostitution ring run by a woman from Uganda who allegedly lured women from her country by promising them well-paying jobs in Bengaluru. Instead, they were kept prisoners in the house and forced into the sex trade, according to the police. The police rescued four women from Uganda, who are currently being rehabilitated and counselled at the State home for women. Acting on a tip-off, the CCB team raided a house at Ramamurthynagar and arrested the woman, Nakkazi Phainaha, 33. “She came to India from Uganda on a tourist visa, rented out a house, and started the prostitution racket,” said a police official. The police have also booked the owner of the house, identified as Faizul Rahman, who is presently on the run. “We have sealed the house for further investigation. We suspect that there are more people involved in the racket,” the official added. The women who were rescued did not have any travel documents. When questioned, they told the police that their passports and other documents had been confiscated by the accused.
10 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Online gambling: Bookie arrested||The Central Crime Branch police on Tuesday arrested a bookie who was allegedly running an online cricket gambling racket. The accused, Prabhu Kalaiah, 33, a resident of Bhuvaneshwarinagar, was running the gambling ring from a mobile app, which he used to monitor ongoing cricket matches and receive bets from punters, the police said. Prabhu was caught at Telecom Layout by a police team with the money to be handed over to the punters. “We have seized Rs. 4.5 lakh and a mobile phone from him. The accused has been taken into custody and efforts are on to ascertain his network,” said the police.
10 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BSY promises immediate approval of Rs. 1,100 crore||Chief Minister B. S. Yediyurappa on Wednesday announced that he would approve the Rs. 1,100-crore action plan for the development of Kalyana Karnataka on Thursday. Replying to discussion on supplementary estimates, the Chief Minister said the financial allocation would also be made without delay. Leader of Opposition Siddaramaiah had written to the Chief Minister demanding that the allocation of Rs. 1,500 crore announced close to nine months ago be released immediately and works initiated. The Chief Minister also clarified that the government had paid social security pensions to all eligible beneficiaries till October. He expressed concern that despite this, there was a feeling that the payment of social security pensions had been pending. This was mainly due to the efforts being made by the government to link the beneficiaries with their Aadhaar cards, he said.
10 December 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Book release||To mark the 129th birth anniversary of Masti Venkatesh Iyengar, books which have won the Masti Kadambari Puraskar 2020, Mrugasheera written by Sridhar Balegar, and Katha Puraskar 2020, Mise hengasu mattu itara katheglu by Lokesh Agasanakatte, will be released on December 12. On the occasion, a book titled Mahakathanada Masti written by K. Sathyanarayana and a book on life and writings of Masti Venkatesh Iyengar written by S.R. Vijayashankar will also be released. Venue The book release event organised by Masti Venkatesh Iyengar Trust, Kolar, will be held at Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan, Race Course Road. at 10 a.m.
10 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||On wearing masks while driving||If a person is driving a car and is alone with all windows closed, they don’t have to wear a mask. However, if the windows are rolled down, then wearing the mask is mandatory, said the Department of Health and Family Welfare in the order issued on Wednesday.
10 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||30-month tenure for Mayor recommended||The State legislature’s Joint Select Committee, formed to review the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike Bill, 2020, has recommended that the number of wards in the BBMP be between 225 and 250 and the Mayor and the Deputy Mayor have a term of 30 months. The BBMP council’s term ended in September and there are 198 wards as of now. In its 155-page report, which was tabled in the Legislative Assembly, the committee said that the wards into which the corporation (BBMP) is to be divided “will not be less than 225 but not more than 250”. BJP MLA S. Raghu headed the 22-member committee. The report said wards should be divided within the constituency of a member of the Legislative Assembly and no wards should be spread over two constituencies. The term of the BBMP council continues to be five years. The report said the Mayor and the Deputy Mayor should hold the office for 30 months from the date of his or her election and continue in office till his or her successor is elected. So far, the term of the Mayor has been for one year. Number of zones It said the number of zones should not exceed 15. Each zone has zonal committees and they should be headed by a councillor representing one of the wards within the zone who should be elected from among the councillors. An engineer who is in-charge of the particular zone should be an ex-officio member. Other members of the committee should be a person who is an expert in solid waste management nominated by the government and an expert in urban governance nominated by the government. The term of the committee should be for one year, it said. A councillor who has become the chairperson of the committee should not be eligible to become chairperson for the second term. The zonal commissioner should be the coordinator of the zonal committee. The government should frame rules for specifying the qualifications, manner of appointment, and honorarium of the expert members of the zonal committee. The committee has recommended the establishment of a constituency consultative committee for each Assembly constituency comprising the MLA (chairperson), councillors, and not more than five residents’ association representatives of the Assembly segment nominated by the MLA for 30 months. This committee would give aid and advice to the zonal committees. Ward committees There should be a ward committee for each ward headed by the councillor and two members belonging to SCs and STs, three women, and two members representing residents’ associations. It said 50% of the persons to be nominated to the committee should be women. The committees should meet at least once a month. The report said the zonal commissioner should have the powers to grant licences related to establishment of markets either wholesale or retail, industries, restaurants, slaughterhouses, corporate offices, and others. The government is likely to frame the BBMP Bill based on these recommendations.
10 December 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Supplementary estimates adopted||The Legislative Assembly on Wednesday adopted the Supplementary Estimates-Second Instalment. The supplementary estimates aggregate to Rs. 3,320.4 crore. It includes Rs. 291.57 crore for charged expenditure and Rs. 3,028.83 crore of voted expenditure. The net outgo from consolidated fund is Rs. 3,320.4 crore. A sum of Rs. 346.22 crore is covered by Central assistance. Hence, net cash outgo is Rs. 2,974.18 crore.
10 December 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Five held on murder charge||Hassan Police have arrested five persons on charges of involving in the murder committed on December 5 in Hassan city. Raghu Gowda, 26, was murdered by a group of people while he was having tea in a canteen near Sanskrit Bhavan in the city. The police arrested the accused on Tuesday. They are Bhavit, 19, Tejas, 19, Punith, 21, Naveen Kumar, 21 and Vivek, 24. All are residents of the city. At a press conference in Hassan on Wednesday Superintendent of Police R. Srinivasa Gowda said the accused murdered Raghu over a financial matter. The victim and the accused were friends. Raghu Gowda had borrowed Rs. 1.5 lakh from Tejas a year ago. Recently Tejas asked Raghu to return the money as his family required it for his sister’s marriage. Raghu returned only Rs. 50,000. Often, Tejas and Raghu had heated arguments on this issue. Tejas and his friends then attacked Raghu and killed him.
10 December 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Murder turns out to be supari killing||What was initially assumed to be murder that was borne out of vengeance in Hubballi has now turned out to be case of a supari killing and the Hubballi Town Police have arrested five more persons, apart from the one already arrested, on the charge of murder. In a press release issued here on Tuesday night, Police Commissioner Labhu Ram has said that the Hubballi Town Police, led by Inspector M.S. Patil, Sub Inspector B.N. Satannavar and staff, had solved the murder of Ramesh Bhandagi, a former history-sheeter-turned-social worker. According to the release, it is a supari killing over a land deal dispute. The Police Commissioner has given the names of the arrested as Rafiq Anwarsab Jawari, 40, Vaseem Kwajasab Bankapur, 29, both of Sadarsofa, Hubballi; Shivaji Devendrappa Mishal, 60, of Janglipet; Fayaz Ahmed Jaffersab Pallan, 34, of Mayur Nagar, Old Hubballi, and Touseef Mohammed Isaq Naragund, 33, of Mahaveer Nagar, Gadag. All these five accused were arrested on Tuesday and the other accused, Izaz Ahmed Bankapur, was arrested on November 26, a day after he killed Ramesh Bhandage in daylight. The supari killing came to light after the police took Izaz Ahmed into custody for further interrogation and further verified it with call details and other information provided by the first accused. According to the release, Rafiq and Shivaji had a dispute with Mr. Bhandage in connection with a land in Gabbur village on the outskirts of Hubballi. They allegedly got Izaz Ahmed, his brother Vaseem and his friends to plan the murder of Mr. Bhandage in return for a ‘supari’ of Rs. 25 lakhs. The police have recovered Rs. 6.10 lakh from the accused, two two-wheelers, and five mobile phones used in the crime.
10 December 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Vinay Kulkarni’s bail plea posted for orders on Dec. 14||The CBI Special Court on Wednesday heard the objections of the counsels for the CBI with regard to the bail petition moved by Congress leader and former Minister Vinay Kulkarni in connection with the murder of zilla panchayat member Yogeshgouda Goudar and posted the matter for orders on December 14. The Fourth Additional District and Sessions Judge and the CBI Special Court Judge C.M. Gangadhar heard the objections of the CBI. Filing objections to granting bail, Counsel for the CBI Sudarshan argued that Mr. Kulkarni was the key conspirator along with another accused Basavaraj Mutagi. He said already the witnesses had been intimidated and being a former Minister he had taken the entire system for a ride and misused the police. The CBI counsel alleged that Mr. Kulkarni had stayed at Room 555 of Mayura Hotel in Bengaluru from June 6 to 20 in 2016 to conspire with henchmen and with Accused no. 1 (Mutagi) to kill Mr. Goudar. He also alleged that on June 16, 2016, he had met Mutagi near Sankey Tank in Bengaluru at 1.35 a.m. and made arrangements for the six accused to surrender before the police.  Mr. Kulkarni is presently lodged in the Hindalga Jail in Belagavi and his judicial custody has been extended till December 21.
10 December 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||PPE kits donated||Lions Club, Dharwad donated PPE kits, face shields, N 95 masks and gloves to the District Civil Hospital in Dharwad on Tuesday. The COVID-19 materials were handed over to District Surgeon Shivakumar Manakar.
10 December 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||KKRDB still waits for allocated funds to take up projects||The Kalyana Karnataka Region Development Board (KKRDB), which was formed to implement the special status accorded to Kalyana Karnataka under Article 371(J) of the Constitution, appears to be suffering from a financial crunch. Though a budgetary allocation of Rs. 1,500 crore was made for the year, against the demand of Rs. 2,000 crore, the allocated amount is yet to be released. Considering the delay in the approval of the action plans and the release of funds, the Leader of Opposition and former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah wrote to Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Tuesday expressing his displeasure. “Only three months are left for the financial year and the action plans are not approved. Considering all these things, the government appears to have completely neglected the development of Kalyana Karnataka,” Mr. Siddaramaiah said in the letter. Apparently responding to Mr. Siddaramaiah, Chief Minister on Wednesday announced in the Assembly that he would shortly approve the Rs. 1,100-crore action plans prepared by KKRDB. Congress leaders from Kalyana Karnataka, including Priyank Kharge, strongly criticised the government for reducing the amount from the allocated Rs. 1,500 crore to Rs. 1,100 crore and delaying the approval of the action plans. “As Chief Minister himself admitted on the Floor of the House, the State is in unprecedented financial doldrums. It did not even release funds for relief and rehabilitation work for flood victims. I don’t have any expectation that the present government would do something positive for Kalyana Karnataka,” Mr. Priyank Kharge told The Hindu . Even civil society leaders have objected and termed the government’s delay as a deliberate injustice to Kalyana Karnataka. “The delay in approving the action plans is a deliberate move by the government to buy time. It doesn’t want to spend the money for the region this year. It just wants to spend time in the procedures till the end of the financial year. The budgetary allocation made to the KKRDB was Rs. 1,500 crore. But, the action plans were prepared for Rs. 1,100 crore upon the direction of the government. There are 41 MLAs from the region and none of them questioned it,” Razak Ustaad, vice-president of the Hyderabad Karnataka Horata Samiti, the organisation which led the mass movement for the special status, told The Hindu . Mr. Utsaad also questioned the government for keeping KKRDB almost defunct. “The government has nominated only the chairman for KKRDB. There are no members at present. Without a full-fledged body, the KKRDB cannot take decisions and approve action plans. The government should have appointed the members in the first place and made it functional. It has deliberately kept the board inactive compelling it to send the action plans to it so that it could delay in approving the same,” Mr. Ustaad added.
10 December 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||JSW steel plant reports zero COVID-19 cases||COVID-19 cases at JSW Steel Vijayanagar Works, the largest single location steel manufacturing facility of JSW Steel Ltd. located in Ballari, which was the largest COVID-19 cluster in the State at one time, came to zero on Wednesday. Vinod Nowal, Deputy Managing Director of JSW Steel Ltd., praised the commitment by the plant management, employees, and Jindal Sanjeevani Hospital, for the achievement. “We have successfully managed to flatten the infection curve at our plant in Ballari with no new cases reported in the recent past. This is the effort of concerted efforts and commitment of the leadership team and every employee at the plant. At the same time, we continue to stay alert as the fight against coronavirus has not ended. JSW Steel will continue to keep a close vigil,” Mr. Nowal said in a press release on Wednesday. During the last few months, JSW Steel undertook several measures to ensure the safety of its employees and the local community at its manufacturing facility in Ballari. It converted its Jindal Sanjeevani Hospital and OP Jindal Training Centre at Ballari into full-fledged COVID-19 Care Centres. It identified the most critical workforce to keep the steel plant operational and ensured the safety of all other employees offering work-from-home facility. It constituted multiple governance committees, headed by senior JSW officials, to ensure complete adherence to health and safety guidelines, including social distancing to control or minimise the spread of infection.   “Support was extended to local communities to contain the spread of the virus. The community health monitoring project team of JSW Foundation conducted door-to-door basic screening to record COVID-19 related symptoms of 22,000 people in 5,100 households. JSW Steel continues to undertake stringent safety measures to keep its plants and townships safe through regular sanitisation of offices, shop floors, company vehicles, buses and common areas like ATMs at regular intervals,” Mr. Nowal added in the release.
10 December 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Police officer sentenced to four years for taking bribe||The District Principal and Special Court on Wednesday sentenced a woman police officer to four years imprisonment for taking a bribe. The court also slapped a fine of Rs. 10,000 on her. Caught red-handed Vijayalakshmi was caught red-handed by the Lokayukta police while accepting a bribe of Rs. 25,000 for releasing a seized vehicle while she was Inspector at Shahbad police station in 2015. In a complaint to the Lokayukta police, Raju alleged that Vijayalakshmi has demanded the bribe in advance for releasing his vehicle. After hearing from both sides, Judge R.J. Satish Singh found the Deputy Superintendent of Police guilty and sentenced her to three years jail in one section and four years imprisonment with a fine of Rs. 10,000. As soon as the court delivered the verdict, the police took Vijayalakshmi into custody and sent her to the central prison.
10 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||MUDA to plant fruit-bearing saplings around waterbodies||The Mangaluru Urban Development Authority (MUDA) in association with Green Tigers, a body of green enthusiasts, has chalked out a plan to promote Mangaluru as the city of fruits by planting fruit-bearing saplings around waterbodies being developed by the MUDA now, according to chairman Ravishankar Mijar. The authority has proposed to rejuvenate 17 waterbodies in the city. Of them six are being rejuvenated in the first phase, he told The Hindu . The saplings will be initially planted in the surrounding of Bairadi Kere, Kadri Jogi Mutt Kere, and a waterbody in the doctors’ colony in Kadri. The authority is also rejuvenating the Juma Masjid Kere at Kudroli, a waterbody each at Jeppinamogaru and near Surathkal where the saplings will be planted. Mr. Mijar said that the authority has identified the road between Lady Hill Circle and Mannagudda Junction to plant the saplings. But saplings on the stretch will be planted in June. Madhava Ullal, treasurer, Green Tigers and who is on a mission planting varieties of saplings in different parts of the city and Ullal since more than a decade, said that the Green Tigers inspected the surrounding in Bairadi Kere on Tuesday where 100 saplings can be planted. Since drip irrigation can be arranged there saplings can be planted now. He said the number of saplings which could be planted between Lady Hill Circle and Mannagudda Junction will be assessed on Thursday. Mr. Ullal said that saplings of deep rooting saplings cannot be planted in the surrounding areas of waterbodies and the roots would damage the banks. It has been planned to plant the saplings of star fruit, water ball, Indian gooseberry, seethaphal, lakshmana phala, bimbuli, and the like in association with the Forest Department. He said that the department and various organisations together planted 2,140 different variety saplings on the sides of the National Highway 66 between Nanthoor Circle and Talapady this July. As the saplings planted are more than one-and-half-years old they can be watered once in a fortnight. The Green Tigers will begin watering them once rains stops completely.
10 December 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Patients with cold, cough, fever should get tested for COVID-19: Jagadeesha||Udupi Deputy Commissioner G. Jagadeesha said on Wednesday that patients approaching private hospitals for treating cough, cold, fever, and Influenza-like Illness (ILI) should be made to undergo a COVID-19 test compulsorily. If the hospitals are found treating such patients without conducting the COVID-19 test, their registration will be cancelled. Speaking at a meeting in Udupi, the Deputy Commissioner said that people in general now are not serious on taking precautionary measures to prevent the spread of COVID-19. There are chances of a second COVID-19 wave. It should be controlled. Both private and government hospitals should provide information on the patients who have availed treatment for cold, cough, fever, and ILI. The Deputy Commissioner said that the government will take action against such doctors who treat patients without registering with the district-level authority. The officials in the authority should not delay in issuing licences to the applicants to open clinics and nursing homes. The male and female sex ratio in Udupi district presently stood at 1,000:956. If people in general gave specific information on the scanning centres conducting sex determination tests and if it is found so, such informants will be given a prize of Rs. 50,000 each, he said adding that sex detemination test will invite a jail term of three years. The bio-medical waste should be disposed of scientifically, he said adding that government hospitals should provide quality treatment to patients and they should also focus on improving infrastructure facilities in hospitals.
10 December 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Mangaluru under SWR could push region’s economic development: KCCI||Joining hands with the public who want Mangaluru Railway region to come under South Western Railway (SWR), the Kanara Chamber of Commerce and Industry (KCCI) has said the overall potential of coastal districts can be exploited fully only if the region was administered by a single zone. In a letter to Railway Minister Piyush Goyal on Tuesday, chamber president Issac Vas said Mangaluru was fortunate to have train connectivity to Bengaluru, Kerala, and Mumbai. However, being under the control of three Railway zones, SWR, Southern Railway, and Konkan Railway Corporation, train operations were complicated in the region because of lack of coordination between them. KCCI has observed many development proposals did not materialise because of the same reason and so was introduction of new trains or modification of existing services. Thus, the overall potential of the district as well as the region remains underutilised and suffers due to indecision and delays, Mr. Vas noted. The KCCI president noted that the Ministry itself in 2004 decided to hand over the Mangaluru railway network to Mysuru Division of SWR after gauge conversion completion between Mangaluru and Hassan. Fourteen years passed by, yet the Ministry was yet to implement the decision, he regretted. Mr. Vas said coastal Karnataka districts were witnessing tremendous growth after the advent of Konkan Railway; many industries were established. Together the districts could enhance economic potential, he said and cited the example of ‘roll-on roll-off’ service of KRCL where trucks ride piggy back on specially designed goods trains. Similar services could be introduced to other places too. Port potential The potential of New Mangalore Port, the gateway to Karnataka, too could not be exploited to the full following lack of coordination between zones. If Mangaluru comes under SWR, freight movement between NMPT and other parts of Karnataka would tremendously improve. With expansion of MRPL on the cards, bringing Mangaluru-Thokur line under SWR would only enhance the operations in the region, Mr. Vas added. Quoting a High-Level Railway Restructuring Committee report, Mr. Vas said present zones and divisions were evolved owing to historical reasons and not cast in stone. The Ministry should take a rational look at restructuring the present set up, he said.
10 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Yakshagana artists relieved as melas resume tours||Yakshagana artists hit by the pandemic are relieved to some extent as melas (touring troupes) in the coastal and Malnad belts resumed their daily tours in a phased manner amid COVID-19 cases showing a decreasing trend since a month. The coastal districts of Dakshina Kannada, Udupi, and Uttara Kannada and the Malnad district of Shivamogga together had 878 active COVID-19 cases as of Tuesday. Over 40 troupes The regions have over 40 touring troupes providing direct employment to about 2,000 persons and indirect employment to many when the melas tour from December to May. Century-old melas, like Kateel, Mandarthi, and Dharmasthala, are attached to famous temples and a majority of their shows are sponsored ‘harake bayalatas’ (sponsoring a show for the fulfillment of a vow where audience need not purchase any ticket to see a show). Other melas are likely to face sponsorship issues this year. Only two melas – Perdoor and Saligrama – have remained as tent melas, which pitch tents and present shows by issuing tickets. All other melas perform ‘bayalata’ and audience can watch the shows, which are sponsored by some persons or through crowdfunding, for free. Murali Kadekar, secretary, Yakshagana Kalaranga of Udupi, which has been helping professional artists by building them houses, arranging health insurance and sponsoring their children’s education, told The Hindu that as COVID-19 has many regular sponsors economically, there are likely to be a dearth of sponsorships. Hence some troupes not managed by temples may not be able to perform daily, he said. K. Padmanabha Kamath, Professor and Head, Department of Cardiology, Kasturba Medical College, Mangaluru, told The Hindu that COVID- 19 shouldn’t be a deterrent to perform Yakshagana if basic norms are followed. The ‘chowki’ (green room) needed some structural change. People should avoid crowding in the ‘chowki’ and make-up artists will have to maintain 2m distance. Outsiders should compulsorily wear mask while entering the ‘chowki’. “All the artists have to undergo mandatory COVID-19 testing at regular intervals and should desist from mixing freely with outsiders,” the doctor said. “Thermal screening is highly impractical in a field drama or outdoor theatrical performance. However, if an artist has any flu-like symptoms he should get himself tested at the earliest,” Dr. Kamath, who floated a Yakshagana WhatsApp group in 2014 said. As many as six troupes of popular Kateel mela began their journey on Wednesday and five troupes of well known Mandarthi mela will commence their tour on Friday. The nearly-a-century old Maranakatte mela with its three troupes, Kamalashile mela with its two troupes, and five other melas have now begun their tours. The Dharmasthala mela began its shows up to a month in Dharmasthala itself. Hanumagiri mela is set to begin its tour shortly. Kishen Hegde, who manages five melas, said that his melas will begin their ‘tirugata’ (tour) this and next month. Incidentally a new troupe, Pavanje mela, created this year, is the first to begin its daily tour late in November. Another new troupe, Manila mela, will begin its tour from next month.
10 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||DKMUL director dies in road accident||Haddur Rajiv Shetty, 60, a progressive farmer and one of the directors of Dakshina Kannada Cooperative Milk Union (DKMUL), died in a road accident near Halady in Udupi district on Wednesday. Mr. Shetty’s car hit the guard wall of a bridge near Halady. The Shankaranarayana police have registered a case. Mr. Shetty is credited with rejuvenating 11 acres of hilly barren land and making it fit for agriculture. Being a farmer since 35 years, he was awarded the best farmer award in Kundapur taluk and other awards in agriculture and dairy farming. He was the president of Bylur Milk Producers’ Cooperative Society. Mr. Shetty was also the president of Shankaranarayana Agriculture Service Cooperative Society. He had held several positions in BJP. Condoling the death, Raviraj Hegde, president, DKMUL said that Mr. Shetty was the director of the DKMUL for three terms. He was a true cooperative person and was also a member of taluk panchayat, he said.
10 December 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||Matsyagandha Express to run as a special train from December 17||The lifeline between Mangaluru and Mumbai, the Matsyagandha Express, is being reintroduced after a gap of over eight months as a special train with effect from December 17, initially to do 15 trips each. A notification from Southern Railway that announced reintroduction of several trains, said Train No. 02620 Mangaluru Central-Mumbai LTT Daily Super Fast Festival Special will commence operations from December 17 and run till December 31. In the return direction, Train No. 02619 Mumbai LTT-Mangaluru Central Daily Super Fast Festival Special will operate from December 18 to January 1. the notification said. Train No. 02620 Mangaluru-Mumbai LTT service will leave Mangaluru Central at 2.25 p.m. to reach LTT at 6.35 a.m. the next day, which was the usual timetable. Train No. 02619 Mumbai LTT-Mangaluru Central service will leave LTT at 3.20 p.m. to reach Mangaluru Central at 7.30 a.m. the next day. Fares on these festival specials will be 1.3 times the regular fare, the notification said, adding they will be fully reserved services.   Ernakulam-Okha service Railways has decided to reintroduce Ernakulam-Okha-Ernakulam Express as a fully reserved festival special train from December 11. Train No. 06338 Ernakulam Jn. - Okha Bi-Weekly Festival Special will leave Ernakulam at 8.25 p.m. every Wednesday and Friday from December 11 to December 30 to reach Okha at 4.40 p.m. the third day. The train will halt at Mangaluru Junction, Surathkal, Udupi, Kundapur, Mookambika Road Byndoor, Bhatkal, Honnavar, and Karwar in Karnataka. Train No. 06337 Okha - Ernakulam Jn. Bi-Weekly Festival Special will leave Okha at 6.45 a.m. every Monday and Saturday from December 14 to January 2 to reach Ernakulam at 11.55 p.m. on the second day.
10 December 2020||Mangaluru,KARNATAKA||DK reports two deaths||COVID-19 claimed two lives in Dakshina Kannada on Wednesday and the district also reported 34 new cases on the day. The death toll in the district touched 724. With 81 patients being discharged after treatment the active cases stood at 428. Udupi district reported 15 new cases on the day and the active cases in the district stood at 136.
10 December 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Briefly||The Department of Information and Publicity in Udupi will provide a 10-month apprentice training to journalism graduates belonging to Scheduled Tribe. The selected candidates will get a monthly stipend of Rs. 15,000. The age of applicants should not exceed above 40 years. Apply by December 19. Call 0820-2985242.     The Karnataka Muslim Lekhakara Sangha has invited books for its Muslim Sahitya Prashasti for 2019. The books should reach its office at Hidayath Centre, Bibi Alabi Road here by December 31. Call 9845054191.     There will be no power supply to Kateel, Ekkar, Permude, Shibaroor, Bajpe, Ambika Nagar, Siddarth Nagar, Padu Perara on December 10 from 10 a.m. to 2 p.m.
10 December 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Akshara Dasoha: Children get foodgrains||As schools continue to remain closed over the COVID-19 pandemic and their reopening appears uncertain despite the fall in numbers of pandemic cases in the State, the children of government and aided high schools and primary schools across Mysuru and Kodagu districts are receiving rice and toor dal as a part of the Akshara Dasoha programme. With no distribution of meals to the children under Akshara Dasohafollowing the closure of schools, the government resolved to distribute foodgrains to the children. In Mysuru, the distribution is on since a fortnight with the quota of rice and toor dal allocated to the respective schools for distribution. The parents of the children can collect the foodgrains from the school authorities on behalf of the children. “More than 2 lakh children are covered under the programme in Mysuru district,” said DDPI Panduranga. He told The Hindu that the rice was distributed first and now toor dal is being supplied to the schools based on the supply of the stock. The quantity of supply depends on the daily quota of diet fixed for each child under the programme, he added. Kodagu Deputy Commissioner Annies Kanmani Joy on Wednesday checked the quality of foodgrains supplied to the children under Akshara Dasoha in the district, visiting the warehouse where the grains are stored. Kodagu DDPI P.S. Machado said nearly 40,000 children are getting the supply from the schools. The quota of June and July are being distributed now and subsequent months’ quota would be supplied after receiving it from the authorities concerned.
10 December 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Mysuru to host three-day International Science Festival from Dec. 22||The curtain raiser event of 6th India International Science Festival (IISF) -2020 was organised here recently at the CSIR-Central Food Technological Research Institute, Mysuru to disseminate information about the mega event which is being organised from December 22 to 25 on a virtual platform. As a part of the event, the CFTRI invited a few successful women entrepreneurs who contributed towards society while adopting an inclusive approach and adding value to growers, processors and consumers. A total of 100 entrepreneurs, researchers and students attended the session. This year, IISF is being organised jointly by Department of Science and Technology, Department of Biotechnology, Ministry of Earth Science,Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, and the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) along with Vijnana Bharati (VIBHA) on the virtual platform. The theme of the event is “Science for Self-reliant India and Global Welfare”. IISF is the country’s biggest platform to bring together students, researchers, innovators, artists, entrepreneurs, and the public. IISF is also an endeavour to motivate young minds towards science. IISF consists of 41 events in nine verticals, including Young Scientists’ Conference, Women Scientists’ and Entrepreneurs’ Conclave, Wellness Conclave, Waste Management and Sanitation, Science Education in India, National Start-up Conclave, along with talks by four leading women entrepreneurs, a release said here. Jithendra J. Jadhav, Director, CSIR-CFTRI, in his opening remarks, appreciated the contribution of achievers and their contribution towards realising real ‘Aatmanirbhar Bharat’ in their chosen domain of interest. Farmers’ support Chaya Nanjappa, a first generation rural entrepreneur based in Mysuru with an established brand, ‘Nectar Fresh’ shared her entrepreneurial journey with the support of farmers and tribals, aligning with ‘Aatmanirbhar Bharat’ idea. Sreelakshmi Desiraju, Founder CEO, Triphase Pharmaceuticals Pvt. Ltd., Mysuru, highlighted her patented innovation on eliminating the use of cold chain in the probiotic industry, saving huge investments in the value chain, according to the release. Revati Jagdeesh, Founder, SaReDh Superfoods Pvt. Ltd., Bengaluru, narrated her forays into start-ups and the introduction of new generation product, Fusion Jams enriched with Omega-3 oils. The company also has been part of the CSIR supply chain platform, Aarogya Path, contributing to healthcare needs of the people during this pandemic. Sushma Appaiah, an alumnus of CFTRI and a professional nutrition counsellor, expressed the joy of sharing her knowledge with corporate establishments and common man on the importance of nutrition. Further, her experience as the Founder Director, Salutary NutryFoods Pvt. Mysuru, a start-up working on the development of innovative nutraceuticals from agro-wastes currently incubated at CSIR-CFTRI, was also highlighted at the session. B. Manohar, Chief Scientist and Advisor (M and A), stressed the importance of increasing the investment in R and D and the need for quality products and services. More details about IISF-2020 available on the platform www.scienceindiafest.org
10 December 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Doctors express their ire||Doctors and post-graduate medical students on Wednesday performed their duties wearing black ribbons pinned to their dress to protest against the Centre’s nod to Ayurveda doctors performing surgeries and offering allopathic therapies. Acting on a call from the Indian Medical Association, the doctors sought withdrawal of the permission. IMA Mysuru President B.N. Anandravi told reporters here on Wednesday that a memorandum would be submitted to the Prime Minister through the Deputy Commissioner on Thursday seeking withdrawal of the decision and retain the individuality of each systems of medicine, without integrating them in the interest of professional healthcare delivery. The medical students had staged demonstration on Tuesday as a part of the call from the IMA to send a message to the government on the opposition to its move.
10 December 2020||Mysuru,KARNATAKA||Octogenarian widow of Army veteran struggles for pension||The 83-year-old wife of an Army veteran from Hunsur in Mysuru, whose family pension was discontinued more than three years ago, has been knocking on the doors of various agencies including the Department of Sainik Welfare and Resettlement and Army Record Office as well as the pension disbursing bank concerned. But, the pension is yet to be restored. Amaravathi Bai, widow of late Ganesh Rao Bawle, who had served in the Army from 1948 till 1965, was receiving the family pension due to her ever since her husband’s death in March 2006 from the K.R. Nagar branch of the erstwhile State Bank of Mysore (SBM). But, the payment of pension stopped in July 2017 after the bank’s merger with State Bank of India (SBI). Inquiries revealed that SBI’s Central Pension Processing Centre (CPPC), after the merger, noticed that Ms. Amaravathi Bai’s name had not been jointly notified in the Pension Payment Order (PPO) of her late husband even though her name was in the Pension Book. The K.R. Nagar branch of erstwhile SBM, which is now SBI, was crediting the family pension to her account from March 2006 till June 2017, “in good faith”, without knowing that the rules provided for payment of family pension only if her name is jointly notified as the spouse in the PPO, Ms. Bai said while terming the lapse as a “procedural error”. However, after the pension was stopped, Ms. Bai approached her husband’s Army Record Office, requesting for sanction of pension through a “Corrigendum PPO” through the Department of Sainik Welfare and Resettlement, Mysuru. Based on the advice of the Army Record Office, Ms. Bai has requested the bank officials to complete the formalities by issuing a Life Time Arrears certificate, intimating the amount of pension paid to her between March 2006 and June 2017 so that the same could be recovered from the arrears of family pension that she is entitled from March 2006. Despite her best efforts, her pension has not been restored, regretted Mandtira N. Subramani, a retired senior Non-Commissioned officer of the Indian Air Force, who runs the VeKare Ex-Servicemen Trust (VKET), Mysuru, to take up the causes of ex-servicemen and their widows. Speaking to The Hindu , Mr. Subramani said the bank officials had not understood the problem of the widow of the army veteran, who fought at least two wars for the country. “She was being harassed to return the already paid family pension that runs into lakhs of rupees”, he said. However, Mr. Subramani claimed that after VKET’s intervention, the bank officials have assured to do the needful for Ms. Bai, who recently lost one of three sons.
10 December 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||A platform for students’ internship||Young Indians Mysuru gas said a portal www.ciiyiinternship.tech has been created to connect industries of Mysuru with students who are aspiring to pursue internships at various institutes and companies in and around Mysuru. Pradeep Manjunath, Chairperson, Yi Mysuru chapter, stressed the importance of students having mandatory industry exposure before starting their career in various companies. He said students should benefit from internship opportunities provided by companies and pursue their 3 to 6 months’ of internship before joining full-time employment. Access The portal for internship connect can be accessed by companies to post their internship requirements, and students can apply by registering their credentials. The companies will carry out the selection process from the list of candidates who had applied. “This opportunity is presented throughout the year to students and companies,” he said, in a release here.
10 December 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||Officials urged to dispose of voter applications||Deputy Commissioner R. Ragapriya has directed officials of the Revenue Department to dispose of poll-related applications. She visited the tahsildar office at Shahpur on Wednesday and inspected the application revision work. Dr. Ragapriya told the tahsildar of Shahpur Mahboob Bi that the applications seeking addition, deletion, shifting of names within and outside the constituencies should be disposed of immediately. She also advised officials to identify hyper-sensitive and sensitive polling stations for the gram panchayat elections which are scheduled on December 22 and 27. The Deputy Commissioner specifically advised officials to make arrangements for drinking water, wheelchair access, and electricity supply at polling stations.
10 December 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||‘Create awareness on GP polls’||Shilpa Sharma, Chief Executive Officer of the Yadgir Zilla Panchayat, has instructed officials to create awareness and to increase the voting percentage in the gram panchayat elections. She was chairing a meeting in Yadgir on Wednesday. As many as 119 GPs in the district will go to polls in two phases on December 22 and 27. Officials of departments concerned should organize various awareness programmes, she said. “Sport competitions, street dramas, Janapada and music programmes should be held,” Ms. Sharma said.  She also said that the Industries, Public Instructions, and Higher Education departments should also join hands in the programme.
10 December 2020||December 10 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Healthcare services may be hit on Friday over doctors’ strike||Healthcare services are likely to be disrupted on Friday as doctors, including private practitioners and those from private and government hospitals, will go on a dawn-to-dusk strike across Mysuru district as a part of nationwide doctors’ agitation in protest against the Centre’s move to allow AYUSH practitioners offer allopathic treatment and perform surgeries. Barring emergency services and COVID-19 testing/treatment, all non-essential services, including outpatient services, are expected to be affected. Strongly opposing the nod given to traditional systems of medicine - Ayurveda, Yoga and Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha, and Homoeopathy (AYUSH) – to perform surgical procedures like in modern medicine, the Indian Medical Association (IMA), Mysuru unit sought to retain the originality of each systems of medicine and argued that the move may result in confusion among the public on medical therapies, especially surgeries. IMA Mysuru President B.N. Anandravi told The Hindu that the IMA had already demanded immediate withdrawal of the notification of the amendment to the Central Council of Indian Medicine (CCIM) Act. “The strike on Friday will be joined by the government doctors besides all associated with the IMA,” he said. The IMA has also opposed the amalgamation of different systems of medicine as recommended by a committee of NITI Aayog. Dr. Anandravi said the amendment to the Central Act allows non-allopathic doctors to freely perform surgeries besides ratifying the mixed system of medicine where AYUSH doctors can practice modern medicine. “We oppose the move and it’s incorrect too since each system has its own character and identity and it should not be integrated for offering healthcare services. Each system of medicine should be confined to its own practices without amalgamating with other systems for keeping the uniqueness and importance intact,” he suggested. Thanks to the amendment, Ayurveda doctors can perform various types of surgeries like a surgeon of allopathy system. In the age of super-specialities where a general surgeon cannot perform all types of surgeries, how can Ayurveda doctors perform various surgeries, Dr. Anandravi asked. The Ayurveda doctors’ line of treatment was different from the allopathy doctors. “When this is the case, how is it possible to integrate the system,” he questioned. He said the IMA respects the traditional systems of medicine, including Ayurveda, Unani, Homeopathy and others. The government, instead of integrating the systems, should make efforts to strengthen each system and retain their individuality, expanding their reach and helping their growth worldwide. Following the Centre’s move, the postgraduate students in Ayurveda would be trained and permitted to execute a variety of general surgery, ENT, ophthalmology, and dental procedures. The notification was issued on November 19 where the students will be trained in two streams of surgery and would be awarded MS (Ayurveda) Shalya Tantra — (General Surgery) and MS (Ayurveda) Shalakya Tantra (disease of Eye, Ear, Nose, Throat, Head and Oro-Dentistry).   IMA has demanded immediate withdrawal of the notification of the amendment to the Central Council of Indian Medicine (CCIM) Act.  The government should make efforts to strengthen each system and retain their individuality, says IMA Mysuru President B.N. Anandravi.
10 December 2020||December 10 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||To the rescue||
10 December 2020||December 10 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Gorgeous||
10 December 2020||December 10 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Whiplash protest||
10 December 2020||December 10 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Members express ire over diversion of SC/ST funds||Ruling and Opposition members of the Legislative Assembly on Wednesday opposed the diversion of State Budget funds allocated for SCCP/TSP for the welfare of Scheduled Castes and Tribes, towards metro rail, district roads and other such activities. Opposition members took objection to Social Welfare Minister B. Sriramulu’s statement that the term “deemed” expenditure has allowed the government to divert funds to other development works since the word was not defined clearly. P. Rajeev of the BJP raised the issue during Zero Hour and sought the Minister’s reply on the matter. A sum of Rs. 26,930 crore was allocated for SCSP/TSP plans in 2020-21. The Congress and the JS(S) staged a dharna and demanded withdrawal of the statement. The House was adjourned for 10 minutes. Leader of the Opposition Siddarmaiah said 24.1% of the total revenue should be allocated to the welfare of SCs and STs in the State under the Act. The Congress government enacted the Act and then the officials misguided him and included the word “deemed”, which was misleading, he said. Mr. Sriramulu withdrew the statement and the Opposition returned to their seats.
10 December 2020||December 10 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Engagements||Dharmasthala  Organising Committee: Lakshadeepotsava, Hosa Katte Utsava, 9 p.m.
10 December 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Fall in voter turnout in plantation areas||The plantation areas of Idukki with a majority population of Tamil origin showed a considerable fall in voter turnout in the local body elections held on Tuesday. Officials attribute this to two factors - the general reluctance due to COVID-19 and a large number of voters returning to their native place. The plantation areas, including tea and cardamom, are spread over areas close to Tamil Nadu in Peerumade, Udumbanchola, and Devikulam taluks. In Peerumade taluk, where a considerable number of tea estates had shut down, voters who had moved to their native places did not turn up for voting. Udumbanchola has a large concentration of cardamom estates and in Devikulam, the majority of voters work in major tea estates. Devikulam Subcollector S. Prem Krishnan on Wednesday said the COVID-19 situation and poor turnout of voters who had moved to Tamil Nadu might be a reason for the fall in voting percentage in the plantation areas. He said polling officials from the Edamalakkudy tribal grama panchayat reached the main station at 5 p.m. on Wednesday. The voting turnout there also showed a decline, he added. Links with Tamil Nadu The tribespeople of Anchunadu and Edamalakkudy (Devikulam block) keep a close link to Tamil Nadu for transaction of farm produce and meeting household needs. Those who retire from the estates often return to their native places and spend their time between the two States. The district recorded voter a turnout of 74.66%, as per the latest data on Wednesday. The block-wise voting figures in the plantation areas are: Devikulam 70.71%, Azhutha 70.38%, and Nedumkandam 77.11%. Nedumkandam block has a comparatively low population of Tamil voters. In the last elections, the tally in Devikulam was 76.36%, Azhutha 74.74%, and Nedumkandam 79.16%. In the plantation areas, Tamil Nadu political party All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam had fielded a number of candidates.
10 December 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Lockdown blues that made Shiju an artist||Here, used tyres turn into beautiful craft items. Say, a chair, flower vase, or a fish bowl. When the COVID-19-induced lockdown left Shiju C.K., who runs a tyre puncture repair and vulcanising shop at Mattukatta on the Kattappana-Kottayam State Highway, with ample time, he thought creative. Using used tyres as raw material he made several craft items, one of which was a chair. It had many takers. His place is now visited by people who come there just to sit on the chair. “You can sit on it with more ease than on a wooden chair with cushions,” he said. The chair does not look very costly, looks rough and beaten, but is in fact very comfortable to sit in. With more time at hand, he began making more chairs. And each of them came out differently. “This is because I made them using only rough tools and without much craftsmanship,” he adds. There are also beautiful flower vases and other items made of used tyres in his shop, bearing the look of finished metal or earthen products. But his favourites are the unpainted ones like the raw chairs. According to him, used tyre loses its original, rugged look when painted. The idea of craft from tyres dawned on him from a crisis he faced in the post-lockdown period. “We used to sell the used tyres at a nominal price to those coming from Tamil Nadu. However, for long, they did not turn up and disposing of the used tyres became a problem. In addition, I had a lot of free time. This helped me to make something out of the unwanted tyres. Thus came the craft items from used tyres,” he says. A hobby to kill time Shiju does not want to sell the items he made, as he feels they are not finished products. He lets the items remain as unfinished craft items. “This is a hobby I found to kill the time,” he says, adding that many appreciated him, as the idea of chairs from used tyres was new to them. The period has made him realise that he could turn into a craftsman in used tyres if his business turns dull. And sensing the demand the items could have, he feels investing time in making a variety of items is not a bad idea.
10 December 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Directive to remove campaign material||Hoardings and other election campaign material placed at public places in the district should be immediately removed, according to the District Collector. The order was issued as the election process was completed in the district on Tuesday.
10 December 2020||Kalpetta,KERALA||Over 6 lakh voters to elect their representatives in Wayanad||As many as 6,25,455 voters, including 3,19,534 women voters and six transgenders, will take part in the local body elections in 848 polling booths in the district on Thursday. A total of 1,857 candidates are in the fray and 582 persons among them will be elected to local bodies. The electorate will choose members to 16 divisions in the district panchayat, 54 divisions in four block panchayats, 413 wards in 23 grama panchayats and 99 divisions of Kalpetta, Mananthavadi and Sulthan Bathery municipalities. The highest number of voters (1,466) are in the Thazhe Angadi polling booth in Mananthavadi municipality, and the lowest in the second number booth in Noolpuzha grama panchayat,168 voters. As many as 5,090 officials have been appointed for polling duty, including 848 polling assistants, for distributing sanitisers. Polling materials have also been distributed at seven centres and polling officials have been transported to polling stations in remote areas. A total of 935 control units and 2,820 electronic voting machines have been set up for polls in three-tier civic bodies, and 271 control units and 311 ballot units for the three municipalities. Elaborate security arrangements have been made under the leadership of the District Police Chief for the smooth conduct of the elections. Officials of the anti-Naxal force have been deployed in 132 polling booths which were identified as Maoist-affected booths. Voters have been advised to keep a pen, and clean hands using sanitisers before and after entering polling stations. Physical distance should be maintained in the queue and all should wear face masks.
10 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||City to pick its civic representatives today||With the city voters all set to elect their civic representatives for the next five years, the mayoral candidates of both the Left Democratic Front (LDF) and the United Democratic Front (UDF) hope to create history. If the UDF wins, it will be a hat-trick for the front and a continuation of the legacy set forth by Tony Chammany and Soumini Jain, the two successive Congress Mayors of Kochi. A victory will put an end to the political wilderness of the LDF, with its councillors having had to sit in the Opposition benches for the past 10 years in the civic body, where it ruled for three decades in a row. No trend visible The political wind, it seems, has not been in favour of any front in particular, and no trend has been discernible among the electorate. An evenly poised contest is on the cards. On the eve of polling, M. Anilkumar and N. Venugopal, the mayoral candidates of the LDF and UDF respectively shared their hopes and aspirations. Mr. Anilkumar hoped that the LDF would return to power, bagging something close to 40 seats in the 74-member council. The anti-incumbency factor against the Congress-led regime will do the magic for the LDF. The past five years witnessed the civic administration waste away precious time and engage itself in factional feuds. More than the political issues, the inability of the UDF regime to address any of the civic issues will influence voters. The UDF rebels will ensure the defeat of at least a few candidates, especially in the West Kochi region, he hoped. “All the perennial issues of the city remain unattended, and the UDF never made any serious attempt to address them. The LDF has lined up an efficient team, which will live up to the expectations of the electorate,” Mr. Anilkumar said. Meanwhile, Mr. Venugopal expects as many as 44 UDF councillors to be present in the next council, thus ensuring the continuance of the Congress-led regime. The front will improve its performance in the various zones of the corporation, where it went backward in the last elections. “A major chunk of the UDF councillors in the next council are likely to come from the central city area, which sent 28 UDF representatives to the council last time. The front will improve its tally in Palluruthy and West Kochi areas to consolidate its position in the council,” he said. “The LDF made the political mistake of not bringing any senior party leaders for campaigning, whereas most Congress leaders came down to Kochi to give impetus to electioneering. All the Congress leaders in the district were active in the campaign, which will reflect in the poll outcome,” Mr. Venugopal added.
10 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||All set for second phase of polling||The stage is set for the second phase of polling to the local bodies in Kottayam, Ernakulam, Thrissur, Palakkad, and Wayanad districts on Wednesday. A little under one crore voters will exercise their franchise to elect representatives of 8,116 wards across 451 local bodies, which include the Kochi and Thrissur Corporations, 36 municipalities, five district panchayats, 58 block panchayats, and 350 grama panchayats. The State Election Commission has deployed 63,187 officials for polling at 12,643 polling stations (1,918 in urban areas and 10,725 in rural areas). State Police Chief Loknath Behera said the police had taken all measures to ensure the smooth conducts of polling. A total of 19,736 police officers, including 63 Deputy Superintendents of Police, 316 Inspectors, 1,594 sub-inspectors/assistant sub-inspectors, and 17,763 civil police officers and senior CPOs. Besides, 889 home guards and 4,574 special police officers have been mobilised. To meet emergencies, 765 group patrol teams will be ready, as also 365 patrolling teams for law and order. There will be 60 police pickets in highly sensitive areas. Special Striking Force groups have been deployed. There would be special watch over the 1,437 booths identified as sensitive, Mr. Behera said. Parties confident Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala hoped to see a wave in favour of the UDF in the second phase of polling, “as there was one in the first phase”. Accusing the State government of corruption, he said the people were angry listening to the stories surrounding the Thiruvananthapuram gold smuggling each day. The State, he claimed, had been dragged backwards without any significant development. CPI(M) acting State secretary A. Vijayaraghavan pinned his hopes on the track record of the State government in good governance which, he said, would stand the Left front in good stead. “That apart, the people have seen through the politics of opportunism showcased by the UDF, which has entered into unholy ties with the BJP on one hand and the Jamaat-e-islami on the other,” he said. Modi wave BJP State general secretary A.N. Radhakrishnan said a ‘Modi wave’ was evident in the first phase of polling and this would continue. He alleged that the Congress was supporting the CPI(M) in rural areas and the favour was returned in urban centres. “At least in 19 wards in the Kochi Corporation, we are putting up a strong triangular fight,” he said.
10 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Parties to spare no effort to take every voter to booths||From fumigated vehicles to bringing elders to polling stations to pens for voters to affix their signature in poll-related papers and hand sanitisers, political parties have geared up for the crucial polling day. The pandemic has forced political parties to ensure adequate precautions and instill a sense of safety among voters. They have opened booths at a distance from polling stations. Festoons and flags have been put up and posters of candidates displayed at vantage points. They also completed distribution of slips to voters with details of polling booths and stations by Wednesday evening. “INTUC workers have arranged vehicles to transport voters to polling stations. The vehicles will be fumigated and sanitised after each trip, so that elderly voters can travel safe,” said Vinod Maliyil, general secretary of the Thrikkakara block committee of the Congress. Around 50 bottles of hand sanitisers have been provided at each table set up near polling booths. Voters have also been reminded to bring their own pens to polling stations, said Mr. Maliyil, who is also the chief election agent of the Congress candidate in Vennala Division. Elaborate preparations, said K.T. Sajan, the Vennala local committee secretary of the CPI(M), have been made to ensure that votes are polled. Voters have been advised to exercise their franchise in the first few hours of polling, as the final one hour is reserved for COVID-19 patients, he added. Party workers will follow up on the voter turnout and prompt voters to go to booths. Besides arranging food and water for polling officials, party workers will guide election officials to reach the houses of voters in home quarantine, he said.
10 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||HC upholds CAT verdict on SCTIMST Director’s tenure||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court on Wednesday upheld a verdict of the Central Administrative Tribunal (CAT), Ernakulam Bench, setting aside the extension of the tenure of Asha Kishore as Director of the Sree Chitra Tirunal Institute for Medical Sciences and Technology (SCTIMST), Thiruvananthapuram. The tribunal had set aside an order of the president of the institute extending the tenure of Dr. Kishore on the ground that the Institute Body (IB) had not obtained the approval of the Centre’s Appointment Committee of Cabinet (ACC). Dismissing Dr. Kishore’s petition challenging the tribunal judgment, the Bench comprising Justice A.M. Shaffique and Justice Gopinath P. observed that going by the statutory provisions, it might be true that the institute had the power to extend the tenure of its Director, but such an extension should be done with the prior approval of the committee. ACC approval Since ACC approval had not been obtained, there was justification on the part of the tribunal in rejecting the plea of Dr. Kishore and therefore, necessarily, a fresh selection had to be conducted for making appointment to the post of Director. The Centre contended that the president of the institute had not complied with its directives specifying that the approval of the ACC was required for the extension of tenure of Dr. Kishore. Therefore, the tribunal was justified in interfering with the decision of the president. The tribunal issued the order while allowing a petition filed by Sajith Sukumaran, Additional Professor, SCTIMST, challenging the decision to extend the tenure of Dr. Kishore.  The tribunal had set aside an order of the president of the institute extending the tenure of Asha Kishore.
10 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Steps to prevent bogus voting in Kannur, Kasaragod: SEC||The State Election Commission (SEC) has informed the Kerala High Court that all measures have been taken to avoid bogus voting and impersonation in the final phase of local body elections in Kannur and Kasaragod districts on December 14. The Election Commission also assured the court on Wednesday that in all hypersensitive booths in these districts, webcasting facilities would be arranged and the proceedings would be webcast live to the offices of the Election Commission, District Electoral Officer and police authorities. In other polling booths, the commission would provide accredited videographers whose services could be made use of by the candidates or their election agent at the expense of the person who makes a request for the same before the District Collector. The commission made the submissions when a petition by Manoj Aniyarath of Pinarayi, Kannur, and other candidates in Kannur and Kasaragod districts came up for hearing. They feared that workers would indulge in threats and violence on the polling day. Meanwhile, the court directed the Kannur Superintendent of Police to deploy sufficient force for the peaceful conduct of the election in Ward 13 of the Pattiam grama panchayat, a hypersensitive area in Kannur district. The SEC informed the court that they had arranged webcasting in polling Stations 1 and 2 in Ward 13 of the panchayat as they were identified as a hypersensitive area.
10 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Election materials issued in line with COVID protocol||District Collector S. Suhas said that all arrangements had been completed for holding elections to local bodies in the district on Thursday. Distribution of polling materials, with strict adherence to the COVID 19 protocol, was completed by late afternoon on Wednesday. He told reporters that all polling booths had been sanitised. Polling will take place between 7 a.m. and 6 p.m. on Thursday. Those in queue after 6 p.m. will be given slips, and they can vote up to 6.30 p.m. There are 25,90,200 voters in the district. Of them, 12,54,568 are men and 13,35,591 are women. As many as 41 voters are transgenders. The Kochi Corporation has 4,29,623 voters, of whom 2,07,878 are men, 2,21,743 are women and two are transgenders. There are a total of 4,33,132 voters in 13 municipalities of the district. Of them, 2,08,135 are men, 2,24,986 are women, and 11 are transgenders. There are 17,27,445 voters in 82 panchayats in Ernakulam, of whom 8,13,365 are men, 8,88,862 are women, and 28 are transgenders. As many as 2,045 representatives will be elected to 111 local bodies. There are 82 grama panchayats, 14 block panchayats, 13 municipalities in the district. The total number of candidates in the fray is 7,255. There are 400 candidates in the Kochi Corporation, while 1,415 candidates are contesting in municipalities and 105 in the district panchayat council. There are 611 candidates in the fray for block panchayats and 4,724 for grama panchayats. The district has 3,132 polling booths, of which 2,366 are in panchayats, 439 in municipalities, and 327 in the Kochi Corporation. A total of 1,833 wards will host polling booths. As many as 15,660 polling officials have been deployed. There are 3,132 officials in the reserved list.
10 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Stage set for a ‘green’ polling||Green polling booths are set to hold sway in the local body polls to be held on Thursday. In keeping with the green protocol banning non-recyclable items like plastic and flex from the campaign scene, such stuff will be kept away from polling booths as well. A review of the green protocol was made jointly by the Haritha Keralam Mission and the Suchitwa Mission on the eve of the polling day. Prominent polling stations in 14 municipalities and 82 panchayats in the district have been designated as model green booths. They have been decked up with eco-friendly materials and messages on environment with the help of the Haritha Karma Sena and volunteers of municipal health wings and the National Service Scheme. Compliance Volunteers will be deployed at these booths to ensure compliance with the green protocol. Besides, surveillance teams comprising resource persons from Haritha Keralam Mission and Suchitwa Mission will visit the model polling booths. The Suchitwa Mission had formulated various projects to make the election eco-friendly since the poll notification. Also, Ottamthullal and flash mobs to propagate the green message were staged in various part of the district. Training for officials Sessions on the green protocol were held for election officials and candidates, besides distributing pamphlets, brochures, and posters. The Suchitwa Mission felt that its efforts had helped in arresting waste generation during the campaign. Steps have also been taken for classification and treatment of banners and campaign materials to be removed by candidates after polling. Voters should avoid bringing plastic covers and bottles to polling booths, said P.H. Shine, district coordinator, Suchitwa Mission, and Sujith Karun, mission coordinator, Haritha Keralam.
10 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Sanskrit varsity considering online practical evaluation||The Sree Sankaracharya University of Sanskrit is likely to carry out the practical evaluation of its students pursuing various programmes in painting, music and dance online in view of the COVID-19 situation. The university is expected to take a decision in this regard soon. Vice Chancellor P.K. Dharmarajan said here on Wednesday that the departments concerned have submitted proposals on how to implement the online evaluation. “The departments are already airing video performances as part of the ongoing online learning mode,” he said. Each student will be provided a specific time period to come up with a painting or music and dance performance as part of the video assessment. The students will be told to record the video at the time of their performance. The Department of Painting has plans to give five to six days for students to complete their practical sessions. “They could complete the painting in this period, spending a specific duration each day. We would not ask them to video record the entire process,” said Saju T. S, head of the department. Maiden attempt “This is the first time we would be attempting such an assessment, if the proposal is accepted. It can be done by following the norms considering the difficulties for students in view of the pandemic. We do not think that the students would seek the help of others to complete their creative works,” he said. The Vice Chancellor said the varsity is getting ready for the next round of assessment by the National Assessment and Accreditation Council. An evaluation of the ongoing online academic sessions will be held as part of the overall preparations ahead of the expert team visit. The feedback of the faculty members and students on the online education mode will be collected as part of the evaluation, he said.
10 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Court calls for special authority||The Kerala High Court on Wednesday directed the State government to inform it whether a specified authority in the Education Department could be asked to look into the complaints of overcharging of fee by schools and to scrutinise the income and expenditure of CBSE schools. Justice Devan Ramachandran passed the directive when a batch of petitions against excess fee demanded by certain CBSE schools came up for hearing. The court took the CBSE to task for not issuing a circular/notification directing all affiliated schools not to charge fee in excess of the actual expenses incurred for the current academic year and to verify the statements of income and expenditure. The court observed that it was rather distressing that the CBSE had not chosen to issue such a circular till now. The CBSE had taken a stand that it was not in a position to verify the income and expenditure statements of these schools. But it did not say the reasons. The CBSE appeared to be washing its hands of the issue and placing it squarely on the shoulders of the State government, asserting that the affiliation bylaws provided for the government to make provisions with respect to the fee structure and such other matters. The court, therefore, said it was left without any other option but to ask the government to propose a mechanism to implement the circular issued by the State government on the fee structure of schools. The State government submitted that it had complied with the court’s directives and issued a circular on December 2 intimating all schools not to charge anything in excess of the actual expenditure.
10 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Rural police plan war against drugs||The Ernakulam Rural police are gearing up to wage a multi-pronged war against drug menace after they recorded an unprecedented drug haul, primarily ganja, within their limits this year. At last count, they have seized 175 kg of ganja, 27 gm of MDMA, 4 gm of hashish oil, 48 LSD stamps, 300 ganja beedis, and 13,500 packets of chewing tobacco. As much as 140 kg of ganja was seized in two separate lots of 105 kg and 35 kg from a car at Angamaly and a rented house within the Rural police limits on November 25. “We are planning to attach moveable and immoveable properties generated using proceeds from drug smuggling. We are also collecting details of felons with past records of drug dealing, and if they are found to be active in the trade now, we will put them behind bars, invoking the Kerala Anti-Social Activities Prevention Act [KAAPA],” said K. Karthik, District Police Chief, (Ernakulam Rural). Special squad The police are also trying to work youngsters found to be either users or movers of drugs to elicit more information about the extended networks. Mr. Karthik had constituted a 15-member special investigation squad for a comprehensive probe into drug cases in the immediate aftermath of the seizure of 140 kg of drugs. The team is likely to intensify probe once the local body elections are out of the way. “We have already collected a lot of information about the major ganja seizure, though revealing it would undermine our probe,” said Mr. Karthik. From Andhra The police have concluded that the three arrested in connection with the seizure were wholesalers who used to procure ganja in bulk predominantly from Andhra Pradesh and distribute it to retailers back here. They were nabbed while taking such a consignment from Andhra Pradesh to Thodupuzha. “We suspect that they had moved the stuff in the past, and they don’t sell in quantities lesser than 1 kg. They visit Andhra Pradesh where agents, including Malayalees, help them source ganja and stuff it in vehicles for movement across the border undetected. They procure it for anywhere between Rs. 3,000 and Rs. 6,000 a kg and sell it to retail agents at many folds that price,” said police sources. With youngsters increasingly utilising the Darknet for procuring drugs, the police are also planning to sweep it. Ganja is much in demand among migrants and youth. “Such pervasive is its use among youngsters even as young as 14-year-olds that there is even a running joke of sorts among the force that if you tap down 20 youngsters, ganja beedis will tumble out from at least two,” an Enforcement official said.
10 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Container shortage hits Kochi port operations||A severe shortage of empty containers has hit business at the Kochi port even as cargo-laden containers have accumulated at the terminal because of a slowdown in operations at most ports across the globe, including at the neighbouring Colombo terminal on which Kochi depends for most of its transshipment operations. Cochin Port Trust sources said that there was encouraging growth in volumes but the shortage of containers had seriously affected operations now. The slowdown is largely due to the COVID-19 pandemic, which continues to disrupt cargo operations. M. Krishnakumar, Cochin Steamer Agents’ Association president, said that the COVID-19 pandemic had affected ports across the country and Kochi was just one of the ports hit by the effects of the pandemic. He said that there was a severe shortage of empty containers largely because of slowdown in operations. The slowdown in operations in different ports had resulted in delay in movement of cargo laden ships, he said and said that the charges had gone up now by about 100 to 150 per cent when compared with the January 2020 period when Kochi-Jebel Ali movement cost was zero while it had now gone up to $150. C.S. Kartha, former president of the Cochin Chamber of Commerce and Industry, said that scores of reefer containers remained plugged in at Kochi for several days now. Besides, movement of vessels has been delayed by about 20 days. Meanwhile, Indian Ports Association figures showed that Kochi had shown a marginal increase in container handling between April and November 2020 when compared with the same period last year. The terminal here handled 4,12,000 TEUs of cargo during April-November 2020 whereas the volume was 4,10,000 TEUs in 2019 for the same period.
10 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Munambam to be under CCTV watch||A wide swathe of nearly 12 km under the Munambam Janamaithri police station will be brought under a security network of 74 CCTVs by the end of this month thanks to a commendable community policing initiative. The Rs. 21-lakh project is being implemented jointly by the Munambam police and the Munambam Welfare Association (MWA), a combined apex body of Pallipuram and Kuzhupilly residents associations’ apex councils, by mobilising resources through contributions from individuals and organisations, including merchants associations and hospitals. “The cameras are likely to bring down crime rate and ensure round-the-clock monitoring. Live feeds will be available at the police station. The cameras can also be adjusted from the police station, and the footage can be stored up to 28 days. The cameras will be strategically placed, so that entry and exit from the station limits unmonitored will be impossible,” said A.K. Sudheer, Station House Officer, Munambam. The plan is to set up cameras at 33 major points covering, among other areas, the entire stretch of State highways passing through the station limits and the three major beaches at Munambam, Cherai, and Kuzhupilly. The camera feeds may not only help the Munambam police crack cases within their limits but may also come in handy for law enforcement by nearby stations. “Mr. Sudheer had executed a similar project where he was previously posted, and when he presented the idea to us, it received an overwhelming response. We have made the initial advance and are confident of commissioning it by the New Year,” said Abdul Rahman, treasurer, MWA.
10 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Man held with liquor||The Ernakulam rural police arrested a person with 8 litres of liquor in Kuttampuzha during their election-related patrolling. The arrested was identified as Sreekanth, 26, of Koovappara. The seizure was made during a check in the bus based on a tip-off received by the District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rura) K. Karthik. The liquor was being taken to tribal hamlets, the police said. Sreekanth was remanded. The rural police had beefed up patrolling in the run-up to the election. Vehicles are being specifically checked for explosives, arms and alcohol, Mr. Karthik said.
10 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||HC extends stay on probe against LIFE Mission CEO||The Kerala High Court on Wednesday extended till December 17 its stay on the CBI investigation against the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of the LIFE Mission in connection with the irregularities in the implementation of the mission’s housing project at Wadakkanchery in Thrissur. The stay had come on the petitions filed by LIFE Mission CEO U.V. Jose and Santhosh Eappen, managing director, Unitac, seeking to quash a First Information Report (FIR) registered by the Central Bureau of Investigation against them. Tip of the iceberg The CBI, in its petition, sought to vacate the stay. When it came up for hearing, counsel for the CBI submitted that what the investigation so far unearthed was only the tip of the iceberg. The investigation agency wanted to go ahead with its probe to unravel the whole conspiracy behind the alleged violations of the Foreign Contribution (Regulation) Act (FCRA) and other offences in the project. The entire investigation had come to a standstill due to the stay order. The hands of the investigating officer were fully tied. When the CBI counsel pleaded for lifting the stay and posting the petitions for final hearing, Justice P. Somarajan asked why the CBI took two months to file the petition seeking to vacate the stay order. Counsel for the LIFE Mission pointed out that the CBI was yet to file an affidavit in response to the petitions challenging the CBI probe.
10 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||717 test positive in Ernakulam||There were six health workers among the 717 people who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Ernakulam on Wednesday, while 532 people recovered from the disease. Mookkannur recorded 29 new cases followed by Kaloor (28), Thrikkakara (24), Koovappady (23), Rayamangalam (22), Kavalangad (19), Vengoor (18), Chengamanad (17), Karukutty (15), Edappally, Pallipuram, and Thripunithura (14 each), and Kalamassery and Vadakkekara (13 each). With 1,284 people freshly brought under disease surveillance, there were 26,199 people under observation as on Wednesday. Fresh admissions to hospitals/FLTCs stood at 156, while 108 patients were discharged following recovery. The district had 8,161 COVID-19 patients as on Wednesday evening. A fresh batch of 6,064 samples were sent for testing on Wednesday.
10 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Green activist Sitaraman dead||Noted environmentalist S. Sitaraman, who fought for the protection of rivers and created green jungles to check climate change, died here on Wednesday. He was 74. Prof. Sitaraman, who collapsed at his home in Aluva around 12 noon, is survived by wife Parvathy, sons Harikrishnan and Jayakrishnan. . A teacher by profession, Prof. Sitaraman was the face of the people's movements in Ernakulam against the indiscriminate human interference on natural resources. Founder of the All Kerala River Protection Council, he was the Principal Investigator of the ambitious Periyar Action Plan (1977) that envisaged stringent measures against encroachment, pollution and sand mining in the river. Prof. Sitaraman, who retired as Professor of the Department of Chemistry in Sree Sankara College at Kalady, will be remembered by green lovers for his relentless efforts to increase the green cover across various regions. They would always recall his daily journeys on his two-wheeler with cans of water to tend to the numerous trees that he had planted in Aluva and nearby areas. The ‘Harithavanam’ near the Aluva Sivaratri manaluram on the banks of the Periyar river was an outcome of his constant struggle.
10 December 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Suggestions for people-friendly Kochi streets||Cochin Smart Mission Limited (CSML), in an attempt to make people-friendly streets, will invite suggestions from the public for Streets for People Challenge. CSML will represent Kochi to create a flagship walking initiative in Kochi with focus on place-making, liveability, and pedestrian-friendly neighbourhood. The challenge aims to re-imagine the streets as public spaces which are also economically-friendly, safe and children-friendly, said a communication. Kochi is one of the 113 cities to have registered for the Streets for People Challenge, an initiative of Smart Cities Mission, Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs. The India Programme of the Institute for Transportation and Development Policy is the knowledge partner of the Smart Cities Mission in conducting the challenge and guiding cities through it. The registered cities will implement quick, innovative and low-cost interventions to make their cities walkable, with focus on place-making and liveability. Community engagement is a key component of the challenge, and its success depends on active coordination between the city and its citizens. To ensure this transformation, Kochi is committed to working with its citizens as it develops and implements the proposals. CSML is seeking support from civil society organisations, educational institutions, and local practitioners as they develop and implement their pilot interventions and scale up plans. See details at:https://smartnet.niua.org/ indiastreetchallenge/ support-your-city-2/
10 December 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Yusuff Ali nominated to jury||M.A. Yusuff Ali, chairman and MD of the UAE-based Lulu Group, has been nominated to the Pravasi Bharatiya Divas Samman Awards (PBDSA) jury along with four prominent personalities from various fields. The Vice President of India heads the award jury committee, which also includes the External Affairs Minister, Principal Secretary to the Prime Minister, Home Secretary and the Foreign Secretary.
10 December 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||An alert for Kollam rail station||Posing a serious security threat, all closed-circuit television (CCTV) cameras installed at the Kollam railway station have been lying defunct for several months now. At present, there is no provision to monitor the premises other than routine patrolling, causing difficulty to the police and passengers alike. “Kollam station has the world’s second longest railway platform and in its entire stretch not even a single camera is working. We had submitted a proposal requesting for a minimum of 125 cameras since the area is vast. They had installed around 80 cameras, but they all stopped functioning more than a year back,” said an official on condition of anonymity. A passenger had collapsed and died at the station last month while the body of a Tamil Nadu resident was found on the tracks a few days later. “The family had asked for the visuals which we couldn’t provide. In the second case, we found the body after the train moved and so far we have no idea how it happened. The main platform of the Kollam railway station is more than one-km-long and the situation is causing difficulty to the police as they are not able to keep track of what is happening. Though we get information about missing persons or criminals on the run, we are unable trace them with the help of visuals.” The lack of CCTV surveillance has also made it impossible for law enforcers to collect evidence when it comes to offences and suicide cases.  Ladies waiting room “Even the ladies waiting room has no camera and leaving the premises unmonitored can lead to serious issues. We had approached the authorities several times and though they promised to set up necessary security measures under the Nirbhaya scheme, no action has been taken so far.” With the commuter footfall on the rise and the authorities planning to restore all services by January 2021, the situation is of concern. The station situated between two National Highways also has a number of unguarded entry points. “During the past several months, repeated incidents of fuel theft have been reported from the parking area. Compared to other stations, Kollam has several entry points and at present we have no facility to prevent illegal access,” he said.
10 December 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||No political rivalry in CPI(M) worker’s murder: police||Invalidating the allegations related to the death of Manilal, a CPI(M) member from Munroe Thuruthu, the remand report and FIR submitted by the East Kallada police state personal and professional rivalry as the motive of the murder. Manilal was stabbed to death by Ashokan, 54, on Sunday night and the CPI(M) had called it a political murder carried out by RSS activists. Resort owners Both the victim and accused are resort owners and according to the remand report submitted to the Sasthamcotta Judicial First Class Magistrate Court, issues related to the operation of resorts and Ashokan’s spat with Manilal’s wife led to the murder. CPI(M) protest Manilal was attacked near the Canara Bank Junction a few minutes after he walked out of the LDF booth office and CPI(M) had called for a hartal following the incident.  Remand report, FIR state personal and professional rivalry as the motive of the murder
10 December 2020||Kollam,KERALA||Applications invited||The Keltron Kollam Knowledge Centre has invited applications for its various vocational courses. Diploma in Computer Applications, Hardware and Network Maintenance with Laptop Technologies, Network Administration and Linux, PHP and MYSQL and Wed Design and Development are the courses offered. For details, contact 0474-2731061.
10 December 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Webinar held||The TKM Institute of Management (TKM-IM) conducted a webinar as part of TIM Talks, a lecture series featuring distinguished speakers in connection with its silver jubilee. Institute Director Jayaram Nayar inaugurated the webinar and Navas Meeran, chairman, Eastern Group of Companies, delivered a lecture.
10 December 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Kottayam goes to the polls today||As many 5,432 candidates are in the fray for the three-tier local body election in Kottayam, the polling for which will begin at 7 a.m on Thursday. The district has a total electorate of 16,13,594 ,of which 8,33,032 are women, 7,80,551 are men and 11 are from other categories. There are 13,72,533 voters in the grama panchayats while the six municipalities together have 2,41,061 voters. With 35,006 voters, the Erumely grama panchayat has the highest number of voters and the lowest number of voters is in the Thalanad panchayat, having 5,618 voters. Of the 1,512 wards and divisions across the district, block, grama panchayats and municipalities, 89 are contesting in the 22 divisions of the district panchayat while 91 persons are contesting in the 146 block panchayat wards. The 1,140 panchayat wards have 4,118 contestants while 734 persons are contesting in the 204 municipal wards. A total of 11,660 officials have been deployed across the 2,332 polling stations (panchayats 2,079, municipalities 253) across the district. The municipalities have been allotted 253 control units and ballot units while the panchayats have been given 2,351 control units and 7,053 ballot units. An additional batch of 171 teams, each comprising three officers, have been deployed for serving serving special postal ballots to COVID-19 patients and those staying in quarantine. Till December 8 , as many as 13,792 persons were included on the list for availing the special ballots. The proceedings during the election day, to be held in strict adherence to the COVID-19 protocol, will begin with a mock polling in the presence of candidates’ agents. Webcasting facility has been set up at 17 booths, identified as trouble-prone, while the proceedings in as many as 15 booths will be videographed. The distribution of polling materials was held at 17 centres across the district on Wednesday.
10 December 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Polls a litmus test for KC(M) factions||As Kottayam goes to the polls on Thursday, a clash that broke out between the two Kerala Congress (M) factions a few moments before the conclusion of the campaigning the other day best summed up the mood of electioneering in the district . While the two leading coalitions, the United Democratic Front and the Left Democratic Front, are having their share of anxious moments in the second phase of the local body polls on Thursday, the election this time is primarily watched as a battle for prestige between the splinter groups of the KC(M). Regardless of their respective positions, the outcome is crucial for both, considering its ramifications for the Assembly elections due next year. For instance, the group led by Jose K. Mani has fielded candidates in 424 seats, including 327 panchayat and 41 municipal wards, across the district. The P.J. Joseph faction is contesting in 320 seats, including 242 panchayat and 33 municipal wards. However, the battle for the five seats in the district panchayat where the two parties have squared up to each other, besides the Pala municipality and Llalam block panchayat, are the most keenly watched among these fights. The Mani faction, emboldened by its inclusion in the LDF, has managed to retain a large chunk of the KC(M) cadre in its fold while switching sides. The Joseph faction, however, is confident of the KC(M) vote bank, which predominantly comprises Christian communities of central Travancore, will continue to remain anti-Left. Besides these two KC(M) factions, the election becomes crucial to yet another party that traces its origin to the Kerala Congress, the Kerala Janapaksham led by P.C. George, MLA. The outfit, which commands presence in the Erattupetta-Poonjar-Erumely belt, currently stays out of any coalition. By embracing the Mani group into its fold, the LDF clearly eyes grabbing a share of the traditional vote base of the UDF in the rubber heartland. The Congress, on the other hand, regards the Mani group's exit as a blessing in disguise as it presents an opportunity for the party to emerge as the biggest player in the UDF in the district level. Even the BJP led National Democratic Alliance, which seeks to make deeper inroads into the district, appears to be keeping a close watch on the developments. “The Mani group undoubtedly possesses majority of the KC(M) cadres though it has lost the political significance by joining hands with the Left combine,’’ said Noble Mathew, BJP district president. The shaken-up political scenario of the region has made the predictions on the voting behaviour unpredictable, even for political pundits.
10 December 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||497 more test positive in Kottayam||The number of new COVID-19 cases in Kottayam continued to surge with 497 people testing positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Wednesday. Of the new cases, all but one contracted the virus through local contact. The cases also included 63 children and 79 people aged above 60 years. With 58 cases, Kottayam municipality led the tally, followed by Changanassery with 41 cases. Ayarkunnam and Erumeli reported 31 and 22 cases respectively. With 311 recoveries during the day, the district has 4,988 active cases. Kollam reported 212 new cases, three deaths, and 281 recoveries on Wednesday. Among the patients are 209 contact cases, two NRIs, and one person with no known source. The district has 14,168 people under observation and the total number of samples collected is 4,95,651. Alappuzha registered 194 new cases and 363 recoveries on Wednesday. It also recorded three deaths related to the infection. Of the total cases, 188 patients contracted the virus through local transmission, while the source of infection of one person remains unknown. Four persons who came from other States and one from abroad also tested positive. The active COVID-19 caseload in the district is 3,927. As many as 254 people tested positive in Pathanamthitta on Wednesday. Of them, 233 contracted the virus through local contact. The contact source of 63 cases were yet to be identified. Among local bodies, the Ranni-Perinad region that comprises the Sabarimala temple reported 44 cases, followed by Thiruvalla with 15 cases. The disease claimed one more life in the district, with an 84-year-old Perinad native testing positive after death. With 183 recoveries during the day, the district has 2,532 active cases. (With inputs from Kollam, Alappuzha, and Pathanamthitta bureaus)
10 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Leprosy project yet to gather momentum||The Health Department is dragging its feet on a project to detect hidden and untreated leprosy cases in the State. The project, Active Case Detection and Regular Surveillance, is a “flagship activity” of the National Leprosy Eradication programme that targets zero leprosy cases by 2020, according to sources. The government has sanctioned Rs. 11.85 crore for the project for 2020-21 and active surveillance of leprosy cases is to be taken up in all districts. As per the guidelines of the Central Leprosy Division, the estimated budget for conducting district-level leprosy detection campaign is around Rs. 7.83 crore. However, though administrative sanction for the funds was given on November 1, the project is yet to be taken up in full swing. Time frame According to sources, at least six months would be required to complete the project, including the survey, depending on the number of cases being reported from a place. This six-month time frame can be extended up to four times. Kerala, however, has reportedly decided to wind up the project in three months from November. Officials claim that no steps have been taken to involve civil society in the project as yet. “Local body election is one of the reasons for the delay. By the time the election process will be over, it will be December end. It will be difficult to do an honest job if the deadline is in February,” an official said. New campaign This replaces the Aswamedham campaign, which was launched in Thiruvananthapuram, Thrissur, Palakkad, Ernakulam, Malappuram, Kozhikode, Kannur, and Kasaragod districts in 2018 and later extended to other districts.
10 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Confident of sweeping the polls, says CPI(M) district secretary||Communist Party of India (Marxist) [CPI(M)] district secretary P. Mohanan has exuded confidence that the Left Democratic Front (LDF) will improve its performance in the three-tier local body polls scheduled for next Monday. During the ongoing campaign, he said the Left coalition had received tremendous response from the electorate. “The realignment of political forces is going to win us more local bodies. Our coalition has expanded with parties including the Jose K. Mani faction of the Kerala Congress (M) and the Loktantrik Janata Dal (LJD),” Mr. Mohanan told The Hindu . Those parties were with the United Democratic Front (UDF) earlier, he said. “Now it has been reduced to a Congress–Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) combine,” he said, adding that the UDF had publicly forged an electoral understanding with the Jamaat-e-Islami-backed Welfare Party of India despite a section of the IUML opposing the alliance. Mr. Mohanan said the LDF, during the last election, had won 48 out of the 70 grama panchayats, 10 out of 12 block panchayats and six out of seven municipalities. The front had emerged victorious with two-third majority in the Kozhikode Corporation and the Kozhikode district panchayat, he added. Stating that the political situation in the district favoured the Left parties, Mr. Mohanan said the development programmes and welfare schemes implemented during the past five years would help the coalition win the polls. There was no anti-incumbency when voters considered the development in the State and the quick response to the COVID-19 situation. “We are confident of sweeping the elections,” he said. He said the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) would not make any impact in the local body polls in the district. People would reject their politics of polarisation on religious lines, he added.
10 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||BJP pins hopes on Central schemes||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) district president V.K. Sajeevan has said that the party hopes to make tremendous gains in the three-tier local body polls in Kozhikode. In a chat with The Hindu , he said that the BJP-led National Democratic Alliance had succeeded in convincing people how schemes launched by the Narendra Modi government at the Centre were benefiting them. “People are now aware about schemes such as the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi, Pradhan Mantri Kisan Maan Dhan Yojana and Ayushman Bharat Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana,” Mr. Sajeevan said. Hundreds of families in Kozhikode, he said, were also beneficiaries of the Pradhan Mantri Ujjwala Yojana who were entitled to free Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG) cylinders. The Centre also had effectively distributed foodgrains to households in the State, he added. ‘An alternative’ Mr. Sajeevan said that the BJP had been able to come out with an alternative to the politics of the Congress-led United Democratic Front and the CPI(M)-led Left Democratic Front. Unlike the previous polls, the party was getting a positive feedback from the electorate at State level and local level. The BJP had won 27 seats in the district, including seven divisions of the Kozhikode Corporation. “The campaign of the BJP has now resulted in a three-cornered fight in 45 out of the 75 divisions of the Corporation,” he said. The party had representatives in some municipalities as well as grama panchayats. “This time we hope to win a few seats in the block and district panchayat,” Mr. Sajeevan said. He claimed that the BJP would get more seats in Feroke, Ramanattukara and Koyilandy municipalities. The party would also make a big difference in Kunnamangalam and Balussery grama panchayats, he said.
10 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Corpn. serves notice on MLA’s wife||The Kozhikode Corporation has served a notice on K.M. Asha, wife of K.M. Shaji, MLA, for regularising her illegally constructed house in the city. Ms. Asha has been asked to report at the Corporation office on December 17 and submit an explanation regarding the illegal construction, failing which the Corporation may move for demolishing the house. The illegal construction came to light recently as part of the Enforcement Directorate (ED) investigation against the MLA on allegations of corruption and possession of illegal assets. The case relates to the alleged corruption in allotting a Plus Two batch to a school at Azhikode and the construction of the house in Kozhikode city around the same time. The house and the surrounding plot is registered in the name of Ms. Asha, who was earlier questioned by the ED in connection with the case. The plan for the house was approved in 2016 and the MLA had permit to construct a house of 3,200 square feet. However, the Corporation recently measured and found that the house was in fact 5,500 square feet in size. The MLA and his wife had earlier expressed willingness to pay the due fine and submitted a revised plan to the Corporation. However, upon investigation, the construction did not go by the new plan too. Hence the Corporation had served a notice for regularisation, which the couple neglected till date and hence a new notice was served on Tuesday. Meanwhile, the ED had questioned Nafeesa, wife of MLA M.K. Muneer, in connection with the case, as she was one of the parties who purchased the land where the house in question has been constructed. There have been allegations against both the MLAs for defaulting registration and stamp duties in connection with the purchase of the said land.
10 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||State bars excess fee in schools||The General Education Department has barred schools in the State from charging excess fee for the academic year 2020-21 in view of COVID-19 and warned against “profiteering” attempts. A. Shajahan, Secretary, General Education, issued a circular to this effect on December 2 following an interim order of the Kerala High Court on November 20. No profit The official communication said that none of the schools should charge “any amount in surplus of their actual expenditure on account of the pandemic and resultant economic disruption” that have affected every citizen. No profit should be directly or indirectly obtained for the running of any school. “The fees being charged by the school authorities are commensurate to the facilities granted in the pandemic scenario and [it should be] ensure[d] whether there is any profiteering or excess demand. All these confinements are for the year 2020-21 alone and not for any other year, taking note of the COVID-19 pandemic disruptions, which is peculiar to this year,” the communication said.
10 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||UDF will make a comeback: Siddique||Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) vice president T. Siddique has oozed great confidence ahead of the local body polls in Kozhikode saying that the United Democratic Front (UDF) would make a comeback with massive victories in the district. Mr. Siddique, who has been tasked with steering the party affairs in Kozhikode, told The Hindu that the UDF began the process of coordinating with the partners of the front when he was the District Congress Committee president. “Rather than letting leaders of grama panchayats decide on the campaign activity, this time we have focussed exclusively on block panchayats and district panchayat,” he said. He said that the UDF would end the 45-year ‘misrule’ of the Left parties in the Kozhikode Corporation and capture the district panchayat as well. “No city in the State has been worse than Kozhikode. We are highlighting four main things — nepotism, corruption, misgovernance and underdevelopment — before voters,” Mr. Siddique said. The Congress leader also ridiculed the manifesto of the CPI (M)-led Left Democratic Front (LDF) offering solutions to drinking water problem, waterlogging and housing issues. “This shows that they have done nothing. The manifesto seems to suggest that the LDF was in the opposition all these years,” he said. Property tax issue Likewise, city residents are angry with the LDF for collecting property tax with retrospective effect from 2016. “If the UDF comes to power, it will order a probe into the underhand deals in awarding projects to party affiliates, including the Amrut project and the functioning of the Mahila Mall in the city,” he said. He claimed that the UDF would improve its performance in the seven municipalities in the district by winning at least six of them. “The UDF will capture at least nine of the block panchayats. The move to include agricultural land around the Malabar Wildlife Sanctuary within the buffer zone will be reflected in the polls in rural areas,” he added. Mr. Siddique said that the decision of the Loktantrik Janata Dal to shift loyalties to the LDF was due to the craving for power rather than ideological reasons.
10 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Voters seek candidates’ support against quarry||The voters of Maranchattiyil (ward-8) in Koodaranhi grama panchayat in Kozhikode will be very particular about their votes this time. Most of them have decided either not to cast their votes or vote for the front that promises to put an end to the granite quarry in the ward. In fact, they have formed a forum, placed posters across the ward asking the candidates from all fronts not to visit their houses if they are not ready to find a solution to the quarry issue. The Badam Chuvadu quarry that started in March 2019 was granted permission by the panchayat despite the grama sabha’s decision to the contrary. “We had convened a special grama sabha in which more than 180 people took part, including the panchayat president, who was also the ward member. Except for a handful of participants, everyone was against starting the quarry. But the panchayat went against the grama sabha’s decision,” said Sebastian E.K., a former president of the panchayat and an affected party. Mr. Sebastian’s house is one among the dozen houses in the vicinity of the quarry that have been damaged in the aftermath of the explosions. “Initially, there were only limited explosions. Now, they are using electric detonators to carry out around 20 explosions at a time,” Mr. Sebastian said, lamenting on the sound, air and atmospheric pollution caused by the quarry. “The environmental clearance obtained by the quarry management is based on false claims. They claim there are no rivers within 15 km, when in fact, a stream here has lost its flow, clogged by quarry waste. Also, a water tank has been rendered useless. They have also claimed that there were no other quarries within 2 km, when there are actually around three of them,” Xavier Kuttikkattu, another affected party, said. The local people claim to have complained to all authorities possible, including the District Collector. However, the authorities failed to pay heed to their complaints, they allege. “We are helpless against the quarry mafia. Getting the panchayat to support us is the only option,” Mr. Sebastian said. Koodaranhi panchayat has the maximum number of quarries in the district. “The people in the other wards have all given up protest after meeting dead ends every time,” he said.
10 December 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Higher-ups involved in gold smuggling: Chennithala||Ramesh Chennithala, Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly, has said that many people in high places would be in the dock if C.M. Raveendran, Additional Private Secretary to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, appeared before the Enforcement Directorate (ED) for interrogation in the gold smuggling case. At a meet-the-leader programme organised by the Calicut Press Club here on Wednesday, Mr. Chennithala alleged that even Mr. Raveendran feared threat to his life. That was why he was getting hospitalised whenever the ED summoned him for questioning. The State government should provide him with protection and get him examined by a medical team of All India Institute of Medical Sciences. The statement of Swapna Suresh, key accused in the gold smuggling case, that there was a threat on her life, was shocking, Mr. Chennithala said. The Congress leader also said Swapna had stated that she would be finished off if she spelt out the names of higher-ups. A comprehensive probe should be carried out based on her statement. The hospitalisation of Mr. Raveendran was related to her statement, he said. Mr. Chennithala also demanded that the name of a big shot in the smuggling of gold through the diplomatic channel be revealed. He also likened the statement of CPI(M) State secretary A. Vijayaraghavan to that of an RSS leader by desiring the destruction of the Congress party. Mr. Chennithala said that the BJP would not make any electoral gains in the three-tier local body polls in the State.
10 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||656 COVID-19 cases reported||As many as 656 fresh COVID-19 cases were reported from Kozhikode district on Wednesday and there were 610 recoveries. The District Medical Officer said in a release that the daily test positivity rate stood at 10.59%, when 6,189 samples were tested. The number of active cases from the district was 6,432.   In Wayanad A total of 241 people, including four health workers, tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Wayanad district on Wednesday, taking the total number of active cases to 2,056. Of the new cases, 235 were infected through local contact and four returned from other States.
10 December 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Scholarships for 7 NIT-C students||The SILA scholarships for B.Tech. students of the Department of Civil Engineering, NIT-C, for the 2020-21 have been offered to seven students who secured top CGPA at the end of the previous semesters. S. Kanyaparvathi, Govind Mohan and Mohammed Arif - of third, fifth and seventh semesters, will receive Rs. 50,000 each while S. Sidharth and S.Krishnapriya of third and seventh semesters will receive Rs. 20,000 each. Eldho Adai and Aswin Suresh, both fifth semesters, will share the scholarship amount of Rs. 20,000. The scholarship was instituted by a distinguished alumnus of CREC 1967 –1972 B.E. Civil Engineering batch, Sivaramakrishnan S. Iyer.
10 December 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Cleanliness programme||NCC cadets of Malabar Christian College in Kozhikode organised a one-day cleanliness programme as part of encouraging the new awareness initiative of Swachh Bharat Mission. The motive was to clean the statues of veterans and freedom fighters in the college with the objective of bringing cleanliness right from the college through each cadet.
10 December 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Calicut varsity scraps additional exam centres||Calicut University has done away with additional examination centres across the State. In a release on Wednesday, the authorities said this decision was taken in view of the relaxation in COVID-induced restrictions and the difficulties in running those centres. However, those writing 10th semester BBA exam, sixth semester unitary LLB exam would get such centres.
10 December 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Palakkad expects a good turnout||Nearly 18 lakh people are expected to reach polling booths to choose their representatives in the three-tier local civic bodies as the district goes to polls on Thursday. As many as 17.13 lakh people had exercised their voting rights in the last local body elections in 2015, marking 80.41 per cent polling. Considering the high polling percentage in the first phase of elections held in other parts of the State, a good number of voters are expected to reach the polling booths in spite of the COVID-19 scare. Palakkad has 23.35 lakh voters, with 12.15 lakh women and 11.20 lakh men. As many as 5,016 candidates are in the fray for 88 grama panchayats. For the municipalities of Palakkad, Chittur-Thathamangalam, Ottappalam, Pattambi, Cherpulassery and Shoranur, there are 809 candidates. 3,000 polling stations As many as 3,000 polling stations have been arranged across the district. Polling equipment was distributed to polling officials on Wednesday. About 18,000 officials collected the equipment and headed towards their respective polling stations by evening. The booths were set by late evening. As many as 2,707 polling stations are in panchayats and 293 in municipalities. Masks will be mandatory for voters. They will have to sanitise their hands before and after voting. Voters will have to remove the mask only if demanded by the polling officials as part of identification. Three voters will be allowed to enter the polling station at the same time. It will be better if the voters carry a pen with them, said the officials. There will be separate queues for men and women. The differently abled, senior citizens and breastfeeding mothers will get priority at the polling station. Voters have been advised not to carry children along with them to the booths. There are 3,000 presiding officers, 9,000 polling officers and 3,000 assistant polling officers, apart from 3,000 officers in reserve. There will be 20 counting centres in the district spread across 13 block panchayats and seven municipalities. The counting will take place on December 16. District officials said that green protocol would be observed in all polling stations. Disposable and plastic materials will not be permitted in the booths. More than 5,000 police personnel have been deployed for election duty under the supervision of 12 Dy.SPs.
10 December 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Stop coveting wealth of others: Kabeer||Gandhian and former State Minister V.C. Kabeer has called upon the new generation to create a mindset that would never crave for the wealth and property of others. Addressing a seminar on ‘Development and corruption’ held as part of the International Anti-Corruption Day celebrations here on Wednesday, Mr. Kabeer said that the desire for other’s wealth was at the basis of a society falling for bribes. The celebrations were held under the joint banner of Palakkad Press Club and Victims Information, Sensitisation, Welfare and Assistance Society (VISWAS). Sharing his experience of withstanding coveted offers of bribes when he was in active politics, Mr. Kabeer said that rampant corruption in the society had begun to drive people to desperation. “Fifty per cent of the politicians are corrupt… I don’t even have a good opinion about judges,” he said. Feudal thought N.N. Krishnadas, former MP, brushed aside the argument that corruption and development are twin sisters as a ‘feudal thought.’ Complete democratization is the only way out to root out corruption, he said. “Decentralisation of power does not decentralize corruption. It actually helps prevent corruption by bringing more accountability to people.” Mr. Krishnadas called upon the people to change their ‘weird notion of democracy as people having voting rights.’ According to him, statutory roles like that of Prime Minister, Chief Minister and Ministers should not be viewed as ‘positions,’ but they should be held as responsibilities. Narayanan Namboothiri, lawyer and official spokesperson of the BJP, said that social change was a must along with stringent laws to root out corruption from the society. “We should add more teeth to our laws. We look upon a person who drinks and hurls abuses at others on the road as anti-social, but does not view a person who amasses illegal wealth as anti-social. This mindset should change,” said Mr. Namboothiri. Nepotism Thomas George, child psychologist and chairman of Lead College of Management, Dhoni, said that nepotism had attained legitimacy in the entire corporate world. “Buying and selling of stolen goods are equally wrong. This theory should apply in all areas of our social life,” he said. According to Dr. George, the theory that crises would enhance corruption is being proved the world over. “Enhancing transparency and improved definitions and demarcations of roles and responsibilities would help prevent corruption,” he said. VISWAS secretary P. Premnath presented the topic. Managing committee member M.P. Sukumaran welcomed the gathering. Press Club secretary Shajil Kumar proposed a vote of thanks.
10 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||New parking system at airport||In a bid to avoid congestion in the entry/exit gates and approach roads and to ensure free flow of traffic in front of the terminal building, a new parking system and reduced parking fee have been introduced at the Thiruvananthapuram international airport. Ending the practice of issuing token on entry and collecting the parking fee near the exit gates, the Airports Authority of India (AAI) has come up with the new system that ensures hassle-free parking and eliminates congestion in front of the terminal and the approach roads. The move is also expected to end the illegal parking of vehicles on roads near the airport. Under the new system, the vehicles will have to be parked in the segregated parking bays in front of the terminal building. A token will be issued from the booth set up in the bay indicating the entry time, date and vehicle number. The fee will be collected based on the duration of parking. Fee reduction The AAI has drastically reduced the parking fee for various classes of motor vehicles as part of encouraging parking on the airport premises itself. No access fee will be collected from private vehicles and airport taxi that enter the arrival area to pick up the passengers. Once a money spinner for the AAI, the parking revenue has fallen following the suspension of the flights due to the pandemic-induced lockdown, ban on international flights and less patronage on the domestic sector. Firms were also reluctant to take up the parking contract.  The AAI has now entrusted the management of the parking bays and collection of the parking fee to the Kerala State Ex-servicemen Development and Rehabilitation Corporation (Kexcon). The AAI will pay the wages of those deployed by the Kexcon and the parking fee collected from the bays will be handed over to the Terminal Manager of the AAI.
10 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||War of words over CM aide’s hospitalisation||The Congress and the BJP on Wednesday sought to politicise the reported “inability” of C.M. Raveendran, additional private secretary to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, to appear before the Enforcement Directorate (ED) on Thursday. Mr. Raveendran, who was under treatment at Government Medical College Hospital (MCH), Thiruvananthapuram, for post-COVID-19 complications, had reportedly pleaded physical unfitness to appear for questioning at the ED office in Kochi on December 10. The MCH has formed a medical board to weigh Mr. Raveendran’s health status to evaluate whether he required further hospitalisation. Oppn. demand Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala demanded that a team from the All India Institute of Medical Sciences examine Mr. Raveendran for any illness. Opposition parties alleged that the Left Democratic Front (LDF) aspired to delay Mr. Raveendran’s appearance before the agency. It feared that the news optics of his interrogation on the day of second phase of the local body elections would turn more voters against the ruling coalition.  Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee president Mullappally Ramachandran attributed Mr. Raveendran’s “repeated reluctance” to appear before the ED as a pathetic attempt on the part of the government to shield Mr. Vijayan from the potential investigation. He told reporters in Kannur that Mr. Raveendran was Mr. Vijayan’s most trusted aide for years and could spill the beans on the Chief Minister. Bharatiya Janata Party State president K. Surendran said MCH authorities had harboured Mr. Raveendran at the instance of the government. He alleged that Mr. Raveendran had repeatedly feigned illness to fend off ED interrogation. Tourism and Cooperation Minister Kadakampally Surendran defended Mr. Raveendran.  ‘Politically motivated’ He said the ED’s move was a politically motivated attempt to cast the Chief Minister’s Office under a cloud of suspicion during the election period. He said Mr. Raveendran, a political appointee, was known for his empathy and probity in public life. Mr. Surendran said he was genuinely ill. Mr. Raveendran had not said he would not answer the summons, he said. The Minister’s reaction came amidst reports that Mr. Raveendran had sought legal counsel, possibility to seek anticipatory bail in the High Court.
10 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||30 trees on VSSC campus get new space||At a time when trees are felled without a second thought to make way for roads and buildings, the Indian Space Research Organisation’s (ISRO) Vikram Sarabhai Space Centre (VSSC) has set an example by transplanting 30 fully grown trees on its sprawling campus here. The space unit decided to find a new home for the trees when the Integrated Structural Test Facility (INSTEF) area was identified for new development. All 30 trees were painstakingly translocated to an open space near the ISRO staff quarters, a VSSC official said. Tree challenge The ‘tree challenge,’ supervised by the horticulture wing under the Civil and Maintenance Group of the space unit, involved 21 mango trees, three fig trees, three neem, and one each of copperpod, ‘mulluvenga’ and devil’s tree. Transplanting or translocating a tree involves its transportation from a ‘host site’ to a ‘receptor site.’ This is easier said than done as the process involves fully grown trees which can undergo shocks when they are detached from the soil. Problems can range from root injury to infections and lack of moisture and failure to adapt to the new soil conditions. “Even after transplantation, trees can undergo tremendous stress due to changes in their ability to absorb water due to root loss. Water stress is the primary reason for transplant failure. Root loss also reduces carbohydrate storage, affecting energy available for rapid root regeneration, critical for transplant survival,” VSSC officials said. Transplantation involves a scientific process of identifying the appropriate tree species, the new location and its preparation and pruning of their crowns to preserve the trees’s capacity to sustain itself and build up reserves, according to the VSSC. With trees now provided a new home, the VSSC is now giving a lot of attention to their post-planting care. Regular monitoring “A transplanted tree needs to be monitored daily for its survival, growth, pests, diseases and other physiological symptoms. It should withstand the tests of nature for at least a year (covering all the three seasons) before we can declare it as surviving or successful,” a VSSC official said. In the process, the space centre unit also hopes to firm up a standard operating procedure for translocating trees in sandy soil conditions.
10 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||69.85% cast votes in district||A little over 19.82 lakh voters queued up at the polling booths on Tuesday to vote in the local body polls, according to the updated figures released by the Thiruvananthapuram district administration. The administration gave the revised polling percentage as 69.85%. A total 19,82,569 voters exercised their franchise in the district. They included 9,45,940 men, 10,36,621 women and eight transgender persons. Elections were held in 1,727 wards in 90 local bodies. Of 8,02,817 voters in the Thiruvananthapuram Corporation, 4,79,883 or 59.77%, cast their votes. In the municipalities, Neyyattinkara recorded 74.71%, Varkala 71.23%, Attingal 69.36% and Nedumangad 73.08%. The polling in the block panchayats are: Vellanad 74.78%, Nedumangad 71.6%, Vamanapuram 71.54%, Parassala 74.88%, Chirayinkeezhu 73.12%, Varkala 72.49%, Kilimanoor 74.44%, Perumkadavila 77.23%, Athiyannoor 76.4%, Nemom 73.86% and Pothencode 72.96%. The polling figures released by the State Election Commission are given on Page 4. 16 counting centres The votes polled on December 8 in the district will be counted at 16 centres. Votes polled in all the 100 wards of the Corporation will be counted at Sarvodaya Vidyalaya ICSE School, Nalanchira. The counting centres for the municipalities are as follows: Varkala (Varkala municipal office), Neyyattinkara (Government Boys HSS, Neyyattinkara), Attingal (Attingal municipal office) and Nedumangad (Boys High School, Mancha). The centres for the block panchayats are as follows: Vellanad (G. Karthikeyan Memorial Government VHSS, Vellanad), Nedumangad (Girls HSS, Nedumangad), Vamanapuram (Government HSS, Venjaramoodu), Parassala (Government BHSS, Parassala), Chirayinkeezhu (Government Model BHSS, Attingal), Varkala (Sivagiri SN College), Kilimanoor (HSS Kilimanoor), Perumkadavila (Government HSS, Marayamuttom), Athiyannoor (New HSS, Nellimoodu), Nemom (DVMNNM HSS, Maranalloor) and Pothencode (Government HSS, Kazhakuttam).
10 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||State’s case burden goes up by 4,875||Kerala’s cumulative burden of COVID-19 rose to 6,49,571 cases when 4,875 new cases were reported in the State on Wednesday after 52,655 samples were tested in the past 24 hours. The test positivity rate in the State that remained around 10% all through the past month or more stood at 9.26 % on Wednesday, indicating that while new cases may show a declining trend, disease transmission levels have been remaining steady in the State, without showing any signs of relenting. Recoveries With the State also reporting 4,647 recoveries on the day, the active caseload now stands at 59,923 cases. Till date, 5,86,998 recoveries have been reported in the State. There is no let-up in mortality either, with the Health Department adding 35 new deaths to the official toll on Wednesday. The deaths, as per official figures, now stand at 2,507 Unofficial estimates maintained by public health professionals in the State put the actual number of deaths to be at least 1,500 more. They also estimate that there could be another 3,000 or more deaths in Kerala that might have escaped all official and unofficial COVID lists. Deaths Pathanamthitta accounted for eight deaths, Malappuram seven, Kannur and Thrissur five each, Alappuzha, Kollam and Thiruvananthapuram three each, and Kozhikode, one death. Official figures cite the number of critically ill patients currently occupying ICUs in various hospitals in the State at 841, with 212 of them requiring ventilator support. Of the new cases, 4,781are locally acquired infections, while in 94 cases there is a history of travel outside the State. In 508 of the locally acquired infections, the source of infection could not be traced to a known source of infection. Health workers As many as 43 health-care workers also contracted the infection. Among districts, Ernakulam reported 717 new cases, Malappuram 709, Kozhikode 656, Thrissur 511, Kottayam 497, Palakkad 343, Pathanamthitta 254, Kannur 251, Wayanad 241, Kollam 212, Alappuzha 194, Thiruvananthapuram 181, Idukki 57, and Kasaragod 52.
10 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Water supply disruption in several areas till Sunday||Water supply to several areas in the city will be regulated on Thursday and Friday for cleaning the high-level Kerala Water Authority tank and on Saturday and Sunday on account of interconnection works being taken up on the 75 mld water treatment plant nearing completion at Aruvikkara. Supply to Thycaud, Valiyasala, Sangeetha Nagar, Kannettumukku, Jagathy, Vzhuthacaud, Mettukada, Bakery Junction, Nandavanam, Museum, Edappazhanji, Forest Office Road, Lenin Nagar, Vellayambalam, Althara Nagar and Palayam will be partially affected on Thursday as cleaning work is being taken up on the tank. On Friday Supply to MG Road, MLA Quarters, Statue, General Hospital, Vanchiyoor, Palayam, Vikas Bhavan, police quarters, Plamoodu, Thekkumoodu, Mulavana, Gowreesapattom, Varambasseri, Kannamoola, Kumarapuram, Chettikunnu, Pettah, Anayara, Chakka, Karikkakom, Vettucaud, Veli, Shangumughom, Thumba, Vanross Junction, Oottukuzhi, Gandhari Amman Kovil, Manjalikulam, Ayurveda College, Ambujavilasam Road and Pulimoodu will be totally hit during daytime on Friday. The new 75 mld plant is being linked to the pipeline of the existing 74 mld JICA water treatment plant, also at Aruvikkara, which will require a temporary halt in operations of the latter plant from 10 a.m. to 10 p.m. on Saturday, KWA said. On Saturday, Sunday Supply to areas under the Thirumala, Karamana and Kuriathi KWA section offices will be disrupted from 10 a.m. on Saturday to Sunday night. The areas include PTP Nagar, Maruthankuzhi, Kanjirampara, Pangode, Vattiyoorkavu, Nettayam, Moonamoodu, Manalayam, Manikanteswaram, Kachani, Vazhotukonam, Mannarakonam, Melathumele, CTP, Thozhuvancode, Arappura, Kodunganoor, Ilippode, Kundamankadavu, Kulasekharam, Thirumala, Valiyavila, Thrikkannapuram, Punnackamugal, Kunnapuzha, Poojappura, Karamana, Mudavanmugal, Nedumcaud, Kalady, Neeramankara, Vellayani, Karumam, Maruthoorkadavu, Melamcode, Melarannur, Kaimanam, Killipalam, Pappanamcode, Nemom, Estate, Sathyan Nagar, Attukal, Manacaud, Kalippankulam, Ambalathara, Puthenpalli, Poonthura, Manikyavilakom, Beemapally, Beemapally East, Vallakadavu, Valiyathura, Muttathara, Kamaleswaram, Punchakkari and Kuriathi. Supply to Sasthamangalam, Vellayambalam, VJ Lane, Althara Nagar, Srirangam Lane, Kurup’s Lane, Panicker’s Lane, Judge Lane, Janvilla, Madankovil Lane, RNP Lane, Kanaka Nagar, Jawahar Nagar, Nanthancode and Bains Compound will be disrupted on Sunday.
10 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||401 recoveries, 181 cases||The district reported 181 new COVID-19 cases and 401 recoveries on Wednesday while the active case pool dipped further to 3,597. The death toll in the district, meanwhile, is continuing to mount with three more recent deaths attributed to the infection. The deceased included a 70-year-old woman from Karamana, a 63-year-old man from Chirayinkeezhu and a 68-year-old woman from Kulathura. The toll has now risen to 579, according to official data. In December so far, the district has reported 29 deaths due to the infection. In the first nine days of December, Thiruvananthapuram district reported a total of 2,971 confirmed COVID-19 cases. On the bright side, the number of recoveries from the infection during this period stood at 3,525. Of the cases reported on Wednesday, locally acquired infection accounted for 113 cases. This also includes three health-care workers. The newly reported cases have taken the district’s cumulative case burden to 74,989. Increased vigil Health officials and the district administration had increased the vigil against the spread of COVID-19 over the past few weeks in view of the December 8 local body elections in the district. At present, 30,214 persons are in quarantine in the district. This includes 1,556 persons who were newly quarantined on Wednesday.
10 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Additional borrowing of Rs. 2,261 crore for State||Kerala is among the nine States that have successfully completed reforms in the Public Distribution System (PDS) and have rolled out the One Nation, One Ration Card system, thereby qualifying to borrow Rs. 2,261 crore from the Centre’s reform-linked borrowing of Rs. 23,523 crore. The initiative ensures that beneficiaries under the National Food Security Act (NFSA) and other welfare schemes, especially migrant workers and their families, get ration from any fair price shop (FPS) across the country. The reforms also aim to better target beneficiaries and eliminate bogus, duplicate, and ineligible ration cards, thus enhance welfare and reduce leakage. For this, the reform conditions stipulated Aadhaar seeding of all ration cards, biometric authentication of beneficiaries, and automation of all fair price shops. The Rs. 2,261 crore is part of the additional borrowing permission of 2% of the Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) granted in 2020-21 and 0.25% is linked to implementation of the One Nation, One Ration Card system. The additional borrowing of 2% of the GSDP has enabled the States to mobilise financial resources to fight the pandemic and maintain standards of service delivery. Andhra Pradesh, Goa, Haryana, Karnataka, Gujarat, Telangana, Tripura, and Uttar Pradesh are the other States to benefit from the additional borrowing permission of Rs. 23,523 crore cleared by the Union Finance Ministry on Wednesday. The Union Department of Food and Public Distribution is the nodal department to certify that a State has met the conditions stipulated for this reform. In addition to the One Nation, One Ration Card system, other reforms specified as a precondition for the States to avail themselves of additional borrowing are ease of doing business reform, urban local body/utility reforms, and power sector reforms.
10 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Election panel puts Tuesday’s polling percentage at 73.12||The polling percentage in the five districts that went to the polls in the local body elections on Tuesday rose to 73.12% as per the updated figures released by the State Election Commission (SEC) on Wednesday. As per the revised figures, Thiruvananthapuram district recorded a voter turnout of 70.04%, Kollam 73.80%, Pathanamthitta 69.72%, Alappuzha 77.40%, and Idukki 74.68%. The Thiruvananthapuram Corporation recorded a turnout of 59.96% and Kollam Corporation, 66.21%. 244 counting centres The commission has published the guidelines for the counting in all 14 districts on December 16. There will be 244 centres across the State. The progress in counting can be tracked on the Trend website of the Election Commission. The votes polled in the three-tier panchayats will be counted at the distribution and receiving centres at the block level. In the municipalities and Corporation, the venues will be the distribution and receiving centres of the civic bodies. One counting table will be arranged for a maximum of eight polling stations. Votes polled in all polling stations in a ward will be counted on one table. Postal votes will be counted first. This year, in addition to service votes, special postal ballots issued to special voters also need to be counted. In the three-tier panchayats, each counting table will have a counting supervisor and two counting assistants, while the municipalities and Corporations will have a counting supervisor and a counting assistant. Final phase Five districts go to the polls in the second phase on Thursday. In the third and final phase on December 14, Kasaragod, Kannur, Malappuram and Kozhikode will go to the polls.
10 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||IOAGPL keen on extensive CNG use||Indian Oil-Adani Gas Pvt Ltd (IOAGPL), which is implementing the City Gas Distribution (CGD) project in the State, is keen on making available Compressed Natural Gas (CNG) for private vehicles, private buses, and the fleet of the Kerala State Road Transport Corporation. The IOAGPL will invest more than Rs. 4,500 crore in Kerala over the next four to five years to set up a natural gas pipeline network of 250 km of steel network and more than 2,000 km of MDPE (medium density polyethylene ) network along with associated facilities to provide CNG to industrial, commercial and domestic units. Besides, the IOGAPL will come up with 200 CNG stations to cater to the transport sector. “The State, especially the public transport sector, should utilise the continuous supply through the network being laid, as CNG is the best choice among the fuels,” Bhashit Dholakia, senior vice president, Adani Gas, and chief operating officer, IOAGPL, told The Hindu . Five buses initially “We have been told that the KSRTC will convert five buses initially. The authorities have been told of our willingness to set up CNG stations as per their requirement,” he says. There are about 10,000 old BS-III buses in the State that cannot operate beyond 10 years. However, once converted, they will enjoy an extended life of five years. Retro-fitment of bus to CNG will cost Rs. 3.50 lakh and it can be recovered in six months, he says. The shift from petrol to CNG for a motor vehicle will result in a saving of 70% and 35 to 40% if the switch over is from high-speed diesel. CNG is safe and convenient to use as it is lighter than air and has lower flammability range. “CNG powered buses in Delhi, Mumbai and Gujarat have dispelled safety concerns. While using CNG in buses, only authentic and approved kits should be used and the cylinders should be subject to test every three years,” he says.
10 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||SHRC directs probe against SI, 3 personnel||The State Human Rights Commission (SHRC) has directed the Inspector General of Police (Thiruvananthapuram range) to conduct a high-level investigation against the Ayiroor sub-inspector and three other police personnel for allegedly barging into the Varkala taluk hospital and threatening the employees. The direction by commission chairperson Antony Dominic comes on a petition filed by Bindu Saji who alleged that on April 16 last, during the lockdown, the Ayiroor sub-inspector and his team blocked the two-wheeler of her son Abin C. Saji, a pharmacist, who was going to work at the Varkala taluk hospital and threatened him. The commission had sought a report from the Attingal Deputy Superintendent of Police. The report said a case was registered against Abin for violating lockdown rules and abusing police personnel. Prior enmity However, Ms. Saji alleged that prior enmity of the police with her son had led to his arrest. Mr. Dominic said he was taking a serious view of the lack of mention in the report about the police entry into the hospital on April 19 and issue of threats against the employees. The allegation was true, the commission direction to the Inspector General of Police (Thiruvananthapuram range) said, adding that a comprehensive probe led by a high-ranking official was necessary. A statement from the commission said the case would be considered at a sitting to be held here in February.
10 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||New building for Army school inaugurated||Lt General C.P. Mohanty, General Officer Commanding-in-Chief, Southern Command, inaugurated the new building of the Army Public School at Pangode here on Wednesday. During his visit to the Pangode Military Station, he was briefed by Brigadier C. Kartik Seshadri on the operational preparedness of the 91 Infantry Brigade. He presented commendation to soldiers for eminent service. During his visit, the GOC-in-C also interacted with the Air Officer Commanding-in-Chief of Southern Air Command Air Marshal Amit Tiwari, Chief Secretary Vishwas Mehta and the Director General of Police Loknath Behra.
10 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Speaker denies charges of collusion with Swapna||The office of Speaker P. Sreeramakrishnan has denied that he had travelled to foreign destinations in the company of some individuals named as accused in the UAE consulate-linked gold smuggling case. The rebuttal comes in the wake of the claim by State president of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) K. Surendran that Mr. Sreeramakrishnan's foreign trips were suspect. He had also alleged that gold smuggling case suspect Swapna Suresh's latest sworn statement in court had cast the Speaker's office in an unflattering light. The office termed the "disinformation campaign" as an attempt to lay down a smokescreen of lies to tarnish the public standing of the constitutional office of the Speaker. Mr. Sreeramakrishnan had not met any of the suspects in any foreign country. The Speaker had travelled to foreign nations on the invitation of organisations and also for visiting family members. He had undertaken the trips by observing official protocol and with the knowledge of the State government. The public could avail themselves of the details of the Speaker's foreign trips from his office in the Legislative Secretariat.  The Speaker says he travelled to foreign nations on the invitation of organisations
10 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||B.R. Ambedkar media awards declared||R.K. Bijuraj, Chief Subeditor, Madhyamam , has won this year’s B.R. Ambedkar media award, in the print category, for the best news report relating to SC/ST. The awards instituted by the Scheduled Castes Development Department and comprising a cash prize of Rs. 30,000 and a citation, was for a report titled Dalit colonykal - Nooru Varshashinte Charithravum Varthamanavum , chosen from among 17 entries.  Ayitham Perunna Jathi School , a report by Samakalika Malayalam Staff Correspondent Rekha Chandra and Jeevitham Medayunnavar , a report by Desabhimani Senior News Editor Satheesh Gopi were chosen for the special jury awards in the print category. In the radio category, Amritha K.’s report on Mattoli 90.4 FM won the award.
10 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Naming move flayed||The Kerala Gazetted Officers’ Association (KGOA) has viewed the Centre’s move to name the new campus of Rajiv Gandhi Centre for Biotechnology (RGCB) after Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) ideologue M.S. Golwalkar as one influenced by mal-intent.
10 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Surge in KFC loan repayments||The Kerala Financial Corporation (KFC) has seen an increase in loan repayments after non-performing loans (18,500 records) have been uploaded in the database of CIBIL, a consumer credit score. KFC’s loan repayments so far this year is Rs. 1,241 crore against Rs. 710 crore during the corresponding period last year, according to KFC Chairman and Managing Director Tomin J. Thachankary. A sum of Rs. 2,262 crore has been sanctioned by the KFC so far this year against Rs. 395 crore of last year’s same period, a statement here said.
10 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Curbs lifted||Thuruthumoola, Nettayam and Kannamoola in the city Corporation area have been removed from the list of micro containment zones. Padavallikonam in Nedumangad municipality has also been excluded from the list.
10 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Rights day fete||The Department of Law, Central University of Kerala (CUK), will celebrate Human Rights Day on December 10. High Court judge N. Nagaresh will inaugurate the celebrations at 10.30 a.m. on the Google Meet platform. Jayasankar K.I., Head of the Department of Law, will preside.
10 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Short film fete||The Adoor Bhasi Film Society has invited applications for its fourth International Short Film Festival. Films will be adjudged by a jury led by director Madhupal. Applications should reach the Secretary, Adoor Bhasi Cultural Forum, near Kattu Ganapati temple, Uppalam Road, Statue, Thiruvananthapuram - 695 001 before December 31. Call: 97472 91201, 94003 32133.
10 December 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Rail commuters urged to check revised timings||Railways have asked commuters to take note of the revision in the timings of long-distance special trains. Updated information on train timings and other details can be accessed by checking the official websites/mobile app of Railways. In addition, SMS through IRCTC is also being provided. The commuters can use the National Train Enquiry System, IRCTC website, and IRCTC Rail Connect (mobile app).
10 December 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Call for placing indent online for textbooks||Facilities have been made available on the KITE websitewww.kite.kerala.gov.intill December 21 for schools to place online indents for textbooks for Classes 1 to 10 for the next academic year. Government, aided, technical schools, recognised unaided, CBSE, and Navodaya schools can place the indents online. For the guidelines for indenting, visitwww.education.kerala.gov.in
10 December 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||All set for elections in Thrissur today||Amidst the COVID-19 restrictions, voters in Thrissur district will cast their votes on Thursday. As the election is being held under the shadow of the pandemic, it has lots of differences in campaigning as well as conduct. People coming to cast their votes should carry a pen and identity card and wear masks. People should strictly maintain the COVID-19 protocols. Social distancing is a must at the polling stations. Only three persons will be allowed at a time inside the polling booth. COVID-9 patients can vote at the end of the election day. Polling officials will wear protective gear at that time. There are 3,331 polling stations in the district. There are 211 booths in the Thrissur Corporation. The number of booths in seven municipalities are: Chalakudy 37, Irinjalakuda 43, Kodungalloor 46, Chavakkad 32, Guruvayur 58, Kunnamkulam 38, and Wadakkanchery 42. There are 2,824 booths in 86 grama panchayats. There are 26,91,016 voters in Thrissur district. As many as 20,78,408 voters are in grama panchayats. The seven municipalities together have 3,47,425 voters and the Corporation has 2,65,183 voters. There are webcasting facilities in 54 centres in the district. The webcasting control room will function in the collectorate. Webcasting facility has been set up in select booths listed as problematic.
10 December 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||511 new cases in Thrissur district||A total of 511 people tested positive for COVID-19 in Thrissur district on Wednesday while 470 people recovered from the disease. There are 6,292 active cases in the district and 113 people from Thrissur are undergoing treatment in hospitals in various other districts. So far 63,994 COVID-19 cases have been reported in the district and 57,220 people have recovered from the disease. According to official statistics, 496 people, including three health workers, contracted the disease through local contact on Wednesday. Of them, 75 patients are above the age of 60 and 38 children are below the age of 10. In all 4,134 patients are under home observation. In all 188 people were admitted to hospitals for treatment of COVID-19 on Wednesday. A total of 6,038 samples were collected for the test on Wednesday.
10 December 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Kodungalloor Valiya Thampuran passes away||Kodungalloor Valiya Thampuran Rama Varma Raja died at his residence here on Wednesday. He was 96. He has a key position in the rituals of Sree Kurumba Bhagavathy Temple, Kodungalloor. He gives permission for rituals, including the Bharani and Thalappoli, at the temple. Son of Thekkedath Kadalayil Narayanan Namboodiri and Kodungallur Chirakkal Kovilakam Kunjukutty Thamburatti, Ramavarma Raja took the title of the Valiya Thampuran after the demise of Puthenkovilakam Godavarma Raja.
10 December 2020||December 10 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Christmas is here||
10 December 2020||December 10 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Creative protest||
10 December 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Youth killed in accident||A 24-year-old youth travelling from Siriguppa in Karnataka to Anantapur died when the motorcycle he was riding collided with the vehicle of trainee IPS officer Abhijit Singh Rana, at Aravakuru in Kuderu mandal of the district on Wednesday. According to the Kuderu police, the accident occurred when Teja Sai tried to overtake another vehicle collided with the oncoming vehicle. A case has been registered.
10 December 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Upper Penna project: CPI(M) alleges arrest of party member||The Communist Party of India (Marxist), in a release on Wednesday, alleged that the party’s Chennekothapalli secretary Linganna was taken into custody by the Ramagiri police for avoiding questions posed to him regarding land acquisition for three upcoming reservoirs. The reservoirs will be built in Muttala, Thopudurthi and Devarakonda in drought-prone Anantapur district under the YSR Upper Penna project, for which Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy virtually laid the foundation stone on Wednesday.  The CPI(M) said that the government was yet to initiate talks with the farmers and other land- and house-owners in Venkatampalli in Ramagiri mandal, where they are likely to lose their property due to inundation. The party also claimed that the compensation amount was not negotiated upon before the foundation stone was laid by the Chief Minister. Under the Land Acquisition, Rehabilitation and Resettlement Act, the State government should hold a grama sabha and explain the area likely to be inundated and the amount of compensation they are likely to get. “Only if 90% of the landowners agree to the compensation and part with their land, can the government acquire the remaining 10%,” it added. “No such effort has been made,” it alleged.
10 December 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP-JSP combine is only alternative in State: Somu||The BJP is the only party in the State that is taking up people’s cause, and both YSRCP and TDP are deeply mired in corruption, BJP State president has said. The JSP and the BJP would fight the 2024 elections together and provide the right alternative to the existing parties in the State, Mr. Somu Veerraju said while addressing the media here after a long session with the party workers on Wednesday. Mr. Veerraju questioned the government as to why was it shying away from bringing to book the TDP leaders allegedly involved in corruption cases as per the book the YSRCP brought out prior to elections. So far, only one TDP leader was booked for his alleged involvement in misappropriation of Rs. 150 crore, he said, and alleged that the YSRCP was hand-in-glove with the TDP. Both parties would be expose soon, he said.
10 December 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police seize 100 tonnes of PDS rice at Tada||The Satyavedu police on Wednesday conducted a raid at an unauthorized godown at Tada in SPSR Nellore district and seized over one hundred tonnes of PDS (public distribution system) rice and seven vehicles, all worth over Rs. 1 crore. Addressing a press meet at Satyavedu, Deputy SP (Puttur) T.D. Yashwant said after keeping a thorough watch on the inter-State rice smuggling activities spread over Nellore, Chittoor and Tamil Nadu, a special party led by Circle-Inspector (Satyavedu) B. Srinivasulu and Sub-Inspector Nagarjuna Reddy was formed. After the arrest of a few members of the gang involved in the rice smuggling, a flash raid was conducted on a gowdown at Tada, leading to the seizure of rice bags and vehicles meant for their clandestine inter-State transport. It was observed that after the PDS was made electronically operational, the gang members had resorted to luring the poor and downtrodden sections by offering a price for the ration-rice. The rice procured as such would be shifted to the unauthorized godown, from where it would be channelled to various destinations. The police said that so far eight persons, belonging to Chittoor, Nellore and Tamil Nadu, were arrested and remanded. Further investigation is on.
10 December 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Elephants giving the jitters to ryots||There is no respite for the farmers in the forest fringe villages in Kuppam division as wild elephants continues to give them sleepless nights. A herd of 14 wild elephants from the forests of Karnataka, which crossed the tri-State Kuppam junction has been giving tense moments to farmers and other people at the border villages in Shantipuram mandal since Tuesday night. Blasting of crackers The officials said that some farmers from the forest fringe villages in Karnataka had reportedly drove the herd towards Kuppam by blasting crackers and beating drums to protect their crops. On Wednesday night, the herd was seen roaming in an eucalyptus plantation near Shantipuram in Kuppam division. The herd strayed into the same region a fortnight ago, but was driven back into the Karnataka forests, after a week-long effort. Big task at hand Divisional Forest Officer (Chittoor West) S. Ravi Shankar told The Hindu that as per the ground report, the herd has 14 elephants. “It is easy to make a lone wild elephant or a small herd retreat into their habitations. As the herd is considerably big, we are taking all precautions to prevent them from entering fields and villages. Any hurried step could lead to commotion,” the DFO said.  The DFO said that as part of the operation to drive them back into the forests in Karnataka, the forest officials had sought the electricity staff to stop power supply to the fields temporarily. “Many elephant casualties owing to electrocution in fields were reported in Chittoor district in the past. Hence, we are careful to ensure a safe passage of the animals,” said the DFO. Forest watchers Meanwhile, several batches of forest watchers and elephant trackers have been deployed in the border area to monitor the movement of elephants and to prevent their entry into fields and human habitations.
10 December 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man allegedly kills father for ‘slapping’ mother||A man allegedly killed his father after the latter reportedly picked up a quarrel with the latter’s wife at Guttavaripalle village of Mulakalacheruvu mandal on Wednesday. Gurrappa Naidu, 70, reportedly used to treat his friends over tea and snacks. He used to take some money from family members every month for his expenses, apart from availing the old-age pension. On Wednesday, Gurappa asked his wife to give him Rs. 1,000. When his wife refused to give him the amount and reportedly chided him for “wasteful expenditure” on his friends, Gurappa reportedly slapped her. His son Venkata Ramana Naidu (45), rushed to the spot and allegedly hit Gurappa with a stick on his head resulting in his instantaneous death. On receiving a complaint from Gurappa’s wife, the area police registered a complaint and launched a search for the accused. Suicide bid In another incident, a 40-year-old woman farmer, Harathi, of Baiparedlapalle of Ramakuppam mandal, allegedly attempted suicide at the fields on Wednesday, when revenue officials visited the spot, for a survey for land for the new village secretariat building. After an argument with the revenue staff and objecting their entering her premises, she woman picked up a pesticide bottle and gulped the contents. As she fell unconscious, the villagers rushed her to the PES Medical College at Kuppam. Harathi’s condition was said to be stable. Those under distress can call 100 for counselling and help.
10 December 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Court complex inaugurated at Punganur||Andhra Pradesh High Court Chief Justice Jintendra Kumar Maheshwari on Wednesday virtually inaugurated the Senior Civil Judges Court complex at Punganur from Amaravati. Speaking on this occasion, the Chief Justice said as per the directions of the Supreme Court, the complexes were coming up with more and more user-friendly facilities. He said the courts were ready to cater to the requirements of the public in solving the litigations in an effective way. High Court Judge and Administrative Judge (Chittoor) C.H. Manvendra Nath Roy, Chittoor district principal judge, A.V. Ravindra Babu, Chittoor Bar Association president Puli Ramakrishna Reddy and senior officials of the judiciary were present.
10 December 2020||ELURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||Eluru town reels under stinking state of affairs; rains add to mess||The sight of stagnating sewage water in blocked drainages, overflowing garbage bins and heaps of garbage dumped in canals is what residents wake up to in many parts of Eluru town. Garbage dumps are seen along the road at many places in Powerpeta, Kothapeta and other areas in the town. While pigs roam the streets freely, there is a constant buzz of mosquitoes which gets louder after dark — posing a grave risk of communicable diseases. The Tangellamudi canal, bisecting the town, makes for a squalid sight. Tonnes of garbage have been dumped into it over the years, clogging the canal. The recent rains made an already bad situation even worse, with the polluted water now overflowing on to the road. A bad stench emanates from the drains in Sanivarapupeta and Dakshina Veedhi. Locals say the garbage has not been cleared for several days now. ‘Irresponsible practices’ “Hotel managements dump their waste in open places. Fish and chicken shop owners also resort to a similar practice. A nauseating smell emanates from the drainages, which have not been desilted for days. Municipal and public health wing officials should take immediate steps to clear the drainages and canals and take steps to prevent dumping of waste in open places,” said an engineering student Ch. Niharika. Deputy Chief Minister and Health Minister Alla Kali Krishna Srinivas visited a few places in the city and directed officials to take up a sanitation drive immediately. He asked the staff to chlorinate the water and conduct door-to-door survey to prevent the spread of communicable diseases. “Eluru is represented by the Health Minister. However, the civic condition is appalling. Unhygienic conditions prevail in most colonies. Open drains, uncleared garbage bins and large amounts of plastic waste are choking the drainages and canals. Low-lying areas experience water-logging. These are just some of the problems ailing the town,” said B. Kanaka Durga of Kothapeta.  Residents of Sanivarapupeta urged the civic body to take up anti-larvae operations in drainages and release oil balls to prevent mosquito menace. “We suspect that the outbreak of the mysterious illness was due to lack of sanitation, pig and mosquito menace, poor drainage and drinking water supply. Besides, officials should also check the presence of pesticide contents in water samples,” said B. Shruthi, a housewife. Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy in a video conference inquired with officials about the situation in Eluru town.
10 December 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||State signs MoU with Survey of India||The Government of Andhra Pradesh has signed an MoU with Survey of India, the first of its kind in the country. Soon after signing the MoU, Chief Minister Y.S Jagan Mohan Reddy described the step as a revolutionary one and said that the survey would cover every house site, farm and other properties. After giving the title of the property deed, the survey findings would be kept under observation for two years. After two years, permanent title deeds would be given. “We are doing the survey after nearly 100 years and will even give an unique identification number which will have a QR code and a hard copy. We will make available land parcels and maps and digitise the records. Maps of village habitations would also be included and these records would be kept at every village/ward secretariats,’’ Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said after signing the MoU with Surveyor General of India Girish Kumar. Stating that registration services would also be provided at village/ward secretariats, the Chief Minister said that integrated revenue services and registrations would be provided. Base stations “With this, problems relating to surveys which have been pending for decades, would be solved and a peaceful atmosphere would prevail in villages,” the Chief Minister opined. The AP Government and the Survey of India would set up 70 base stations and these would be part of Survey of India. The first phase of survey would begin on December 21, cover 5,000 villages and end on July 2021. The second phase would begin on August 21 and cover 6,500 villages and the third phase would begin in April 2022. While asking the District Collectors to take charge of the survey programme, he asked them to conduct grama sabhas during December 14-19.  The exercise will help solve problems relating to surveys that have been pending for decades, and peaceful atmosphere will prevail in villages Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy Chief Minister
10 December 2020||HINDUPUR (ANANTAPUR),ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Assured water for Seema is BJP’s agenda for 2024 polls’||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy is neglecting supply of water for drinking and irrigation purposes to the Rayalaseema districts by not bringing assured water from the Tungabhadra and the Krishna, BJP State president Somu Veerraju has said. Former Chief Minister N.T. Rama Rao brought Telugu Ganga, but former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu and Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy did nothing to bring water to the Rayalaseema region by widening the HNSS Canal or getting a parallel canal dug from the Tungabhadra Dam to get the full quota of assured water, Mr. Veerraju said at a press conference here on Wednesday. For the 2024 general elections, assured water for Rayalaseema would be BJP’s main agenda, he said. ‘Sticker parties’ Branding the TDP and the YSRCP as “single sticker” and “double sticker” parties, he took exception to the government diverting funds given by the Centre for 23 lakh houses to other schemes and promising the housing beneficiaries only 15 lakh units. “The YSRCP MLAs have purchased lands by spending the money meant for the remaining 8 lakh houses,” Mr. Veerraju alleged. “Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy is claiming credit for the schemes granted by the Centre without spending any money on them from the State budget,” the BJP leader said.
10 December 2020||HYDERABAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||Haj applications can be submitted online||The Telangana State Haj Committee (TSHC) on Wednesday announced that those who intend to make the pilgrimage should have ‘machine readable’ passports valid till at least January 10, 2022. Those who have not submitted their applications can do so by logging on to the Haj Committee of India website www.hajcommittee.gov.in. Applicants should have valid documents such as proof of address and necessary bank paper. The applicants should have photographs against a white background, said the Haj committee.
10 December 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||NGT panel seeks data on beach sand mining, illegal aqua ponds||The six-member joint committee constituted by the National Green Tribunal (NGT), Southern Region, on Wednesday conducted a field-level investigation into the alleged violations of Coastal Regulatory Zone (CRZ) norms along the 25-kilometre stretch of coastal belt between Karavaka and Antarvedi Pallipalem in Konaseema area in East Godavari district. The panel sought the necessary data pertaining to the nature of permissions granted for aquaculture and extraction of beach sand that was used for levelling of nearby sites from the district officials. Marine pollution Yenumula Venkatapathi Raju has filed a case in the NGT on the three issues —destruction of the coastal belt by extracting beach sand, marine pollution due to lack of maintenance of the pipeline by Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) and Gas Authority of India Limited (GAIL), and mushrooming of illegal aquaculture ponds in the CRZ area along the coastline. The committee comprises Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change Scientist-C Palpandi, environment expert T. Mahima, Andhra Pradesh Pollution Control Board (APPCB) Executive Engineer P. Raveendranath and antroplogist Deepa and Amalapuram Sub-Collector Himanshu Kaushik. The members of NGT joint committee inspected the coastal areas in the mandals of Sakhinetipalli, Malkipuram and Maamidikuduru on Wednesday. Human Rights Forum (East Godavari Chapter) district president Mutyala Srinivasa Rao submitted a representation to the NGT team, highlighting the impact of the illegal beach sand extraction and aquaculture ponds on the ecology and groundwater source in the Konaseema region.
10 December 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Minister: paddy crop damaged in 26,650 hectares in E.G.||Agriculture Minister Kurasala Kannababu on Wednesday said that paddy crop in above 26,650 hectares was damaged due to rains during cyclone Nivar in the East Godavari district. In a review meeting with the agricultural department officials here at his residence, Mr. Kannababu said the input subsidy compensating the crop damage would be deposited into the accounts of the affected farmers on December 30. The paddy seed would be supplied on 80% subsidy to the farmers who incurred loss during the cyclone, he said. A total of 3,630 quintals of paddy seeds are ready for the supply on the subsidy basis. Doorstep delivery Also, 4,120 quintals of paddy seeds of short crop duration varieties are ready for the supply for rabi season across the district and Rs. 5 subsidy per kilogram is offered to the farmers. The Rythu Bharosa Kendras would deliver the paddy seed at the door step of the farmer based on the registration details. Appeal to farmers Mr. Kannababu has appealed to the farmers in the district to cooperate with the State government by preferring short crop duration varieties in the wake of availability of insufficient irrigation water for the rabi season.
10 December 2020||Rajulapudi SrinivasELURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||Neurotoxicity symptoms reported since Nov. 15||Many cases of epilepsy, vomiting, dizziness and seizures were reported in the town since 25 days, and the patients were treated in private clinics. Hundreds of patients complained of epilepsy and other symptoms in Tangellamudi, Kothapeta, Powerpeta, Satrampadu, Vangayagudem, J.P. Colony and other areas in the town. They consulted private doctors and RMPs. Doctors treated the patients as normal cases and some cases were referred to specialists. However, the mysterious illness came out on December 5, with a number of patients admitted to Eluru Government General Hospital (GGH) with convulsions. Rumours spread that water and milk contamination, pesticides in water and presence of toxicants in food in Eluru and the neighbouring villages were the reasons for the outbreak of the mysterious illness. Eluru GGH Superintendent A.V.R. Mohan said patients with epilepsy, convulsions, seizures and dizziness took treatment from the local RMP doctors, clinics and some private hospitals in the town and the neighbouring villages, but they took the disease as normal fever. “Patients with loss of memory, sudden fall, vomiting and dizziness were admitted to the GGH since December 5, and the cases increased by the hour. With the cases raising abnormally, the State government alerted the Central institutes, which swung into action immediately,” Dr, Mohan said. A ninth class student, Mallula Joseph Prem Kumar, of Bhimadole, who suffered dizziness and epilepsy was admitted in GGH on Wednesday. Ganni Teja, a five-year-old girl of Tangellamudi, was admitted to the hospital on Tuesday. “I fell down with dizziness and suffered an epileptic attack in school. Teachers rushed me to a private hospital and later referred to Eluru GGH. This is the first time I suffered such a attack,” said Prem Kumar. “I suffered dizziness and fell sick suddenly after having tea. I came to GGH with severe headache,” said K. Malathi Prasanna of Eluru. Common complaints “Almost all the patients who were admitted to GGH complained of common symptoms, and according to them this is the first time they had an epileptic attack,” said a paramedical staff treating the patients in the emergency ward. ‘Lab reports in 48 hrs.’ Joint Collector Himanshu Shukla, who was monitoring the situation said that water, blood, milk, vegetables, rice, fish, smear, culture and urine samples had been sent to different laboratories and the results were expected in 48 hours. “This is the fifth day, but the doctors are clueless on the cause of the disease. We request the specialists to take steps to diagnose the disease and save the public,” said a patient attendant P. Mahalakshmi.
10 December 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Discom plans monsoon proofing||After suffering extensive damage in the three districts of Chittoor, Kadapa and Nellore under its purview due to Cyclone Nivar, the Andhra Pradesh Southern Power Distribution Company Limited (APSPDCL) has decided to come up with a road map to avert similar damage in future. Forecast mechanism At a review meeting at its corporate office here on Wednesday, Chairman and Managing Director H. Haranath Rao said the damage was severe in areas abutting the rivers flowing through the districts. Major areas in the three districts suffered power disruption as electric poles were uprooted, power lines snapped and transformers collapsed due to the strong gales. “We need a mechanism to forecast such a calamity, have a damage control plan on hand by properly assessing the likely damage,” he told officials. He emphasised the need to strengthen the poles and power lines along the flow of streams and at river crossing areas. Due collection With special focus on collection of dues, the CMD instructed officials to collect dues from panchayats and State-run bodies as a first step. Director P. Kaladhar Rao, V.N. Babu, Director (Technical) T.Vanaja, Chief General Managers N.V.S.Subba Raju and Prasad Reddy took part.
10 December 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD seeks Central status for its Vedic university||The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams(TTD) management has appealed to the Union Government to accord central status to Sri Venkateswara Vedic University (SVVU), run by it in Tirupati. TTD Chairman Y.V. Subba Reddy, who called on Union Minister for Education Ramesh Pokhriyal in New Delhi on Wednesday, recalled that the TTD had established the varsity in 2006 with the aim of preserving and propagating Vedic studies for the benefit of future generations. Apart from establishing Veda Pathasalas, the TTD was providing financial support to over 80 such institutions across the country. What it offers “The varsity is running courses from degree to doctorate level in Vedic sciences,” he observed. SVVU is already recognised by UGC as a State university under 2F category and Mr. Subba Reddy wanted recognition under the category 12B for the 14-year-old university, akin to the one sanctioned to three Sanskrit universities in the country. Similarly, he also sought increase in quota for Telugu, Tamil and Sanskrit courses offered at the TTD-run Sri Venkateswara College at New Delhi, the foundation for which was laid by the then Vice-President Sarvepalli Radhakrishnan. The institute awaits the rise in quota, which has been pending with Delhi University(DU) since 2016.
10 December 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||TTD set to lose Rs. 1.15 crore in Kanipakam temple chariot work||The Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) is rather forced to pay a heavy cost of Rs. 1.15 crore for extending its expertise for a noble cause as requested by a fellow temple. The Sri Varasiddhi Vinayaka temple at Kanipakam, which is under the purview of the Endowments Department, sought the help of TTD for goldplating of its processional wooden chariot in 2008. The temple paid Rs. 1 crore in 2010 and Rs. 5 crore more in 2019 to the TTD to provide gold malam (gilding) and copper ornamental design to cover the wooden chariot. Gold price The TTD agreed to help when the gold price was Rs. 3,793 per gram in November, 2019 and the estimated project cost was put at Rs. 7.15 crore, including the cost of materials, labour and centage charges. The TTD’s Works Committee initially decided to purchase 15 kg of gold required for the project from the MMTC, Hyderabad, but later chose to utilise the in-house gold at the prevailing cost. However, in spite of specific requests from the TTD to meet the enhanced cost, the Kanipakam temple authorities reportedly stuck to the original cost of Rs. 6 crore, even as twelve years have passed from the date of proposal. What is sending shock waves to the devout is the TTD trust board’s decision to consider the gold rate as per the Chennai bullion market prevailing on the dates of receipt of payment of Rs. 1 crore and Rs. 5 crore from the Kanipakam temple. The approval, through the resolution number 253 during the meeting held on November 28, indirectly amounts to expressing willingness to bear the loss of Rs. 1.15 crore for the yet-to-begin project. Decision raises eyebrows It is a normal practice of the government to assess the project cost based on Standard Schedule of Rates (SSR) on the day it is taken up, not on the day of issue of order. The TTD’s decision is now under question not only for being entirely ‘out of sync’ with the administrative procedure, but also for defying logic. Also, there is no mention of GST liability incurred on the gold as raised by the Finance Department, which means more burden on the TTD exchequer. When contacted by The Hindu , Regional Joint Commissioner and Kanipakam Executive Officer A. Venkatesh said that he had not received any official communication on the TTD’s decision.
10 December 2020||VENKATAMPALLI (ANANTAPUR),ANDHRA PRADESH||Chief Minister blames previous govt. for delay in lift scheme||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has alleged that rampant corruption during the TDP regime and neglect by former Minister Paritala Sunitha to get water for the Rapthadu constituency delayed the lift scheme on Handri Neeva Sujala Sravanthi (HNSS) from Jeedipalli reservoir to Upper Penna reservoir. Laying the foundation stone virtually for three reservoirs at Devarakonda, Thopudurthi, and Muttala at Venkatampalli village on Wednesday in the presence of Municipal Administration Minister Botcha Satyanarayana, Animal Husbandry Minister Sidiri Appalaraju, and Roads and Buildings Minister Malagundla Sankaranarayana, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said the project cost was pegged at Rs. 803 crore in January 2018 promising to irrigate 25,000 acres. But, the present government, instead of cancelling the tenders, added construction of three more reservoirs for the same cost, he explained pointing out that now 75,000 acres would get irrigation facility and an additional 3.3 tmcft of storage would be created after the Perur Dam taking the total capacity to 5.4 tmcft. “On a request by Rapthadu MLA Thopudurthi Prakash Reddy, instead of going for reverse tendering, we added additional work with the same cost,” said the Chief Minister. The Chief Minister said that 110 concrete structures and four lifts would be part of the project. Water can now be taken to Beluguppa, Kuderu, Kanaganapalle, CK Palle, Ramagiri, and Rapthadu mandals within 90 days. The gathering at the venue watched the address of the Chief Minister on a digital screen. Hindupur MP Gorantla Madhav, Anantapur Urban MLA Anantha Venkatarami Reddy, District Collector Gandham Chandrudu and other MLAs from the district attended the programme.
10 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Krishna only district in State to report more than 100 new COVID infections||The State witnessed three more COVID-19 deaths and 618 new infections in the 24 hours ending Wednesday morning, taking the toll to 7,045 and tally to 8,73,457. Krishna, Nellore and West Godavari districts reported one death each. The mortality rate remained at 0.81% while the recovery rate increased to 98.59%. The total number of recoveries increased to 8,61,153 with the recovery of 785 persons during the period. Positivity rate In all, 5,259 persons were undergoing treatment for the virus as of Wednesday morning, 1,042 in Krishna district alone. The overall positivity rate of the tests came down to 8.26% as the number of tests conducted increased to 1.05 crore. During the past one day, 61,038 samples were tested and their positivity rate was 1.01%. Krishna district again reported the highest single-day tally. It was also the only district to see more than 100 new infections. The district-wise tally of new infections was as follows: Krishna (121), Guntur (92), Chittoor (76), West Godavari (66), Anantapur (50), East Godavari (49), Visakhapatnam (44), Nellore (29), Kadapa (23), Srikakulam (22), Prakasam (17), Vizianagaram (15) and Kurnool (14). The overall tallies were as follows: East Godavari (1,22,791), West Godavari (93,085), Chittoor (84,450), Guntur (73,665), Anantapur (66,929), Prakasam (61,673), Nellore (61,699), Kurnool (60,316), Visakhapatnam (58,530), Kadapa (54,586), Krishna (46,386), Srikakulam (45,639) and Vizianagaram (40,813).
10 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM suggests a thorough analysis||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has requested the doctors from the All India Institutes of Medical Sciences in New Delhi and Mangalagiri (Guntur district), public health experts and scientists from the Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB), Indian Institute of Chemical Technology (IICT) and National Institute of Nutrition (NIN) to do a thorough analysis of the undiagnosed ailment that resulted in the hospitalisation of a large number of people in Eluru in West Godavari district. In a video-conference on Wednesday, the doctors / scientists told the Chief Minister that organochlorine, lead and nickel, or some pesticides, could be the possible cause for the symptoms found in people across ages, but studies needed to be corroborated by empirical evidence. They also said there was a considerable decline in the number of cases and that patients were recovering in three to four hours. The Chief Minister said a proper strategy for controlling and preventing the recurrence of the disease was essential, and that doctors and other experts should help the government in dealing with it. He suggested that the likelihood of drinking water contamination be examined in detail. The doctors / experts told the Chief Minister that samples of milk and drinking water were tested, and pointed out that recycling of lead acid batteries, or even the presence of lead in the air, might be the cause for the sudden sickness in people. These substances could be consumed by people through food. Examination of blood, cerebrospinal and urine samples were also sent to laboratories. The CCMB scientists said it would be premature to say that sickness was due to a virus, and experts from the World Health Organisation (WHO) said while food poisoning could be the suspected cause, the chance of bleaching powder and chlorine (used in the sanitation drive undertaken as part of COVID-19 containment) causing the sickness could not be ruled out. Chief Secretary Nilam Sawhney and Principal Secretary (health) Anil Kumar Singhal were among those present.
10 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Will ensure accuracy’||Surveyor General of India Lt. General (retd.) Girish Kumar has said Survey of India will help the Andhra Pradesh government in doing re-survey of lands with maximum accuracy by mapping them up to a resolution of up to one centimetre using drones and other advanced technologies. The SoI will also depute surveyors who are conversant with the procedures. It will set up a training centre in Tirupati and has already opened its branch office in Visakhapatnam. Addressing the media here on Wednesday, Mr. Girish Kumar said the survey was planned to be done in three phases and the output would be among the best in the world Special Chief Secretary (environment, forest and S&T) Neerabh Kumar Prasad said lands in 17,340 villages were targeted to be surveyed in three years and 5,000 of them in the first phase. Principal Secretary (revenue) V. Usha Rani said a sum of Rs. 956 crore was allocated for the survey, which was last done 100 years ago.
10 December 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Post cards on ‘Pancharamas’ released||Endowments Minister Vellampalli Srinivas on Wednesday released printed post cards on ‘Pancharamas’ (Amararamam-Amaravati, Somaramam-Bhimavaram, Ksheeraramam-Palakollu, Kumararamam-Samalkot and Draksharamam). These cards were simultaneously released at the temples by local officials of the Department of Posts (DoP). Chief Postmaster General of A.P. M. Venkateswarlu said the ‘Pancharamas’ showcase the rich history of Andhra Pradesh. Amaravati dates back to the 2nd century CE, the period when the Buddhist culture was thriving in the State. The other temples were built by King Chalukya Bhima during the 9th century, he said. Postmaster General (Vijayawada) T.M. Sreelatha was present.
10 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Defer property tax hike by a year, VCCI urges CM||The Vizagapatam Chamber of Commerce and Industry (VCCI) has appealed to Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to defer the decision to increase the property tax by one year in view of the difficult times due to the pandemic situation. The VCCI convened a meeting with AP Chambers, FAPCCI, CREDAI, RSW, Film Distributors Association, Builder Association and other associations related to the issue, here on Wednesday. The VCCI has received many representations from members, trade bodies and residential associations, regarding the impact of the G.O. to change the system of levying property tax from annual rental value basis to capital value system from the financial year 2021-2022. As per the new G.O., the property tax shall be levied on a certain percentage on the capital value of lands or buildings or both but not less than 0.10% and not more than 0.50% of the capital value in case of residential buildings and shall not be less than 0.20% and not more than 2.00% of the capital value in case of non-residential buildings. It shall be effective from the financial year 2021-2022. ‘Rental values dipped’ As per this G.O., a 1000 sft. flat can be taxed between Rs. 5,000 and Rs. 25,000 and a commercial property can be taxed from Rs. 12,000 to Rs. 1,20,000. Citizens are worried about the variation in percentage as they feel that they will fall under the higher slab and the increase will be around 10 times. Due to COVID-19, the rental values all over the State fell by 20%, for residential buildings and 50% for commercial buildings. In fact, many commercial establishments were closed and there was no income on these properties. The building owners are expecting a relief from the State government as it was done by the Telangana government. Increase of taxes from April 2021, would be a huge burden in these difficult times. The State government has announced its action plan and announced that the preparatory work would start from December 10. VCCI president G. Veeramohan and honorary secretary Ravi Godey addressed the association meeting.
10 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||City sees increasing involvement of youngsters in crimes||The city has been registering a number of offences in which youth in the age of 18 to 25 years, including college-going students, were found to be involved. Lack of proper monitoring by parents, picking up bad vices, wrong company of friends and a few other reasons are pushing the youth to take up crime. Concerned over the scenario, the city police have started to chalk out plans to ensure such incidents do not recur. Recent murder by a youth of an Intermediate student at Gajuwaka allegedly over a love issue on November 1 has shocked the police. The city police have launched a campaign in the name ‘Neti Yuvathe, Repati Pourulu’ (Today’s youth are tomorrow’s citizens) to take up counselling programmes both off and online. Police Commissioner Manish Kumar Sinha said that there is a need to create awareness or counsel the students about crimes, love issues and other offences right from Class VIII till the higher classes. “Police officials will visit schools under their limits and conduct counselling. They will try to send a strong message that end of relationship is not end of life. We have been seeing youth ending their life or attacking others, which is not supposed to happen. Such activities should not be repeated,” he said. Meanwhile, many youth are also being caught involved in offences. On November 5, the city police arrested two youth about 20-years of age and took a juvenile into their custody, who wreaked havoc by allegedly committing series a of offences at One Town and Madhurawada areas on November 4. On the same day, another youth aged 20 years and a juvenile were arrested for allegedly threatening group of persons at knife-point and robbing Rs. 40,000 from them. On November 14, three youth, including two Class X students, were arrested for allegedly assaulting a man for easy money at Midhilapuri Colony. A couple of days ago, Bheemili police arrested 20-year-old youth in a murder for gain case. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Crimes) V. Suresh Babu said that most of the youth being caught involved in these crimes are from BPL families. Addiction to bad vices, bad friends circle, lack of monitoring by parents, fascination to lead a luxurious life, and a few factors are pushing them to take to crimes. A few police officers said that parental guidance is most needed for youth at that age.
10 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||82,400 kg seized ganja destroyed in district||The Visakhapatnam district police, after months of wait, has got a legal nod to destroy the ganja seized from the smugglers. The police destroyed more than 82,400 kgs (82 tonnes) of dry ganja in the presence of the Drug Disposal Committee at Balighattam dumping yard in Narsipatnam on Wednesday. Deputy Inspector General of Police (Visakha Range) L.K.V. Ranga Rao said that the ganja was seized in more than 657 cases under 41 police stations limits in Visakhapatnam district. It was the first time that such a huge quantity of dry ganja was destroyed in a single day in the district. PD Act “More than 1,26,350 kgs of seized ganja was destroyed in since 2018 in the Visakhapatnam Rural Police limits. We have been on the job to identify the smugglers, including the inter-State operatives to invoke PD Act against them. We have invoked PD Act against 17 ganja smugglers recently and seized the properties of two smugglers,” said Mr. Ranga Rao. Rural Superintendent of Police B. Krishna Rao said the police had stepped up the enforcement on ganja smuggling in the Visakha Agency area and in the last two months, the police booked 67 cases and seized around 18,000 kilograms of ganja worth around Rs. 2.8 crore. The police said they would auction the seized vehicles as per court orders. In the past two years, over 200 seized vehicles have been auctioned for Rs. 87 lakh in the district.
10 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Comprehensive land survey to begin on Dec. 21||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has said that unique ID cards will be issued to the property owners on completion of the comprehensive land survey. Addressing District Collectors through video conference on Wednesday, the Chief Minister said that the present land documents were not reflecting the ground status. This was making prospective buyers/sellers of land to run around Revenue, Survey and Registration Offices. Once the comprehensive land survey was completed, they would be saved the hassle of filing petitions and waiting for the outcome to know the status of the land. Services to be available at secretariats The Chief Minister said that volunteers should visit all households in villages, habitations and urban areas and initiate measures to inform them of the exercise. Each and every property would be given a unique ID. He said that the services offered by the Survey, Registration and Revenue offices should be made available at the ward/village secretariats. Putting an end to disputes The survey would also help in doing away with land disputes in rural areas. Mr. Jagan directed the Collectors to initiate steps to ensure that survey teams were made available in all villages and mandals. A mobile tribunal should be made available at the mandal-level to settle land disputes without any delays. Committees should be established at the divisional-level. A tribunal and appellate tribunal should be established at the district-level. The marking of boundaries should be completed in the villages and the survey stones should be purchased under YSR Jagananna Saswatha Bhu Hakku and Bhu Rakshana scheme. All the officials should participate in the first round of gram sabhas to be held from December 14 to 19 and watch the survey process and benefits. They should also clarify the doubts of the public. Training process The comprehensive land survey would commence on December 21. On confirmation of the ownership, it would be entered in the record. As many as 14,000 of the 9,400 surveyors were undergoing training and the Collectors should ensure training of the remaining surveyors. They should also inform the citizens about the benefits of the survey. District Collector V. Vinay Chand, GVMC Commissioner G. Srijana, Joint Collector-2 P. Arun Babu and DRO A. Prasad were among those present. at the meeting.
10 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||New ADRM assumes charge||C. Surya Lakshmi has assumed charge as the new Additional Divisional Railway Manager (Operations) of Waltair Division, in place of the present incumbent P. Ramachandra Rao, who has been transferred to Bhubaneswar. Ms. Surya Lakshmi is an officer of the Indian Railway Accounts Service (IRAS) of the 1999 batch. She started her career in Railway services in 2000 as a Junior Accounts Officer (Construction), Visakhapatnam, which was then in the jurisdiction of South Eastern Railway (SER). Prior to assuming charge as ADRM, she worked as the Financial Advisor and Chief Accounts Officer (IT), Southern Railway. Ms. Surya Lakshmi holds a doctorate in History from Andhra University and Post-Graduation in Public Policy Management from Indian Institute of Management (IIM), Bangalore. Ms. Surya Lakshmi has served in various capacities in East Coast, Southern and South Western Railways so far during the 20 years of her career.
10 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Guard pond’ inaugurated at steel plant||A guard pond was inaugurated at the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant (VSP) by RINL Chairman and Managing Director P.K. Rath on Wednesday. The CMD congratulated the officials and staff of the Projects and Works wing for completing the project within the stipulated time. How it works Guard pond is a safeguard mechanism to prevent discharge of untreated effluents into marine environment. In line with the statutory directives, the RINL has constructed guard ponds at a cost of Rs. 10 crore. This guard pond has four ponds with a capacity of 9,600 cubic meters each for storing treated effluent from coke ovens. Once the water is stored, it will be allowed to be discharged into the marine environment after its quality is cross-checked by the Andhra Pradesh Pollution Control Board (APPCB). This ensures that 100% of the effluent is discharged into the marine environment is done only after it meets the prescribed norms. This is one more measure taken by the RINL to protect the surrounding environment, said Mr. Rath. Director (Personnel) K.C. Das, Director (Commercial) D.K.Mohanty, Director (Projects) K.K. Ghosh, Director (Operations) A.K.Saxena, CVO K.V.Nagi Reddy, EDs, CGMs, officials and trade union leaders were present.
10 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Consensus on Capital issue is the need of the hour: Parakala||Andhra Pradesh is probably the only State in the country, and probably in the world, that does not have a fixed Capital till date, political economist and commentator Parakala Prabhakar has said. He was addressing the media here on Wednesday after screening his 60-minute documentary on the capital issue titled ‘Capital tragedy - Amaravati’. “First, people had seen Kurnool as Capital. Later, it was shifted to Hyderabad. After bifurcation of the State, it was Amaravati. And now, the YSRCP government has mooted the idea of three capitals with Visakhapatnam as Executive Capital, Kurnool as Judicial Capital and Amaravati as Legislative Capital,” he said. “Even after six decades, the State cannot boast of a fixed capital,” he said. We need to know why Amaravati was chosen as the Capital and why so much land was needed for it. At the same time question, we also need to know why there was a need to shift the capital, he said. South African model According to Mr. Prabhakar, the three-capital decision is based on South Africa’s model. But in the documentary, a number of intellectuals of that country were seen pointing out that the model had failed due to more reasons than one, which included logistical and economic. “ The government should bring all the stakeholders onto one platform and deliberate on the issue. So far, there has been no effort for an open and free discussion with the stakeholders in a democratic set-up. But that is the need of the hour,” he said.
10 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||WIN Forum launched to help women in distress||To provide a solution to a woman in distress, especially those who are not able to approach a police station or those whose complaints need not be of cognizable nature, the district authorities have launched WIN (women in need) Forum, here on Wednesday. According to Commissioner of Police Manish Kumar Sinha, most women do not approach the police station or other grievance redressal forums because of personal inhibitions and to keep their identities secret. There is an observation that of the women who approach police stations, most of them do not come with a detailed complaint, which makes it difficult to confirm a cognizable offence. The forum has been created to address non-cognizable cases and officers from various departments have been roped in to listen to such women, counsel them and try to resolve their dispute or issue, he said. According to him, there is need to create a system to lighten the investigative load on police stations. The forum will comprise one officer from the revenue department, one from GVMC and one from the police department. M.V. Ramana Kumari will represent the Revenue, Chandrika from GVMC and ACP Disha Police Station Prem Kajal will represent the police. Additional DCP Ajitha Vejendla of SEB will assist and guide the forum. The forum members will be present in Room No.15 in Swarna Bharathi stadium on all Tuesdays and Thursdays, from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m., from December 10. Giving a broad understanding on what type complaints a woman can approach the WIN Forum, the CP said that broadly they can approach with family disputes such as disputes between husband and wife, relationship issues between friends, acquaintances and partners and situations where a woman feels harassed. Complaints can also be mailed towinvspcity@gmail.comand for emergencies call: 100 or 181.
10 December 2020||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Submarine Day celebrated||The Submarine Day was celebrated on Tuesday to mark the birth of the Indian Navy’s submarine arm with the commissioning of its first submarine, erstwhile INS Kalvari, on December 8. On the occasion of the 53rd Submarine Anniversary, Vice Admiral K Srinivas, Project Director, Ship Building Centre, Visakhapatnam, laid a wreath at the submarine Cenotaph at INS Virbahu on behalf of all officers and sailors of the Submarine Arm to pay homage to submariners on ‘Eternal Patrol’. On this day, each year, the submarine fraternity celebrates the occasion through a series of events. coordinated by INS Virbahu and INS Satavahana, under the aegis of the Submarine Headquarters. Eastern Naval Command is home to the most powerful submarine force in the Indian Ocean Region comprising both nuclear and conventional submarines. The depot ship, INS Virbahu, which means ‘The Heroic Arm’ was commissioned on May 19, 1971, by the then Defence Minister Jagjivan Ram, and is regarded as the “Home of the Dolphins”. This year marks the commencement of the 50th year of INS Virbahu, which has provided operational, logistic, and administrative support to all submarines in Visakhapatnam.
10 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Dharna over TIDCO houses||Former MLA and BJP vice-president P. Vishnu Kumar Raju and other party leaders staged a dharna at ASR Nagar on Wednesday, protesting against the reduction in the number of TIDCO houses constructed at Thatichetlapalem in the Ward 45. He said that foundation was laid for construction of 432 houses in nine blocks in the ward when he was MLA. “The government is now building only 280 houses in six blocks, ignoring 144 beneficiaries. Nearly 200 families have no shelter. The government should construct houses for all beneficiaries,” he said. He said that the State government should honour the promise it had made to the people.
10 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Leased land surrendered to Prema Samajam||Sai Priya Resorts has surrendered the land it has taken from Prema Samajam on lease. Following a written submission given by the Sai Priya resorts, the executive officer of Prema Samajam took possession of the land after cancelling the lease deed at the Sub-Registrar office at Madhurawada on Tuesday. Executive officer of Prema Samajam said that Sai Priya Resorts had taken 33.70 acres from Prema Samajam for 33 years lease in 2003-04. They took the land for lease for developing a tourist facility. However, they expressed their inability to develop the land due to COVID situation and surrendered the land. Sai Priya Resorts had retained 3.70 acres and surrendered 30 acres to Prema Samajam. The surrendered land is adjacent to the resorts. EO said they have been paying the lease amount of Rs. 22 lakh every year. Meanwhile, speaking to the media, Endowments Commissioner P. Arjuna Rao said the department will take the land under the possession of Sai Priya Resorts.
10 December 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Online youth fest concludes||The two-day district-level online youth festival that was organised jointly by the State government and the District Youth Services Department, concluded here on Wednesday. As many as 150 youths participated in various competitions. The youth festival aimed at bringing out the hidden talent of the youth. Certificates would be sent to the winners online, announced B. Srinivasa Rao, CEO of SETVIS, Visakhapatnam.
10 December 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vizianagaram former MLA of TDP opens own office||Former Telugu Desam MLA of Vizianagaram Meesala Geetha has opened her own office here giving rise to speculation that all is not well in the TDP. For the last 37 years, the bungalow of party senior leader Ashok Gajapathi Raju has been the office for Vizianagaram TDP activities in the absence of any district office for the party since its inception in 1983. Ms. Geeta, who won from the Vizianagaram Assembly constituency in 2014 election, was denied the party ticket in 2019, paving the way for political entry of Aditi Gajapathi Raju, daughter of Mr. Ashok Gajapathi Raju. However, Ms. Aditi was defeated by YSRCP’s nominee Kolagatla Veerabhadra Swamy with a margin of 6,400 votes. Interestingly, her father Mr. Ashok Gajapathi Raju could get majority in the Vizianagaram Assembly segment although he was defeated by Bellana Chandra Sekhar in Vizianagaram Parliamentary constituency in 2019 elections. Mr. Ashok Gajatpathi Raju could get more votes than her daughter, indicating cross voting in favour of him. Ms. Geeta was unhappy with the party high command. According to her, she is not being invited to party activities from the office. Gajapathinagaram former MLA K.L. Naidu too is reportedly not happy with the party’s functioning and opened his own office in Vizianagaram. Both Mr. Naidu and Ms. Geeta hailed from the Kapu community and were said to be the loyalists of former Minister Ganata Srinivasa Rao who is not active in party affairs after the 2019 elections.
10 December 2020||December 10 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||In muddy waters!||
10 December 2020||December 10 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Team effort||
10 December 2020||December 10 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Experts look for source of illness||Eluru Government Government Hospital (GGH) Superintendent A.V. R. Mohan said about 10 patients with illness were admitted in the hospital in the last few hours and they were recovering. “The patients are recovering fast and their health condition is stable. There is no threat to life of any patient,” Dr. Mohan, who is also the District Coordinator of Hospital Services (DCHS), told The Hindu on Wednesday. Dr. Mohan said 93 doctors from the neighbouring districts were deputed to West Godavari district, about 82 medical camps had been set up and the paramedical staff and ward secretariats were continuing house-to-house survey in Eluru and surrounding areas. AIIMS, New Delhi, Emergency Health Care head Jamshed Nair said that more blood samples and other samples were sent to the laboratory and the results were expected in 48 hours. “The sudden convulsions are due to lead, nickel and organochlorine, which were causing epilepsy, breathing problem, seizures, vomitings and dizziness. The symptoms are common in almost all the patients,” said Dr. Kiran. Joint Collector Himanshu Shukla said 587 cases had been reported so far, 515 were discharged and 33 were referred to Guntur and Vijayawada GGH. About 24 cases were reported on Wednesday, he said.
10 December 2020||December 10 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pulling all strings||
10 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||No technical measures, only quick-fix solutions to deluge||The newly-laid road on the Palle Cheruvu bund appears as if the embankment never overflowed. The breach of Medikunta lake has been filled up and now anglers sit on it during the day, trying to catch fish. A little distance away is the Shukoorsagar lake, which has receded but still hundreds of homes in Osman Nagar area remain under water. Draining water At the peak of the flooding in Osman Nagar, an NGO brought an ambulance loaded with 5-inch green pipe and parked it near the bund. “We have hired a motor pump that will be used to drain the water. We have applied for permission to Jalapally Commissioner to allow us to drain the water without affecting the sluice gates,” said Mazher Ahmed who runs an NGO in the area. The permission was denied and a day later, a small channel was created to drain the water. That was clearly not sufficient and still much of the area remains under water. At Medikunta lake, residents took matters into their own hands and filled up the breach that was flooding water onto the road going towards the Pahadi Shariff Dargah. Now, brisk work is going on to reclaim land from the lake on all its sides with earth-movers deployed on every side. No scientific solutions Instead of officials from Irrigation Department stepping in to provide scientific solutions, the residents have come up with their own mechanisms to deal with the urban flooding. At Osman Nagar, residents blame what they call ‘firangi nala’ for their problems. “I was one of the first persons to move into this area. We built the house away from the line marked by officials but now water is up to the roof of my house,” says a resident. “It is diversion of water from the firangi nala that has flooded the area. Unless that is stopped, we will never be able to go back to our homes,” the resident adds. At the Palle Cheruvu, pipes have been laid to drain the water of the lake instead of opening up the sluice gates near the temple. The result: much more land will be available for development activities on the lake bed. It is these stop-gap arrangements that may hold the key to Hyderabad’s water infrastructure.
10 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Flood relief distribution shrouded in mystery||Uncertainty continues to haunt the distribution of relief amounts to the flood-affected, even while GHMC, through a press statement, sought to assure that the distribution is on. The statement issued through the GHMC Public Relations department, but not signed by the GHMC Commissioner, said, for the past two days, 17,333 applications have been received for flood relief and an amount of Rs. 17.33 crore has been distributed. On Tuesday, a total of 7,939 persons have applied and Rs. 7.39 crore has been distributed, while on Wednesday, Rs. 9.39 crore has been distributed to 9,394 applicants, the statement said. All the amount has been deposited in the bank accounts of the beneficiaries, affirmed officials. The statement has, however, kept mum about the channel of receiving applications, and about the areas where the relief was distributed. It may be noted that several people who thronged to the Mee Seva Centres in various localities on Monday, were turned away, and a statement was issued by the GHMC saying a field survey was in progress to identify the flood victims for distribution of relief. It urged people not to come to Mee Seva centres. No rejections Under such circumstances, it remains a mystery where and how the applications for flood relief are being accepted and scrutinised. As per the information disseminated by GHMC, the distribution is 100 per cent without any rejections. Officials say, under the condition of anonymity, that the applications might be those pending from before GHMC elections, when the distributions was stopped abruptly, owing to instructions from the State Election Commission. The moot question, however, is why the statement was issued by GHMC when the distribution was not being done through the corporation. No clarity has been given to the Zonal and Circle level officials about the fresh process to identify beneficiaries. However, they have been alerted to the possibility of a fresh survey in flood-affected areas. “We are yet to receive instructions and guidelines from the government about the field survey. But we have been asked to keep teams ready for identification of beneficiaries who had not been given the relief earlier,” informed a Deputy Commissioner unwilling to be identified.
10 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Rush for COVID-19 vaccines should not be at cost of safety’||Founder of vaccine manufacturing company Shantha Biotechnics, K.I. Varaprasad Reddy on Wednesday cautioned against rushing through with the regulatory approval processes for COVID-19 vaccine candidates. Speaking at the TiE Global Summit 2020 on ‘COVID-19 Vaccine: How soon is soon? Is there an alternative?’, he said vigorous scientific evaluation is important. While the pace of development of vaccines may be faster, the regulatory aspects have to be examined at every stage. There should be enough scientific data available to give comfort to the people, he said, pointing to the significance of vigorous scientific evaluation of the vaccine candidates. He said the Influenza vaccine came after two decades – of the 1918 Spanish flu – around 1940, while Ebola vaccine took five and a half years and chickenpox vaccine took 22 years. Scientists are under pressure, following the COVID-19 outbreak, to come out with a vaccine, he said, stressing the need for the regulators to still not to rush with the approval processes. “Earlier, we used to wait and study the medicines for a long time, going through different stages of trials and scientific evaluation. There is not enough scientific data to give us comfort. There is no publication of data on clinical trials [of COVID-19 vaccines] in scientific journals and its review. All we know is just [information] coming through news reports,” he said. Noting that there are several questions that remain unanswered about the safety, efficacy, cold storage, distribution, handling, training of personnel who will administer the vaccine, who is going to foot the bill and who gets the vaccine first, Mr.Reddy called for a blueprint, with an emphasis on equitable distribution. Given that almost all vaccine candidates are likely to be two-dose vaccine, India, with a population of 1.3 billion, would required 2.6 billion doses. With 15% wastage normal, this would translate into 3 billion vaccine doses. Thus, in this kind of situation, there would also be need to curb hoarding, black marketing and counterfeiting. Hasty statements by those in authority about the date by which the vaccine would be available are a great disservice to the public, he said, adding the vaccines will come only by the middle of 2021 or the latest by April. The Shantha Sanofi vaccine – Shantha Biotechnics is a Sanofi company – will come by end of 2021, he added. The TiE Summit, on the second day, had a number of sessions lined, including an address by Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal. He said Delhi NCR has 7,000 active startups, the highest in the country. The valuation of startups is estimated at $50 billion and the city is adding one Unicorn every year since 2013. In the first six months of 2020, 109 startups were founded in Delhi, he said, listing out the plans of the government for hand-holding and aiding growth of startups. Delhi government, he said, is in an advanced stage of coming out with a new startup policy.
10 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Aadhaar services resume at select post offices||Aadhaar services, including new enrolment and updation, have been resumed at 27 identified post offices under Hyderabad south-east division. These post offices are: Station Kachiguda head post office, Hyderabad jubilee head post office, Amberpet, Bahadurpura, Falaknama, GSI Bandlaguda, Keshogiri, L.B. Nagar, Malakpet Colony, P&T Colony, R.K. Puram, Rajendranagar, Sahifa, Saidabad, Saroornagar, Shalibanda, Shamsabad, Uppal, Saidabad Colony, Vanasthalipuram, Meerpet, HPS Post office, I.E Nacharam, Hayathnagar, New Nallakunta and Mankhal post office. Aadhaar camps at different residential colonies /institutions /offices in collaboration with colony associations are also being taken up wherever minimum 40 enrollments can be done and suitable accommodation along with basic amenities are provided to the operating. One such Aadhaar camp is scheduled to begin on Thursday at Quadria International Organization, Quazipura in collaboration with Ahmed Ul Hussaini Sayeed Quadri, president, Quadria International Organization. Citizens are requested to utilize the services during office working hours at above post offices by bringing any one of the listed 80 documents like birth certificate, SSC certificate, passport, photo ID, PAN card, CGHS card, and Central / state pension payment order, said a press release by Senior Superintendent of post offices Vishnu Ambareesh. Post Bank India Post Payments Bank (IPPB) services are also available with its doorstep banking services, utility payment bills like electricity bills, recharge of bills, gas booking, online payments of department recurring deposits, monthly payments, Aadhaar enabled payment services (AEPS) and Jeevan Pramaan Services for the benefit of pensioners at the door step of the aged pensioners, he said. Most beneficiary schemes for future of girl child is SSA (Sukanya Sammriddhi Yojana), which can be opened with a minimum of Rs. 250 which can also be claimed as tax exemption under 80C. With annual premium of Rs. 12 PMSBY accounts can be opened for accidental insurance of Rs. 2 lakhs and PMJJBY account with annual payment of Rs. 330 towards death insurance of Rs. 2 lakh. APY guarantees minimum pension scheme to subscribers aged between 18 and 40 years. Life Insurance with low premium and high bonus returns is offered under postal life insurance to all government employees, professionals and for rural population under the rural postal life insurance. For more information and to seek camps, contact 040-23463800 / 9440158050, the release added.
10 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Gopi Chand’s guided meditation sessions for badminton coaching||India’s chief national badminton coach P. Gopi Chand has added a new dimension to this coaching armoury by launching guided meditation sessions ‘Dhyana for Sports’ here on Wednesday. “The sessions in the app include ‘uniting your inner self’, ‘winning instincts’, ‘gratitude’, ‘stillness’, ‘visualisation’, ‘strengthening discipline’, ‘pre and post work-outs’ and ‘end of the day’ which are tailor-made for athletes in assisting them to monitor and analyse their state of meditation. And, this is done with the help of a Dhyana wearable ring that is capable of measuring the constant variation in milliseconds, which, along with advanced algorithms, simplifies a meditation session in three core tenets,” Mr Gopi Chand said. The app is built with emphasis on ensuring sporting excellence by helping the athletes be mentally tougher and better prepared for challenges,” he informed mediapersons here. “The guiding principles for this Dhyana for Sports are breathing, focus and relaxation. The analysis tells a user how deep and focussed their breaths are, provides an intelligent guide in the app’s interface that understands the user’s emotional state and trains them to concentrate. There is a live wave that visualises the state of mind,” he explained, adding, “The calmer the mind, the more tranquil the wave.” Experimentations over the past six months with regard to the app have been successful, thanks to CEO of Dhyana, Bhairav Shankar (MD of Avantari Technologies), he pointed out. Speaking on the mechanism, the former All England champion said the meditation-tracking feature can also be accessed without the ring in the ‘Dhyana Lite’ mode where a finger placed over the smartphone camera can give the user information related to their HRV and other data. “Soon, we will come out with other sports discipline-specific programmes,” Mr Gopi Chand asserted. The set of carefully curated guided meditation sessions for athletes is designed by the badminton coach based on his experience, Mr. Bhairav said, adding that Mr Gopi Chand has also lent his voice to each session. SAI athletics coach N. Ramesh also spoke about the utility value of the app. Those interested may visit www.smartdhyana.com for details.
10 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||IICT coordinating with other labs for new corona drug||There is a new development on the promising Molnupiravir drug discovered by Emory University, and being developed by biotechnology firm, Ridgeback Biotherapeutics, in collaboration with multinational, Merck, said to be working well against COVID-19 within 24 hours of oral intake. The new synthetic process for the drug is being being indigenously developed by the National Institute for Interdisciplinary Science and Technology (NIIST), Thiruvananthapuram, and the Indian Institute of Integrative Medicine (IIIM), Jammu. CSIR-IICT here is coordinating with both the labs on the modalities of scale-up in partnership with interested industries. CSIR-Director General Shekhar C. Mande has been quoted as stating that discussions are on among various stakeholders to consider taking up human trials for Molnupiravir as the virus transmission was found to be blocked in ferrets (mammals) after taking the anti-viral drug. CSIR-IICT Director S. Chandrasekhar said drugs to combat the coronavirus will be needed for treatment of those who get the viral infection, even if the promising vaccines are going to be cleared for approvals in the country in the weeks ahead to vaccinate the vulnerable sections first. Tackling load efficiently Molnupiravir is shown to be tackling the viral load efficiently and the CSIR-IICT will be waiting for the clearance from the CSIR top leadership for taking preparation of the chemical in its ‘Kilo Lab’ before it passes onto the industry for mass production following due regulatory protocols. “If we go by how the drug regulatory authorities have cleared Remdesivir and Favipiravir - repurposed drugs processed by IICT and handed over to the industry earlier this year - the same trend of fast approvals are likely to continue under the current pandemic,” he observed.  “Vaccines are preventative in nature and as we all read, it may give protection to most, but not all. Pfizer and Moderna vaccines based on RNA are new processes and may not be easy to be replicated though the World Health Organisation (WHO) may declare them to be essential to save lives,” the director said.
10 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Marginal rise in COVID cases for second day||COVID-19 cases increased marginally in Telangana for the consecutive second day. Of the 51,402 samples which were put to test on Tuesday, 721 were found positive for coronavirus while results of 684 persons were awaited. This is the highest number of daily cases this month. The numbers started to drop from November 19. Between December 1 to 5, not more than 640 cases a day were recorded despite 50,000 to 60,000 tests performed on a daily basis. However, on December 7 and 8, as many as 682 and 721 cases, respectively, were detected despite high number of tests. This increase was observed in Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC) region. After elections to GHMC were held on December 1, senior officials in the Health department anticipated a possible spike. Political leaders and cadres in large numbers participated in campaigning and polls where COVID-19 precautions such as physical distancing and masks were not observed. The officials had earlier said that it would take a week for a person to develop symptoms. However, sources in the Health department said the marginal increase on Monday and Tuesday was due to a high number of cases among COVID frontline workers. “Earlier, everyone demanded tests. But party cadre did not respond despite us making it clear that tests could be conducted easily,” sources said. The new 721 cases on Tuesday include 123 from GHMC region, 58 from Medchal-Malkajgiri, 51 from Rangareddy and 47 from Warangal Urban. Apart from GHMC, the cases are on rise in Warangal Urban too. Zero cases were recorded in Narayanpet and Jogulamba Gadwal.
10 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Construction worker with benign tumour in jaw operated on at OGH||A 38-year-old man whose lower jaw was maligned because of non-cancerous tumour was operated upon at the Osmania General Hospital (OGH). The patient will be discharged on Thursday. Doctors replaced the lower jaw bone using fibula-long bone from his left leg. Blood vessels, too, were taken from the leg to re-establish blood circulation. The surgery, which costs Rs. 6-10 lakh at private hospitals, was performed free of cost at the government hospital, under Arogyasri Health Scheme. The patient, who resides in Malakpet Ganj, is a construction worker. He was suffering due to the benign tumour for past three years. Though he consulted a dental surgeon, the issue was not resolved. He then consulted OGH Plastic Surgery department a month ago. OGH doctors took a sample of the tissue from the affected part and sent it for biopsy after which they ruled out cancer. Since the benign tumour originated in the lower jaw, the part had to be removed. Head of the Plastic Surgery department Lakshmi Palukuri said the jaw bone was reconstructed using fibula. Skin and blood vessels, too, were taken and reconnected with blood vessels in the neck using microvascular surgical technique. “Two teams performed the surgery for nearly 15 hours around two weeks ago. The patient is now able to take fluids using straw. He will regain jaw function. We will be able to put teeth too after six months to a year. He will be discharged on Thursday,” Dr Lakshmi said, adding that this form of surgery was performed for the first time at OGH and was successful due to team work.
10 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Support centre for CRPF warriors to be opened||An idea of creating a support centre for Central Reserve Police Force (CRPF) warriors, who became physically challenged persons fighting enemies, is becoming reality today (Thursday). Union Minister of State for Home G. Kishen Reddy will inaugurate National Centre for Divyang Empowerment (NCDE) here on the campus of CRPF’s group centre in Jawaharnagar of Hakeempet in Ranga Reddy district. With dedicated teams of doctors and physiotherapists, the NCDE will help CRPF personnel, who suffered serious wounds during operations, re-energise themselves. Professionals from different fields and prominent sports personalities will train and groom Divyangs to improve their mental and physical health. NCDE has an IT laboratory with courses of different levels and para-sports facilities. Memorandums of Understanding were signed with BITS Pilani-Hyderabad, Society for Cyberabad Security Council (SCSC) and others to impart training to CRPF divyangs. Twenty-four CRPF divyangs, who sustained grievous wounds during combat operations, from different parts of the country would be trained at NCDE. It will be a home away from home for divyangs with facilities like accommodation for families, fitness centre, e-Library, meditation centre, prosthetic limb correction centre and audio-visual laboratory.
10 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Sonia strengthened the hands of common man’||Congress leaders and cadre celebrated the birthday of AICC president Sonia Gandhi, describing her as sole reason for the formation of Telangana and also for bringing in some bold laws during the UPA regime, strengthening the hands of the common man and ensuring work to millions of people on a daily basis. Since Ms. Gandhi called for low-key celebrations in view of the ongoing farmers’ strike, the party leaders chose not to cut cakes or garland the statues but distributed saris among oor women across the state. TPCC president N. Uttam Kumar Reddy led the celebrations at Gandhi Bhavan distributing saris and recalling Sonia Gandhi’s services to the nation. He said but for Sonia Gandhi, Telangana wouldn’t have been possible and she was the reason for the 60-year dream for a separate state coming true. Marking the day, December 9, which was also the historic occasion of the announcement of Telangana, MP and AICC secretary Madhu Yashki convened a meeting. CLP leader Bhatti Vikramarka, former Ministers Ponnala Lakshmaiah, Geetha Reddy, Balaram Naik, former MP Anjan Kumar Yadav, TJC president, M. Kodandaram Prof. P.L. Vishweshwer Rao, senior journalist K. Sreenivas Reddy, Addanki Dayakar and Sravan Dasoju were among those present. Mr. Vikramarka slammed the TRS government for turning Telangana into a “undemocratic state” and pushing it into debt-trap. After taking Rs. 3 lakh crore loans in the last six years the government was not even in a position to give salaries to employees on time. Mr. Madhu Yashki said KCR had promised to make a Dalit first CM but had conspired to ensure that a Dalit did not even function as first Opposition leader, by snatching Congress MLAs immorally and illegally. “Why are intellectuals silent on Telangana?” he asked. TPCC working president Revanth Reddy distributed saris at Uppal and said she had empowered women in all spheres and it was her dream to ensure reservations to women even in Parliament. Ponnam Prabhakar celebrated her birthday in Husnabad, recalling her sacrifice in the formation of the new State. Former Minister Mohammed Ali Shabbir in a statement said Sonia Gandhi had empowered the poor and common citizens of India by enacting several legislations.
10 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Pay minimum time scale wages to sweepers: HC||Telangana High Court on Wednesday directed State government to pay minimum time scale salaries to sweepers working in Panchayat Raj schools. Justice Abhinand Kumar Shavili of the HC passed this direction after hearing a writ petition filed by T. Anjaiah and 40 others. They were working as sweepers in PR schools of Karimnagar, Jagityal, Adilabad, Nirmal, Nalgonda, Yadadri Bhongir and Suryapet. The petitioners’ counsel G. Srinivas told the court that the petitioners were being paid wages ranging from Rs. 1,623 to Rs. 4,000. The government was not paying them minimum time scale wages as per the Supreme Court directions, he told the court. Issuing notices to the government, the judge instructed it to file counter affidavit in the matter. The petition was posted after four weeks for next hearing.
10 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||FGG seeks Governor’s intervention in graft cases||The Forum for Good Governance (FGG) has urged Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan to instruct Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar to review the pending cases of the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) and see “if permissions can be given within a month of requests being made for prosecution.” In a communication to the Governor, a copy of which was released to the media on Wednesday, Mr. Padmanabha Reddy, secretary, charged that in Telangana there is “no fear of punishment for wrong doing among the government officials” because section officers “twisted note” carries more weight than the “painstaking report” of the ACB Director General. There are close to 300 cases of either traps or those of disproportionate assets in various departments of the Secretariat, mainly belonging to Revenue, Municipal Administration, Transport and Home. Whenever ACB registers a case of trap or disproportionate assets, a detailed report is sent to the government to prosecute the accused. However, it has been noticed that few cases go to the prosecution stage because the section officers’ note files is taken as final word and senior officials do not even bother to study the file concerned, he said. “This kind of protection is encouraging corruption,” said Mr. Reddy.
10 December 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||AI direct flight to Chicago from Jan.15||Air India will be starting its direct, non-stop flight between Hyderabad and Chicago effective January 15, operating with Boeing 777-200 aircraft, with seat capacity of 238 , the GMR Hyderabad International Airport has announced on Wednesday. Hyderabad-USA-Hyderabad, has been the largest unserved passenger Origin & Destination (O&D) market between India and the US, with a potential of over seven lakh passengers annually. It also offers proximity for passengers originating from the nearby Vijayawada, Visakhapatnam, Nagpur, Bhubaneswar, Rajahmundry, Bhopal, and Tirupati among others, said an official spokesman. The current annual air cargo tonnage in Hyderabad-USA market segment is pegged at 22,000 MT and growing 8% annually so this flight could play vital role in providing logistic support to transport COVID vaccines.
10 December 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Four die in road accident (page four briefly)||Four persons died when the car they were travelling in along with two others overturned near Gudigandla of Makthal police station area in Narayanpet district on Wednesday. The victims were identified as Yellaiah, 55, Govindamma, 50, Sharada, 56, and Harika, 22. They along with driver Vinod and three-year-old Sravik were going from Hyderabad to Raichur to a hospital when the accident occurred in the morning.
10 December 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Fire at cotton ginning mill||The fire that broke out at a private cotton ginning mill at Matoor village in Madhira mandal on Tuesday night was brought under control after a strenuous fire-fighting operation that lasted till the wee hours of Wednesday. Though none was injured in the incident, heaps of processed cotton and cotton gin trash stored in a godown on the premises of the Manjit cotton ginning mill were gutted, sources said. The fire-fighters had managed to prevent the fire from spreading to other godowns and blocks housing a large quantity of cotton bales and costly machinery on the mill premises after completely dousing the flames by deploying three fire tenders during the overnight operation led by District Fire Officer A. Jaya Prakash. A preliminary inquiry suggested that an electric short-circuit sparked the fire in one of the blocks of the mill, sources added. The loss of property is estimated to be worth a few lakhs and a detailed investigation is underway to determine the exact cause.
10 December 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||IMA protest against ‘mixopathy’||: The Indian Medical Association (IMA) Khammam branch is gearing up for making the countrywide stir called by national IMA for withdrawal of non-essential and non-COVID services by all members of the fraternity of modern medicine from 6 a.m. to 6 p.m. on December 11 against “mixopathy”, a success across the district. The national IMA has given a call to this effect in protest against the recent notification by the Central government to allegedly allow surgical operations by Ayurveda practitioners and the formation of four committees by the NITI Aayog in an “attempt” at “mixopathy.”
10 December 2020||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Sagar by-poll: all eyes on Jana Reddy||The untimely death of TRS legislator in Nagarjunasagar, Nomula Narsimhaiah, earlier this week, has created a vacancy, necessitating a by-poll, a third in the State since the TRS formed its second-term government in December 2018. As per Representation of People Act, 1956, under Section 151 A, the by-election shall be held within six months of occurrence of the vacancy. And in the case of Nagarjunasagar Assembly constituency, the end of May 2021 will be the deadline. However, parties have already started to work out their equations. For Bharatiya Janata Party, which won the Dubbak bypoll victory and improved performance in GHMC polls, Nagarjunasagar has not been a favourite place. It was not in the fray in 2014. And in 2018, its candidate K. Nivedita won just 2, 682 votes (1.48%) and stood fourth, even after Central ministers had campaigned. With the death of Narsimhaiah, who had garnered 46.33% votes for TRS, the party’s considerations may be along the lines — “probably a member of the bereaved family on humanitarian grounds,” as cited by some leaders, and a winnable candidate. But for Nagarjunasagar, Congress giant Kunduru Jana Reddy is considered a ‘kingmaker’ even before the election. The 74-year-old’s move now, “whether he joins BJP, or make his son join BJP, or if the TRS welcomes him with a ‘big heart’, or he remains a loyal Congressman despite the party’s all-time low” assumes significance. Mr. Jana Reddy’s decision would be pivotal for all the three major parties: the Congress, the BJP and the TRS. TRS hopes that its ‘plan A and B’ candidates, hand-picked by Mr. KCR, would win the battle in the erstwhile Congress’ fort. But BJP cannot look anywhere else than Jana Reddy. Mr. Jana Reddy is a seven-time legislator from Nagarjunasagar (known as Chalakurthy constituency till 2008).
10 December 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Singur backwaters cut off ryots from fields||For Gunte Rajappa and several other farmers of Peeparpally village in Raikode mandal, going to work on their farms is a great risk which they have to take daily. But, they have gotten used to the problem since the past three decades or so. A stream adjacent to Peeparpally flows into Singur project and whenever the reservoir is filled the backwaters reach the other side of the village, cutting off the residents from their fields. Some 70 farmers till close to 200 acres on the other side of the village and as the water cuts off the connectivity, the villagers use makeshift rafts made of thermocol sheets to reach their fields. “It is dangerous always. Recently my son and three of his friends had a close shave when they fell into the water. Several such incidents had taken place in the past. A bridge across the stream has been sanctioned long ago but no work has been taken up so far. Both Congress and TRS claimed that they got the work sanctioned but none took the responsibility to complete it,” Mr. Rajappa told The Hindu adding that scores of farmers have been moving on thermocol sheets every day risking their lives. On February 18, 2019, a foundation stone was laid for the construction of bridge at an estimated cost of Rs. 3.15 crore with National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) assistance. The bridge has not been completed for reasons best known to the officials. “We face this problem whenever the Singur reservoir is full. During summer, part of the water will be cleared as it water is released from the reservoir. Even then the problem is will totally addressed as there is some water in the stream. The only permanent solution is construction of a bridge. We wish that officials should respond at the earliest,” said Hari, a native of that village.
10 December 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Stitching their way to a dignified life||A. Susheela is in her 40s and differently-abled. She lost her husband long ago and is staying with her son, studying in Class X, in a house allotted to people like her at Kandi mandal headquarters. Ms. Susheela works at Divyanga Solar Society located in the old DRDA Office. She comes to the office by autorickshaw. For her, duty starts at 10 a.m. and ends at about 5 p.m. On an average she stitches about eight dresses and is paid a salary of Rs. 5000 per month by the society. More than 50 differently-abled women are working with the society. The society has also hired three persons to cut the dresses. The society was established a few years ago to offer some work in manufacturing solar lamps and LED lights. However, as the business slowed down they shifted to stitching work. With the active support of Collector M. Hanumantha Rao, they had stitched about 2,000 dresses last year. As they were able to prove their capability they were offered the work of stitching dresses for students of all Kasturba Gandhi Balika Vidyalay (KGBV) in the district. They got a total order of more than 20,000 dresses to girl students. For each student they stitch two dresses. “As the competition has increased we are unable to compete with the market and searched for alternatives. We have decided to take up the job of stitching and Mr. Hanumantha Rao has cooperated with us by getting orders from KGBV schools and we have completed the orders,” said Jubeda of the Divyang Solar Society.
10 December 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Convention on applied mechanics at GITAM||The three-day 65th Congress of the Indian Society of Theoretical and Applied Mechanics (ISTAM-2020) was inaugurated at GITAM on Wednesday. It is being organised by the Department of Mathematics and Mechanical Engineering of GITAM in association with IIT Kharagpur. Prof. K. Marithi Prasad, convenor, in his opening remarks, highlighted the importance of the first ISTAM online International Conference on Applied Mechanics. “Computing is going to shape engineering. There is the enormous impact of computing, Artificial Intelligence and such things,” opined Prof. Rajat Moona, Director, Indian Institute of Technology-Bhilai and chief guest. He released the souvenir and delivered a technical session on ‘high-performance computing by using mechanics’. G.P. Raja Sekhar, president, ISTAM briefly explained the evolution of ISTAM and its role in nurturing the young minds to achieve specific targets. M. Sri Bharat, president, GITAM chairing the online inaugural session, explained briefly about GITAM and expressed his keen interest to take up joint research projects. Prof. N. Siva Prasad, Pro Vice-Chancellor, GITAM, Hyderabad also spoke .
10 December 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||BRF||Police have registered a case against Patancheru MLA Gudem Mahipal Reddy under SC/ST Atrocities Prevention Act. According to sources, Mr. Mahipal Reddy had abused a reporter of a vernacular daily for allegedly writing about a land-grabbing case along NH 65. He had allegedly threatened the reporter with dire consequences. Based on the reporter’s complaint, the case was filed and police are investigating. Meanwhile, journalists held dharnas at several places over the MLA’s behaviour.
10 December 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||KCR to inaugurate party office in Siddipet today||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao will inaugurate and lay the foundation for several developmental works in the district headquarters on Thursday. On Wednesday, Finance Minister Harish Rao along with Collector P. Venkatrami Reddy and Commissioner of Police Joel Davis supervised the arrangements for the Chief Minister’s visit. The Minister appealed to people to make the public meeting that would be addressed by Mr. KCR at the government degree college a grand success. He said that he was fortunate to witness the construction of 2,400 houses meant for the poor. These double bedroom houses will be formally handed over to them on Thursday. The Chief Minister will lay the foundation stone for construction of an IT Tower sanctioned for the district at Duddeda at an estimated cost of Rs. 45 crore, which is expected to provide employment to about 2,000 people. Rythu Vedika, constructed at a cost of Rs. 22 lakh for Mittapally cluster farmers, will be inaugurated, which would also benefit farmers of Ellupally, Rangadhampally and Boggulonibanda. The Government Medical College constructed at a cost of Rs. 715 crore in 2.99 lakh sft will also be inaugurated. This includes residential accommodation for students and faculty. After the formation of a separate Telangana State, Mr. KCR announced formation of new districts for better administration. He also announced setting up of a medical college in Siddipet. Also, the underground drainage system to treat 7.25 MLD sewage water will be inaugurated. Among other programmes, the guest house constructed at Ranganaiksagar will be opened by the CM along with TRS party office, Telangana Bhavan, the first such in a district.
10 December 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Aadhaar comes in handy for selection of 2BHK beneficiaries||The 2BHK houses that were constructed and ready for inauguration on December 10 are envy for others. The houses have all facilities — piped gas supply to the kitchen, round-the-clock water supply, underground drainage, playground for children, grocery shops, hair saloon, CC roads and a police outpost. This is the first such facility for the poor in the State in G+ 2 mode. Many people had applied for these houses. Weeding out the ineligible became a Herculean task. For instance, K. Ramaiah (name changed) applied for allotment of the double bedroom house. Officials collected the Aadhaar card details of the person and checked with those already available with them. The result was that it had shown a receipt of tax paid by him for a house in the city. In another case, when the data of an applicant was checked, it showed that the person had purchased a residential plot near Siddipet at about Rs. 20 lakh. Not only in Siddipet and Hyderabad, the data was checked even in the neighbouring districts to ascertain the financial status of applicants. “Selecting beneficiaries has become a tough task. We considered various parameters to select genuine people. Aadhaar details of applicants were being checked to ensure that only the eligible were selected,” Finance Minister Harish Rao said.
10 December 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||BRF||Adding one more feather in the cap of Siddipet, the government has sanctioned a bypass road at an estimated cost of Rs. 160 crore. The road will be constructed for a distance of 76 kilometres from Ponnala Rajiv Rahadari to Duddeda and will be named after Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao. It will reduce the distance for people coming from Husnabad for about 15 to 20 kilometres, and will also be useful for those going to Karimnagar, Warangal, Hyderabad and Medak.
10 December 2020||STAFF REPORTER,TELANGANA||Waqf Board amenities for devotees at dargahs||The Telangana State Waqf Board at a meeting of its members on Wednesday resolved to construct toilets at the famous Jahangir Peera Dargah for the convenience of visitors and worshippers. A board meeting attended by members Syed Shah Akber Nizamuddin Hussaini Sabri, Mirza Anwar Baig, Z H Javed, Dr Sofia Begum, Abdul Waheed, Maulana Nisar Hussain, Mallik Motasim, and chaired by Mohammed Saleem passed the resolution in presence of Chief Executive Officer Mohammed Khasim. Apart from the Jahangir Peera Dargah, the board also resolved to construct toilets at Dargah Yakoob Shaheed in Warangal. TSWB Chairman Mohammed Saleem issued instruction to the staff to ensure that devotees do not face harassment at the dargahs. He also said that the dargahs should provide grave space for burial of bodies free of charge. Mr Saleem also said that the process of reconciliation of waqf records with revenue records is in progress. As many as 77 items were on the agenda on Wednesday. The board passed resolutions to constitute 23 managing committees to oversee the administration of waqf institutions such as mosques and dargahs, and six mutawallis for other waqf institutions were also appointed. The meeting saw two new properties being registered as waqf.
10 December 2020||YADADRI-BHUVANAGIRI,TELANGANA||‘Focus on improving employment opportunities of nomadic people’||The departments concerning development and welfare of nomadic communities, among Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and Backward Classes, must focus on improving employment opportunities to strengthen people socially and financially, member of DWBDNC in the Department of Social Justice and Empowerment, Turka Narsimha, said on Wednesday. Enquiries made Interacting with officials from the three departments here, the Development and Welfare Board for De-Notified, Nomadic and Semi-Nomadic Communities (DWBDNC) member enquired if intended beneficiaries from the community are provided with job opportunities, loan and subsidy facilities. Mr. Narsimha also asked officials if children from any of the communities in the caste groups were admitted to State government residential hostels, and whether priority was accorded to the members in the various State welfare schemes, among others. Rs. 10,000 cr. budget He informed that the Central government, through the special welfare board, has taken up development initiatives for nomadic communities with a budget of Rs. 10,000 crore, and urged officials to give special attention. Financial help Collector Anita Ramachandran informed Mr. Narsimha that as per 2018-19 figures, a total of 33 persons from DNCs in the district, were given Rs. 50,000 per head as financial assistance through the BC Corporation.
10 December 2020||Mumbai,||5,111 more recoveries, 4,981 new cases recorded in Maharashtra||Maharashtra’s COVID-19 tally on Wednesday rose to 18,64,348 as it recorded 4,981 new cases, a State Health Department official said. With 75 more fatalities, the State’s death toll has reached 47,902. A total of 5,111 patients were discharged from hospitals after treatment, taking the tally of recoveries in the State to 17,42,191. There are currently 73,166 active patients in the State. Surge in Mumbai division Mumbai city reported 716 new cases during the day, which pushed its overall case load to 2,87,898, while its death toll rose to 10,929 with 15 more deaths being reported during the day. Mumbai division, which comprises Mumbai city and its satellite towns, reported 1,441 new cases, which pushed the total case tally to 6,43,708. A total of 18,649 people have died so far in the region, the official said. The cumulative case tally in the Pune division stood at 4,64,638, while the total death toll at 10,992, he said. Nashik division’s cumulative case load stood at 2,52,076, and the total death toll at 4,637. Kolhapur division has so far reported 1,14,793 cases and 3,921 deaths, Aurangabad division 69,525 cases and 1,760 deaths, Latur division 76,494 cases and 2,314 deaths, Akola division 60,474 cases and 1,447 deaths, and Nagpur division 1,80,816 cases and 4,066 deaths, the official said. The State has so far conducted 1,14,47,723 novel coronavirus tests.
10 December 2020||Mumbai,||Schools for Classes V to VIII will reopen after State Health Dept. nod||The Maharashtra Education Department will allow reopening of schools for Classes V to VIII only after getting the approval of the Health Department, School Education Minister Varsha Gaikwad said on Wednesday. The State government had last month empowered district collectors and local authorities to decide onreopening of schools, which have been shut since March due to the COVID-19-induced lockdown, based on the situation in their areas. “Our department will discuss the issue of reopening schools with the Health Department. Once we get their approval, we will resume classes,” Ms. Gaikwad said. Major cities in the State — including Mumbai, Mumbai suburbs, Thane, Pune and Nashik — will be notified about the reopening of schools only after consultation with the Health Department, the Minister said. “We are consulting parents and local officials in this regard. Local officials have also conducted a large number of RT-PCR tests on school teachers and non-teaching staff before the reopening of schools,” Ms. Gaikwad said. At least three lakh students from Classes IX to XII have been attending schools in 25 districts since November 23, the Minister said, adding that the figure has increased to five lakh as per a review taken last week.
10 December 2020||Mumbai,||HC extends all interim orders till January 31||The Bombay High Court on Wednesday extended all interim orders relating to eviction, demolition and dispossession passed by courts across Maharashtra and Goa till January 31 in view of the COVID 19 pandemic. The direction is in continuation of the High Court’s previous orders that all such orders will remain in abeyance till January 31. A Bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta along with Justices A.A. Sayed, S.S Shinde and KK Tated was hearing a suo motu petition. The plea said, “To ensure that persons suffering orders of dispossession, demolition, and eviction are not inconvenienced by reason of disability to approach the courts of law because of the restrictions on movements, we consider it just to extend the interim orders passed by this court on this writ petition till January 31, 2021, or until further orders, whichever is earlier.”
10 December 2020||Mumbai,||NCB seizes drugs worth Rs. 2.5 crore; two arrested||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) has arrested two suspected suppliers of drugs from separate areas in Mumbai during raids in the drugs case linked to actor Sushant Singh Rajput’s death and seized charas worth Rs. 2.5 crore, an official said. The official claimed it was the “biggest seizure” in the drugs case linked to Rajput’s death in which his girlfriend Rhea Chakraborty is an accused. She is currently out on bail. The arrested accused are identified as Jinendra Jain alias Rigel Mahakal and Mohammad Azam Jumman Shaikh. Mr. Mahakal was picked up late Tuesday night after raids in areas , including Lokhandwala, by an NCB team led by its zonal director Sameer Wankhede. His name had cropped up during questioning of some drugs peddlers in the case. He allegedly used to supply drugs to Anuj Keshwani, also an accused in the case.
10 December 2020||Mumbai,||MVA govt. names rural prosperity scheme after Sharad Pawar||The Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government on Wednesday decided to name a rural prosperity scheme after the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief, Sharad Pawar, who celebrates his 80th birthday on December 12. The State Cabinet has approved the Sharad Pawar Gram Samridhi Yojana, which will be a combination of the National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme and the Maharashtra State Employee Guarantee Scheme. The scheme aims at transforming the rural economy by doubling farmers’ income by 2022. The scheme will prevent rural migration by providing individual and collective work such as constructing cattle stables, goat farming sheds, poultry sheds and NADEP composting units. The Skill Development Department led by NCP Minister Nawab Malik will be holding an online employment mela with the aim of providing 80,000 jobs. Mr. Malik said youths can register themselves on the Mahaswayam website till December 12. “As of now over 40,000 jobs are available on the portal. We will ensure that the number is doubled,” he said. The MVA will telecast the birthday celebrations on December 12 at more than 350 locations in 36 districts. “The main programme will be held in Mumbai. Due to restrictions, many leaders and workers won’t be able to attend it. So we will telecast it throughout the State,” NCP State president and State Irrigation Minister Jayant Patil said.
10 December 2020||Mumbai,||Only one new case in Dharavi||The cumulative tally of COVID-19 cases in Dharavi rose to 3,736, with just one new infection being reported on Wednesday, a civic official said. The area had reported just one new case on December 4 too. Of the 3,736 COVID-19 patients, 3,410 have already recovered, while there are 15 active cases. Spread over 2.5 square kilometres, Dharavi is considered to be the largest slum in Asia with a population over 6.5 lakh.
10 December 2020||MUMBAI,||Maldives appoints new Honorary Consul||The Republic of Maldives has appointed technocrat-turned-entrepreneur and philanthropist Bobby Mohanty as its Honorary Consul. The President of India has ratified the appointment and his jurisdiction is Mumbai. India-Maldives bilateral trade now stands at $290.27 million, with the trade balance is in favour of India. However, the present level of commercial exchanges and trade has almost stagnated, needing an effort to boost trade and investment. Indian exports to Maldives include medicines, radar apparatus, rock boulders, aggregates, cement and agriculture and poultry produce. Mr. Mohanty will strive to enhance trade, investment and diplomatic ties between the two countries in key areas.
10 December 2020||New Delhi,||‘Stir to continue till better sense prevails’||Following hours of deliberations at a tile showroom serving as a makeshift meeting hall, which is a short distance from the bustle of the highway occupied by agitating farmers, 41 leaders representing them declared that the ongoing protest would continue till “better sense prevailed” on the Central government. Moreover, they stressed that the agitation would “intensify” over the coming days with efforts being made to bring more farmers from across the country to the gates of New Delhi to send a louder and clearer message about their resolve. ‘No compromise’ “We have ruled out all amendments to the Farm Laws and there is nothing less than their being repealed that we will settle for. The agitation will continue and intensify further,” Prem Singh Bhangu, president of All India Kisan Federation, announced after the meeting. “The government will have to accede to our demand and repeal the three black laws; there is no other way that the agitation will end,” said Harjinder Singh of the Azad Kisan Sangharsh Committee, Punjab. Farmers’ confident Despite being aware that another discussion aimed at breaking the deadlock between 31 representatives and Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Tuesday evening had been inconclusive, leading to the cancellation of the sixth round of talks between them and the Centre scheduled for Wednesday, most farmers exuded confidence about the laws being repealed sooner or later. Not long after homage was paid, and two minutes’ silence observed, to honour the memory of around a dozen farmers who had lost their lives over the last four months while participating in the agitation a rousing call was made to gather more reinforcements aimed at increasing both the length and breadth of the existing gathering on the highway from the biggest stage at the protest site. Farmers said India’s reputation is being hit across the world and “international pressure” on the Centre to remedy the situation would pave the way forward. Others warned they would not only march to New Delhi but also “even beyond” to achieve an end to the Farm Laws. “Farmers and those too from Haryana and Punjab are double jeopardy for this government – we don’t believe in stepping back, we only move forward,” said Amolak Singh from Tarn Taran. “We will march to Maharasthra if required but not an inch backward,” said Jagdeep Singh. “We are used to getting up and bathing with cold water at 4 a.m. to go for daily prayers; their water cannons can do nothing to us,” said Manvinder Singh from Doda. “As far as their smoke bombs are concerned, our boys have flung the ones thrown on them from open jeeps as soon as they land when they tried to stop us 12 nights ago,” he said.
10 December 2020||New Delhi,||One entry to Kejriwal’s house closed, restrictions still on: AAP||AAP national spokesperson Raghav Chadha said that one entry to party chief and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal’s residence remained closed even on Wednesday. “Today [Wednesday] also, in a way, there is a restriction in his [Mr. Kejriwal’s] right to free movement. One door was opened yesterday [Tuesday] evening. But on Wednesday also, on directions of Home Minister Amit Shah, Delhi Police has put restrictions on Arvind Kejriwal’s movement,” Mr. Chadha said. He termed the situation as an unannounced “emergency”. Delhi Police is under the ambit of the Central government. On Tuesday morning, AAP had alleged that Mr. Kejriwal was kept “under house arrest” by the “Central government’s Delhi Police”, a claim which was denied by the police. Later on Tuesday evening, Mr. Kejriwal had met party leaders at his residence and said that he wanted to go to the border to support the farmers, but the Central government did not allow him to go. “The entrance that everyone uses to enter the CM’s residence and meet him remains closed even now. Access to that entrance has been blocked as 4-5 members of the BJP are camping outside the CM’s residence with active assistance from Delhi Police. The CM’s right to free movement, which is a fundamental right, has been curtailed. It is for all of the media to see,” Mr. Chadha said. Not afraid’ “For the act of lending his voice, his might, his support to the farmers, for being a ‘sewaadaar’, why would the ‘chowkidaar’ have any problems at all? The BJP can try all their tactics, but you should know that no matter what you do, we ‘sewaadaars’ will never be afraid of the ‘chowkidaar’,” he added.  Access to that entrance has been blocked as 4-5 members of the BJP are camping outside the CM’s residence with active assistance from Delhi Police Raghav Chadha AAP national spokesperson
10 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||International kingpin held for forgery, cheating and criminal conspiracy||Delhi police arrested an international kingpin, Naresh Jain, for offences of cheating, forgery and criminal conspiracy, said a senior police officer on Wednesday. O.P. Mishra, Joint CP (Economic Offences Wing) said that the case was registered on the complaint filed by Enforcement Directorate, wherein it is alleged that Naresh and his accomplices were carrying out illegal activities, such as large-scale money laundering, hawala transactions, FEMA violations etc. Forged documents were used for getting dummy companies incorporated, opening and operating bank accounts and getting mobile connections for carrying out the sham transactions. The syndicate has been operating off-shore bank accounts opened in the name of shell companies in countries like Hong Kong, Singapore and Dubai, etc. Based on the FIR registered by the EOW, the Enforcement Directorate also initiated proceedings under the provisions of PMLA. “During investigation, we found that hundreds of trading and tour travel companies and firms were incorporated in the name of persons recruited by him for the purpose of carrying out the circular trading, accommodation entries to show bogus turn over and hawala transactions. It has emerged that the bogus entities were being run from offices opened at various obscure places in Delhi with multiple entities registered at common addresses,” said Mr. Mishra. The accused was carrying out the activities in conspiracy with the unscrupulous importers/exporters against hefty commissions. Such importers procure false ‘Bills of Entries’ from foreign exporters at very low rates to evade the import duties and pay the substantial balance amount towards such imports through the bank accounts of the shell companies being operated/controlled by Naresh and his associates, he added.
10 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Minor held for creating fake profile of ex-Miss India||Delhi Police apprehended a 17-year-old boy was from Rajasthan for allegedly creating a fake profile of a former Miss India on a social media platform and sharing obscene posts about her, the police said on Wednesday. The woman, a resident of Greater Kailash here, lodged a complaint that someone had created a fake account of hers on Instagram using her name and pictures and was also sharing obscene comments and posts about her. The complainant also alleged that the accused was threatening her, the police said. During investigation, it was found that the account was being operated from Chittorgarh in Rajasthan, a senior police officer said. “On Monday, the accused was apprehended from Chittorgarh. The mobile phone and SIM card used in the commission of crime were recovered from his possession,” Deputy Commissioner of Police (South) Atul Kumar Thakur said. The accused used to make such fake profiles on social media platforms and used to send obscene messages and remarks from those. His motive was to get more followers, the police also said.  The accused used to make such fake profiles on social media platforms and used to send obscene messages and comments from those Delhi Police
10 December 2020||New Delhi,||BJP MPs, MLAs sit with Mayors outside CM’s house||Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MPs and MLAs on Wednesday sat with the Mayors of the three municipal corporations who continued to camp outside Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal’s official residence for the third consecutive day here. This, even as the party lodged a police complaint against Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia and Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) leader Durgesh Pathak, alleging that they were conspiring to kill corporation leaders. The complaint was filed citing a video clip featuring both Mr. Sisodia and Mr. Pathak. “Who are we to beat the Mayors? The BJP has a habit of mixing random audios with random videos to defame and malign the image of the people. But they cannot divert attention from the issue of farmers. If they think that they will do all this to divert attention from the Farm Laws issue, then they are wrong,” Mr. Pathak said. Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta, North-East Delhi MP Manoj Tiwari, East Delhi MP Gautam Gambhir and the BJP legislative party consisting of eight MLAs including, and led by Leader of Opposition Ramvir Singh Bidhuri visited the protesting Mayors to express solidarity and extend their support to them. “The fight for the interests of Delhiites and the rights of corporation employees will continue till the corporation gets the outstanding funds,” Mr. Gupta said. “Durgesh Pathak, a member of the Political Affairs Committee of his party, threatened to kill these Mayors in the presence of Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia. The Chief Minister should apologise immediately in this matter,” Mr. Bidhuri, said.
10 December 2020||New Delhi,||North civic body waived Rs. 2,457 crore of SDMC||AAP on Wednesday alleged that the BJP-ruled North Delhi Municipal Corporation had waived Rs. 2,457 crore of the SDMC. “MCD employees are not getting salaries and this is happening due to corruption, incompetence and financial mismanagement of the BJP. The BJP has manipulated the money of the taxpayers and this is completely unacceptable,” AAP leader and party’s municipal corporation in-charge Durgesh Pathak said.
10 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Mayors and Kejriwal indulging in shadow-boxing’||The Delhi Congress on Wednesday said that the Mayors of the BJP-ruled municipal corporations of Delhi and Delhi Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal were indulging in shadow-boxing by levelling charges and counter charges to cover up their failures and fool people. Delhi Congress chief Ch. Anil Kumar said the Mayors’ dharna outside the official residence of the Chief Minister, seeking Rs. 13,000 crore due to the civic bodies from the Delhi government and the Chief Minister’s claim that he was detained in his house by the police, were staged to divert the people’s attention from the farmers’ protest. “The Chief Minister’s refusal to meet the Mayors protesting outside his house, and then claiming that the police had put him under home detention to prevent him from joining the nationwide bandh called by the protesting farmers was a big lie. Neither does he want to clear the dues nor support the farmers’ cause openly,” Mr. Kumar said. He alleged that the MCDs were short of funds despite a BJP government at the Centre, and the corporations having several sources of income due to corruption.
10 December 2020||New Delhi,||Two arrested with drugs worth Rs. 10 cr.||A 40-year-old Nigerian national, along with an Indian woman, was arrested at New Delhi railway station for allegedly carrying drug worth over Rs. 10 crore in international market, the police said on Wednesday. The accused have been identified as Chima Vitalis, a resident of Nigerain, and Srimathi (25), who belongs to Tamilnadu, they said. Amphetamine, weighing 10.5km, was meant to be supplied in Bengaluru, Karnataka, for the rave parties to be held on the eve of New Year, the police also said. The Nigerian national had come to India eight years ago, the police said.
10 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Online Lok Adalat to settle power-theft cases||BSES Rajdhani Power Limited on Wednesday announced that it is organising an online Special Lok Adalat for an amicable on-the-spot settlement of power-theft cases in south and west Delhi.
10 December 2020||Pune,||Bison strays into residential area in Pune; dies after rescue||A gaur (Indian bison) strayed into a residential area in Pune city on Wednesday, triggering panic. The animal died after being captured by a forest team, officials said. At 7.30 a.m., locals spotted the animal in Mahatma residential society in Kothrud area and alerted the forest department, he said. A team of police personnel were also deployed to control the crowd which came out to see the animal. “The forest team used tranquilisers and managed to rescue the bison around 1 p.m.,” another forest official said, adding that the animal had some injuries on its mouth and it will be given medical aid before being released into a forest. However, the bison later died. “The death is not because of injuries, but it could be because of high stress and an increase in body temperature of the animal,” Divisional Conservator of Forests Rahul Patil said. He added that they are trying to ascertain the exact cause of death.
10 December 2020||December 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Virus on the prowl||
10 December 2020||December 10 2020 00:00 IST,||U.S. Supreme Court rejects bid to overturn Pennsylvania result||The U.S. Supreme Court on Tuesday dismissed a case filed by allies of President Donald Trump seeking to overturn the results of the vote in Pennsylvania, which Democratic candidate Joe Biden won by some 81,000 votes. The case, filed by U.S. Congressman and Trump ally Mike Kelly of Pennsylvania and Republican lawmakers from the State, argued that a 2019 State law, which expanded vote-by-mail, was unconstitutional because it was not enacted with a constitutional amendment. Court order The Supreme Court’s one sentence rejection of injunctive relief for the plaintiffs did not note any dissents. “The application for injunctive relief presented to Justice Alito and by him referred to the Court is denied,” the order read. Mr. Trump, who has made numerous unsubstantiated claims on widespread electoral fraud, has been banking on the conservative-heavy Supreme Court, hoping that the three judges he put on the bench, including Amy Coney Barrett who was appointed days before the election, would come through for him. The court’s decision came on a day when the election’s ‘safe harbour’ deadline was reached — a date by when States have the option of securing (from Congressional scrutiny) the results of the vote, having settled all election disputes. The U.S. Congress will meet on January 6 to officially count the 538 Electoral College Votes. Mr. Biden has 306 votes while Mr. Trump has 232 votes; 270 votes are needed to win the election. Texas case   The State of Texas brought a lawsuit on Tuesday to the Supreme Court asking for the vote in four key battleground states won by Mr Biden to be overturned, arguing that the states had unlawfully expanded mail-in voting due to the coronavirus pandemic.  The case, announced by the State’s Republican Attorney General, asks that the court block Georgia, Michigan, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin from using the results of the election to appoint electors to the Electoral College, which votes on December 14 to formally confirm the next President of the United States. Texas has also asked for this date to be pushed back.
10 December 2020||December 10 2020 00:00 IST,||‘U.S. will keep raising issues like CAA’||The U.S. government has and will continue to raise issues like the Citizenship Amendment Act (CAA) with the Modi government, U.S. Ambassador at Large for International Religious Freedom Sam Brownback told reporters on Tuesday during a call to discuss the State Department’s annual designation of countries on the basis of their support for religious freedom in their territories. The U.S. Commission on International Religious Freedom (USCIRF), an independent bipartisan committee, had recommended that India be added to the ‘Countries of Particular Concern’ [CPC] list — countries with the most egregious violations of religious freedoms. The State Department, which makes its own annual determination of religious freedom across the world, had, however, rejected the recommendation on India when the list was announced earlier this week. Private discussions Mr. Brownback was responding to a question that asked about the changes to India’s citizenship laws and why India was not designated a CPC. “There were several recommendations made by the commission that the Secretary did not follow, and this was one of them. And we watch the situation in India very closely. The Secretary’s travelled there multiple times. These issues have been raised in private discussions at the government — high government level, and they will continue to get raised,” Mr. Brownback said. “I can’t go into the decision-making process that the Secretary went through. He’s well aware of a lot of the communal violence that’s happening in India; he’s well aware of the statute that has been enacted and the issues associated with the Modi government. And as I said, he’s raised it at the highest levels, but just decided at this point in time not to place them on a CPC or a Special Watch List.” Countries on the list On Monday U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo had announced that Myanmar, China, Eritrea, Iran, Nigeria, North Korea, Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, Tajikistan, and Turkmenistan would be on the CPC list, while Comoros, Cuba, Nicaragua, and Russia were placed on a Special Watch List for having engaged in or tolerated “severe violations of religious freedom”. Responding to another question on whether the U.S. was showing “favouritism” by placing Pakistan, but not India, on the CPC list, Mr. Brownback said that in Pakistan, a lot of the religious freedom violations were done by the government, while in India, some of it was done by the government but “much” of it was communal violence. Communal violence “Pakistan — a lot of their actions are done by the government. In India, some of them are done by the government and the law that was passed, and much of it’s communal violence. And then when that takes place, we try to determine whether or not has there been effective — been police enforcement, judicial action after communal violence takes place,” the diplomat said. Mr. Brownback said half of the world’s people that are locked up for apostasy or blasphemy were in Pakistani jails. “That doesn’t mean that India doesn’t have problems.” “The statute that you talked about or that was asked about earlier is a problem. The violence is a problem. We’ll continue to raise those issues, but those are some of the basis as to why Pakistan continues to be on the CPC list and India is not,” he said.
10 December 2020||London,||Good deal is still possible with EU, says British PM Johnson||Prime Minister Boris Johnson on Wednesday said a post-Brexit trade deal was still possible, as he prepared to head to Brussels to meet European Commission chief Ursula von der Leyen. “A good deal is still there to be done. I look forward to discussing it with Commissioner von der Leyen tonight,” he told Parliament. But Mr. Johnson undermined hopes of a breakthrough by again taking aim at European efforts to ensure Britain still abides by competition rules after January 1. The so-called level playing field has been a key stumbling block in the talks, as has the extent of EU access to British fishing waters. Mr. Johnson said Brussels’ proposals on fishing would mean Britain would be “the only country in the world not to have sovereign control over its fishing waters”. “These are not terms that any Prime Minister of this country should accept,” he told lawmakers in his weekly question and answer session.  Britain formally left the EU on January 31, nearly four years after a referendum on membership that divided the country and paralysed politics. The end of a transition period, designed to allow both sides to thrash out the terms of their new relationship, is approaching on December 31, making agreement on a deal more urgent. Whatever happens, Britain will leave the European customs union and single market. Mr. Johnson said deal or no deal, the country will “prosper mightily”. By retaking control of U.K. money, borders and laws, “we will seize all of the opportunities that Brexit brings”, he said.
10 December 2020||Dubai,||UAE approves Chinese COVID-19 vaccine||The United Arab Emirates on Wednesday officially registered the coronavirus vaccine produced by Chinese drug giant Sinopharm, saying it was 86% effective according to analysis of third-phase trials. The Health Ministry “has announced the official registration” of the vaccine, state news agency WAM said, without elaborating on how it would now be used. The vaccine has been undergoing third-phase trials in the Emirates since July, and it was approved for emergency use for healthcare workers in September. “The announcement is a significant vote of confidence by the UAE’s health authorities in the safety and efficacy of this vaccine,” WAM said. UAE health officials have reviewed Sinopharm’s interim analysis of the third-phase trials which shows it is 86% effective against coronavirus, the report said. “The analysis also shows the vaccine to have 99% seroconversion rate of neutralising antibody and 100% effectiveness in preventing moderate and severe cases of the disease. “Furthermore, the analysis shows no serious safety concerns.” China has four vaccine products in the final stages of development, three of which — including Sinopharm — use an inactivated form of the novel coronavirus to boost immunity. This means they only need to be refrigerated and can be easily distributed compared to jabs developed by rivals Pfizer and BioNTech or Moderna, which have reported efficacy of 95% and 94% respectively but need to be transported at minus 70 to 20 degrees Celsius. However, Chinese drugmakers have not released any data on their vaccines' safety or efficacy.
10 December 2020||Islamabad,||Pak. Oppn. lawmakers plan to resign en masse||The political crisis in Pakistan has deepened after an 11-party Opposition alliance announced that its lawmakers will resign en masse by the end of this month from Parliament to paralyse the government and force Prime Minister Imran Khan to call early snap polls. The decision was taken after the Pakistan Democratic Movement (PDM), formed in September this year to overthrow the government, held a marathon meeting in Islamabad. PDM chief Maulana Fazlur Rehman announced on Tuesday night that a consensus was reached on resigning from Parliament. “All lawmakers will submit their resignation letter to their party chiefs by 31st December,” he said, flanked by PML-N leader Maryam Nawaz and PPP chief Bilawal Bhutto Zardari. The exact timing of stomping out of assemblies would be decided later, Mr. Rehman said. Soon after the election in 2018, he had urged the Opposition leaders not to take oath to join Parliament due to alleged rigging. But his idea was overruled by others, chiefly by the Pakistan Peoples Party (PPP) and the Pakistani Muslim League-Nawaz (PML-N). The PPP government in the Sindh province was considered as a hurdle as it was not sure if that it would sacrifice its government to help the Opposition alliance. The leaders also agreed to go ahead with a rally in Lahore on December 13 as a show of power to the government. It will be the sixth rally after similar gatherings held in Gujranwala, Karachi, Quetta, Peshawar and Multan, which attracted a huge number of people despite hurdles created by the government.  Imran stands firm Prime Minister Imran Khan rejected the demand to step down or call early elections and consistently advocated that the Opposition was protesting to put pressure to stop probes in corruption cases against their leaders. Speaking to a group of senior journalists and columnists on Tuesday, he said that “by-election will be held on the vacant seats” and no concession would be given to the protesting parties.
10 December 2020||Paris,||Macron unveils draft law to tackle ‘radical Islamism’||President Emmanuel Macron on Wednesday sought his Cabinet’s blessing for a draft law aimed at combatting “radical Islamism” after a spate of attacks, which critics fear risks targeting all Muslims. Mr. Macron argues the legislation is needed to shore up France’s staunchly secular system but the plan has further stirred up social tensions over the consequences for Europe’s largest Muslim community. “The enemy of the Republic is a political ideology called radical Islamism, which aims to divide the French among themselves,” Prime Minister Jean Castex told Wednesday’s edition of Le Monde . He argued that rather than targeting Muslims it aimed to “free Muslims from the growing grip of radical Islamism”. The legislation will be discussed at a Cabinet meeting at the Elysee Palace with Mr. Castex announcing the outcome in the early afternoon. But the government’s staunch defence of the foundations of the French state that date back to the French Revolution has caused unease even among allies, with the U.S. envoy on international religious freedom saying he was concerned by the legislation. “There can be constructive engagements that I think can be helpful and not harmful,” Ambassador Sam Brownback told reporters. “When you get heavy-handed, the situation can get worse,” he said. ‘Republican values’ The text was originally titled the “anti-separatism” bill, using a term Mr. Macron uses to describe ultra-conservative Muslims withdrawing from mainstream society. Following criticism of that term, it is now called a “draft law to strengthen republican values”, mostly secularism and freedom of expression.
10 December 2020||Tehran,||Iran says ready to return to nuclear deal||Iran is ready to return to full compliance with a 2015 nuclear deal with major powers as soon as the other parties honour their commitments, President Hassan Rouhani said on Wednesday. The agreement between Iran and major powers has teetered on the brink of collapse since outgoing U.S. President Donald Trump pulled out of it in 2018 and reimposed crippling unilateral sanctions. US President-elect Joe Biden has expressed readiness to return to the agreement. “Just as soon as the 5+1 or 4+1 resume all of their commitments, we will resume all of ours,” Mr. Rouhani said. He was referring to the five veto-wielding permanent members of the UN Security Council plus Germany with whom Iran reached the nuclear deal.
10 December 2020||December 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Netanyahu’s rival mounts a challenge||A leading rival of Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu in the right-wing Likud party resigned from Parliament on Wednesday to challenge the premier in polls which could be held as early as March. Gideon Saar, an influential figure in conservative Israeli politics, had challenged Mr. Netanyahu in a Likud leadership race a year ago, but decisively lost the primary. With a Netanyahu-led coalition now edging towards collapse, risking a fourth Israeli election in less than two years, Mr. Saar announced his break with Likud and his plans to form a new party. “I will create a new movement with the goal of replacing Netanyahu,” Mr. Saar said in a virtual press conference late on Tuesday. He officially resigned from Israel’s Parliament, the Knesset, on Wednesday, ahead of embarking on his “candidacy for Prime Minister”, a statement said. It is not yet clear if Israelis will again head to the polls in 2021, but two Members of Parliament have already announced they will run with Mr. Saar.
10 December 2020||December 10 2020 00:00 IST,||The reality of an India at the crossroads||Individual events are often an indicator of broader trends. Any vision of the future is again significantly linked to what is taking place in the present. For now, most if not all, of what is taking place does not seem to hold out any great promise for India.  Policymakers need not take public opinion as the sole indicator of what is likely to happen, but it is important to acknowledge public fears and reassure people, especially in periods of uncertainty. Increasingly, in recent weeks, India has begun to resemble a war zone, but neither any reassurance nor any attempt at building a ‘consensus’ addressing current concerns is taking place.  Meanwhile, the world press is replete with stories of India’s ‘diminishing democracy’ in which, apart from the organs of state, even India’s highly regarded criminal justice system and the courts have come in for a share of criticism. This is beginning to shake the confidence of even the most die-hard supporters of Indian democracy, who are beginning to look inward to try and ascertain if Indian democracy is more fragile than is apparent.  State of economy, world ties India cannot afford to ignore the reality of the situation in which it finds itself. The Indian economy is in recession, and is among the worst performing among major nations. Among key currencies, the Indian Rupee is one of the very few which is depreciating, while the Euro, the Australian and Canadian Dollars, the South Korean Won and the Swiss Franc have become much stronger recently. India also claims to be among the worst affected by ransomware attacks. Meanwhile, India is turning increasingly protectionist, coming up with banal explanations to explain this away, contrary to conventional wisdom.  In the meantime, the atmospherics surrounding India’s external relations are quite depressing. China remains intransigent and has made known its unwillingness to reach a reasonable settlement of the Line of Actual Control dispute. India-Pakistan relations could hardly be worse and China has chosen at this moment to sign a new Military Memorandum of Understanding to boost the China-Pakistan relationship. India’s forays in its Near Abroad in West Asia are yet to yield results, even though, on the surface, relations with the United Arab Emirates (UAE) and Saudi Arabia are better. The reality, nevertheless, is that India does not have enough traction to be able to manoeuvre between different power centres in West Asia which are at various times in conflict. Consequently, India will find it increasingly difficult to steer between the Scylla of Saudi Arabia, the UAE and Egypt on the one hand and the Charybdis of Turkey, Qatar and Iran on the other.  Signs of rigid policies Far more serious, however, are concerns being voiced about India’s democratic credentials both within the country and abroad. India might well claim that the numbers of terror attacks have reduced, levels of Maoist violence have come down, and the situation in India’s Northeast is much better than before, but many people across India are seeking proper answers to the question as to whether India is forfeiting its democratic visage for a more doctrinaire and a more rigid set of policies. In August-September last year, this issue had briefly surfaced when Delhi decided to dilute Article 370 of the Constitution, and restructure Jammu & Kashmir (J&K) and Ladakh into two Union Territories. It possibly passed muster at the time as something that was already included in the ruling party’s manifesto.  Concerns, however, began to be felt soon after, in the wake of the clampdown in Kashmir, and the incarceration of almost the entire top leadership of the Peoples Democratic Party and the National Conference party. The anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act protests across the country thereafter seemed to confirm such fears. Compounding this situation lately has been the attempt to impose a sort of ‘guided democracy’ in J&K, through the instrument of elections to the District Development Council, in the course of which the Opposition Alliance has been smeared with epithets such as “unholy global gathbandhan ” working against the national interest, etc.  Electoral wins at any cost What is evident today is that every election — whether to State Assemblies, District Councils, or even local panchayats — are turning into conflict zones, leading to extremely tense situations. In many instances, they have become tinderboxes for communal, caste, political and other forms of violence. Winning at any cost has become the sole motif of certain parties, especially India’s principal political party. While States such as West Bengal and Uttar Pradesh feature prominently in the media in relation to cases of communal and political violence, the reality today is that no State is exempt from this pattern of aggressive electioneering.  Apart from political polarisation, arousing feelings of majority versus the minority have become the stock-in-trade of some parties in elections. Encouraging majoritarian attitudes obscuring ground realities, has hence, become a pernicious trend. The recently conducted elections to the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation was a classic example. Employing majoritarianism as a tactic, incidentally leading to a polarisation of votes, did produce electoral dividends — but it comes at a high cost. Such tactics cannot but have serious consequences for India as a secular democratic republic.  The coarsening of India’s democratic fabric is again well-evident in several other areas. Constitutional protection and principles of natural justice as also freedom of the individual, all seem to be coming under strain lately. One bizarre aspect is the current campaign against ‘Love Jihad’, a term which finds no mention in any lexicon. On the pretext that ‘Love Jihad’ is a euphemism for conversion, and some States have taken legal steps to prevent it. New laws have also been enacted to enforce this diktat. All this despite the existence of judicial pronouncements declaring the inherent right of any individual to choose whom to marry, irrespective of caste, religion or creed.  Equally worrisome is the extent to which India seems to be regressing when it comes to the treatment of political prisoners in jails. The plight of Jesuit priest, Father Stan Swamy, a victim of Parkinson’s disease, which made the headlines is only one instance. Many other cases have come to light, demonstrating an increasingly indifferent and disdainful approach towards political prisoners, especially those perceived to oppose the prevailing order. Labelling dissenters as urban naxals and the like, and being indifferent to their plight when in custody, marks a sharp decline from past democratic practices.  Social media clampdown India may not be the leading country when it comes to disinformation threats, but under the label of fighting fake news and the social media’s pernicious use of fake news, India is beginning to clampdown on social media platforms and enact draconian laws towards this end. Kerala, a Left bastion, even sought to introduce an ordinance mandating a jail term for any offensive social media post, making the police the arbiter to determine the nature of social media abuse. Fortunately, this has been withdrawn, but the genie is out of the bottle and quite a few States appear to be contemplating similar measures against fake news. Farmers’ protest If the perception that India is becoming an illiberal democracy where dissent is at a discount needs any reinforcement, one has only to look to the groundswell of protests against the new Farmers’ Bills. This has galvanised a very substantial segment of farmers across the country and also provided an opportunity to Opposition parties to combine and back the nationwide Bharat Bandh by farmers on December 8. This is yet another instance of imposing a measure without due discussion and acceptance by those affected. The most vivid images flashed across India today are those of farmers from the Punjab and nearby environs, laying a near siege to the National Capital.  The farmers’ protest has become a cause célèbre today. Initially, Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau expressed sympathy with the Punjab farmers, but adding further grist to this was the joint letter signed by 36 British Members of Parliament to the U.K. Foreign Secretary Dominic Raab and the comment by Stéphane Dujarric, Spokesperson for the Secretary General of the United Nations that “people have a right to demonstrate peacefully, and authorities need to let them do so”. The Indian diaspora in the West is currently backing the farmers’ movement. Far more than how matters turn out is the impression this conveys of an India that is intent in pursuing its pre-determined course of action, paying little heed to peoples’ demands and protests, much in the nature of autocratic and dictatorial regimes rather than a democracy. M.K. Narayanan is a former National Security Adviser and and a former Governor of West Bengal
10 December 2020||December 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Thousand days of nutrition, and a billion dreams||How far India goes in realising its billion plus dreams over the next decade or two will be determined by how well it nourishes the physical well-being and mental potential of its people, particularly its children. If one has to pick the single gravest threat that blocks the promise of this young nation at the foundational level, it has to be arguably malnutrition. Malnourished children tend to fall short of their real potential — physically as well as mentally. That is because malnutrition leaves their bodies weaker and more susceptible to illnesses. In 2017, a staggering 68% of 1.04 million deaths of children under five years in India was attributable to malnutrition, reckoned a Lancet study last year (https://bit.ly/3m1rT8P). Heavy burden Children who survive malnutrition do not do as well as they could. Without necessary nutrients, their brains do not develop to the fullest. No wonder then, they end up performing poorly at school than they otherwise would. Malnutrition places a burden heavy enough for India, to make it a top national priority. About half of all children under five years in the country were found to be stunted (too short) or wasted (too thin) for their height, estimated the Comprehensive National Nutrition Survey, carried out by the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare with support of UNICEF three years ago (https://bit.ly/33ZQdll). The country has been making progress on nutrition for the last two decades, but it was after the Prime Minister launched the Prime Minister’s Overarching Scheme for Holistic Nutrition (POSHAN) Abhiyaan in 2018, that a holistic approach to tackle malnutrition started gathering momentum. Under it, the government strengthened the delivery of essential nutrition interventions so that more children have the right start in life for optimum growth, health, development and a prosperous future. Post-COVID challenges As the flagship programme (POSHAN Abhiyaan) completes 1,000 days this week, it is time to renew our commitment to nutrition for two reasons. First, because it conveys the deeply symbolic value of the first 1,000 days from conception of a child till the child turns two years old, marking the most crucial period for nutrition interventions in a lifecycle, which once missed could result in irreversible damage to the child’s physical and mental well-being. Second, focus on nutrition is critical as COVID-19 threatens to derail the gains India has made in nutrition in more than one way. For one, COVID-19 is pushing millions into poverty, reducing incomes of many more and disproportionately affecting the economically disadvantaged, who are also most vulnerable to malnutrition and food insecurities. Second, pandemic-prompted lockdowns disrupted essential services — such as supplementary feeding under anganwadi centres, mid-day meals, immunisation, and micro-nutrient supplementation which can exacerbate malnutrition. It is in this challenging backdrop, leaders from academia, civil society, development partners, community advocates and the private sector have come together as part of ‘commitment to action’ to seek and support the government in a six-pronged action that can save and build on the advances India has made in nutrition. These clear action points include commitments around sustained leadership, dedicated finances, multi-sectoral approach and increased uninterrupted coverage of a vulnerable population under programmes enhancing nutrition. One reason POSHAN Abhiyaan succeeded in galvanising action so fast was because it was led by the Prime Minister himself. That example must be sustained so that leadership of food and nutrition security rests with the Prime Minister at the national level, a Chief Minister at the State level, a district magistrate at the district and panchayat at the village level. This was already imperative for POSHAN Abhiyaan to succeed, but it has now become critical as COVID-19 compounds an already complex challenge. In terms of policies, vision, strategies, India already has some of the world’s biggest early childhood public intervention schemes such as the Integrated Child Development Scheme, the mid-day meal programme, and Public Distribution System. India needs to ensure coverage of every single child and mother, along with 12 months of Poshan Maah (Nutrition Month), 52 weeks of breastfeeding weeks and 365 days of take-home ration. Financial commitments To ensure this, the country needs to retain its financial commitments for the nutrition schemes it already runs and earmark additional funds to preserve nutritional security in vulnerable communities, particularly women and children in slum areas, migrants, the population in tribal areas and districts with malnutrition rates. Pandemic spurred challenges have also negatively hit other proven underlying drivers of malnutrition. For instance, economic insecurities often force girls into early marriage, early motherhood, discontinue their schooling, and reduce institutional deliveries, cut access to micronutrient supplements, and nutritious food which largely tend to be perishable, all of which may worsen malnutrition. Accelerating efforts to address these will be needed to stop the regression into the deeper recesses of malnutrition. However, to truly grasp the depth and breadth of the COVID-19-caused nutrition crisis, the country must track nutrition indices through data systems. Evidence generated through data will also serve well to track the positive impact of POSHAN Abhiyaan, and course correct on the long journey to a well-nourished India. It takes time for nutrition interventions to yield dividends, but once those accrue, they can bring transformative generational shifts. Filling in the nutrition gaps will guarantee a level-playing field for all children and strengthen the foundations for the making of a future super-power. Arjan De Wagt is Chief, Nutrition, UNICEF India
10 December 2020||December 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Why quarterly growth numbers are not robust||Analysts are surprised that GDP has contracted by only 7.5% in real terms in the second quarter of 2020-21 while it had declined by 23.9% in the first quarter. This welcome news has raised hopes of a quicker economic revival if there is no second wave of COVID-19 in the winter months. Whether or not this comes about depends on how correctly the quarterly numbers reflect the state of the economy. Doubts on this score have been raised at several levels. The Ministry of Finance, based on high frequency data, such as freight traffic, electricity consumption, GST collections and recovery of core sector production from the lows, has argued that the economy is rapidly recovering. The government’s press note announcing the Q2 GDP numbers also has a similar table. While all this is fine, there is less satisfactory news that is not contained in official pronouncements. Methodological issues In the press release, points 9 and 10 suggest that the full extent of data usually used to project quarterly growth rates were not available and so “some other data sources” were used. It admits that “these were clearly limited” and states that estimates are “likely to undergo revisions”. This was also stated in the press note when the Q1 numbers were announced. It is not clear why in spite of the economy unlocking since June, the data are still limited or why alternative data had to be used. Be that as it may, there are two implications of these statements. First, the data of Q1 and Q2 are not only not comparable with each other but also with the data for 2019-20. The shortcomings in the data cannot be rectified later since if the data were not available/ not collected, they cannot be obtained later. So, there cannot be certainty about the speed of economic recovery. Second, the method of calculation of quarterly growth rates was already flawed. Are these flaws getting aggravated due to the lack of routine data? The biggest flaw is that almost no data from the unorganised sectors, except for agriculture, are available to calculate the contribution of this component of the economy to the GDP. It was implicit in the method of estimation that this component could be proxied by the data from the organised sectors of the economy. This was never a good assumption. After the shock to the economy due to the lockdown, this is even less valid. Demonetisation in 2016 had already disrupted this link between the organised and the unorganised sectors. Now the disjuncture is much greater. Impact of a shock on estimation The non-agriculture unorganised sector was disproportionately impacted by demonetisation. This was a result of the fact that this sector consists of tiny units that work with cash. So the cash shortage impacted it far more than the organised sector which uses formal money markets, like banks, and can use digital transactions. So, the proportionality between the two sectors was disrupted. Further, small units with little capital exhaust it quickly if they are shut down even for a week. So, they find it difficult to restart. The effect was that the unorganised sector declined while the organised sector recovered. The trend was further aggravated by the implementation of the flawed Goods and Services Tax (GST) which favoured the organised sector, and demand shifted from the unorganised sector to the organised sector. It was not that the unorganised sector became formalised; it just withered. The growth of the organised sector since demonetisation has been at the expense of the unorganised sector. The higher growth rate of the economy actually masks the decline in the unorganised sector. For instance, higher GST collections reflect the growth of the organised sectors. As former Finance Minister Arun Jaitley had famously said, 5% of the units pay 95% of the GST. Clearly, growth of the economy has been much less than that what is implied by the official GDP numbers. The lockdown has aggravated this tendency of overestimation of GDP. A lockdown implies a voluntary shutdown of economic activity (but for production of essentials). It impacted both the organised and unorganised sectors of the economy. Most small and tiny units exhausted their working capital and are finding it difficult to revive. But this is not captured in official data which are based on limited organised sector data — the high frequency data quoted by the official agencies. In many instances, the organised sector is doing well at the expense of the unorganised sector. For instance, e-commerce has grown rapidly at the expense of brick-and-mortar stores since demand has shifted due to people’s fear of going out. So, while trade has declined, data will indicate growth since it is available only from e-commerce and big stores. In fact, the higher the growth shown in official data, the more it signals the collapse of small retail stores. All sectors of the economy have an organised and an unorganised component. For instance, one can buy branded Parle biscuits or from a local bakery. In the textile sector there are the branded items and the ones produced in power looms and handlooms. The capacity utilisation in this sector is reported to be about 70% to 80%. While the larger units started operations, the smaller ones are languishing due to lack of working capital. So, if the data are taken only from the larger units, there would appear to be normalcy and the decline of 20% to 30% will not be captured. Not all data are captured As the lockdown was eased, more of the organised sector was able to restart business but not the unorganised sector. Many businesses in the organised sector too have not been able to recover to last year’s level, such as education, health, hotels, airlines, travel and tourism. This has a knock-on effect on all kinds of small producers. Further, employment is hit and that means demand in the economy also does not recover and especially for the produce of the unorganised sectors. Much of this is also not captured since the data used are from the large units and the corporate sector data from the stock markets. In brief, the quarterly growth numbers are not robust and now more so due to the shock of the lockdown. So, while the economy is recovering, it is difficult to say how quickly because of non-comparability. The impression being created of a return to normalcy masks the crisis persisting in the lives of large sections of the citizenry. Arun Kumar is Malcolm Adiseshiah Chair Professor, Institute of Social Sciences, and author of ‘Indian Economy’s Greatest Crisis: Impact of the Coronavirus and the Road Ahead’
10 December 2020||December 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Stirring the pot in Venezuela||On a warm day in December, more than five million Venezuelan citizens went to poll centres across the country to vote in the legislative elections. Over 14,000 candidates contested 277 seats from over a hundred political parties. A third of the registered voters went to vote despite the pandemic, intimidation from the extremist opposition (which had boycotted the election), and the difficulties produced by the illegal U.S. sanctions (including shortages of fuel, which has hurt transportation networks). Venezuela’s Foreign Minister Jorge Arreaza said the day after the election that his country had completed a “peaceful journey” on the road to full democracy. The U.S. hand For the past decade, the U.S. has sought to undermine the normal operations of Venezuela’s democratic institutions, including its elections. It is the U.S. that pushed the extremist elements in the opposition to boycott all the institutions and urged the opposition to set itself up as a separate political pole, led by Juan Guaido. The National Assembly refused to recognise Nicolas Maduro’s victory in the 2018 presidential election. Calling the election rigged, Mr. Guaido, as chief of the National Assembly, challenged Mr. Maduro, supported by the U.S.  The leaders of the main opposition parties told me a few days before the December elections that they opposed Mr. Guadio’s extremism and the U.S.’s attempt to intervene in Venezuelan affairs. Timoteo Zambrano of Cambiemos said “if what was done to Venezuela was done to any other country, there would be outrage”. The duality of Venezuelan politics — between the elected officials and the U.S.-invented ‘government’ — needs to be “ended”. Even before the elections, U.S. government officials said the polls were fraudulent. It even sanctioned the most senior officials in the National Electoral Council (CNE) which oversees elections in Venezuela. Both the U.S. and the European Union released statements, with little evidence, saying that the elections were fraudulent. These statements have a stale air, written in terms that are highly ideological. The CNE reports that there was no violence during the elections, and the opposition leaders who participated in the election told me that they had no complaints of fraud. “The electoral system is not the problem,” said Anibal Sanchez, one of the leaders of Esperanza por El Cambio, an opposition evangelical party; “the problem is the normal unfairness of running against an incumbent”. State of the economy The final results gave the left and right opposition parties a third of the vote, with the remainder won by the United Socialist Party of Venezuela (PSUV), led by Mr. Maduro. On the night before the election, Mr. Maduro talked about why the opposition won a convincing victory in the legislative elections in 2010, when even the extreme opposition participated in the polls. There were many reasons why the opposition won then, many of them drawing from local disputes which is natural in a legislative election; but it was important for the PSUV to recognise, Mr. Maduro told me, that “we made mistakes. Let’s be clear”. Oil prices had collapsed, and the entire Venezuelan reliance upon dollars earned from the sale of crude oil meant that the social projects of the Bolivarian Revolution had begun to fail. This came alongside the tightened U.S. illegal sanctions pushed by the U.S. administrations of George Bush, Barack Obama, and Donald Trump. Now, with the low oil prices, the U.S. sanctions, and the pandemic, the Venezuelan government has had to be creative in salvaging productive economic activity and in fighting the pandemic. Residues of Chavismo – the great respect for Hugo Chavez personally and the commitment to the Bolivarian Revolution – fuel the movement of people to the polls and to reject the attempt to overthrow this government with a coup. The National Assembly will begin its term on January 5. This is 15 days before the new U.S. President Joe Biden will be inaugurated. It is unlikely that the U.S. will be able to make an attempt to overthrow the government in what Mr. Maduro calls the “dying days of the Trump presidency”. Leaders of the PSUV and the various opposition parties told me that they will rush to restrengthen the institutions of the Venezuelan state from January 5 and set a project in place before Mr. Biden begins what is expected to be his attack on Venezuela. Mr. Maduro said that he welcomes a dialogue with Mr. Biden. The U.S., he said, is welcome to withdraw the sanctions and to discuss how to move forward. This is unlikely, since Mr. Biden has already taken a forceful position against Mr. Maduro by calling him a “thug”. This is a pity. Vijay Prashad, Director of Tricontinental: Institute for Social Research, was an electoral observer for the CNE in Venezuela for the December 6 elections
10 December 2020||December 10 2020 00:00 IST,||New paradigm for Dravidianism||With the 2021 Tamil Nadu Assembly election approaching from the horizon, Dravidian politics might soon come face to face with one of its greatest modern-day challenges – Hindutva. With the recent visit of Home Minister and BJP leader Amit Shah to Chennai, it has become imperative to ask how the stalwarts of the Dravidian movement, the AIADMK and DMK, will deal with the challenge of the saffron party. Before delving into the present scenario, it is important to first grapple with the legacy of Dravidianism. When the DMK seized control of the political landscape in 1967, it may not have imagined that its ascendant philosophical chassis, which was premised on the assertion of a unique Tamil ethnic identity comprising linguistic, scriptural, and broader cultural nuance, would dominate the State for well over half a century. Flexible and accommodative The reasons for the resilience of Dravidian ideology are manifold and include, importantly, its deeply flexible and accommodative impulse. This allowed numerous Backward Classes and Scheduled Castes, comprising largely of small-property owners, to be pulled into the tent of the DMK’s ‘assertive populism’, a demanding, even strident, political movement that pushed back on the erstwhile hegemony of Brahminism, Hindi, the political diktats of a faraway New Delhi, and caste Hinduism. Mass welfare policies gained enormous momentum in parallel, and became entrenched, institutionalised forms of mediating redistributive conflicts at the State level. The innate flexible quality of Dravidian politics also allowed it to morph over time to tolerate, even encourage, political leadership of multiple vectors within its ambit. Thus, when M.G. Ramachandran broke off from the DMK and started the AIADMK, he was able to score remarkable victories at the hustings, premised upon a rainbow social coalition of Thevars, Dalits, and a smorgasbord of other middle castes. This nimbleness and capability for political innovation played a crucial role in sustaining the relevance of Dravidian philosophy through the turbulent economic reform years of the 1990s and 2000s. During this period, rapid industrial growth in the State went together with a shadowy system of resource expropriation, and that required bringing in and paying off a range of political players whose backgrounds varied from the ‘core’ leaders of the movement. The second biggest challenge However, if economic reforms towards modernisation comprised the first wave of challenges to Dravidianism, Hindutva, as practised by the Sangh Parivar and the BJP, comprises the second, and potentially greater gauntlet. This challenge comes at a time when, under the presidential-style politics practised by Prime Minister Narendra Modi, there is a tendency in some pockets to label any ideology that does not defer to Hindutva as anti-national and a threat to majoritarian religious identity. Today, Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi Palaniswami has risen from a relatively less-known status during the time of former Chief Minister Jayalalithaa and proven his capability to govern and bring succour to the people of the State across a broad swathe of policy issues, from flood management to fighting for more Central government funds in the battle against COVID-19. This puts the voters at a crossroads, and there is a choice that they must make between two options. The first is Dravidian politics, whose onus it will be to prove that it is attuned to socioeconomic modernity, yet preserves its commitment to mass welfare schemes and good governance and the idea of Tamil exceptionalism. The second is the idiom of national politics, and the greater space that it would afford to neoliberal market economics, Hindutva politics and a social policy essentially formulated in New Delhi. Next year could be an inflection point that shifts the needle on State autonomy and regional power, or it could be a reaffirmation of faith in the power of Dravidian politics to transform itself and Tamil Nadu to rise to the challenges of the century. narayan@thehindu.co.in
10 December 2020||December 10 2020 00:00 IST,||The road taken||By upholding notifications intending to acquire agricultural land for the proposed Chennai-Salem greenfield highway, the Supreme Court has both paved the way for completing the land acquisition process and sought to ensure that environmental clearances are obtained before its construction. It has ruled that it will be premature to expect the authorities to obtain environmental approvals at the stage of identifying the land linked to the proposed alignment of a highway, but, once the land was notified for acquisition and surveyed for feasibility, they would have to apply for all statutory clearances. It would be at the stage of entertaining objections that questions such as whether the project was truly a ‘public purpose’ could be dealt with. However, the land could be taken over and construction begun only after the competent authorities give their clearances, along with measures for mitigating and remedying possible environmental damage. The judgment of the Madras High Court, which had taken a nuanced position in favour of environmental protection, agriculture and preservation of rural livelihoods over the economic benefits of a new highway on virgin land, has been set aside in the process. The High Court had shown greater sensitivity to possible livelihood and ecological concerns. It had favoured early judicial intervention, relying on judgments from the U.S. that spoke out against letting projects advance to such a stage that there is irreversible commitment of resources. The three-judge Bench has now ruled that the High Court was wrong in holding that clearances under environmental and forest laws were required even before the initial land acquisition notice. It goes on to uphold the Centre’s power to notify any stretch of land, including greenfield land, and not merely a pre-existing road, as a national highway. As part of a growing body of jurisprudence on sustainable development, the top court had laid down in Karnataka Industrial Areas Development Board (2006) a general principle that in future, before acquiring land for development, the possible adverse environmental impact should be “properly comprehended” and the acquisition done in a way that did not impair it. In a departure from this dictum, it now says the statutory framework governing highways and the process laid down for acquiring land for highway projects did not provide for a prior clearance requirement. The Court’s line of reasoning based mostly on development-centric statutes is something of a disappointment when it could have taken, even at this stage, a holistic view of the need for sustainable development. True, it has left open the question whether the clearances obtained after the lands were notified for acquisition are valid; and the principle that construction of the highways cannot begin without such clearances also stays. But it is not inconceivable that the Court’s position may have rendered the project a fait accompli .
10 December 2020||December 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Testing limits||It has been a long cricketing summer Down Under for the Indian team and the current tour has another six weeks left. In these days of rush-hour cricket, the previous template of early arrival and languid warm-up matches no longer holds relevance. But the need to be in bio-bubbles during the pandemic demands that teams land a fortnight in advance, go through their mandatory health-checks before being medically certified to play. India arrived in Australia on November 12 and in the intervening period played three One Day Internationals (ODIs) and three Twenty20 Internationals (T20Is). Australia seized the ODIs at 2-1 and India responded with an identical scoreline in the subsequent T20Is, the last of which concluded at Sydney on Tuesday with the host securing a 12-run victory. Swept aside by the gargantuan totals that Australia posted in the ODIs, Virat Kohli’s men slowly found their collective voice, which turned into a roar in the shortest format. In a mixed-bag first month out in Australia, India can cherish the success of Hardik Pandya, specifically with the bat, and the steady exploits of left-arm seamer T. Natarajan, hailing from Chinnappampatti, a village near Salem in Tamil Nadu. However, connoisseurs would perhaps say that the tour begins only now as the series involving four Tests looms ahead. Countering Australia in its backyard is an arduous task. Starting its intermittent tours of Australia in the 1947-48 season when Lala Amarnath led the troops, India registered its maiden Test series victory (2-1) only during the 2018-19 face-off. But Australia missed Steve Smith and David Warner, who were benched following the ball-tampering crisis. The current Australian team includes them now though an injured Warner has been ruled out of the first Test commencing at Adelaide on December 17, incidentally a day-and-night contest. But Smith is in ominous form and in Marnus Labuschagne, Tim Paine’s men have their next batting star. India will have Kohli just for the first outing before the skipper takes his paternity leave and there is no clarity yet on Rohit Sharma’s return. When Kohli departs, the batting will lean on Cheteshwar Pujara, stand-in captain Ajinkya Rahane, K.L. Rahul, Mayank Agarwal and Hanuma Vihari to counter Mitchell Starc and his snarling colleagues. Pujara, all patience and the long-vigil, amassed 521 runs during the last tour and an encore would be most welcome. The bowling rests on speedsters Jasprit Bumrah and Mohammed Shami besides R. Ashwin, if spin comes into play. Bumrah and Shami weren’t at their best in the limited-overs clashes and they need to get their mojo back if India is to make a strong fist against a doughty opponent.
10 December 2020||December 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Indian forests (From an editorial)||Of all the departments of Indian administration the Forest Department is perhaps the only one on which the effect of the war was, on the whole, more good than evil. The quinquennium between 1914-15 to 1918-19, synchronised not only with the war but with the hastening of a policy of developmental work in the Forest Department. Recruitment of experts to the higher grades of forest service was considerably affected by the war and, with the depletion of officers on account of conscription and the forced parsimony in expenditure, schemes of development could not naturally keep the contemplated pace. Yet the progress actually made is, according to the Government of India’s review, reasonably rapid for the adverse circumstances. The war made demands on timber and other forest products in addition to men and money and this provided an impetus towards the commercial and industrial development of India’s extensive forest wealth. New sources of supply were stumbled on, new lines of utilisation were discovered and new methods of sylviculture began to be applied with promising degrees of success.
10 December 2020||December 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Suspension of official ordered||The Government of India has ordered the immediate suspension of the officer of the Survey of India, allegedly involved in an incident in his office in Shillong on November 21. This was announced by Mr. Bhakt Darshan, Minister of State for Education, in the Rajya Sabha to-day [December 9, New Delhi]. The announcement came immediately after Mr. R.N. Mirdha, Minister of State for Home Affairs, had made a statement on a calling attention notice on the “reported theft of important documents on the international boundary including McMohan Line by two Pakistani women spies, from the office of the Survey of India, Shillong.” Neither Mr. Bhakt Darshan nor Mr. Mirdha gave the name of the officer concerned, but members including Mr. N.G. Goray, who along with seven others had raised the issue had identified the officer as Major Kohli. In response to queries from members, Mr. Bhakt Darshan made it clear that the officer was originally in the army and had been permanently seconded to the Survey of India. He was now a civilian officer.
10 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Discretionary consumption will bounce back in 2021: CEA||Chief Economic Adviser Krishnamurthy Subramanian expects discretionary consumption to bounce back in 2021, along with spending on sectors affected by social distancing norms, given the promise of COVID-19 vaccines bringing the pandemic under control. The CEA also said the advent of the Joe Biden administration and a change in the U.S.’ stance on trade would benefit India. “There are two key areas that we would be watching — climate change and trade. I expect the Biden administration to go back to the traditional, more long-run thinking on this and that would be good for the world. India, especially, would be benefiting from the change in stance on trade because it has always played by the rules in the world order,” Dr. Subramanian said. “I do expect India to work closely with the Biden administration to bring about more prosperity to the world,” he said in a discussion on ‘Who will lead the global recovery?’ at the 2020 Milken Institute Asia Summit on Wednesday morning. The use of vaccines could help hasten herd immunity and the pandemic was likely to come under control in the coming year, he said. “Sectors that have been affected by the need for social distancing will definitely see demand coming up. Moreover, crises are periods where economic uncertainty increases and... households typically go into a savings mode. That affects discretionary consumption. I do expect that to revive as well, and a lot of pent-up demand on discretionary consumption and sectors affected by social distancing,” Dr. Subramanian added.
10 December 2020||New Delhi,||Tatas counter Mistry’s claim of mismanagement||The Tatas on Wednesday countered in the Supreme Court, the accusation of mismanagement of Tata Sons and said that even according to the claim of Shapoorji Pallonji (SP) group, valuation of the latter’s 18.37% stake in the company rose from Rs. 58,000 crore in 2016 to Rs. 1.75 lakh crore in 2020. The Tata firms told the top court that unless the losses were so enormous and there was a lack of probity which left no other option but to remove the majority shareholders of the company, the NCLAT could not have reached the conclusion including that of restoring Cyrus Mistry as executive chairman. A bench of Chief Justice S.A. Bobde and Justices A.S. Bopanna and V. Ramasubramanian was told by senior advocate Harish Salve appearing for the Tatas that in the cross appeal which they had filed in the top court, SP Group had claimed that that the value of their shares as Rs. 1.5 lakh crore. He said that according to an application filed by them (the Mistry side) in which they had sought 18% in all downstream Tata companies; the value of their share was Rs. 1.75 lakh crore. So, if one were to go by SP Group’s claims, it was ‘a strange management’ which had mismanaged the company but still took their valuation from Rs. 58000 crore in 2016 to Rs. 1.75 lakh crore in 2020, Mr. Salve said. The bench is hearing cross appeals filed by Tata Sons and Cyrus Investments against appellate tribunal NCLAT’s order which had restored Cyrus Mistry as the executive chairman of the more than $100 billion salt-to-software Tata conglomerate. Mr. Salve referred to allegations of undue favour to businessman C. Sivasankaran — who was granted contracts by Tata Teleservices — and said that all transactions had been purely commercial and there had been no lack of probity in any of them. He said Pallonji Mistry is a business man of eminence and had been with the Tata group till 2004 and there was no issue with any of the decisions taken then. Cyrus Mistry had joined in 2006 and did not have any disagreement till 2012, Mr. Salve said. The bench asked Mr. Salve whether his argument was that the NCLAT did not look at the probity aspect and therefore it could not have concluded that it was just and equitable to wind up. Mr. Salve replied ‘yes’ and said the judgement of the tribunal did not justified itself or gives the basis on which the conclusion was arrived at. ‘Remains inconclusive’ Mr. Mistry had contended in the NCLAT that he had been removed because of his efforts to remedy past acts of mismanagement. The hearing remained inconclusive and will continue on Thursday. On Tuesday, the Tatas had said the valuation of 18.37% shares owned by the SP Group in Tata Sons is between Rs. 70,000 crore and Rs. 80,000 crore. The SP Group had earlier submitted in the apex court a plan for separation from the Tatas and said that its 18.37% stake in Tata Sons, the holding company for Tata group firms, was worth Rs. 1.75 lakh crore. The Tatas have said that the event that triggered the present proceedings was primarily on October 24, 2016 when Cyrus Mistry was removed as the executive chairman, months before his term was to end in March 2017. The apex court had on January 10 granted relief to the Tata group by staying the National Company Law Appellate Tribunal order of December 18 last year by which Mr. Mistry was restored as the executive chairman of the conglomerate. The court had also observed there were “lacunae” in the orders passed by the NCLAT.
10 December 2020||Bengaluru,||Majority want WFH in 2021 as well: Cisco study||Indian office goers like the ‘increased autonomy,’ ‘dispersed team’ effect, and ‘faster decision-making’ brought in by the work-from-home regime and now a majority of them want to stay with it in 2021 as well, according to Cisco Systems. Working from home may have been an adjustment at the start of the pandemic lockdown, but a large percentage of employees want to hold on to the positives, including the ‘overall flexibility’ of work that emerged out of the pandemic- brought new normal. Some 90% of Indian office goers are fine with a hybrid work model in the future, according to a Cisco study titled ‘Workforce of the Future.’ Over 14,000 respondents across 14 markets in the Asia Pacific, including more than 1,000 respondents from India, were part of the study released on Wednesday. Most employees believe their employers’ 2021 budget should prioritise around investing in technologies needed for remote work.
10 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Appoint observer for Franklin MF e-voting’||The Supreme Court on Wednesday asked the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) to appoint an observer for overseeing the e-voting process, scheduled in the last week of December, for winding up of Franklin Templeton’s six mutual fund schemes. “SEBI shall appoint an observer regarding the e-voting of unit holders which is scheduled between December 26 [and] December 29, 2020,” a Bench of Justices S. Abdul Nazeer and Sanjiv Khanna said. The results of the e-voting would not be announced, but produced before the court in a sealed cover along with the report of the observer appointed by the SEBI. “SEBI would also file a copy of the final forensic audit report before this court in a sealed cover. It is made clear that the trustees are undertaking the exercise of e-voting and SEBI, in terms of our directions, is appointing an observer,” the court noted. The court directed that the interim order passed on December 3 staying redemption payment to the unit holders would continue till the next date of hearing. The court listed the case for hearing next in the third week of January.
10 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||States, UTs get Rs. 6,000 cr. more to bridge GST gap||The Centre on Wednesday granted permission to nine States to borrow an additional Rs. 23,523 crore for successfully implementing the ‘One Nation One Ration card’ reform. Separately, the Union government released a fresh tranche of Rs. 6,000 crore to States as a back-to-back loan for meeting the GST compensation shortfall for this year. The States that have completed the reform of the public distribution system and have been granted additional borrowing permission for 0.25% of the Gross State Domestic Product (GSDP) are Gujarat, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Haryana, Karnataka, Telangana, Uttar Pradesh and Goa. States had to complete the specified reforms for extra borrowing nods by December 31, the Ministry said. The Ministry also released Rs. 6,000 crore to 23 States and the three union territories, from fresh borrowings made to meet part of the year’s GST compensation shortfall faced by States. Of the Rs. 2.35 lakh crore shortfall estimated for 2020-21, Rs. 1.1 lakh crore is to be raised through a special borrowing window.  States have to complete the reforms for extra borrowing nod by December 31
10 December 2020||MUMBAI,||Sensex, Nifty scale new peaks on vaccine hopes||Benchmark stock indices on Wednesday rose to new record highs buoyed by hopes of early approvals for COVID-19 vaccines and sustained buying interest from foreign institutional investors (FIIs) in banking and energy stocks. Analysts, however, urged discretion, cautioning investors that the market may be headed for a phase of consolidation. The BSE Sensex rose to an intraday peak of 46,164, up 555 points, before settling at a record closing high of 46,104, a gain of 495 points or 1.09%. Top Sensex gainers included Asian Paints, up 3.37%, Kotak Bank up 2.67%, Axis Bank up 2.19%, HDFC Bank up 2.15% and Infosys up 1.85%. Similarly, NSE Nifty 50 rose 136.15, or 1.02%, to an all-time high of 13,529.10. The top gainers included UPL up 4.59%, Asian Paints up 3.65%, IOC up 3.29%, Kotak Bank up 2.66% and HDFC Bank up 2.34%.
10 December 2020||New DELHI,||Gold ETFs clock Rs. 141-cr. outflow in Nov.||After seven straight months of net inflows, gold exchange traded funds witnessed a pull-out of Rs. 141 crore in November primarily on the back of profit-booking by investors. In comparison, the category saw a net inflow of nearly Rs. 8 crore in November 2019, data with the Association of Mutual Funds in India (Amfi) showed.   “With positive development around COVID-19 vaccine, economies moving towards normalcy and equity markets doing well, there is uncertainty over the direction of gold prices going ahead,” said Himanshu Srivastava, associate director manager research at Morningstar India.
10 December 2020||new delhi,||TCS’s buy-back of Rs. 16,000 cr. opens Dec. 18||India’s largest IT services firm Tata Consultancy Services (TCS) on Wednesday said its up to Rs. 16,000-crore share buy-back programme will commence on December 18 and close on January 1, 2021. Last month, TCS shareholders had approved a proposal to buy back up to 5,33,33,333 equity shares of the company at Rs. 3,000 per scrip for an aggregate amount not exceeding Rs. 16,000 crore. “In accordance with the SEBI (Buy-back of Securities) Regulations, 2018, the letter of offer will be dispatched to eligible shareholders on or before December 15, 2020. The record date for this purpose is November 28, 2020...,” TCS said in a regulatory filing on Wednesday.
10 December 2020||Bengaluru,||India witnessed a spike in adoption of AI in 2020: PwC.||India witnessed the highest increase in the adoption of Artificial Intelligence (AI)-driven technologies in 2020 compared with the U.S., U.K. and Japan, said PwC India. Over 90% of Indian enterprises surveyed by PwC are implementing or planning to invest in AI solutions or technologies to address business challenges brought in by the pandemic, as per the consulting firm.
10 December 2020||Hyderabad,||USFDA nod for Aurobindo Pharma’s generic sedative product||Drugmaker Aurobindo Pharma has received final approval from USFDA to manufacture and market Dexmedetomidine HCL 0.9% sodium chloride injection.The product is indicated for sedation of initially- intubated and mechanically-ventilated patients in an intensive-care setting and non-intubated patients prior to and/or during surgical and other procedures.
10 December 2020||Bengaluru,||Titan subsidiary for commodity trading gets Sebi nod||Titan Commodity Trading, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Titan Company, set up for trading in various commodities, has received the approval of admission as a trading member on the Multi Commodity Exchange of India and SEBI’s approval for the same, Titan said in a filing on Wednesday. Titan Commodity will trade in all types of direct commodities and precious materials.
10 December 2020||New Delhi,||Maruti unveils online car financing platform||Maruti Suzuki on Wednesday said it will increase the prices of its vehicles from January to partially mitigate the impact of high input costs. Maruti did not provide any details on the price increases, which would vary for different models. Separately, India’s largest carmaker unveiled a digital platform that will offer buyers financing options from multiple financiers.
10 December 2020||New Delhi,||Govt to sell up to 20 pc stake in IRCTC via OFS; fixes floor price of Rs 1,367 per share||The government is planning to sell up to 20% stake in Indian Railway Catering and Tourism Corporation (IRCTC) through an offer for sale (OFS) which opens for subscription on Thursday. “Govt. would divest 15% equity with a 5% green shoe option,” Department of Investment and Public Asset Management (DIPAM) Secretary Tuhin Kanta Pandey said in a tweet.PTI
10 December 2020||KOLKATA,||TMC triumphs in style||Tapan Memorial Club (TMC) rode on skipper Shahbaz Ahmed’s brilliant all-round performance to beat Mohun Bagan by 33 runs in the final and emerge as the champion in the inaugural Bengal T20 Challenge at the Eden Gardens on Wednesday. TMC, inserted in, banked on Shahbaz’s superb half-century to post a fighting 145 for six and then depended on his five-wicket haul to bundle out Bagan for 112.  TMC did not have an ideal start as it lost four batsmen, all of them bowled, for 40 runs. Shahbaz (54, 41b, 2x4, 4x6) and Kaif Ahmed (39 n.o., 36b, 4x4, 1x6) added 78 runs before the former departed in the 18th over. TMC gathered 52 runs in the last five overs. With the pitch offering some help for the spinners, the chase was not easy. But Bagan, 61 for two after 10 overs, stayed on course till the patient Vivek Singh (30, 34b, 2x4, 2x6) fell to Ramesh Prasad in the 11th over. Shahbaz applied pressure with his precise bowling and Bagan batsmen made it easier for him by playing wayward shots. The TMC captain accounted for Sunil Dalal, Prince Yadav, Rajkumar Pal, Anustup Majumdar and Sayan Ghosh. Majumdar’s 46 (32b, 4x4, 3x6) went in vain as Bagan lost wickets in a heap.  The scores:   Tapan Memorial Club 145/6 in 20 overs (Shahbaz Ahmed 54, Kaif Ahmed 39 n.o., Akash Deep 2/15, Rajkumar Pal 2/26) bt Mohun Bagan 112 in 18 overs (Anustup Majumdar 46, Vivek Singh 30, Shahbaz Ahmed 5/10, Ramesh Prasad 2/15).
10 December 2020||Paris,||Leipzig sends United to Europa League||Manchester United was knocked out of the Champions League after a 3-2 defeat by RB Leipzig on Tuesday, while Paris Saint-Germain’s qualification for the last 16 was overshadowed by a racism row involving a match official that caused its game against Istanbul Basaksehir to be suspended for 24 hours. Cristiano Ronaldo scored two penalties as Juventus blew away Lionel Messi’s struggling Barcelona 3-0 to wrest first place in Group G away from the Spanish giant. Andrea Pirlo’s Juventus avenged a 2-0 home loss to Barcelona in October when Ronaldo was sidelined with COVID-19, edging its opponents on head-to-head record and heaping more pressure on Ronald Koeman. Weston McKennie scored in between Ronaldo’s two spot-kicks at the Camp Nou.  Moukoko’s record Borussia Dortmund striker Youssoufa Moukoko, aged 16 years and 18 days, became the youngest player in Champions League history as he came off the bench in a 2-1 victory away to Zenit Saint Petersburg. Lazio also secured a spot in the knockout rounds for the first time in two decades following a tense 2-2 draw at home to Club Brugge. Meanwhile, UEFA opened disciplinary proceedings into the match between PSG and Basaksehir when players walked off in protest after the Turkish club accused a match official of racism. The incident was sparked when Basaksehir’s assistant coach Pierre Webo was shown a red card for protesting against a refereeing decision and the Turkish side then alleged that the Romanian fourth official Sebastian Coltescu used a racist term towards the Cameroonian.    The results:   Group E: Rennes 1 (Rutter 86-pen) lost to Sevilla 3 (Kounde 32, En-Nesyri 45+2, 81); Chelsea 1 (Jorginho 28-pen) drew with Krasnodar 1 (Cabella 24).   Group F: Zenit St. Petersburg 1 (Driussi 16) lost to Borussia Dortmund 2 (Piszczek 68, Witsel 78); Lazio 2 (Correa 12, Immobile 27-pen) drew with Club Brugge 2 (Vormer 15, Vanaken 76). Group G: Dynamo Kiev 1 (Popov 60) bt Ferencvaros 0; Barcelona 0 lost to Juventus 3 (Ronaldo 13-pen, 52-pen, McKennie 20).   Group H: Paris St-Germain vs Istanbul Basaksehir (Match suspended); RB Leipzig 3 (Angelino 2, Haidara 13, Kluivert 69) bt Manchester United 2 (Fernandes 80-pen, Pogba 82).
10 December 2020||KOZHIKODE,||Anand to don the coach’s hat||Imagine Sachin Tendulkar teaching Shubman Gill how to perfect the straight drive. That may not be happening any time soon, but its chess equivalent is. Five-time World champion Viswanathan Anand is all set to don the coach’s hat. He has joined hands with WestBridge Capital to start a training programme. The WestBridge Anand Chess Academy has taken on board five of India’s most promising players, to begin with. Nihal Sarin, R. Praggnanandhaa, Raunak Sadhwani, D. Gukesh and R. Vaishali will get to train with one of the greatest chess players of all time. Anand said he was looking forward to the experience of being a coach. “I decided to take up this because I wanted to see more top players in FIDE’s rating list,” he told The Hindu during an online interview on Wednesday. “When you look through the list, you will see a lot of Indian names all over, but you will also find that we are not as dominant as I would like us to be.”  He added he was inspired by a couple of examples. “I am aware of the role played by Mikhail Botvinnik’s academy in the former Soviet Union, which produced World champions Garry Kasparov and Anatoly Karpov and helped that country dominate the world,” he said. “Then there was this fellowship in the USA to encourage young chess players to take a year off studies and study chess.” Sandeep Singhal, WestBridge’s co-founder and managing director, said the company was thrilled to partner Anand.  I decided to take up this because I wanted to see more top players in FIDE’s rating list   Sarin, Praggnanandhaa, Sadhwani, Gukesh and Vaishali will get to train with Anand
10 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC relief for associations, clubs||The Supreme Court on Wednesday spelt relief to many cricket associations and clubs across the country by lifting its nearly two-year-old blanket ban on other courts from either entertaining or proceeding with any case or dispute regarding the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) or State bodies. The court had passed the restraining order on March 14 last year while appointing amicus curiae, senior advocate P.S. Narasimha, to mediate with the BCCI and cricket associations on issues as varied as release of funds to claims by members that the new BCCI Constitution had “gone beyond” the Justice R.M. Lodha Committee reforms in cricket administration. “The restraint on all courts to entertain cases need not continue,” a Bench led by Justice L. Nageswara Rao said on Wednesday. The order was prompted chiefly by a plea from three regional cricket clubs, represented by advocates Purnima Krishna and M.F. Philip, who argued that their membership in the Thrissur District Cricket Association was terminated by the Kerala Cricket Association without an opportunity for hearing. The clubs had argued that the local courts had refrained from taking up their case against the Association because of the general ban from the Supreme Court. They said “small regional clubs like them neither have the fortitude nor the financial capacity to approach the Supreme Court”. The hearing saw the Bench peruse the report submitted by Mr. Narasimha, which comprehensively listed the various applications that have been successfully mediated, others which have become infructuous, those which can be disposed of and some which needs to be taken up at a later stage.
10 December 2020||MUMBAI,||Parthiv Patel calls time on storied career||In an era during which athletes are extending their careers, retirement at 35, without any fitness concerns, could be considered early. But when one has been competing at the highest level for 18 years, 35 does not seem such a surprising age to retire. So when Parthiv Patel, who earned a Test cap as a 17-year-old in 2002 even before making his Ranji Trophy debut, brought the curtain down on a career which spanned generations, you couldn’t help but wonder whether the wicketkeeper-batsman was retiring too early or too late. The veteran, however, was crystal clear. “I think the timing is right. I’ve been contemplating for almost a year now. I was taking it season-by-season. I felt that this was probably the right time, having played 18 years of First Class cricket and India career,” Parthiv said from Ahmedabad on Wednesday in a virtual media interaction soon after announcing his retirement through a social media post. “I’m satisfied and content with the career I’ve had. There’s hardly anything left to achieve as a player and as a captain of a First Class team. We’ve won almost everything. I’ve been part of three IPL title wins. I also feel that Gujarat cricket is in very good shape right now.” Had it not been for Parthiv’s inconsistency behind the wickets, the world of cricket may have had to wait longer to witness the rise of M.S. Dhoni. And once Dhoni established himself across formats, Parthiv had to spend the remainder of his career as a back-up option for India. “As a player, acceptance is very important. Accepting where you are is important. When MS was captain, I was still playing the game only because I loved the game. The format hardly mattered to me, whether it was club cricket, districts cricket, State, IPL or India,” he said. Once he managed to find a way to deal with the situation, Parthiv was in his element. He converted Gujarat from an also-ran to a domestic force to reckon with. The side achieved the rare accolade of winning all three inter-State tournaments under his captaincy — a testament to Parthiv’s character. He also earned numerous call-ups to international cricket, the most recent of which came in 2018, for a Test in South Africa. He may have held his cards close to his chest regarding his future plans, but don’t be surprised if Parthiv continues his association with the sport, either as an administrator or a top executive in Indian cricket.
10 December 2020||Coimbatore,||JK Tyre racing from tomorrow||The much-awaited 23rd FMSCI-JK Tyre National Racing Championship (JKNRC) will get underway at the Kari Motor Speedway circuit in Chettipalayam, near here on Friday. Interestingly, it will be the first big event on this redesigned circuit that is now a challenger. The drivers are all excited to go flat out. It’s quite natural as they had been waiting for this day for months now. Stringent protocols Keeping the COVID-19 situation in mind, the organisers have put in place stringent protocols, matching international standards, to ensure that the back to back rounds are held with the safety, comfort and convenience of all the teams, drivers, their support staff, officials and media in mind. The steps taken to battle the COVID-19 threat include the do’s and don’t’s right from the entry point all the way to the track. The pits too have been extended considerably to ensure social distancing. “We have studied and followed every precaution prescribed by the world governing bodies to make sure that the championship goes through smoothly,” said Sanjay Sharma, Head of JK Tyre Motorsport. “These are tough times for everybody but we are delighted that we are able to host such an important event in the FMSCI calendar,” he added. Big miss But the big miss, however, will be the pomp and gaiety that comes along with any JK Tyre event. The three-day event will witness two categories — the National championship class on JK Formula LGB and the JK Tyre Novice Cup for the rookie drivers. The former has attracted 26 of the country’s best drivers which includes Vishnu Prasad, Raghul Rangasamy and Mira Erda (MSport), Ashwin Datta and T.S. Diljith (Dark Don Racing) and Chirag Ghorpade (Momentum Motorsport), while the latter has more than 20. There will be 12 races in all with each day seeing four races. The documentation and scrutiny will be on Thursday, followed by a compulsory drivers’ briefing towards the end of the day. Friday will witness official practice sessions, qualifying rounds and two races in each category followed by four on Saturday and Sunday.
10 December 2020||Manchester,||PSG, Basaksehir stage walk-out||UEFA has opened a disciplinary proceeding into Tuesday’s Champions League match between Paris St Germain and Istanbul Basaksehir when players walked off in protest after the Turkish club accused a match official of racism. Match official involved The incident was sparked when Basaksehir’s assistant coach Pierre Webo was shown a red card for protesting against a refereeing decision and the Turkish side then alleged that the Romanian fourth official Sebastian Coltescu used a racist term towards the Cameroonian. Players from both teams left the field after about 10 minutes of discussions with Romanian referee Ovidiu Hategan, a first in European football. The game, which was suspended after 13 minutes, was to be completed on Wednesday with new match officials. TV footage showed fourth official Coltescu saying in Romanian: ‘The black one over there. Go and check who he is. The black one over there, it’s not possible to act like that’ after Webo vehemently protested against a refereeing decision.
10 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Elavenil and Bajrang named the year’s best||Shooter Elavenil Valarivan and wrestler Bajrang Punia bagged the sportspersons of the year award at the FICCI India awards ceremony on Tuesday. Anil Kumble received the ‘best company promoting sports’ award on behalf of his enterprise, Tenvic Sports.  Other awards: State promoting sports: Madhya Pradesh and Assam ; Organisation promoting sports through CSR: Tata Steel; Company promoting sports, public sector: Indian Air Force; National Sports Federation: Paralympic Committee of India and Wrestling Federation of India; Breakthrough sports person: Annu Rani; NGO promoting sports: Magic Bus India Foundation and Pullela Gopi Chand Badminton Foundation.   Lifetime achievement: Manjusha Kanwar; Para athlete of the year: Sundar Singh Gurjar, Simran Sharma; Sports journalist: Mona Parthasarathi; Coach: Radhakrishnan Nair; Sports set-up: SportzGrid Pvt. Ltd; Educational Institute, University: Manav Rachna International Institute of Research and Studies; Educational Institute, School: The Sports School .
10 December 2020||CHENNAI,||Hope we play soon: Sharath Kamal||The 42-day long Senior National table tennis camp came to an end at Delhi Public School (Sonepat, Haryana) on Tuesday, with the players expressing satisfaction of having trained intensively together for the first time since COVID-19 struck in mid-March. The Indian team’s torch-bearer Sharath Kamal was very happy with the way the camp had panned out. “It was nice to play again after a while and to get back into the groove. We had morning and evening sessions and some days devoted to fitness and gym,” Sharath told The Hindu here on Tuesday. “The COVID break wasn’t good in any way for us. It was great sparring with Manav [Thakkar], Jeet [Chandra] and Sudanshu Grover. We got into the match mode pretty quickly; we are hoping that competitions will start sooner than later.” Sharath revealed that Table Tennis Federation of India (TTFI) has lined up all the National championships from cadets to seniors from possibly the end of January in two venues — DPS Sonepat (Haryana) and Abhay Prashal Indoor Stadium (Indore). “I think the Senior Nationals might be in Sonepat in February 2021,” he said. Twenty-year-old Manav Thakkar was delighted to be part of the camp. “It was not easy on the part of TTFI and Sports Authority of India (SAI) to organise a camp in COVID-19 situation. But they did a wonderful job. Everyone gave 100%. From day one to day 40, we saw a huge difference in our game. Sharath bhaiya guided us very well,” said Thakkar, who is aiming to bag his maiden Senior National crown after having reached the final in the last edition in Hyderabad.
10 December 2020||December 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Hernan, Le Fondre star for Mumbai City||Table-topper Mumbai City FC continued its dream run with a 2-1 win over Chennaiyin FC, its fourth consecutive victory in five matches, at the GMC Stadium, Bambolim, on Wednesday. MCFC once again showed its effectiveness in set-pieces as two costly defensive lapses saw CFC squander a 1-0 lead to slump to its second straight defeat. As in the previous games, Chennaiyin began with a bang and made repeated forays in the first 20 minutes of the game. The former champion had an opportunity as early as the second minute when Enes Sipovic headed a corner to Jakub Sylvestr. However, Sylvestr missed it. The only occasion Chennaiyin was tested in the first half-hour was when Hugo Boumous, off a counterattack, threaded a through ball to Adam Le Fondre. However, the latter’s slight hesitation in firing a shot from inside the box gave ’keeper Vishal Kaith time to block it. Chhangte sets it up Chennaiyin kept up the pressure and was rewarded in the 40th minute. Lallianzuala Chhangte, who had switched from left to right, produced a terrific run and got past two Mumbai City defenders before passing the ball to Sylvestr, who tapped home with ease. However, Mumbai City pulled level in the final play before the break when an unmarked Hernan Santana headed home a corner from Boumous after the Chennaiyin goalkeeper had failed to get a hand to it. After a sedate start to the second half, the Islanders went ahead in the 75th minute. A long ball off a free-kick was headed by Rowllin Borges to Boumous who, in turn, headed the ball to an unmarked Le Fondre, who made no mistake.  The result: Mumbai City FC 2 (Hernan 45, Le Fondre 75) bt Chennaiyin FC 1 (Sylvestr 40).   Thursday’s match: SC East Bengal vs Jamshedpur FC, 7.30 p.m .
10 December 2020||December 10 2020 00:00 IST,||The Ashtakshara mantra||The Vaishnava tradition speaks of the greatness of the Narayana Mantra, also known as the Ashtakshara and the Moola Mantra, as all can utter it to attain salvation. The term Narayana is a compound of two words, ‘Nara’ meaning all sentient and non-sentient objects, and ‘Ayana’ meaning the abode of all. It is shown that the word reflects two interesting aspects, namely, that the Lord being the abode of all is the supporter of the entire universe, and also that all sentient and non-sentient objects are His abode. He reigns supreme existing in all even as all exist in Him. Meditation on this mantra helps to reveal the atma swaroopa clearly and to dispel illusions and delusions commonly experienced by people, pointed out Asuri Sri Madhavachariar in a discourse. The delusion in the jivatma arises owing to his belief that he is an independent entity in his embodied state being endowed with the senses, mind and intellect. He therefore does not realise that he is subservient to the Lord. The truth is that the atma within each being is the very essence of jnana or self effulgent consciousness. It is therefore known as ‘chit’, ‘chetana,’ meaning sentient, while the body in every jivatma has no jnana and it is known as ‘achit’ and ‘achetana’. The atma’s inherent jnana is known as Dharma-buta-jnana and it is the cause for all jivatmas to know and recognise not only the self or the atma within them but also perceive and understand the world around and its objects. This self effulgence is always in fullness in the Lord, the Nityatmas and the muktatmas, but not so in the case of the jivatmas because they are bound by samsara. Moreover it varies according to each one’s individual karma. Once the jivatma attains moksha, this jnana attains fullness.
10 December 2020||CHENNAI:,||Abhinandh beats Jeffrey||P.B. Abhinandh (Chennai Achievers) defeated Jeffrey Richard (SDAT-Madurai) 11-1, 11-5, 11-8 in a junior boys’ pre-quarterfinal of the Shareplay-Tamizhaga TTA State table tennis championships here on Wednesday.  Other results:   Junior boys (pre-quarterfinals): D. Vishwa (KTTC) bt Tejasram (Jawahar) 11-6, 11-3, 11-7; Ashmith K. Rajkumar (MAK) bt Shashank (Ch. Ach) 8-11, 11-7, 11-6, 13-11; S. Manikandan (Jawahar) bt Aasish Kiren (Ellis Mdu) 11-8, 11-5, 11-9; K. Umesh (Mdx) bt A. Prajith Kumar (AKG) 11-9, 11-2, 10-12, 11-6; Roopan Santhosh (AKG) bt Pradeep Siva (KTTC) 11-7, 12-14, 7-11, 11-5, 11-6; Ayyan T. Baluselvam (DBAA) bt J. Srisai (KTTC) 11-8, 11-7, 10-12, 11-9; Lakshmanan (Jawahar) bt P. Vishwajith (KTTC) 12-0, 14-12, 10-12, 11-4 .
10 December 2020||HYDERABAD,||Earnest Das passes away||B. Earnest Das, former international athlete and technical official of Athletics Federation of India, passed away here on Monday. He was 81. Das, a former employee of South Central Railway, was a middle-distance runner who took part in the Indo-German meet in Hyderabad in 1965. He officiated in the 1982 Delhi Asian Games, the 2002 Asian GP and the 2003 Afro-Asian Games, both in Hyderabad. Das was also secretary of Ranga Reddy DAA. His son B.E. Stanley Jones is the AFI Technical Committee chairman. Telangana Athletics Association secretary K. Sarangapani and Prof. Rajesh Kumar, president of Hyderabad DAA, were among those who expressed condolences. Brilliant Trophy chess Brilliant Chess Academy will organise the 175th Brilliant Trophy open tournament online on December 12 and 13 with total prize money of Rs. 10,000. Call organising secretary J. Subrahmanyam on 9247399717.
10 December 2020||DUBAI,||Ankita in doubles quarterfinals||Ankita Raina and Ekaterine Gorgodze of Georgia beat Reka-Luca Jani of Hungary and Aleksandra Krunic of Serbia 7-6(5), 6-3 to reach the doubles quarterfinals of the $100,000 ITF women’s tennis tournament here.  Other results: First round: $15,000 ITF, Cairo: Women: Aya El Sayed (Egy) bt Smriti Bhasin 6-1, 3-6, 6-2; Elina Avanesyan (Rus) bt Jennifer Luikham 6-1, 6-2. Doubles: Sara Akid & Rita Atik (Mar) bt Clara Vlasselaer (Bel) & Snehal Mane 6-1, 6-4; Lamis Alhussein Abdel Aziz (Egy) & Anastasia Zolotareva (Rus) bt Pia Lovric (Slo) & Saumya Vig 7-6(16), 6-3.   Men: Mariano Navone (Arg) bt Muthu Aadhitiya Senthilkumar 6-1, 6-2; Juan Pablo Paz (Arg) bt Sidharth Rawat 6-2, 6-4; Hady Habib (Lbn) bt Manish Sureshkumar 6-1, 6-3.   Doubles: Hady & Jose Fco. Vidal Azorin (Esp) bt Yash Chaurasia & Tushar Madan 7-5, 6-4; Erik Crepaldi (Ita) & Adam El Mihdawy (US) bt Anirudh Chandrasekar & Manish Sureshkumar 6-7(5), 6-4, [10-2] .
10 December 2020||Mysuru:,||Match drawn||FUCC and Jo Jo CC shared two points each in their drawn two-day KSCA Mysore Zone first division league match at the PET grounds, Mandya, recently.  The scores: First Division: FUCC 285 for nine in 90 overs (V. Chethan 78, K. Vinay Kumar 47, R. Hemanth 45, M.A. Aquib Khan 34, Surya A. Naragund 26 n.o., G. Shanthraj four for 90, K.V. Nandakishore three for 33) drew with Jo Jo CC 204 for eight in 66 overs (G. Harshavardhan 71 n.o., L.S. Lankesh 49, G.L. Yashas 27, Surya A. Naragund five for 55). FUCC 2, Jo Jo CC 2 .
10 December 2020||KOLKATA,||Real Kashmir and United SC reach quarters||Real Kashmir and United SC completed their group league outings with successive wins to sail into the quarterfinals of the 123rd edition of IFA Shield football here on Wednesday.  Real Kashmir, which beat Peerless SC on Sunday, got the better of Aryan Club 3-0 at Kalyani Stadium and became the Group B topper in the process. United SC, which surprised Gokulam Kerala 1-0 in the opening round, downed BSS Sporting Club 2-1 in the second match to become the Group D champion. In group A, Kalighat MS prevailed over Kidderpore SC 4-1. This was enough to put it in the quarterfinals as Kidderpore crashed out of the three-team group losing both its matches. Mohammedan Sporting, which had earlier beaten Kidderpore, also reached the quarters as a result. In Group C, George Telegraph advanced downing Indian Arrows 2-0. Arrows, the All India Football Federation’s development side, completed its group engagements with just one point earned from a 1-1 draw against Southern Samity in the previous round.  The results: Group A: Kalighat MS 4 (Rahul Paswan 12, Supriyo Ghosh 51, Tuhin Sikdar 74, Gourav Mondal 90) bt Kidderpore SC 1 (Saikat Sarkar 27).   Group B: Real Kashmir FC 3 (Mason Robertson 72, Danish Farooq 80, Lukman 90+4) bt Aryan Club 0.   Group C: George Telegraph SC 2 ( Stanley Eze 13, Goutam Das 80) bt Indian Arrows 0.   Group D: United SC 2 (Sourav Das 20, Jaggannath Oraon- 31 pen) bt BSS Sporting Club 1 (Asif Ali 39) .
10 December 2020||SYDNEY,||Rahul reveals success secret||K.L. Rahul revealed the secret behind India’s brilliant comeback, saying that after losing the first two ODIs the visitors treated the remaining matches as a “new series.” “After the first two one-dayers, we decided to treat the rest of the four games as a new series and try and win them.” “The ODIs and T20Is were a learning curve for us. We were challenged in every game and it was important to stick together as a group and keep believing in each other. “We hope that we can improve and keep getting better as individuals and as a team,” he said in a video on BCCI’s twitter handle.
10 December 2020||CHENNAI,||Joshna reaches a landmark on PSA Tour||Joshna Chinappa became the first Indian woman, and the second player after Saurav Ghosal, to take part in 400 PSA Tour squash matches. She reached the landmark at the CIB-Black Ball Open in Cairo. Joshna, seeded 10th, defeated Julianne Courtice of England 10-12, 11-6, 11-9, 12-10 in the first round. Ghosal has played in 444 matches.
10 December 2020||NAPLES (Florida),||Ramkumar wins second UTR event||Ramkumar Ramanathan beat Cristian Camilo Rodriguez Sanchez 7-5, 4-6, [10-8] to win his second title in the UTR Pro tennis event at the Sanchez Casal Academy here. The 190th-ranked Indian had dropped only 11 games in the earlier rounds.  Other results: Semifinals: Ramkumar bt Jacob Bickersteth (USA) 6-1, 6-1; Quarterfinals: Ramkumar bt Janmagnus Johnson (USA) 6-1, 6-2; Pre-quarterfinals: Ramkumar bt Fletcher Scott (USA) 6-2, 6-2; First round: Ramkumar bt Francesco Mowrey (USA) 6-1, 6-1 .
10 December 2020||December 10 2020 07:58 IST,||Sudoku - December 10, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
10 December 2020||December 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Portion control||Assembling choppu saaman (kitchen play set) and pretending to cookbiryani,gulab jamun, tea and whatever else that took hold of your imagination...who hasn’t done this as a child? But, while you probably used mud and water for your creations, for Saravanan K and Ranjitha K, a brother-sister duo from Chennai that runs the Miniature Cooking Show channel, cooking with tiny utensils is not exactly child’s play. The channel, started in 2018, now has 331K followers on Facebook and 1.76 lakh subscribers on YouTube. On it, you will find recipe videos for dishes ranging from Mughlai mutton curry, Kerala-style banana leaf fish fry and rava dosa to egg bonda , khoya puran poli and even hotjalebi! The USP of the channel is that all the miniature dishes are cooked with real ingredients over a flame against a rustic background and set to traditional music. They upload a video every day on Facebook and once a week on YouTube — their M otu Patlu samosa recipe garnered 1.3 crore views on the latter platform. Ranjitha, who has a Bachelor’s degree in Fashion Design, handles the creative side: she does the cooking and designs the set, while visual designer Saravanan shoots the videos and handles the technical end of things. Says Saravanan, “We started a regular cooking channel in 2017 with a family friend and called it The Village Foods. We didn’t know how the YouTube algorithm worked then; we used to post nearly 20-minute long videos. Eventually, I figured out how YouTube and Facebook worked. My sister, who was into hand-crafting dolls and stitching clothes for them, showed interest in starting a channel. We thought why not combine the two? That’s how the Miniature Cooking Show was born.” Saravanan says that viewers get the real deal; they do not employ camera tricks while filming. “On camera, it is easy to show a miniature object as a full-size one, but not the other way around. So, for every video, we have to find or create miniature food. For example, we found a tiny orange in the local market which we used for our orange juice video. To make miniaturepaneer, we buy the regular kind from a local shop and cut it into small cubes and make a miniature version of our packaging. Viewers can see Ranjitha’s hand stir and sauté in the video to prove that the cooking is in miniature.” While the duo pays attention to algorithms while deciding on the recipes to showcase, Ranjitha says they have also featured their mother’ssambar, chicken kuzhambu and vegetarian thali recipes and dishes from Maharashtrian and Gujarati cuisine. Of course, cooking in miniature does pose a few challenges. She says, “I work with small quantities and tiny vessels. Sometimes, the tealight candle [that provides the flame] just won’t light or sometimes the clay utensils burst. But it has become easier since I keep doing it.” As for what she thinks draws viewers to their videos, she says, “It is because it’s something new. People even see our utensils and ask us where we bought them.” The duo gets the clay utensils custom-made from local potters. Saravanan adds, “Children can learn cooking from our videos.” But the best part is that the videos remind people of their childhood.  Follow the Miniature Cooking Show on Facebook, YouTube or miniaturecooking show.com.
10 December 2020||December 10 2020 00:00 IST,||The charge of the picnic brigade||In the 80s and early 90s, as winter began to make its presence felt, December meant picnic season in India. The entire family — parents, grandparents, uncles, aunts and cousins — would either pack themselves in a car or rent out the campervan-like Matador (a popular road trip vehicle in the 90s) for a day trip to the zoo, city monuments or parks, or a weekend away from the hubbub of their cities. Large mats, bedspreads or sheets would be laid out on the ground while the family played Frisbee, Ludo, or Monopoly before settling down for a packed lunch: sandwiches, oranges, plum cake and flasks of tea. Over the past decades, with far flung families, busy lifestyles, staycations and exotic vacations, picnics have become an old fashioned relic of the past. Till now. With the pandemic limiting parties and travelling, and Work From Home norms giving families more time together, the picnic is seeing a revival. Since March, in India, a number of working professionals have moved back to their home towns and are using this year to bond with their extended families. Additionally, with the threat of COVID-19, open air activities that allow for physical distancing are being rediscovered. In such a scenario, picnics are the top contenders for wholesome family entertainment.  Chennai-based Exoticamp, which offers overnight camping activities, noticed a spurt in demand for short day trips this year. Although one-day getaways did not feature in their itinerary, in September they introduced trips to destinations around 100 kilometres away, so families and friends could picnic outdoors and return the same day. “That way you don’t travel too far but get as far away from the crowd as possible,” says Sam Suresh, co-founder, Exoticamp. Their destinations include Kollidam backwaters, Arambakkam’s mini waterfall, and Nagalapuram, to hike and kayak. Families can bring their own umbrellas, mattresses and food. “So far we have received more than 250 clients. These primarily include families with kids and the elderly, who want to get away from home,” he explains. After many months of lockdowns, people who are cautious about travelling but still crave the great outdoors are rediscovering their backyards. Picnic enthusiasts around the world have started creating cutesy set- ups in their garden just to soak in the outdoors. Bengaluru-based Bhawna Rao and Shwetha Gupta, who started The Picnic Company in October this year, have a chock-a-block schedule till end of December. They call themselves “the anywhere picnic company” because they create these experiences in gardens, backyards and farms (they have tied up with five so far). “We love the outdoors and want to encourage people to go out and eat, play and relive the nostalgia,” says Bhawna. The duo sets up the space — the theme varies for families, romantic couples and friends; there are long tables or small tables scattered around with a mat in the centre or candles placed around — and disappears, after which the families arrive. They also take care of the picnic hamper, which offers a choice of Indian, Oriental and Mediterranean cuisine, the latter being the most popular with its cheese platter and hummus. The Picnic Company’s clientèle is diverse. “A lot of mothers want to take their kids for picnics, there are teen birthdays, bridal showers...,” says Bhawna. She adds that they cap the number at 14 guests, to ensure each event is relaxed and intimate. The setup focusses on nostalgia and is charming with low tables, cushions, crockery, flowers and props... another advantage for millennial influencers — these curated picnics look great on Instagram. Kolkata-based Rishi Mukherjee says they are also a fantastic way to explore the countryside. He recalls lazy afternoons spent in the gardens of Victoria Memorial. While his parents filled the boot of the car with every imaginable finger food, a three-year old Rishi was in charge of carrying along his favourite toy: a large air-filled red and black football that occupied most of his day. “Over the last few years we tweaked this old practice a bit. During winters my wife and I started doing road trips and staying overnight at farm houses and resorts just outside of Kolkata,” says Rishi. Charm of the countryside This year, they have altered the itinerary. “Instead, we thought of doing a day-long picnic as we are not comfortable staying anywhere because of the pandemic,” says the 31-year-old. So, he and his wife drove to Jhargram, a municipality four hours away from the city, with acres of green land and deciduous forests. “It also features farm houses, an old palace, temple and a small zoo. There are enough shaded nooks to settle down with your picnic basket, read a book, listen to music and sing along,” he says. For those restless for adventure, picnics also mean packing your car with equipment so you can go surfing, segwaying or hoverboarding. Or you can rent them, as the tourism industry adapts to the needs of day trippers. “Sometimes it’s cathartic to just take the day off work and drive outside the city. The stretch around Damdama Lake in Sohna district (Haryana) has enough spots to stop and relax with a cup of chai. We rent out hoverboards — from websites like Rent Bean — as they are easy to fit into the car,” says Delhi-based Pooja Bhatia, who usually loves doing weekend trips to different parts of the country but is restricting it to picnics this year. She adds with a laugh, “This is my way of showing my daughter what our idea of fun was when we were young and how we waited all year for the annual winter picnic.”  Take me along  It can be a bummer when you reach your destination and realise you’ve left your charger, BBQ grill or mats at home. It helps to keep a check-list handy before setting out. Start planning ahead and keep tossing important things into a bag, starting a week in advance.  Picnic basket  Cooler/ grill  Mats/Bedspread  Napkins, plates, glasses  Knives/ Bottle openers  Trash bags (You don’t want to leave a trail of mess)  Charging device  Music/ Board games
10 December 2020||December 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Headbanging with my mouse||Last year, a music festival promised the exhilaration of grooving with hundreds of others to genre-bending music blasting from an exorbitantly lit stage. Cut to 2020, we are in front of our laptops, sipping wine from a coffee mug and watching Nucleya play trippy sets from his home studio dressed in a yellow T-shirt and joggers. But, how does the experience of big on-ground festivals, the biggest takeaway of which is their sense of community, translate digitally? Not close, but 2020 being the year of experimentation, has seen dance and music festivals adapting online. Virtual avatars, VR walkthroughs, private chat rooms (for groups of friends), multiple online stages, bartenders at home, and options to show off one’s dance moves live to the festival audience, are some of the online addenda, this year. In an attempt to stay relevant, organisers are vying to find innovative ways to get as close to the physical experience as possible, in a world battling fear, loneliness and a bleak economy triggered by COVID-19. The excitement was palpable when Sunburn, on November 1, announced its popular beach-side festival in Goa’s Vagator beach. When they started ticket sales for the physical festival scheduled for December 27 to 29, the response was overwhelming. But on November 7, upon consultation with the authorities, Sunburn Goa was put on the backburner, fearing a spurt of COVID-19 cases. “We have not cancelled the festival, we have postponed it and plan to have an online festival on the same dates,” says Karan Singh, CEO, Sunburn. He continues, “We are planning to create an entire 3D experience into which the audience can immerse themselves. Thematic set designs, lighting, AV, sound, SFX and virtual audience interaction will provide for a real-life surround effect. Hi-tech wearables will also ensure that audiences can experience Sunburn,” adds Karan. Meanwhile, EDM festival VH1 Supersonic too called off their physical event which was scheduled for February 2021, even as their live Instagram sessions with artistes continues unabated. Community is the word The Bacardi NH7 Weekender concluded a decade on stage last year. “From January-February, we started talking about what it’s going to be like this year. We wanted the next decade to look different, bigger!” says Gunjan Arya, CEO of OML, that organises the festival in venues across the country. The process of reaching out to artistes and international talent started as early as February. “As a festival, our job is to get the community together; bringing diverse sets of artistes and their fans together,” stresses Gunjan. On deciding to go online from December 4 to 6, they built a platform for the festival on ticket booking portal, PayTM Insider. Spread over multiple stages, NH7 is known for its “buffet of music”, and includes a comedy stage. Online, they offered a ‘switch’ feature so viewers could toggle between stages. For a sense of community, their global chat room came into play encouraging attendees to interact, and providing a space where artistes could hang out with their fans. To physically reach ticket buyers, the festival sent out cartons that housed NH7 T-shirts, wristbands, mugs and brochures printed out on plantable paper. A drinks station with a bartender, was also set up by Bacardi at homes of selected viewers. Regulars at the Ziro Music Festival, normally held in November, missed the rolling green valleys of Arunachal Pradesh. This year’s edition, held online from November 21 to 22 , saw a cultural collaboration with the Focus Festival of Wales, facilitated by the British Council of India. Picture a gamified version of a music festival — at Ziro Focus, your digital avatar could walk across a world brought to life by the artwork of Mikey Jones from Wales and Shisir Basumatari from Assam. The beautiful skyline of Wrexham, with its pine trees met the bamboo trees of Northeastern India, in a visual amalgamation of the two countries. You could meet other avatars — attendees from India, the UK, the US, France, Australia and Sweden — by the stage, in between acts, or during a treasure hunt. The wide variety of artistes in the lineup included electronic pop musician Ani Saunders from Cardiff, Lo! Peninsula, a shoegaze/dreampop band from Manipur, and Tetseo Sisters, a folk music quartet from Nagaland. Apart from the six live acts, there were also recorded listening areas near (virtual) campfires. A digital festival allowed for more variety and freedom for the audience, says Lubna Shaheen, creative director, Ziro Music. “Suppose one of the record labels was playing hip-hop and that is not what you like to listen to, then you could walk on to the next area where alt rock was playing,” she explains. Co-existence Impressive technological efforts aside, this year artistes are taking advantage of this format and its reach by tailoring their visuals and music to make it more relatable to global audiences. For instance, rapper Yung Raja, from Singapore, shot his sets from multiple locations in his city to showcase the places he grew up in. Actor and singer-songwriter Shruti Hassan who performed with DJ Murthovic and guitarist Karan Parikh at NH7 says that the challenges were nothing when seen against the positivity with which the music industry thrived. Such large-scale festivals going online, is a “necessary, inevitable step,” says Shruthi over phone from Goa, where she is shooting for a film. “The energy of a live audience is irreplaceable. But, this is the best we can do now. I think the music industry has been a big beacon of hope: moving through, bringing people together, sharing music... it is all beautiful,” says Shruti. As much as she enjoys performing for a responsive crowd, Shruti says she loves to get lost in her music, which is what happened while she filmed her set for NH7 in Hyderabad. She adds, “It pushes us to understand that music can be consumed in any way.” Moving forward, organisers seem inclined to retain facets of these online festivals. “I foresee a blend of live events and digital events co-existing to cater to multiple audience requirements and partner expectations,” says Karan. “Hybrid events are definitely the way forward.”  (With inputs from   Sweta Akundi)
10 December 2020||December 10 2020 00:00 IST,||How does your (vegetable) garden grow?||“Controlled environment farming needs inputs of about Rs. 1 crore per acre,” says Arjun Balaji, co-founder, Gourmet Garden. “Our idea was to figure out how to make it feasible in India, with a low cost margin, because customers won’t pay a high price point for crops,” he adds. Today, Gourmet Garden has a patented naturoponic farming approach and delivers fresh produce across Bengaluru. “But it was all started in Chennai, four years ago, by my partner Vishal Narayanaswamy,” says Arjun. Chennai is now back in the duo’s radar, for reasons beyond ideation. Gourmet Garden that has set up a small facility near Uthandi, is looking for additional facilities and local partners, and has already begun delivering their fruit, vegetables and other produce across Chennai. “We deliver to all pin codes in the city, but only some of them on a daily basis for now,” says Arjun, adding that they have received 250 orders from customers in their first week “through word of mouth alone; we have not done any marketing yet”. Their word-of-mouth reach is not surprising; Gourmet Garden’s appeal is very specific. Since they grow all their produce in polyhouse or other indoor infrastructure through soil-less mediums like water beds or coconut fibre, they can claim to have complete control over what goes into the greens they deliver. “We realised that we cannot really assure the quality of our products just by being part of the supply chain, which is why we stepped into production. We have two kinds of products: naturoponic, grown in controlled soil-free conditions; and organic produce that is chemical-free,” states Arjun. While the latter category has seen a steadily growing market for years, it is during 2020 that the former — naturoponic produce — has an edge. “Only in a soil-less medium can you ensure contamination-free production,” says Arjun, adding that the firm keeps an eye not only on what they grow, but also on how they deliver it. To that end, biodegradable packaging is another point of pride for the brand, and Arjun boasts about having inculcated some food science into their package planning and design for freshness. “We use biodegradable MAP [Modified Atmosphere Packaging], with laser perforations for most of the veggies that have high transpiration, cloth net bags for dry veggies, paper bags for fruits, and bagasse/punnet trays for delicate items,” he says, claiming that the packaging they use is obtained from a vendor in the UK who is certified on food safety and degradation parameters by the international laboratory group Eurofins. Arjun also points out: “Packaging is a less understood subject and we are trying to build awareness. It is essential to not only keep produce fresh, but also to keep contamination out. Despite it being higher cost and requiring more time and effort, we still do it to ensure our customers get the best healthy produce.”  Visit gourmetgarden.in for more details.
10 December 2020||December 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Serious comedy||In an industry where up-and-coming heroes do multiple photoshoots and release statements every other week to stay in the limelight, Jai is somewhat of an oddity. He rarely gives interviews. He is not too active on social media. Even during the release of his films, you hardly seen him giving promotional interviews. “If we cook at home, do we keep saying, ‘ Super-ah irukku ?’ That’s the job of people who consume it, right? Similarly, for the films I have done, I expect audiences to say what they feel rather than me talking about it,” says Jai, when we pin him down for a Zoom call. Jai is making an exception with Triples , releasing on OTT platform Disney + Hotstar VIP on December 11. Produced by Karthik Subbaraj’s Stone Bench and directed by Charukesh Sekar, the series will be high on witty one-liners and situational comedy. “I think humour is in-built in me,” he smiles, “Whenever I am doing a scene that involves humour, I know that the audiences will laugh when they watch it...that gives me the confidence to do it better.” He believes that Triples will have a lot of such scenes that will have audiences laughing hard. “Even generally, when you are going through a rough time, you perk up if you watch a comedy scene on TV. So, given the troubled times we are in now, a film with humour is more important for audiences rather than horror or a serious subject,” says Jai. But that does not mean it is easy for him, as an actor. “Making someone laugh is tough, because it depends on your body language and dialogue delivery.” The series sees him sharing screenspace with actors Vivek Prasanna and Rajkumar. Jai has picked several multi-starrer scripts, including Goa , Chennai 28 and Kalakalappu 2 in a career that kickstarted in 2002 with Vijay’s Bhagavathi . “Even in cricket, you get a high when you play with an unknown team and win. Likewise, I would describe acting with other actors as a happy race,” says Jai  . He also has director Suseenthiran’s Shiva Shiva coming up, for which he reportedly underwent a physical transformation. Ask him about it, and he says, “Nothing very special about that; it’s not like I have attempted something like Kamal Haasan’s transformation for Marudhunayagam ! All I did was to follow a strict diet to look lean. It is also the first time that I have sported a vesthi for the screen...it felt nice.”  Shiva Shiva is extra special for the actor because he turns a music composer. “I have spent a lot of time in recording studios in my childhood [composer Deva is his uncle]. I have been there during the sessions of Annamalai and Baasha ,” he recalls, “I have always had the dream of becoming a music composer, if not for my acting career. Thanks to the lockdown, I re-kindled the musician in me.”
10 December 2020||December 10 2020 00:00 IST,||The weight of reality||Sai Pallavi admits her love for what her peers in the industry would, perhaps, show resentment to — “I have this craving to play characters that are painful. I am drawn to that zone and am a sucker for that kind of cinema,” says the actor, over a Zoom call. That she landed a role in Vetri Maaran’s “most violent” film for Paava Kadhaigal , an anthology of shorts directed by four filmmakers on the horrors of ‘honour’, does not come as a surprise, given the subject nature. Titled Oru Iravu , Vetri Maaran’s strand deals with an inter-caste marriage, and the chilling effect it has on the relationship between a father (Prakash Raj) and his daughter (Sai Pallavi). She plays Sumathi, a pregnant woman, who is finally accepted into the family that is preparing for her baby shower, when things turn ugly. Excerpts from the interview:  Paava Kadhaigal is your first digital release. What were your initial thoughts when you read the script? Generally, you think a lot about a film but Paava Kadhaigal was a short, so Vetri asked if I was comfortable doing an anthology. He gave a thin line on what was happening and I was happy with what I read. He said he would turn in the script in a month’s time, but it took longer and we went ahead with the shoot. I didn’t know what I was getting into at first. And that worked for the better because I was fully drawn into the world Vetri was trying to create. Me not knowing the script helped for a film like this because I would have already gone through those emotions.  And the movie is chilling, right?  It was only after filming the short did I realise something. At times you feel useless when there is so much happening around you, and when your voice cannot initiate a change. I felt less guilty after doing Oru Iravu because cinema is a strong tool where you make people go through what a father might before committing such a heinous crime. He loves his daughter and he cannot see her suffer. How is he going to live with that pain is what you see. This is like a prelude to such crimes. Even if the film starts a single conversation at some point of time, I would feel better and happy. Through this film, I was able to lay off some heat that I have built over the years. Vetri Maaran is known for his violent tales. Was Oru Iravu emotionally-draining for you?  Quoting Vetri, “It’s the most violent film I have made.” ( laughs ) He couldn’t stomach a girl go through all this. It was equally traumatising for him. I was happy that I got Sumathi, yes, but it was very traumatising. I had a physiologic reaction in my body and felt nauseous throughout. Maybe it is because of the environment he created on set. In the middle of shoots, he would sit and talk about what’s happening in the film. He would speak with Prakash sir about his character and with me about mine. All of that plays in your head. In a 2016 interview with The Hindu , you had said that “you don’t know how to act and you just behaved the way you would if you were Malar or Anjali”. How have you evolved as an actor since that interview?  I guess I am still the same because the world I’m thrown into is very alien to me. Not totally alien but it is new. There were times when I felt exhausted with love stories and sometimes I would feel: “I have given this expression already with another hero. Maybe you should swap his face.” ( Laughs ) Lately, I find love stories more challenging compared to characters like Sumathi. But love stories come my way easily. I need to show a difference in every film so that it wouldn’t look like the previous one. It is important for me to maintain this thought because if I was over confident, I would lose it. It should not be an exaggeration to say that you have a massive fan base across South Indian thanks to Premam , Fidaa and Maari . Do you think your girl-next-door personality is what makes you accessible and relatable?  Maybe. To be honest, I am unaware of it even now. Even when Premam released, I had no idea why I didn’t want my friends to know I did a Malayalam film. Up until then, I didn’t think anybody would accept me. If what you said happens to be the case, I am happy.  A sensational hit  ‘Rowdy Baby’ from Maari 2 has now become the first South Indian song to cross the one billion mark on YouTube. At any point during the course of filming, did you foresee any of this happening? I don’t think any of us part of the song did. We wanted people to like it but then, we didn’t think it would become such a thing. Maybe I was too nervous and was carried away by the process of doing it right. I am glad it happened.
10 December 2020||December 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Light on top of the hill||Every day, the little boy woke up to the sight of the Arunachala hill. It was also the last thing he saw before going to bed. He scoured every inch of the mountain by foot; learned of every crevice, valley, cave, and spring that it bore. He grew up climbing the mountain, bathing in its ponds, and falling asleep on its cold stone surface. Years later, when he realised he needed to make a living — he did not have an education to back him — the mountain came to his rescue. Saran Dashnamoorthy narrated his story over phone from atop Arunachala: he was on his way to shoot the deepam in its peak. This year, owing to the pandemic, entry to Tiruvannamalai was restricted during the festival of Karthigai Deepam. The yearly event, which begins with the lighting of the gigantic lamp on the hill, draws people from across the world. The 33-year-old took the festival to them: He has been documenting it through photos and video clips on his social media pages. The lamp on the hill, was first lit on November 24, and was kept alive till Wednesday. “It consists of a gigantic copper cauldron that can hold 1,000 litres of ghee,” says Saran, adding: “It is lit every evening at 6 pm; several metres of cotton gada cloth is used to light it.” The flame can be seen several kilometres away and Saran trekked two-and-a-half kilometres up hill every day to photograph it. “I wanted to share the joy of seeing the deepam with everyone.” Saran started out as a tour guide when he was 18. “I accompanied foreigners on their trips up the hill,” he explains. He picked up English in the process and life was good; he got to do just what he loved. “But around 2012, restrictions came into place and people where not freely allowed to climb the hill,” he adds. With a budding interest in photography, he decided to invest in a camera. And besides, “I often took tourists to spots that promise great views from the hill,” he says. So he knew where to start. But Arunachala has long been photographed from every possible angle: What was Saran going to do that was different? His USP was that he knew the hill like the back of his hand. “When I was younger, I remember how in the summer, a slight drizzle would fall on the mountain peak early in the morning,” he says. It was like magic. “The mountain transforms during each season; the vegetation around it keeps changing too,” he adds. For instance, he explains that there are some flowers that bloom on the slopes only during summer. “I decided to document this side of Arunachala, one that was constantly changing,” he says. The pandemic, says Saran, has been a blessing in disguise for the temple town. Every month, thousands of people descend on Tiruvannamalai on full-moon nights to go around the hill. The past few months, however, the path around the mountain has been empty and silent. “The day after pournami , one can see a trail of black smoke [owing to the influx of tourists] in the city from the mountain,” he says. This year though, he saw only white mist: a sight that Saran waited for years to see.  To see the videos and photos, visit his YouTube channel and Facebook page @Saran Dashnamoorthy
10 December 2020||December 10 2020 00:00 IST,||For that child who loves to read||Along a lush, tree-lined avenue, in Cooke Town, Bengaluru, Lightroom Bookstore now wears its silence uncomfortably. Children huddled on dhurries, reading four books at once, or attending workshops that mix Ultimate Frisbee and storytelling with elan, used to be a familiar sight. But proprietor Aashti Mudnani says the lockdown and paranoia around the pandemic, has fundamentally altered that. “While we have managed to stay afloat, things aren’t the same anymore. Despite support from many quarters, the pandemic has created a big change for us, not just economically.” The year 2020 has been rough for most small businesses, and independent bookstores and publishers are no exception. Bookstores that would normally come alive during the summer holidays, wore a sombre look this year. With no in-person children’s or adult literature festivals either, publishers were forced to reassess business plans, and pivot. V Geetha, editorial director at Tara Books, Chennai, spent the time curating content and coalescing cultural collaborations. She explains, “Our new handmade book, The Deep , featuring work by young Warli artists Tushar and Mayur Vayeda, was produced during the pandemic. We also published Art Sparks , an art education book meant for the Indian school system. In collaboration with the Indo-Korean Cultural Centre( INKO), there are a series of presentations lined up, focussing on books that have found their voice in Korean as well.” The publishing house has cobbled together silkscreen and riso prints of indigenous artwork, while handling online orders and occasional store pick-ups. Meghaa Gupta, manager, Rights and Business Development at Tulika Publishers, says the lockdown forced the Chennai-based company to look at digital sales and collaborations with a keen eye. “Digital activity picked up substantially for us, with authors and translators engaging in online storytelling sessions, and we launched virtual booktivities based on the Thumb Thumb series for young readers. Tulika released multiple pandemic-themed books as well,” says Meghaa. The publishers added The Monster At The Window as a storytelling video, set against the backdrop of the lockdown, and delightfully found takers in Taiwan, where it was narrated by Chen Ming Hsiang. Naturalist and author Zai Whitaker penned her e-book, Zyrus the Virus . Tulika’s digital campaign, ‘Many Languages... Many Voices... Many Stories’, has helped augment its online reach and the retail sales of its books. Champaca Books in Bengaluru introduced subscription and gift boxes, opening up new avenues for revenue. “Our readers continue to support us online, and enjoy our curated Champaca book subscription, where we send out a theme-based selection on a monthly basis. There’s also a monthly book club anchored by Somak Ghoshal, for our advanced subscribers. Our gift boxes boast hand-picked book bouquets, and customers can add cookies, stationery etc. for personalised presentation. We can’t say if business has improved, but it has changed for sure,” says Nirica Srinivasan, who prefers the moniker, bookseller, at Champaca. “Pre-pandemic, we hosted a lot of interactive events for children and adults that were anchored around books and Nature. Now, we have transitioned to hosting online events across genres with historian Manu Pillai, journalist Rohini Mohan, Kenyan debut author Wanjiru Koinange, and internationally acclaimed author Roxane Gay, among others,” adds Nirica. Opportunity notwithstanding, not everyone has embraced digital interaction with equal measure. At Lightroom Bookstore, the sound of pages rustling is still preferred to the click of a button. “We are staunchly a physical store and prefer face-to-face interactions over virtual ones,” maintains Mudnani, as her team navigates the changing landscape of storytelling and story selling.
10 December 2020||December 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Appetite for goodwill||With all the restrictions and risks that 2020 has seen, the annual Battle Of The Buffet fundraiser for NGOs was almost cancelled this year. But restaurateur and entrepreneur M Mahadevan was adamant about holding the event. “Running an NGO is no joke,” he says over a phone call from Dubai, pointing out a string of organisations doing essential work that need help, especially this year, to meet their needs of salary, medicine, medical treatments and more. Battle of The Buffet, which comprises an evening of feasts prepared by multiple popular restaurants in the city amid mingling, laughter and performances by noted artistes, has hence turned virtual, channelling proceeds to 55 NGOs around Tamil Nadu. Over this weekend, donors will receive meals at home, prepared and delivered by leading restaurants under Mahadevan’s umbrella. He adds, “About 600 to 700 people will receive dinners each day, on Saturday and Sunday. The challenge will be to get the packages right to their doorsteps just as the show begins at 7 pm.” The show will be streamed via a private link that will be sent to donors in advance. On Saturday, singer Nagoor Babu aka Mano will go live with AR Rahman Foundation’s The Sunshine Orchestra, and Carnatic vocalist TM Krishna will regale listeners on Sunday. The fundraising efforts are being helmed by Mumbai-based Give India, whose website lists out all the NGOs for people to select and donate to directly. A phone call from Vaishnavi Welfare and Charitable Trust founder Mohan Ramachandran, about his plans to distribute Ashwagandha to combat malnourishment in rural schoolchildren, is what convinced Madhavan. “He was very upbeat,” recalls Mahadevan, adding that many other NGOs are also doing impactful work, and the donation-related projects are carefully audited. He adds, “Most of my partners in the restaurant industry are down and out this year, but we have a roof over our heads and food on our tables, and are willing to give. What we thought would not be a successful event, has turned out to be a very positive one.”  Visit www.battleofbuffet.org for more details.
10 December 2020||December 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Farm forward||Last month, Andaz Delhi launched the AnnaMaya Artisan Awards to celebrate local talent and artisanal processes that feed into the plant-forward way of life. These are brands they use in their kitchens and offer at their tables. Here are a few that won, and how you can get access to them.
10 December 2020||December 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Portion control||Assembling choppu saaman (kitchen play set) and pretending to cookbiryani,gulab jamun, tea and whatever else that took hold of your imagination...who hasn’t done this as a child? But, while you probably used mud and water for your creations, for Saravanan K and Ranjitha K, a brother-sister duo from Chennai that runs the Miniature Cooking Show channel, cooking with tiny utensils is not exactly child’s play. The channel, started in 2018, now has 331K followers on Facebook and 1.76 lakh subscribers on YouTube. On it, you will find recipe videos for dishes ranging from Mughlai mutton curry, Kerala-style banana leaf fish fry and rava dosa to egg bonda , khoya puran poli and even hotjalebi! The USP of the channel is that all the miniature dishes are cooked with real ingredients over a flame against a rustic background and set to traditional music. They upload a video every day on Facebook and once a week on YouTube — their M otu Patlu samosa recipe garnered 1.3 crore views on the latter platform. Ranjitha, who has a Bachelor’s degree in Fashion Design, handles the creative side: she does the cooking and designs the set, while visual designer Saravanan shoots the videos and handles the technical end of things. Says Saravanan, “We started a regular cooking channel in 2017 with a family friend and called it The Village Foods. We didn’t know how the YouTube algorithm worked then; we used to post nearly 20-minute long videos. Eventually, I figured out how YouTube and Facebook worked. My sister, who was into hand-crafting dolls and stitching clothes for them, showed interest in starting a channel. We thought why not combine the two? That’s how the Miniature Cooking Show was born.” Saravanan says that viewers get the real deal; they do not employ camera tricks while filming. “On camera, it is easy to show a miniature object as a full-size one, but not the other way around. So, for every video, we have to find or create miniature food. For example, we found a tiny orange in the local market which we used for our orange juice video. To make miniaturepaneer, we buy the regular kind from a local shop and cut it into small cubes and make a miniature version of our packaging. Viewers can see Ranjitha’s hand stir and sauté in the video to prove that the cooking is in miniature.” While the duo pays attention to algorithms while deciding on the recipes to showcase, Ranjitha says they have also featured their mother’ssambar, chicken kuzhambu and vegetarian thali recipes and dishes from Maharashtrian and Gujarati cuisine. Of course, cooking in miniature does pose a few challenges. She says, “I work with small quantities and tiny vessels. Sometimes, the tealight candle [that provides the flame] just won’t light or sometimes the clay utensils burst. But it has become easier since I keep doing it.” As for what she thinks draws viewers to their videos, she says, “It is because it’s something new. People even see our utensils and ask us where we bought them.” The duo gets the clay utensils custom-made from local potters. Saravanan adds, “Children can learn cooking from our videos.” But the best part is that the videos remind people of their childhood.  Follow the Miniature Cooking Show on Facebook, YouTube or miniaturecooking show.com.
10 December 2020||December 10 2020 00:00 IST,||The charge of the picnic brigade||In the 80s and early 90s, as winter began to make its presence felt, December meant picnic season in India. The entire family — parents, grandparents, uncles, aunts and cousins — would either pack themselves in a car or rent out the campervan-like Matador (a popular road trip vehicle in the 90s) for a day trip to the zoo, city monuments or parks, or a weekend away from the hubbub of their cities. Large mats, bedspreads or sheets would be laid out on the ground while the family played Frisbee, Ludo, or Monopoly before settling down for a packed lunch: sandwiches, oranges, plum cake and flasks of tea. Over the past decades, with far-flung families, busy lifestyles, staycations and exotic vacations, picnics have become an old fashioned relic of the past. Till now. With the pandemic limiting parties and travelling, and Work From Home norms giving families more time together, the picnic is seeing a revival. Since March, in India, a number of working professionals have moved back to their home towns and are using this year to bond with their extended families. Additionally, with the threat of COVID-19, open-air activities that allow for physical distancing are being rediscovered. In such a scenario, picnics are the top contenders for wholesome family entertainment.  Chennai-based Exoticamp, which offers overnight camping activities, noticed a spurt in demand for short day trips this year. Although one-day getaways did not feature in their itinerary, in September they introduced trips to destinations around 100 kilometres away, so families and friends could picnic outdoors and return the same day. “That way you don’t travel too far but get as far away from the crowd as possible,” says Sam Suresh, co-founder, Exoticamp. Their destinations include Kollidam backwaters, Arambakkam’s mini waterfall, and Nagalapuram, to hike and kayak. Families can bring their own umbrellas, mattresses and food. “So far we have received more than 250 clients. These primarily include families with kids and the elderly, who want to get away from home,” he explains. After many months of lockdowns, people who are cautious about travelling but still crave the great outdoors are rediscovering their backyards. Picnic enthusiasts around the world have started creating cutesy set- ups in their garden just to soak in the outdoors. Bengaluru-based Bhawna Rao and Shwetha Gupta, who started The Picnic Company in October this year, have a chock-a-block schedule till end of December. They call themselves “the anywhere picnic company” because they create these experiences in gardens, backyards and farms (they have tied up with five so far). “We love the outdoors and want to encourage people to go out and eat, play and relive the nostalgia,” says Bhawna. The duo sets up the space — the theme varies for families, romantic couples and friends; there are long tables or small tables scattered around with a mat in the centre or candles placed around — and disappears, after which the families arrive. They also take care of the picnic hamper, which offers a choice of Indian, Oriental and Mediterranean cuisine, the latter being the most popular with its cheese platter and hummus. The Picnic Company’s clientèle is diverse. “A lot of mothers want to take their kids for picnics, there are teen birthdays, bridal showers...,” says Bhawna. She adds that they cap the number at 14 guests, to ensure that each event is relaxed and intimate. The set-up focusses on nostalgia and is charming with low tables, cushions, crockery, flowers and props... another advantage for millennial influencers — these curated picnics look great on Instagram. Kolkata-based Rishi Mukherjee says they are also a fantastic way to explore the countryside. He recalls lazy afternoons spent in the gardens of Victoria Memorial. While his parents filled the boot of the car with every imaginable finger food, a three-year-old Rishi was in charge of carrying along his favourite toy: a large air-filled red and black football that occupied most of his day. “Over the last few years, we tweaked this old practice a bit. During winters, my wife and I started doing road trips and staying overnight at farm houses and resorts just outside of Kolkata,” says Rishi. Charm of the countryside This year, they have altered the itinerary. “Instead, we thought of doing a day-long picnic as we are not comfortable staying anywhere because of the pandemic,” says the 31-year-old. So, he and his wife drove to Jhargram, a municipality four hours away from the city, with acres of green land and deciduous forests. “It also features farm houses, an old palace, a temple and a small zoo. There are enough shaded nooks to settle down with your picnic basket, read a book, listen to music and sing along,” he says. For those restless for adventure, picnics also mean packing your car with equipment so you can go surfing, segwaying or hoverboarding. Or you can rent them, as the tourism industry adapts to the needs of day trippers. “Sometimes it’s cathartic to just take the day off work and drive outside the city. The stretch around Damdama Lake in Sohna district (Haryana) has enough spots to stop and relax with a cup of chai. We rent out hoverboards — from websites like Rent Bean — as they are easy to fit into the car,” says Delhi-based Pooja Bhatia, who usually loves doing weekend trips to different parts of the country but is restricting it to picnics this year. She adds with a laugh, “This is my way of showing my daughter what our idea of fun was when we were young and how we waited all year for the annual winter picnic.”  Take me along  It can be a bummer when you reach your destination and realise you’ve left your charger, BBQ grill or mats at home. It helps to keep a check-list handy before setting out. Start planning ahead and keep tossing important things into a bag, starting a week in advance.  Picnic basket  Cooler/grill  Mats/bedspread  Napkins, plates, glasses  Knives/bottle openers  Trash bags (You don’t want to leave a trail of mess)  Charging device  Music/board games
10 December 2020||December 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Light on top of the hill||Every day, the little boy woke up to the sight of the Arunachala hill. It was also the last thing he saw before going to bed. He scoured every inch of the mountain by foot; learned of every crevice, valley, cave, and spring that it bore. He grew up climbing the mountain, bathing in its ponds, and falling asleep on its cold stone surface. Years later, when he realised he needed to make a living — he did not have an education to back him — the mountain came to his rescue. Saran Dashnamoorthy narrated his story over phone from atop Arunachala: he was on his way to shoot the deepam in its peak. This year, owing to the pandemic, entry to Tiruvannamalai was restricted during the festival of Karthigai Deepam. The yearly event, which begins with the lighting of the gigantic lamp on the hill, draws people from across the world. The 33-year-old took the festival to them. He has been documenting it through photos and video clips on his social media pages. The lamp on the hill, was first lit on November 24, and was kept alive till Wednesday. “It consists of a gigantic copper cauldron that can hold 1,000 litres of ghee,” says Saran, adding: “It is lit every evening at 6 p.m.; several metres of cotton gada cloth is used to light it.” The flame can be seen several kilometres away and Saran trekked two-and-a-half kilometres up hill every day to photograph it. “I wanted to share the joy of seeing the deepam with everyone.” Saran started out as a tour guide when he was 18. “I accompanied foreigners on their trips up the hill,” he explains. He picked up English in the process and life was good; he got to do just what he loved. “But around 2012, restrictions came into place and people were not freely allowed to climb the hill,” he adds. With a budding interest in photography, he decided to invest in a camera. And besides, “I often took tourists to spots that promise great views from the hill,” he says. So he knew where to start. But Arunachala has long been photographed from every possible angle. What was Saran going to do that was different? His USP was that he knew the hill like the back of his hand. “When I was younger, I remember how in the summer, a slight drizzle would fall on the mountain peak early in the morning,” he says. It was like magic. “The mountain transforms during each season; the vegetation around it keeps changing too,” he adds. For instance, he explains that there are some flowers that bloom on the slopes only during summer. “I decided to document this side of Arunachala, one that was constantly changing,” he says. The pandemic, says Saran, has been a blessing in disguise for the temple town. Every month, thousands of people descend on Tiruvannamalai on full-moon nights to go around the hill. The past few months, however, the path around the mountain has been empty and silent. “The day after pournami , one can see a trail of black smoke [owing to the influx of tourists] in the city from the mountain,” he says. This year though, he saw only white mist: a sight that Saran waited for years to see.  To see the videos and photos, visit his YouTube channel and Facebook page @Saran Dashnamoorthy
10 December 2020||December 10 2020 00:00 IST,||For that child who loves to reAd||Along a lush, tree-lined avenue, in Cooke Town, Bengaluru, Lightroom Bookstore now wears its silence uncomfortably. But proprietor Aashti Mudnani says the lockdown and paranoia around the pandemic has fundamentally altered that. “While we have managed to stay afloat, things aren’t the same anymore. Despite support from many quarters, the pandemic has created a big change for us, not just economically.” Bookstores that would come alive during the summer holidays, wore a sombre look this year. With no in-person children’s literature festivals either, publishers were forced to reassess business plans. V Geetha, editorial director at Tara Books, Chennai, spent the time curating content and coalescing cultural collaborations. She explains, “Our new handmade book, The Deep , featuring work by young Warli artists Tushar and Mayur Vayeda, was produced during the pandemic. We also published Art Sparks , an art education book meant for the Indian school system. In collaboration with the Indo-Korean Cultural Centre (INKO), there are a series of presentations lined up, focussing on books that have found their voice in Korean.” The publishing house has cobbled together silkscreen and riso prints of indigenous artwork, while handling online orders and occasional store pick-ups. Meghaa Gupta, manager, Rights and Business Development at Tulika Publishers, says the lockdown forced the Chennai-based company to look at digital sales and collaborations with a keen eye. “Digital activity picked up substantially, with authors and translators engaging in online storytelling sessions. We launched virtual booktivities based on the Thumb Thumb series for young readers. Tulika released multiple pandemic-themed books as well,” says Meghaa. The publishers added The Monster At The Window as a storytelling video, set against the backdrop of the lockdown, and delightfully found takers in Taiwan, where it was narrated by Chen Ming Hsiang (@UncleFatStory). Naturalist and author Zai Whitaker penned her e-book, Zyrus the Virus . Tulika’s digital campaign, ‘Many Languages... Many Voices... Many Stories’, has helped augment its online reach and the retail sales of its books. Champaca Books in Bengaluru introduced subscription and gift boxes, opening up new avenues for revenue. “Our readers continue to support us online, and enjoy our curated Champaca book subscription, where we send out a theme-based selection on a monthly basis. There’s also a monthly book club anchored by Somak Ghoshal, for our advanced subscribers. Our gift boxes boast hand-picked book bouquets, and customers can add cookies, stationery etc. for personalised presentation. We can’t say if business has improved, but it has changed for sure,” says Nirica Srinivasan, who prefers the moniker, bookseller, at Champaca. Its vibrant children’s library and cafe are not as busy anymore, but that has meant a more purposeful presence on social media. “Pre-pandemic, we hosted a lot of interactive events for children and adults that were anchored around books and Nature. Now, we have transitioned to hosting online events across genres with historian Manu Pillai, journalist Rohini Mohan, Kenyan debut author Wanjiru Koinange, and author Roxane Gay, among others,” adds Nirica. Opportunity notwithstanding, not everyone has embraced digital interaction with equal measure. At Lightroom Bookstore, the sound of pages rustling is still preferred to the click of a button. “We are staunchly a physical store and prefer face-to-face interactions over virtual ones,” maintains Mudnani, as her team navigates the changing landscape of storytelling and story selling.
10 December 2020||Chandigarh,||Punjab scientist declines award||Varinderpal Singh, an agriculture scientist with Punjab Agricultural University (PAU), who refused to accept an award from a Union Minister to express his solidarity with farmers amid their ongoing agitation against the Centre’s farm laws on Wednesday, told The Hindu that it was the attempt by a section of media to label farmers as “terrorists” that prompted him to decline the award and voice his concerns on the issues surrounding farmers. “Farmers have been struggling and agitating for their just demands peacefully and a section of media tried to label them as ‘terrorist’. I was heartbroken and pained on hearing that the annadata (provider of food) was being labelled as a ‘terrorist’ — this is shameful act on part of such media people. I chose the platform [the award event] to let my voice be heard louder on farmers’ issues. I wanted to convey to the government that they should listen to agitating farmers,” said Dr. Singh.  Work on plant nutrition Dr. Singh, a principal soil chemist at the PAU in Ludhiana, Punjab, was chosen for the ‘FAI Golden Jubilee Award for Excellence’ for best work done in plant nutrition. On December 7, at an event held by the Fertilizer Association of India in New Delhi, Union Minister for Chemicals and Fertilizers D.V. Sadanand Gowda was present to give him the award. Dr. Singh, however, refused to accept the award from the Union Minister, saying his “conscience did not allow him to receive the award when farmers are on the roads”. Dr. Singh said that he would continue to support farmers through his research. Notably, when his name was announced at the event, Dr. Singh went up the stage and stated a few advantages of the PAU-leaf colour chart (PAU-LCC) technology for which his team was chosen for the award. He then said, “I have a humble submission that at this time of crises for the nation, when our farmers are on the roads, my conscience does not allow me to receive this award. So, I wish that we shall work together for the nation and the government shall listen to our dear farmers. The work I did is only for the farmers and for the nation, so I feel I would be guilty if at this moment I receive this award. But I have great gratitude for the honourable Minister of Chemicals and Fertilizers, and Director General, FAI, so kindly accept my apologies. I regret for any inconvenience. My only feelings are that we shall jointly work for the farmers, we shall jointly work for the Government of India, so that we can build our India into a great nation.” “I support farmers,” he chanted before leaving the stage without the award.  Letter to PM Modi Dr. Singh also wrote a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Demanding that the Prime Minister immediately announce the withdrawal of the farm laws in Parliament, Dr. Singh wrote “..ignoring the genuine demands and keeping Indians on roads in this winter is not in the interest of the nation.”
10 December 2020||New Delhi,||30K girls not getting Rs. 1 sanitary pads for 7 months||Nineteen-year-old Yogita, daughter of a rickshaw puller, said she was happy when she started getting a pack of six sanitary pads for Rs. 6 last year from the government. But it did not last long. “Just before the lockdown, we stopped getting pads from didi [ASHA worker]. Now, sometimes I buy pads from outside, else use old clothes,” Yogita, who lives in a rented one-room house, told The Hindu . Under the government’s Udaan scheme, like Yogita, 30,000 out-of-school girls used to get six sanitary pads for Rs. 6 a month. But the scheme has not been functional for the past seven to eight months as the government has not floated a tender for new suppliers, according to officials and multiple ASHA workers. Most of the beneficiaries of the scheme are from economically backward backgrounds. “The scheme has been restructured to give 10 sanitary pads free of cost to about 70,000 out of school girls a month. A tender for procuring the sanitary pads will be floated soon,” a Delhi government official said. ‘No comments’ When contacted, a Delhi government spokesperson did not offer a comment on why the scheme is not operational. Yogita said she had got the sanitary pads through an ASHA worker for seven to eight months since April last year. “It was very helpful. Now even though we don’t have much money, we are forced to buy it from the bazaar,” she added. Surbhi Singh, a gynaecologist and founder of Sacchi Saheli, an NGO working for women’s health and education, said that the girls going back to using old cloth pieces can be problematic. “It is not that sanitary pads are better than cloth, but an old cloth piece has to be washed and dried in the sunlight before using it. This has to be done again before reusing it too. But due to shame and lack of information, many women do not wash it and dry it properly. This causes skin and vaginal infection,” Dr. Singh said.  Target was 50K girls  It is part of the Central government’s Menstrual Hygiene Scheme (MHS), wherein funds are given to State governments to purchase the sanitary pads. The scheme was implemented under the name of Udaan by the Delhi government from April 2019. Though the target was to reach 50,000 adolescent girls a month, the government was able to distribute it to about 30,000 girls on an average. The scheme was also aimed at creating awareness about safe and hygienic menstrual health practices. After the scheme was started in 2019, the Delhi government decided to increase the number of pads to 10 from six and also give the pads for free. The contract, which was signed last year with a private company, expired in March and a new tender has not been floated yet. Reason: pandemic The official said that there were delays due to the pandemic as well as the government’s decision to change the specifications of the pads and purchase those with better quality. “The Delhi government will bear the extra cost when increasing the number of pads from 6 to 10 while also making them free,” the official added. Dr. Singh said the government should “definitely restart” the scheme. “In Scotland, sanitary pads are given for free to every woman. But in India, it is not given for free to even poor people,” she added. In December 2019, the Delhi High Court had asked the Delhi government and civic bodies here to keep providing sanitary pads for free to schoolgoing girls and those who dropped out and continue with their awareness programmes and schemes to promote menstrual hygiene.
10 December 2020||GURUGRAM,||Selja, Chautala meet farmers||Haryana Pradesh Congress Committee president Kumari Selja and Indian National Lok Dal (INLD) secretary-general Abhay Singh Chautala on Wednesday reached the Tikri border in Bahadurgarh, extending support to the farmers’ agitation and demanding that the Central government withdraw the three controversial farm laws. Ms. Selja alleged that in its six years tenure, the BJP government sitting at the Centre, had only made plans to ruin the farmers. “This dictatorial government neither heard the Opposition nor heard the voice of the farmers and imposed these black laws. When the farmers started raising their voice against these laws, the government is trying to suppress them by adopting various repressive policies,” she said. Mr. Chautala, who reached the border accompanied by a large number of farmers, said he had not come to the dharna site as a politician or a MLA but as a farmer. He claimed that the INLD was the first party to submit a memorandum to the Prime Minister and the Chief Minister of Haryana through the Deputy Commissioners of all the districts in protest against these Bills. He said the INLD was the only party that proposed a “Call For Attention” motion against the Bills in the Assembly session and openly protested in the House due to which the government came on the backfoot in the Legislative Assembly. Centre of Indian Trade Unions, Haryana, vice-president Satvir Singh also addressed the farmers at the Tikri border.
10 December 2020||New Delhi,||Municipal bodies rapped for landfill fires||The air quality of Delhi and Noida was in the “very poor” category on Wednesday and Gurugram’s continued to be in the “poor” category, as per the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data. The air quality of the national capital is expected to deteriorate slightly and remain in the “very poor” category on Thursday. The air pollution was high in Delhi because of fog and the local surface-level winds were calm, which does not help in the dispersion of pollutants. The AQI of Delhi was 358, as per CPCB’s 4 p.m. bulletin, which is an average of the past 24 hours. The values for Gurugram and Noida were 296 and 394 respectively. Also, AAP leader and chairperson of the Environment Committee of the Delhi Assembly, Atishi, on Wednesday pulled up the officials of the BJP-led East Delhi Municipal Corporation and North Delhi Municipal Corporation for having “no plan” to deal with fires at Ghazipur and Bhalswa landfill, resulting in air pollution. “At this rate, it will take you 25 years to tackle just the Ghazipur landfill. The salaries that you and I draw come from the taxpayers’ money. We will not tolerate any negligence in the duties you have towards the people of Delhi as commissioners of the Municipal Corporations of Delhi,” Ms. Atishi said. The environment committee then asked the commissioners of the municipal corporations to submit plans and time lines to bring the landfills to ground level. “Municipal commissioners have been asked to report on the action taken against the engineers on duty, under whom the fires occurred, in the last five years. It was also decided that the DPCC principal secretary should submit a report on the punitive actions that can be taken against the commissioners if the default is repeated,” an official statement said.
10 December 2020||JAIPUR,||Setback to Cong. in Rajasthan rural polls||In a setback to the ruling Congress, the Bharatiya Janata Party registered victory in the panchayat body elections held in 21 districts of Rajasthan by winning 1,989 Panchayat Samiti and 353 Zila Parishad seats in the results announced on Wednesday. The Congress was limited to 1,852 and 252 seats in the two panchayat bodies, respectively. The BJP was quick to attribute its victory to the “farmers’ support” in the rural areas in the midst of protests against the Centre’s agriculture sector laws. BJP State president Satish Poonia said the villagers had given a mandate in support of the party’s rural policies and reposed faith in Prime Minister Narendra Modi's policies for welfare of the poor and farmers. The independent candidates, who gained 439 Panchayat Samiti and 18 Zila Parishad seats, are likely to play an important role in the formation of boards in several panhchayat bodies. The Rashtriya Loktantrik Party (RLP), an ally of the BJP which fought elections independently, also made its presence felt by bagging 60 Panchayat Samiti and 10 Zila Parishad seats. The Bahujan Samaj Party got 5 Panchayat Samiti seats, while the CPI(M) captured 26 Panchayat Samiti and 2 Zila Parishad seats. While the results for all the 4,371 Panchayat Samiti members’ seats were announced, the result for Jhalawar Zila Parishad was put on hold because of repolling ordered at a booth. The BJP candidates were in the majority in 13 of the 21 Zila Parishads and the party may form one more district board with the help of RLP. The Congress won the majority of seats at 5 Zila Parishads. The Congress suffered defeat in the home constituencies of some of its senior leaders, including Pradesh Congress Committee president Govind Singh Dotasra, former Deputy Chief Minister Sachin Pilot and Ministers Raghu Sharma, Udailal Anjana, Sukhram Bishnoi and Ashok Chandna. Mr. Dotasra said the Congress’ base had expanded in the panchayat polls and affirmed that the party would perform better in the upcoming elections by keeping “good synergy” between the government and the organisation.  ‘BJP confused voters’ Meanwhile, in his reaction, Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot said the results were not as per the expectations of the Congress. “While the State government was busy with the COVID-19 management during the last nine months, the BJP leaders had confused the voters by their ‘misleading propaganda’ during their tours to the rural areas,” he alleged.
10 December 2020||Guwahati,||Too many cattle robbing rhinos of nutrition in ‘Mini Kaziranga’||Too many cattle are robbing the one-horned rhinos of Assam’s Pobitora Wildlife Sanctuary, referred to as ‘Mini Kaziranga’ for similar features, of their nutritious food. This has been confirmed by the death of two rhinos whose alimentary canals had a high load of worms because of nutritional stress caused by dry reeds and other such “junk food” of the wilderness, veterinarians said. One of the factors behind the crisis of nutritional grass in Pobitora is the competition from some 10,000 cattle that graze on the fringes of the sanctuary measuring 38.81 sq km on paper but with only 16 sq km for an estimated 102 rhinos to inhabit. Non-rejuvenation of nutritious grass due to change in flood pattern has also combined with the expansion of woodland in the sanctuary, leaving the rhinos with less than 8 sq km of grassland to feed on. “Our team that conducted autopsy found bad quality food and high load of worms that made the rhinos, one a calf and the other old, die of weakness. This is a serious problem compounded by the grazing cattle, about 2,000 of which have become resident herds, moving out only if the sanctuary is flooded,” Kushal Kowar Sarma of Guwahati’s College of Veterinary Science said. Amit Sahai, Assam’s Principal Chief Conservator of Forest (Wildlife), said Pobitora was not facing a food crisis per se, but malnutrition because of non-availability of grasses that were palatable and nutritious to the rhinos. “We have constituted an expert committee comprising leading veterinarians and rhino experts. The panel has been given a month to assess if malnutrition or any pathogenic problems caused the deaths and come up with a prescription for us to work on,” he told The Hindu . The Forest Department, he added, had also asked the Morigaon district authority to contain the population of the cattle that had provided an unhealthy competition to the rhinos as well as some 100 wild buffaloes of the sanctuary.
10 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Families of Delhi riot victims recount tales of horror at CPI(M) report launch||At a virtual event for the launch of report by the CPI(M) Delhi State Committee, on the north-east Delhi riots, families of some of the victims demanded justice and also stated how they had not received the promised compensation from the Delhi government. Ram Suharg, father of 15-year-old Nitin Paswan who was killed on February 26 during the riots, recounted how he had to visit several hospitals before finding his son. “My son was killed by the police. Why did they fire a teargas shell when there were no mobs? I am still waiting for the report to find out how my son died. Even the compensation that we received from the Delhi government was Rs. 5 lakh instead of Rs. 10 lakh. We were told that because my son was a minor we are not entitled to Rs. 10 lakh,” said Mr. Suharg. Failure of agenices Agaaz Hussain, father of 22-year-old Ashfaq Hussain who died on February 25 said, “All that we want now is justice from the country’s legal system for all these children. It was not a communal riot. Rather it was one which was started by enemies of the country. We have lived in harmony for several years and continue to do so.” Speaking at the event, former Supreme Court judge Justice V. Gopala Gowda raised questions on intelligence failure and delay in deployment of central forces. “There was a failure on the part of law enforcement agencies. It is a shame that 54 people died and hundreds of shops were burnt. Why wasn’t the paramilitary forces deployed? The question is why what is the Central government doing? Why haven’t they appointed a former judge to conduct an impartial inquiry into the matter?” Justice Gowda said. Remind the govt. Wajahat Habibullah, former Chief Information Commissioner of India added, “We have a few people who behind the veil of “bhakti” make people fight amongst themselves. The government has to take responsibility. If it has failed to do its duty, then it is our responsibility to remind the government to do its job.” Stating that there had been “construction of hatred,” by senior leaders of the Central government, during the Delhi poll campaigns which preceded the riots, activist Harsh Mander said that there was indeed a “conspiracy” behind the riots but it was not the “conspiracy” as mentioned by the police. CPI(M) leader Brinda Karat added, “Today’s India is seeing a mass violation of human rights. There was a political agenda behind the riots — to send a signal that protests against the CAA-NRC were not welcome. It was a message that if you protest, you’ll be punished.”
10 December 2020||New Delhi,||‘Review decision over ICU beds reservation for COVID-19 patients’||The Delhi High Court on Wednesday asked the city government to review its decision to reserve 80% of ICU beds for COVID-19 patients in 33 private hospitals here. Justice Navin Chawla gave the direction to the city government after he was apprised by the counsel for a private hospitals’ association that around 50% of the ICU beds reserved in private hospitals for COVID-19 patients are lying vacant. Senior advocate Maninder Singh, representing Association of Healthcare Providers, referred to figures of beds in private hospitals, as updated on the Delhi government’s website, and said of a total of 1,527 COVID-19 ICU beds with ventilators and 3,554 COVID-19 beds without ventilators, 508 and 1,852 beds respectively were lying vacant as no December 8. The senior counsel argued that there was no justification of continuation of the Delhi government’s September 12 order. Taking note of the submission, the High Court asked the Delhi government to submit its response before the next date on December 15.
10 December 2020||GURUGRAM,||Haryana Police arrest 16 dreaded criminals||The Haryana police have arrested 16 criminals, involved in several heinous crime cases, over the past 10 days in a crackdown on the dreaded criminals across the State. Those arrested include three carrying bounty on their heads and four allegedly involved in highway robberies. Haryana Director General of Police Manoj Yadava on Wednesday said that the Gurugram police had nabbed four dreaded criminals involved in highway robberies at gunpoint near the Rajasthan border following a brief encounter. In Kurukshetra, a Special Task Force team has arrested three accused, including a most wanted criminal identified as Vicky alias Lala. The police have also arrested most wanted Ankit from Jind district carrying a reward of Rs. 1 lakh.
10 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Lab damage due to negligence of JNU admin, claim students||Students from the Centre for the Study of Regional Development, School of Social Sciences at Jawaharlal Nehru University have written to Vice-Chancellor M. Jagadesh Kumar informing him about severe damage to the Luminescence Dating Facility at the Special Centre for Nano Science while they were away during the lockdown period. Students alleged that, even before the lockdown, they had raised the issue regarding the condition of the lab but had received no response from the administration. This, they claim, led to the students having to pay from their pockets for the upkeep of the lab which technically should have been the duty of the administration. They stated that many students had collected their samples from highly precarious terrains in the higher and lesser Himalayas from Ladakh, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand as well as Eastern Himalayas in the Teesta headwaters that have all gotten destroyed due to alleged negligence by the administrator. “We demand removal of the scrap and initiation of the renovation of the lab.,” the students said.
10 December 2020||New Delhi,||COVID-19 positivity less than 5% for eighth day||Delhi witnessed 2,463 new COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 5,99,575, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Wednesday. Also, 50 more deaths have been reported in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of deaths to 9,813. Of the total cases, 5,69,216 people have recovered and there are 20,546 active cases. A total of 72,079 tests were done in the past 24 hours. “Today overall positivity is 3.42% this is less than 5% for last 8 days. Less than 5000 cases for last 12 days. Today's death numbers are lowest since 1 Nov. Continue to observe all precautions,” Health Minister Satyendar Jain said in a tweet. The positivity of COVID-19 cases on Wednesday was lesser than the average daily positivity in November, which was 11.65%. The overall positivity till now was 8.64%, as per the bulletin. Of the total 18,806 beds available for COVID-19 treatment in the city, 71.1% were vacant, as per the bulletin. In November, there were days when more than 50% of beds were occupied and about 90% of ICU beds with ventilators were full.
10 December 2020||New Delhi,||Poet Manglesh Dabral dies due to COVID-19||Senior Hindi poet and writer Manglesh Dabral passed away due to COVID-19 related complications in Delhi on Wednesday. He was admitted to All India Institute of Medical Sciences after his condition deteriorated in a private hospital in Ghaziabad. Returned Sahitya award Committed to secular and socialist values both in his writing and life, the Sahitya Akademi Award winner returned the coveted award in 2015 as a protest against the killing of scholar M.M. Kalburgi and the increasing instances of violence against public intellectuals. Born on May 14, 1948, in Kafalpani village of Tehri Garhwal in Uttarakhand, Dabral’s poetry captured the pain of the soul that is uprooted from the hills. He penned five anthologies of poetry. He won the Sahitya Akademi Award for Hum Jo Dekhte Hai n. Dabral edited several literary and cultural pages of newspapers but he is best remembered for nurturing Jansatta’s Sunday magazine. “A gentle soul, he was a staunch critic of fascist forces. He was gentler than a flower but hard like a thunderbolt when it came to his commitment,” said fellow poet and critic Pankaj Chaturvedi, describing Dabral as the poet of the tradition of Gajanan Madhav Muktibodh and Raghuvir Sahay. “It is interesting to note that he passed away on the birthday of Sahay,” said Mr. Chaturvedi. He is survived by his wife, a son and a daughter.
10 December 2020||Jaipur,||High Court orders probe into Dalit man’s murder||The Rajasthan High Court has ordered a re-investigation by a special team of Crime Branch of the police into the alleged murder of a 31-year-old Dalit man in a village in Bharatpur district, following allegations that the village panchayat members had forced the victim’s family to enter into a compromise with the accused and not pursue the case. A group of eight persons had allegedly killed Mahesh in Nagla Machhaila village on June 25 this year after an altercation at a public water tank, where the victim had gone to take a bath. His body was later taken out from a well and sent to the Community Health Centre at Bayana for post-mortem. Though a criminal case relating to murder and unlawful assembly was registered at Rudawal police station the next day, no accused has so far been arrested. The investigating officer reportedly intends to file a final report with the finding that no case of murder was made out. The victim’s family has alleged that the police investigation was botched up. Mahesh’s brother, Sunil Kumar, alleged in his writ petition moved in the High Court that the police were putting pressure on the family to reach a compromise with the accused. Even the panchayat leaders held a meeting and took a “unanimous decision” that the case would not be pursued.
10 December 2020||NEW DELHI,||Light rain and clouds to greet the Capital||The Capital is in for cloudy weather with light rain over the next two days, according to a forecast issued by the Met Department. The forecast shows that the city can expect a partly cloudy sky with very light rain/thundershowers towards evening/night on December 11 and a partly cloudy sky with very light rain/ thundershowers on December 12 as well. The weather is likely to clear up thereafter, with mainly clear sky with shallow to moderate fog in the morning on December 13. The change in weather is likely to bring a drop in the maximum temperature, which over the past few days has been above normal for the season. The minimum temperature is likely to rise by a few notches due to the cloud cover. On Wednesday, the maximum temperature was 29 degrees Celsius, which is five degrees more than the normal for the season, while the minimum was 9.6 degrees Celsius, which was one degree more than the average for the season. Since October, the city has seen only 0.6 mm of rainfall, which is a shortfall of 98% from the average.
10 December 2020||GUWAHATI,||BJP wins seats unopposed in Arunachal||The Bharatiya Janata Party has bagged more than 5,300 of a total of 8,677 panchayat seats uncontested ahead of the local body polls in Arunachal Pradesh on December 22. Five of the party’s candidates for the municipal council elections scheduled on the same day have also won unopposed.  Data released Data released by the State BJP on Wednesday said 96 party candidates have been elected as zilla parishad members and 5,277 as gram panchayat members uncontested in the two-tier rural body election. The Pema Khandu-led party had opened its ‘unopposed’ account with more than 1,075 panchayat and two municipal council seats. Arunachal Pradesh has 25 zilla parishads with 241 constituencies and 2,215 gram panchayats with a total of 8,436 seats.
10 December 2020||JAIPUR,||‘PM should hold talks with farmers’||Rajasthan Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot on Wednesday reiterated his demand that Prime Minister Narendra Modi enter into a “direct dialogue” with farmers protesting against the Centre’s agriculture sector laws. “Mr. Modi has maintained a complete silence...had he taken the correct decision, the farmers would not have been forced to launch an agitation.” In a series of tweets, Mr. Gehlot said no stakeholders were consulted before the farm laws were brought. “Mr. Modi has clearly failed to resolve the grievances of farmers,” he said. He asked why had the Centre brought the laws when the nation was facing recession and unemployment.
