10 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||RBI forecasts end to contraction by Q4||The central bank on Friday reiterated its resolve to revive growth impulses in the economy and mitigate the COVID-19 pandemic’s worst impacts, by extending its accommodative policy stance for the rest of this year as well as 2021-22, even as it held key policy rates unchanged in the face of high inflation. Reserve Bank of India Governor Shaktikanta Das said growth may “break out of contraction” mode by the January-March 2021 quarter as “silver linings” are visible from September’s economic indicators as well as the COVID-19 case load curve. However, real GDP (gross domestic product) for the full year is expected to decline by 9.5%, “with risks tilted to the downside”. Higher prices While headline inflation has persisted above the tolerance band, Mr. Das said the central bank expects consumer prices to remain elevated in September, but ease gradually towards the 6% target over Q3 and Q4. This is the first time the RBI has shared its growth and inflation projections this year. Terming the coming months as a “decisive phase” for the Indian economy in the fight against the pandemic, the RBI Governor said: “By all indications, the deep contractions of Q1, 2020-21 (when GDP shrank 23.9%) are behind us… Barring the incidence of a second wave, India stands poised to shrug off the deathly grip of the virus and renew its tryst with its pre-COVID growth trajectory… The focus must now shift from containment to revival.” Dovish stance Newly appointed Monetary Policy Committee members — Ashima Goyal, Jayanth R. Varma and Shashanka Bhide — unanimously voted in sync with the three RBI members to leave the policy repo rate unchanged at 4%. The committee also decided to hold a dovish stance for “as long as necessary — at least during the current financial year and into the next year”, although Mr. Varma voted against this phraseology.
10 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||At 9,250, State’s epidemic curve still on its way up||The State registered 9,250 new cases of COVID-19 on Friday when 68,321 samples were tested in the past 24 hours, making it clear that the epidemic curve is still on its way up. The test positivity rate in the State has shown a slight dip from Wednesday’s 14.6% to 13.5% Thursday’s sudden and miraculous drop in daily case burden by nearly half the number was either a statistical aberration or some technical goof-ups that could have happened during data upload, experts said. Statistical Noise Chairperson of the government’s expert committee on COVID B. Ekbal clarified that the steep dip in cases and test positivity rate on Thursday was not an indication of the epidemic curve going down but could be a phenomenon that statistical experts call “Statistical Noise” (random irregularity in any real-life data). Going by the current trends, the epidemic curve could plateau by October end, he said. The State’s cumulative burden now stands at 2,68,100. A total of 1,75,304 persons having recovered from the disease, the number of active cases is 91,756. The State recorded the highest number of recoveries on Friday with 8,048 patients getting discharged from hospital. There are 650 patients who are critically ill and in intensive care units , while another 161 remain on ventilator support. 25 more deaths With 25 more deaths which occurred in the past few weeks being added to the official list of COVID deaths, the cumulative death toll stands at 955 cases. Thiruvananthapuram accounted for seven deaths, four each in Kollam, Ernakulam and Malappuram, two in Alappuzha and one each in Kozhikode, Kasaragod, Kottayam and Thrissur. Of the new cases reported, 98% or 9,083cases are locally acquired infections, with the authorities unable to establish an epidemiological link in 757 cases. These include infections reported in 111 health-care workers. Kozhikode tops Among districts, three districts recorded over a thousand cases, with Kozhikode on top with 1,205 cases, Malappuram 1,174 and Thiruvananthapuram 1,012 cases. Ernakulam has 911 cases, Alappuzha 793, Thrissur 755, Kollam 714, Palakkad 672, Kannur 556, Kottayam 522, Kasaragod 366, Pathanamthitta 290, Idukki 153 and Wayanad 127. Ernakulam has the highest number of active cases at 12,405, followed by Thiruvananthapuram 11,731 and Kozhikode 11,121. Rest of the districts have less than 10,000 active cases.
10 October 2020||New Delhi,||Paswan makes final journey from Delhi||The mortal remains of Union Minister and Lok Janshakti Party patriarch Ram Vilas Paswan left 12 Janpath, his home for the last 31 years since 1989. The wooden casket was taken on a truck decked with wreaths of flowers and huge posters of his smiling face on Friday afternoon, amid crowds of supporters, party workers and family members. Mr. Paswan’s body was taken to Patna in an IAF plane. From the airport it will be taken first to the Bihar Assembly and then to the LJP party office. The funeral will be held on Saturday. At a specially convened meeting of the Union Cabinet earlier in the day, it was decided to accord Mr. Paswan a state funeral. Mourners lined up outside the Lutyens bungalow from early in the morning, restlessly waiting for a glimpse of the Dalit leader as a series of dignitaries paid their last respects. President Ram Nath Kovind and Prime Minister Narendra Modi were among the first to offer their condolences. Mr. Modi was accompanied by BJP president J.P. Nadda, Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad and Animal Husbandry Minister Giriraj Singh. Opposition pays tribute Among the Opposition leaders NCP leader Sharad Pawar, RJD Rajya Sabha member Misa Bharti, CPI general secretary D. Raja and AAP leader Sanjay Singh came to pay homage. Congress Lok Sabha MP Shashi Tharoor was one of the early visitors. Former Congress President Rahul Gandhi, accompanied by the party’s Bihar state in-charge Shaktisinh Gohil, came in the afternoon. In 2014, Ram Vilas Paswan’s son and current LJP president Chirag Paswan had blamed Mr. Gandhi’s indifference towards them as one of the reasons for their shift from the UPA to the NDA. In a condolence letter to Mr. Chirag Paswan on Friday, Mr. Gandhi wrote that in the death of Ram Vilas Paswan, the country has lost a veteran leader who left a lasting imprint on politics and public service both in Bihar and the nation. A Rashtrapati Bhavan announcement said Railway Minister Piyush Goyal would handle additional charge of the Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution.
10 October 2020||Belagavi,||Farmer’s video message causes a sensation||A farmer who had not received his arrears from a sugar factory caused a sensation after he released a video of him sitting in front of an empty grave in Mugat Khan Hubli near Belagavi on Friday. Sitting in the graveyard, farmer Shivanand Bogar appealed to the directors and officers of the Malaprabha Cooperative Sugar Factory in Mugat Khan Hubli to release his arrears of Rs. 85,000. “I have supplied 116 tonnes of sugarcane to the factory. But the factory has not paid me. I have gone to the factory seeking payment of arrears several times, but in vain. No one is helping us out,’’ he said. “None of the directors or officers have helped me. I am asking them to come here and help me bury myself. I have run out of money and my family is suffering. I have no money to pay the school fees of my children. I have no money to buy inputs for the next crop. I am appealing to the factory management to help me out,’’ the 65-year-old farmer said. He has five acres of land on which he cultivates sugarcane, jowar and millets. His message was shared widely on social media handles. He told The Hindu that he had not dug the grave for himself. “I had gone to the graveyard to bury a woman who had died in my village. But I got the idea to send this message to the people with the hope that the factory would help us out. I also wanted the government to listen to the problems of farmers,” he said. He said that he was forced to sell his land and abandon farming.
10 October 2020||KALABURAGI,||Four students test positive after attending school||Four students — two each of Classes Seven and Eight — at the government school tested positive for COVID-19, after attending “Vatara Shaale” classes in Mashal village of Afzalpur taluk in Kalaburagi district. As many as 207 students and 20 teachers in the school tested negative during random tests recently. As many as 24 students are waiting for swab sample results. According to sources, the school headmaster tested positive for the infection a few days ago. Afzalpur Block Education Officer Chitrashekar Degalmadi, who visited the school, has directed the authorities concerned to suspend classes temporarily. As many as 19 “Vatara Shaales” are functioning in Mashal village. Of the total 836 students, 730 were attending classes in the village. Parents and teachers are now apprehensive of the infection spreading in the village. Meanwhile, as many as 25 teachers have tested positive for the deadly virus in the district. Of them, 11 teachers have died. Teachers have said that the government was not following Standard Operating Procedure in schools, as they have not been provided masks and sanitiser in schools.
10 October 2020||Pune,||Maharashtra’s death toll inches towards 40,000 mark||Maharashtra saw 17,323 recoveries on Friday as against 12,134 new COVID-19 cases. While the total case tally reached 15,06,018, its active cases have come down to 2,36,491. With 302 new deaths, the total fatalities has now climbed to 39,732. The cumulative recoveries now stand at 12,29,339 with the State’s recovery rate rising to 81.63%. “Of a total 74,87,383 laboratory samples tested thus far, 15,06,018 (20.11%) have returned positive with around 83,000 samples across the State being tested in the last 24 hours,” said State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate, adding that the case fatality rate currently stood at 2.64%. Pune district reported a surge of nearly 2,000 cases to take its tally to 3,12,346 while 38 deaths saw the toll climb to 6,172. As per the Pune district administration, the district’s recovery rate has reached 86.79% with the number of active cases below 33,000. Mumbai reported yet another high surge of 2,823 cases to take the total cases to 2,22,784 of whom 26,383 are active cases. With 48 fatalities, death toll in the city has touched 9,296. Nagpur district in Vidarbha reported over 750 cases, taking the case tally in the district to 85,704 of whom 10,899 are active. Five deaths saw the death toll climb to 2,277. In western Maharashtra, Satara reported 22 deaths to take its cumulative toll to 1,222. As many as 345 fresh cases saw the total case tally rise to 41,745 of whom 7,769 are active. Sangli reported more than 300 cases to take the district’s case tally to 42,371 of whom 6,939 are active. With nine deaths, the toll has risen to 1,301. Kolhapur reported 20 deaths as its total death toll rose to 1,433. The district recorded more than 200 cases to take its case tally to 45,350 of whom 4,669 are active ones. In north Maharashtra, Nashik district reported nearly 750 cases as its tally reached 84,358 of whom 14,405 are active. With nine deaths on Friday, the district’s total death has climbed to 1,421.
10 October 2020||MANGALURU,||Three Assembly segments to get water under Jal Jeevan||Minister for Rural Development K.S. Eshwarappa on Friday instructed his department officials to prepare a detailed project report to supply drinking water to identified villages in Mangaluru City North, Moodbidri and Bantwal Assembly segments at an estimated cost of Rs. 201 crore under the Jal Jeevan Mission. He gave the instruction at a Jal Jeevan Mission meeting in Bengaluru. The meeting was attended among others by MLA from Mangaluru City North Y. Bharat Shetty, MLA from Moodbidri Umanath A Kotian and MLA from Bantwal Rajesh Naik U. Water will be lifted from the Netravathi and the Phalguni (popularly called Gurupura) for the purpose. Speaking at the meeting, Mr. Bharat Shetty said that like the multi village water supply scheme, the mission should also allow supply of drinking water to villages from vented dams. Later, Mr. Shetty said in a media release that the Rs. 201-crore project comprised supplying drinking water to villages under 13 gram panchayats under his Assembly constituency.
10 October 2020||MANGALURU,||PU Department circular puts colleges in a quandary||A circular issued by the Pre-University Department, asking principals to hold supplementary exam for all those who had failed the I PU examination, has put colleges across the State in a dilemma as these candidates, following an earlier order, had already been promoted. They are now halfway through the II PU course. In the circular dated October 8, issued by the PU Director, PU colleges had been told to hold supplementary examination for all those who failed the I PU examination held in February. Students from earlier academic year who had failed in February or had remained absent for the examination should also write the supplementary exam, said the circular. The Director stated that the supplementary examination should be held at the respective colleges and it had to be completed by October 20. The circular further noted that if students did not get the necessary marks in the examination, then minimum marks should be given to pass them. This circular went against the circular dated July 13 in which the PU Director had said that in the light of increase in COVID-19 cases it was difficult to hold supplementary examination between July 16 and July 27, as stated in the circular dated July 7. Colleges were asked to award passing marks to all those who failed -- except those who failed because of lack of attendance -- and admit them to II PU course. In case of those who were absent for the examination in February and of students from the earlier academic years, institutions were asked to admit them to II PU and hold an examination before the first term examination of II PU. “Accordingly, we issued marks card to all students, including those who secured passing marks, and admitted to II PU course,” said Umesh Karkera, principal of Narayana Guru PU College and president of Dakshina Kannada PU Principals Association.  Questioning the new circular, Madhav Poojary, vice-president of Uttara Kannada district PU Principals Association, said it had been issued at a time when students were studying the II PU course.
10 October 2020||KURNOOL,||Lawyer murdered during morning walk in Nandyal||A Dalit lawyer, identified as Voduri Subbarayudu alias Ponnapuram Subbarayudu, said to be a YSR Congress Party worker, was allegedly done to death on Friday in a private housing layout on the outskirts of Nandyal. According to Nandyal Taluka Circle Inspector M. Divakar Reddy, some unidentified persons hit him on his head with a heavy object when the lawyer was on his morning walk, leading to his death. When his son, who was to join him a little later, did not get any response on his mobile phone, he came searching for him. Meanwhile, passersby called 108 ambulance. The ambulance staff said the lawyer had died and shifted the body to the government hospital for post-mortem. The motive behind the murder was not immediately known, the police said. Kurnool Bar Association expressed shock over the murder. Its president Y. Jaya Raju in a statement said: “We vehemently condemn this dastardly act and request the police to take stern action against the perpetrators of the crime”. The Nandyal Bar Association ondemned the murder and resolved not to appear for the accused to file a bail application or defend the accused.
10 October 2020||Mysuru,||Dasara: Committee interacts with officials||The COVID-19 technical advisory committee visited Mysuru on Friday after the State government sought its opinion on how to conduct Dasara festivities amidst the pandemic. Minister for Health and Family Welfare B. Sriramulu had said here recently that the government would take a final call on the festivities based on the committee’s report. The committee, headed by Sudarshan, which arrived here from Bengaluru, had a brief interaction with Deputy Commissioner Rohini Sindhuri on the COVID-19 situation and later proceeded to the Chamundi Hills (inauguration venue) and the Mysuru palace (the venue of Jamboo Savari on the final day). The committee members went to the Sri Chamundeshwari Temple atop Chamundi Hills. Chief priest Shashi Shekhar Dixit accompanied them around the temple complex and also showed the place where the Dasara inauguration usually takes place. Mr. Dixit also explained the rituals and other details that are part of the inauguration. The officials of the palace board briefed the committee on the savari, which will be limited to the palace environs and the seating arrangements during the finale for the public. The committee is expected to submit its report to the government and the Health Ministry. When Minister for Medical Education K. Sudhakar was in Mysuru recently, he cited the example of Kerala where cases surged after it relaxed restrictions for Onam. “We need to keep in mind what happened in Kerala before a decision is taken on Dasara,” he said. The technical advisory committee may explore the possibility of having a virtual Dasara fete, as voiced in certain platforms earlier after a surge in cases here, without allowing public participation in the events for ensuring safe festivities. The committee may also suggest compulsory tests for participants at the events.
10 October 2020||New Delhi,||‘NRI quota in professional and technical courses not sacrosanct’||Private colleges and institutions that offer professional and technical courses have a complete discretion to do away with their Non-Resident Indian (NRI) quota of seats after giving reasonable prior notice, the Supreme Court held on Friday. The NRI quota is not sacrosanct and candidates under the quota cannot assert their right to be admitted, the court said in a judgment. “Private colleges and institutions, which offer professional and technical courses, have some elbow room: they can decide whether, and to what extent, they wish to offer NRI or management quotas,” a Bench of Justices L. Nageswara Rao and S. Ravindra Bhat observed.  Rajasthan colleges The 28-page judgment came in an appeal against the change in seat matrix introduced in private medical and dental colleges in Rajasthan for postgraduate courses. The colleges argued in court that the NRI seats would not be filled during the pandemic. Besides, many NRI candidates have been considered for the management seats on the basis of merit. The verdict referred to the seven-judge Bench decision in P.A. Inamdar , which held that 15% NRI quota was “not compulsory” but “only potential”. Justice Bhat, who wrote the verdict, said the apex court had consistently been sceptical about the NRI quota and hence suggested limiting it to 15%. The judgment quoted from the Constitution Bench verdict in the Inamdar case, which said the term ‘NRI’ in relation to admissions was itself a “misnomer”. “Neither the students who get admissions under this category nor their parents are NRIs. In effect and reality, under this category, less meritorious students, but who can afford to bring more money, get admission,” the judgment quoted.
10 October 2020||Mumbai,||Bhima Koregaon: NIA files chargesheet||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) on Friday filed a second supplementary chargesheet against seven accused and one absconding accused in the 2018 Bhima Koregaon case. The central agency has named Father Stan Swamy, 83, Prof. Anand Teltumbde, 70, Gautam Navlakha, 67, Prof. Hany Babu, 54, and three members of the cultural group Kabir Kala Manch — Sagar Gorkhe, 32, Ramesh Gaichor, 38, and Jyoti Jagtap, 32. The absconding accused is the brother of Mr. Teltumbde — Milind Teltumbde. According to a NIA press release, “All these accused conspired with other accused persons to further the ideology of terrorist organisation CPI (Maoist) and abetted violence, brought into hatred and incited disaffection towards the government established by law and promoted enmity between different groups on grounds of religion, caste and community. The absconding accused Milind Teltumbde also organised training camps for imparting weapons training to other accused persons.” Father Stan Swamy, who was arrested on Thursday from his house in Ranchi, has been sent to judicial custody till October 23. He will be in Taloja Central Jail in Mumbai with the other co-accused. Senior advocate Mihir Desai, representing Mr. Swamy, told The Hindu , “Where is the need to arrest an 83-year-old man after he co-operated with the investigation and did not abscond?” The NIA said, “It also included various documents regarding mobilisation against the Constitutionally established Government by the Maoist cadres, information about movement of the security forces with an intention to cause heavy damage to the State. Discreet codes were used for secret communication amongst themselves to avoid detection by security forces regarding their conspiracy and planning.”
10 October 2020||Kolkata,||Amid pandemic gloom, 544 reasons for India to cheer||A rock-dwelling gecko, Cnemaspis anandani , endemic to the Western Ghats. Sphaerotheca magadha , a burrowing frog discovered in the farm fields of Jharkhand. Enoplotrupes tawangensis , a dung beetle from Tawang. A wild ginger variety, Amomum nagamiense, discovered from the forest behind Kohina Zoo in Nagaland. A wild fern, Pteris subiriana , found not just in Kerala but also Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra. India has 544 reasons to cheer with the Zoological Survey of India (ZSI) and the Botanical Survey of India (BSI) on Friday releasing their annual publications, ‘Animal Discoveries 2019’ and ‘Plant Discoveries 2019’ respectively. They were released by Babul Supriyo, Union Minister of State, Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change at an event at Acharya Jagadish Chandra Bose Indian Botanic Garden in Howrah, West Bengal. ‘Animal Discoveries 2019’lists 368 faunal species as new to science and 116 species as being spotted for the first time in India. “The publication provides the details about 360 new species, 4 subspecies and 4 fossil species as well as 116 species spotted for the first time in India,” said Kailash Chandra, ZSI director. ‘Plant Discoveries 2019’ lists 180 new plant species and 73 species spotted for the first time in the country.  Horticulture value A.A. Mao, the director of BSI, said among the new discoveries this year are plants with horticulture value as well those which can serve as alternative foods. The number of plant species found in India, according to the 2019 BSI compilation, is 50,012 and accounts roughly for 12% of all flora species in the world. Both the ZSI and BSI have been releasing ‘Animal Discoveries’ and ‘Plant Discoveries’ since 2007 and this is the 13th publication in the series. The data analysis of the past decade reveals a total of 2,444 new animal species and 3,500 plant species from the country.
10 October 2020||Idukki,||The man who changed the course of the Periyar||As one travels to the Cumbom valley on the western side of the Western Ghats, there is a statue of John Pennycuik at lower Periyar in addition to many other memorials to him. On his birthday and during the sowing season, many pay floral tributes to the British engineer at the memorials. It was Pennycuik who changed the course of the Periyar -- diverting the west-flowing river to the eastern water-starved fields of the Cumbom valley, now dotted with paddy fields, vineyards, vegetable and coconut plantations, and flower gardens. The Mullaperiyar dam turns 125 on Saturday. Hero’s worship The British engineer tasked by the Madras presidency for its construction is worshipped as a hero by farmers in the four districts of southern Tamil Nadu where water from the dam meets the drinking water needs and irrigates thousands of hectares. The dam was constructed surmounting many odds, with malaria and thick jungles taking a toll on workers. It was a huge challenge before him to construct the dam and divert the river course. Pennycuik sowed the seeds of river interlinking to bring barren and rain-starved areas under cultivation. The road from Cumbom to Kumily, now part of the Kollam-Theni national highway, was constructed for bullock carts to move equipment to the dam site. Diversion of the Periyar The Madras presidency under the British rule looked for diverting the Periyar as the Kingdom of Madurai was facing acute shortage of water with drought taking a toll on the people and cattle. This was in addition to the loss suffered by the farm sector. “Cultivation would not have been possible had the British engineer not constructed the dam,” Selvakumar, a farmer at Cumbom, says. “Had Pennycuik not arrived here, economic prosperity would not have been there,” he says. K.M. Abbas, president of a farmers forum, has even written a book on Pennycuik. To fund dam construction, gold ornaments were donated by Chettiar families and farmers in the Cumbom valley also gave their meagre savings to Pennycuik. Pennycuik honoured An official of the Tamil Nadu Public Works Department, which controls the Mullaperiyar dam, said Pennycuik even sold his ancestral property in Britain and spent the amount for completing the works of the dam when the expenses exceeded the allotted funds. The British government endowed him with the ‘Companion of Star of India’, a high civilian honour. He died on March 9, 1911 at Frimley in Britain. Though the 125-year-old dam brought prosperity to the eastern side, people on the western side downstream are living in fear, concerned about the safety of the dam.
10 October 2020||KOCHI,||Customs interrogates Sivasankar again||After interrogating for nearly 12 hours, the Customs on Friday let M. Sivasankar, the former Principal Secretary to the Chief Minister, walk out of its office by 10 p.m. He has been asked to come back to the Customs office again on Saturday, sources said. Mr. Sivsankar, who is being interrogated in connection with the diplomatic baggage gold smuggling case, arrived in Kochi in the morning and presented himself for interrogation. The agency had earlier interrogated him for around 10 hours. The Customs officials were tight-lipped over the investigation. In its final complaint, which was submitted to the court on Thursday, the Enforcement Directorate had indicated that Mr. Sivsankar would have to be grilled again and confronted with digital evidences.
10 October 2020||GUNTUR,||Grade Aarogyasri hospitals treating COVID patients: CM||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has directed the Health and Medical Department to ensure that the best healthcare is provided to COVID-19 affected persons at the Aarogyasri Network Hospitals across the State. The Chief Minister said installation of CCTV cameras was mandatory at all the hospitals. During a review meeting held at his camp office on Friday, Mr. Jagan said that helpdesks should be set up at the hospitals and Arogya Mitras should assist the families of patients in getting admission, and explain about the facilities at the hospitals. They should also ensure that the patients were admitted within half an hour of their arrival at the hospital. The Chief Minister reiterated that basic facilities, availability of doctors, drugs, food, sanitation and Arogyamitra would be the six parameters on which the hospitals would be judged and ranked. He asked the health and medical department to focus on providing all the necessary medical care and support to the patients. “I want you to ensure that ‘104’ call centre is working round the clock and the Collector should do a mock drill every day. A bed should be provided within half an hour of the patient coming to hospital and for those in home isolation, ANMs should visit them regularly. Grading should be completed in all Arogyasri hospitals within the next 15 days and if the hospitals are not providing basic services, they would be removed from the panel,” MR. Jagan said. The officials said that the positivity rate of COVID-19 had decreased. “The state leads the country in testing and we have got to a stage where we are doing 35,680 RT-PCR tests and 8,890 Truenat tests daily, which is half of tests we are doing. We have also created facilities for mobile testing in 135 buses. We have 38,042 beds in 252 hospitals and 5,000 ventilators. So far, we have recruited 10,000 nurses on a permanent basis and 20,000 nurses on temporary basis. So far, we have conducted tests on 63.49 lakh persons, and the positivity rate is 11.65 per cent,’’ said Special Chief Sesretary, Medical and Health Department, K.S. Jawahar Reddy. Deputy Chief Minister and Health Minister Alla Kali Krishnadasm, Chief Secretary Neelam Sawhney and DGP Gautam Sawang were present.
10 October 2020||New Delhi,||Active COVID-19 cases drop below 9 lakh after a month||The number of active COVID-19 cases in the country has fallen below the nine lakh mark after a month, the Union Health Ministry said on Friday. The country registered 8.93 lakh active cases on Friday. On September 9, it was 8.97 lakh, the Ministry said in a release. “Presently, the active cases stand at 8,93,592 and comprise 12.94% of the total cases, demonstrating a steady falling percentage of the total cases. The declining trend of the percentage active cases is commensurately supported by the rising percentage of recovered cases. The total recovered cases stand at 59,06,069. The gap between recovered cases and active cases has crossed 50 lakh (50,12,477),” it said. The Ministry noted that 78,365 persons had recovered and were discharged in the past 24 hours, whereas the number of new cases stood at 70,496. As per the data released by the Ministry, 75% of the new recovered cases were reported from 10 States and UTs.
10 October 2020||Special CorrespondentKolkata,||BJP leaders, MPs booked for unlawful assembly||The Kolkata Police on Friday booked senior Bharatiya Janata party (BJP) leaders and party MPs for unlawful assembly during the party’s march to the State Secretariat on Thursday. A case registered at Hastings police station named 24 people, including senior BJP leaders Kailash Vijayvargiya, Mukul Roy, Arjun Singh and Locket Chatterjee and booked them for “unlawful assembly having their common object to approach Nabanna i.e. high security zone”. Other charges pressed against the BJP leaders were under different sections of Indian Penal Code (IPC) such as143 (unlawful assembly), 147 (rioting), 149 and 332 (voluntarily causing hurt to any person being a public servant), 353 (deter public servant from discharge of his duty), 283 (danger or obstruction in public way) and section 51(B) of Disaster Management Act and various sections of Prevention of Damage to Public Property. During the march to the State Secretariat on Thursday, the BJP leaders had assembled at Hastings. “On being defended by the on duty Police personnel, they damaged the govt. property like iron guard rails, wooden shields, iron face shields..,” the FIR said. Reacting to the developments, West Bengal unit BJP president Dilip Ghosh said the cases against them were “shameful”. “This is not how a democracy works, we will fight it legally,” said Mr. Ghosh who also led a “silent rally” during the day to protest the police action on party supporters during Thursday’s march. Surya’s complaint Meanwhile, in another development late on Thursday evening BJP MP and head of BJP’s youth wing Tejasvi Surya got into an altercation with the police at Jorasanko police station, when he visited it to file a police complaint. “We waited for more than 2 hours, well into midnight, for police to register FIR upon our complaint. They instead manhandled 3 Members of Parliament. We will file a motion for breach of privilege & teach Mamata’s police a lesson in constitutional propriety,” Mr. Surya tweeted. The police refuted allegations of any mistreatment of the MPs.
10 October 2020||Jaipur,||Temple priest set afire over land issue dies||A 55-year-old priest of a temple in Bukna village of Rajasthan’s Karauli district died of burns at the Sawai Man Singh Hospital here after he was set ablaze over a land issue. He was attacked by five persons, who wanted to encroach on the temple land on Wednesday. On the basis of Babu Lal Vaishnav’s statement to the police before his death on Thursday night, main accused Kailash Meena was arrested on Friday. The police had registered a case of attempt to murder against the five persons. It was converted to that of murder after the priest’s death, and a team led by an Additional SP was conducting a probe and searching for the other accused.
10 October 2020||Belagavi,||Dasara to be simple in Belagavi this year||Deputy Commissioner M.G. Hiremath has appealed to the people to observe the Dasara and Navaratri festivals in a simple manner this year, in view of the COVID-19 situation. After a meeting with officers in his office in Belagavi on Friday, the Deputy Commissioner , who is also the chairman of the District Religion Council, said that the State government had allowed the festivities, but with conditions. All organisations and individuals who choose to celebrate the festival in public places or cause a large gathering have to stick to Unlock 5.0 guidelines and the COVID-19 Standard Operating Procedure announced by the Union and State governments. They should also stick to the rules announced by the Department of Endowments. As per the rules, the celebrations are allowed on the premises of temples and other religious places, and the crowds should be kept minimum. Mr. Hiremath also directed Assistant Commissioner of Endowments Ravi Kotargasti to submit a report on the scheduled temples and their activities in the district. Additional Deputy Commissioner Ashok Dudagunti, Judicial member Yogesh Karagudri, Endowments Tahsildar D.N. Jadhav, members S.S. Joshi, Vithal Bharma, Jayashree Jadhav, Chintamani Gramopadhyay, Vinod Doddannanavar and others were present in the meeting. Last week, Member of Legislative Assembly Anil Benake had held a meeting of office-bearers of the camp area Dasara committee and urged the State government to allow them to celebrate the festivities.
10 October 2020||Belagavi,||Health officers visit M. Thimmapur village||Health Department officers visited M. Thimmapur village near Ramdurg on Friday, after some residents complained that 30 students had tested positive for COVID-19 in two-three days. Village residents told the officers that they were apprehensive that the disease would spread widely in the village . They also expressed apprehensions that the 170 students in the government higher primary school would be exposed to the infection if the government opened schools in a hurry. Villagers complained that the students had contracted the virus during classes by teachers in open public spaces as part of the Vidyagama scheme of the Department of Education. They also complained that the six teachers who were conducting classes in community halls and temples were also exposed to the virus. “Health department officers have assured the villagers that the affected students would get proper treatment and that the schools would not be reopened in a hurry’’, Deputy Commissioner M.G. Hiremath said.
10 October 2020||MANGALURU,||Police seize vehicle, gun used by assailants in Sullia murder case||The Sullia police on Friday seized the vehicle and also the smooth-bore breach loading (SBBL) gun allegedly used by the four assailants involved in the murder of 40-year-old Sampath Kumar, an accused in the murder of Bharatiya Janata Party activist Balachandra Kalagi from Kodagu district, in Sullia on Thursday. Superintendent of Police B.M. Laxmiprasad said that the multi-utility vehicle was found abandoned at a place about 15 km away from the place Kumar was murdered. The police launched a search in that area and recovered the SBBL gun. “We have identified those involved in the murder. A special police team is on the lookout for the assailants,” he said. It is believed that the crime was to avenge the murder of BJP Kodagu district secretary Kalagi in March 2019. The 40-year-old Kumar was among the three persons arrested by the Kodagu police for their alleged involvement in the murder of Kalagi. Kumar was accused of giving “supari” to those who drove a lorry to hit the vehicle in which Kalagi was seated. Initially, registered as a case of motor vehicle accident, it turned out to be a murder. On Thursday morning, Kumar was attacked by four persons soon after he got into his car. Kumar was shot at and assaulted with lethal weapons as he started to flee.
10 October 2020||HYDERABAD,||Building rules amended||In a minor relief to the builder community, the government has issued orders amending building rules so that the mandatory mortgage could be made from the upper floors of the structure too. So far, the mortgage was to be made from the ground to second floors of the building. According to a clause of the building rules, the builder is required to hand over 10% of the total built-up area, in the ground or first or second floors to the sanctioning authority, for issue of building permissions. The property will be released only after the authorities ensure that there are no deviations from the sanctioned plan, before issuance of occupancy certificate. There have been representations to the government from developers, saying that some times the owners who hand over the properties for development are unwilling to hand over their share for mortgage. Owners usually opt for lower floors of the structure as their share owing to saleability factors, and this poses problem for the builders. Hence, considering this, the government has issued orders allowing mortgage of upper floors too, as the case may be.
10 October 2020||Kolkata,||3,573 COVID-19 cases take tally to 2.87 lakh||West Bengal on Friday recorded 3,573 new COVID-19 cases in the past 24 hours taking the total cases in the State to 2,87,603. This was the second consecutive day the number of cases crossed the 3,500 mark. The State also recorded 62 deaths taking the fatalities to 5,501. The number of active cases increased to 29,296 while the discharge rate in the State was 87.90%. Of the 62 deaths, Kolkata and North 24 Parganas recorded 13 each. The COVID-19 death toll in Kolkata climbed to 1,841 and in North 24 Parganas to 1,235. Howrah recorded six deaths. Kolkata accounted for 772 new cases, taking the total in the city to 62,903. North 24 Parganas registered 751 cases taking the total to 57,832.
10 October 2020||Madurai/Chennai,||Tamil for archaeology course: CM thanks Modi||After political parties in Tamil Nadu voiced concern, Pt. Deendayal Upadhyaya Institute of Archaeology has included a master’s degree in Tamil as a qualification for its two-year postgraduate diploma course in archaeology. In his letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi, a copy of which was released to the media, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami said: “I would like to express my heartfelt thanks for the immediate response to my request... I appreciate the prompt response and once again thank you for the immediate action in the matter.” Mr. Palaniswami had written to Mr. Modi on Thursday evening. In a corrigendum to its admission notice issued on October 8, the Joint Director-General of Pt. Deendayal Upadhyaya Institute of Archaeology has said the qualification norms have been altered, including Tamil this time. According to the corrigendum, anyone with a master’s degree in all classical languages notified by the Government of India — Tamil, Sanskrit, Kannada, Telugu, Malayalam, Odia and Pali, Prakrit, Arabic or Persian — would qualify for the course. Madurai MP Su. Venkatesan, who was the first to highlight the issue, has welcomed the decision. “Injustice that attempted to render Tamil students unqualified and deny them entry into the Archaeological Survey of India at its very doorsteps has been thwarted,” he said. He recalled that several parties and organisations had condemned the notice that did not include a master’s degree in Tamil as qualification for the course. Among the qualifications listed for the course were a master’s degree in Ancient or Medieval Indian History/Archaeology/Anthropology, Indian Classical languages such as Sanskirt, Pali, Prakriti, Arabic or Persion or in Geology with knowledge of Pleistocene age from a recognized university. Subsequently, Chief Minister, Edappadi K. Palaniswami wrote to the Prime Minister on this issue, appealing him to include PG degree in Tamil also in the list of qualified courses. “It was Tamil Nadu that had raised its voice against the injustice meted out to the classical languages other than Sanskrit,” the CPI(M) MP said. Mr. Venkatesan also said the Centre should dissolve the expert committee constituted by the Ministry of Culture to conduct a study of the origin and evolution of Indian culture. The announcement on the committee also ran into criticism. The Chief Minister drew the Prime Minister’s attention to the fact that the committee did not have any representative from the southern States.
10 October 2020||New Delhi,||CBI books Wadhawans, others for Yes Bank fraud||The Central Bureau of Investigation has booked Housing Development & Infrastructure Limited (HDIL) promoters Rakesh Wadhawan and Sarang Wadhawan, along with former Punjab & Maharashtra Cooperative Bank chairman Waryam Singh, and other directors of the firm, in an alleged Rs. 200-crore loan fraud in Yes Bank involving Mack Star company, officials said Friday. Loans loans taken for Mack Star were transferred to settle liabilities to Yes Bank without intimation to its majority stakeholder in a conspiracy allegedly orchestrated by the HDIL promoters, directors and auditors. Sources in the agency said the role of former Yes Bank promoter Rana Kapoor and other senior executives of the bank , is also likely to come under the scanner.
10 October 2020||MANGALURU,||Bid to rob woman of valuables in Vitla||An attempt was made to rob a 45-year-old woman of valuables in her house in Meginapete in Vitla Kasba on Friday morning. According to the Vitla police, an unidentified person entered the house of Lalita (45) at 8 a.m. when she was doing puja. He tied her hands and assaulted her seeking information about valuables in the house. As she started to scream, he quickly searched the house and left from the rear door after locking the front door. The woman took some time to recover from the injury. She slowly moved out of the house after untying her hands. A passer-by saw her in such a condition and informed the police. The Vitla police rushed to the spot and found that no valuables were stolen from the house.
10 October 2020||mangaluru,||Board to issue revised circular||PU Board Director Snehal R. admitted that there was miscommunication and a revised circular would be issued shortly. She clarified that the circular dated October 8 applied to only students who had remained absent for examination in February and students from earlier academic years.
10 October 2020||October 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Shaping up||
10 October 2020||October 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Getting festive ready||
10 October 2020||MANGALURU,||A.P. ACB takes four into custody||Anti-Corruption Bureau sleuths from Andhra Pradesh have taken into custody four persons, including a film producer from Udupi, for alleged involvement in a case of tampering with cheques related to Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Relief Fund. The ACB sleuths had brought transit warrants against Yogish Acharya of Moodbidri, Uday Shetty Kantavara from Udupi, Balakrishna Suvarna from Mangaluru and Kabir Khan from Bengaluru. Uday Shetty Kantavara produced Tulu film “Yesa” released recently.
10 October 2020||October 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Then and now||
10 October 2020||October 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Lalu gets bail in Chaibasa treasury case||The Jharkhand High Court on Friday granted bail to RJD president Lalu Prasad in a fodder scam case related to the Chaibasa treasury. However, he will remain in jail as he is convicted in other cases related to the Rs. 950 crore scam. The case pertains to the fraudulent withdrawal of Rs. 33.67 crore from the Chaibasa treasury in Jharkhand in 1992-93 when he was the Chief Minister of undivided Bihar. The court observed that Mr. Prasad had served half of the five-year sentence awarded to him.
10 October 2020||Press Trust of India kolkata,||Kolkata Metro to increase services||The Kolkata Metro announced extension of timing of running of trains on the North-South Line and increase in the number of services from Monday. A Metro spokesperson said that the last train will leave at 8.30 p.m. from both ends — Kavi Subhash and Dumdum. It will leave Noapara in the northern end at 8.25 p.m. from Monday to Saturday and at 8.23 p.m. on Sundays. To cope with the increasing rush of passengers, the Metro Railway has decided to run 146 daily services at an interval of eight minutes in the morning and evening peak hours, instead of the 122 services at present.
10 October 2020||Press Trust of India Mumbai,||HAL staff held for supplying aircraft details to Pakistan’s ISI||An employee of Hindustan Aeronautics Limited (HAL) has been arrested for allegedly supplying Indian fighter aircraft details to Pakistan’s Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) agency, the Maharashtra police said on Friday. Deepak Shirsat (41) was working as an assistant supervisor at HAL and was “honey trapped” by a Pakistani national posing as a woman on social media, police said. The Nashik unit of the state Anti-Terrorism Squad (ATS) had received reliable intelligence about the man, who was in constant touch with ISI, according to a police statement. The man was supplying secret information about Indian fighter aircraft and their sensitive details, along with information related to HAL’s aircraft manufacturing unit at Ojhar near Nashik airbase and prohibited area inside the manufacturing unit, the statement said. An offence under the Official Secrets Act has been registered against Mr. Shirsat, an official said, adding Nashik ATS unit arrested him from his house in Nashik. The accused was produced before court on Friday, and has been remanded in ATS custody for 10 days, he said. Investigation so far has revealed that Mr. Shirsat was honey trapped by a Pakistani national, probably an ISI handler, who chatted with him posing as a woman, ATS DCP Vinay Rathod told PTI. HAL’s Aircraft Division Nashik, established in 1964 for licence manufacture of MiG-21FL aircraft and K-13 missiles, is located at Ojhar, 24 km from Nashik.
10 October 2020||Bengaluru,||BMTC set for trial run of e-bus||After a gap of over six years, the Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) is conducting another round of trials of electric buses. This time, a Hyderabad-based company named ‘Olectra’ has provided an e-bus for the trial run. The Corporation is waiting for clearance from the Transport Department before starting the trial.
10 October 2020||Chandigarh,||Badal trying to hijack farmers’ stir: Amarinder||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Friday asked Shiromani Akali Dal president Sukhbir Singh Badal to answer three key questions surrounding the agriculture laws, accusing him of trying to hijack the farmers’ agitation to push his own party’s agenda.
10 October 2020||HUBBALLI,||SWR saves Rs. 1.78 cr.||Installation of solar power generation units across the South Western Railway Zone has resulted in saving Rs. 1.78 crore in electricity bills during the last financial year. Such saving is expected to rise to Rs. 1.88 crore in the current financial year, according to a press release issued by SWR Chief Public Relations Officer.
10 October 2020||HUBBALLI,||Eight nomination papers rejected||After scrutiny of nomination papers filed by a total of 19 candidates in the election to the Karnataka West Graduates Constituency of the Legislative Council, officials rejected the nomination papers of eight candidates on Friday leaving 11 candidates in the fray.
10 October 2020||Pune,||Maratha leaders bicker on eve of shutdown||Ahead of a shutdown called by Maratha outfits on Saturday, BJP MP Chhatrapati Sambhajiraje accused community leaders of merely giving sound bytes on television instead of actually leading the Maratha activists on the streets.
10 October 2020||Bengaluru,||COVID patients can vote via postal ballot||The Election Commission has extended postal ballot facility for voters with physical disabilities, those aged above 80, and active COVID-19 positive patients or suspected patients who are either in institutional or home quarantine. The bypolls to Sira and Rajarajeshwarinagar Assembly segments are scheduled for November 3.
10 October 2020||Bengaluru,||HC quashes criminal complaint against judge||The Karnataka High Court quashed a criminal complaint against a senior civil judge by a magistrate’s court in Ballari. The HC held that the judicial magistrate shouldn’t have entertained the complaint in view of the protection from prosecution provided under the Judges (Protection) Act, 1985.
10 October 2020||New Delhi,||DU first cut-off list today; 70K seats up for grabs||Delhi University is likely to release its first cut-off list on Saturday for admission to nearly 70,000 seats. University officials have warned students against visiting colleges for the admission process due to the pandemic.
10 October 2020||Chennai,||Tamil Nadu records 5,185 new cases, 68 deaths||The mortal remains of Union Minister and Lok Janshakti Party patriarch Ram Vilas Paswan left for patna from 12 Janpath, his home for the past 31 years since 1989. The wooden casket was taken on a truck decked with wreaths.
10 October 2020||CHENNAI,||Sipcot plans to take JV route for industrial parks||Sipcot will soon be establishing industrial parks in a joint venture mode with private landowners across the State. After holding several meetings, the request for application has finally been put up by Sipcot.
10 October 2020||Bengaluru,||Karnataka stays in 10,000-plus cases zone||It was another day of over 10,000 COVID-19 cases for Karnataka on Friday as daily case additions stood at 10,913. There were 114 deaths. Bengaluru Urban reported 5,009 cases and 57 of the 114 deaths, raising the toll in the district to 3,290. The State carried out 1,09,980 tests, including 49,618 rapid antigen tests. Kerala registered 9,250 new cases on Friday, and tested 68,321 samples. The test positivity rate showed a slight dip from 14.6% to 13.5% Thursday’s sudden drop in daily cases by nearly half the previous day’s number had cut the test positivity rate from the 14.6% to 8.6% and was seen as a statistical aberration or technical glitch during data upload, experts said. The chairperson of the State Government’s expert committee on COVID-19, B. Ekbal, clarified that the steep decline in cases and test positivity rate on Thursday was not an indication of the epidemic curve going down, but could be “Statistical Noise” (random irregularity in any real life data). Going by the current trends, the epidemic curve could plateau by October end, he said. On Friday, 25 more deaths were added to the official list. Thiruvananthapuram accounted for seven deaths, while there were four each in Kollam, Ernakulam and Malappuram, two in Alapuzha and one each in Kozhikode, Kasaragod, Kottayam and Thrissur.  Telangana, on the other hand, recorded 1,891 coronavirus cases on Thursday. Seven more persons succumbed to the virus. Greater Hyderabad had the major share of new cases, at 285. Medchal-Malkajgiri and Rangareddy districts 195 and 175 new cases respectively, Nalgonda 128 and Karimnagar reported 97 cases. Kumrambheem Asifabad district reported the lowest cases at 10, Narayanpet (13) and Bhupalpally (18). Tamil Nadu’s overall COVID-19 tally increased to 6,46,128 on Friday with another 5,185 persons testing positive for the infection. As many as 5,357 persons were discharged after treatment and the State recorded the deaths of 68 patients. Till date, 5,91,811 persons were discharged after treatment, while 10,120 persons died. The active cases stood at 44,197. Of this, Chennai accounted for 13,446 persons, who were under treatment, and Coimbatore 4,746 persons. Of the 68 fatalities, 34 persons died in government hospitals and an equal number of persons died in private hospitals. A total of 22 of these persons died in Chennai, while Chengalpattu accounted for six deaths and Vellore for five deaths.  (With inputs from Hyderabad, Chennai and Thiruvananthapuram bureaus)
10 October 2020||New Delhi,||Cong. to stress need for change||Creating employment opportunities, including filling government vacancies; sops for farmers, plans to tackle large-scale migration of labour; and improving security for women are among some of the key promises that the Congress is going to make in its Bihar manifesto, a party leader said on Friday. To be called the ‘Parivartan Patra’ (document for change), the Congress is likely to focus on recent issues that have shaped the Opposition party’s politics. For example, to go with the party’s ongoing protests over the three recently enacted farm laws, the manifesto will talk about offering minimum support price (MSP) and government procurement to farmers, if it comes to power. Though large sections of the population in the State are engaged in agriculture, the system of offering MSP to farmers is not followed, as it is done in Punjab and Haryana. Another recent issue that will figure in the manifesto would be the party’s plan to prevent large-scale migration from the State. Bihar, along with Uttar Pradesh, witnessed the largest reverse migration in the initial period of the lockdown ordered to stop the spread of the coronavirus. Nearly 40 lakh migrant workers from these two States were estimated to have returned, many on foot from their workplaces in other States, after losing their livelihoods because of the COVID-19 shutdown. “The Congress manifesto will talk about increasing rural employment opportunities by increasing avenues under the MGNREGA (Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act), so that more people can be absorbed within the State,” said the party functionary. There will also be a plan for skill development for workers, and a promise of equal pay for equal work, he added. Law and order Law and order, and crimes against women, will also have a special focus as Bihar had seen 18,587 cases of crimes against women in 2019, as per latest data from the National Crime Records Bureau. On Thursday, Mahila Congress chief Sushmita Dev had attacked the Janata Dal-United and Nitish Kumar for giving a ticket to former minister Manju Verma from Begusarai as her husband, Chandrashekhar Verma was an accused in the Muzzafurpur shelter home scandal in which 34 minor girls were sexually abused. “Immediately, they should cancel her candidature. I hope Prime Minister Narendra Modi- ji , who consistently says Beti Bachao, Beti Padhao (save the girl child, educate the girl child) walks the talk and makes sure that this lady’s candidature is cancelled,” Ms. Dev had said at a press conference. Of the 243 Assembly seats in the State, the Congress is contesting in 70 seats in an alliance with the Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) and the Left parties. The RJD is contesting in 144 seats and is leading the coalition. Polling for the three-phase elections in Bihar will be held on October 28, November 3 and November 7, and results will be declared on November 10.
10 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Panel will hear CLAT aspirants||The Supreme Court on Friday allowed several Common Law Admission Test (CLAT) aspirants who have complaints about the exam — held online last month — to approach a grievance redressal committee headed by a former Chief Justice of India within the next three days. “We are of the view that ends of justice be served in giving liberty to the petitioners to submit a representation to the grievance redressal committee with regard to their grievance within three days from today. We order accordingly. We have no doubt that the petitioners’ representation will be considered by the committee at an early date,” a Bench led by Justice Ashok Bhushan recorded in its order. The court did not, meanwhile, interfere or stay the counselling or admission process. It said counselling had started and a large number of candidates have completed theirs. The petitioner-aspirants, represented by senior advocate Gopal Sankaranarayanan, alleged that the CLAT and the evaluation of answers were “erroneous, faulty, defective, discriminatory and violative of fundamental rights of the Constitution”. Plea to scrap exam The petition had been filed by several students from across the country led by Uttar Pradesh-based Lavanya Bhatt. They urged the court to quash the exam and order it to be reconducted. The plea further asked the court to direct the consortium to set up a high-powered committee to examine the numerous complaints about “software glitches” and mismatched questions and answers so that students are not put in a quandary. The petition said a foolproof mechanism should be built to avoid these problems in the future. The online CLAT 2020 was conducted on September 28. The complaints about the exam included results displaying answers different from the ones ticked; results displaying or calculating marks for questions that were not even attempted by the candidates; and 10 wrong questions followed by erroneous answers. The petition also complained about the “unreasonable lengthy design of the CLAT examination”. Over 75,000 candidates had applied for CLAT, while 68,833 downloaded the admit cards. Over 86% took the exam across 300 centres, the petition mentioned.
10 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||DRDO tests anti-radiation missile||A new-generation anti-radiation missile, RudraM-I, was successfully flight-tested on Friday by the Defence Research and Development Organisation (DRDO). This is the first indigenous anti-radiation missile. An anti-radiation missile can locate and target radiation-emitting sources such as enemy radars, communication sites and other radio frequency-emitting targets. They can play a key role in neutralising any jamming platforms of the enemy or take out radar stations, thereby clearing a path for fighter jets to carry out an offensive and prevent own systems from being jammed. Pinpoint accuracy “The RudraM-I was successfully flight-tested onto a radiation target located on Wheeler Island off the coast of Odisha. The missile was launched from an SU-30 MkI fighter aircraft,” the DRDO said in a statement. It hit the radiation target with pinpoint accuracy, the statement said. The missile, after the launch, manoeuvred towards the target based on direction detected by the seeker and all mission objectives were successfully met, a defence source said. “It has a range of up to 200 km depending upon the launch conditions. The missile can be launched from altitudes of 500 m to 15 km and speeds of 0.6 to 2 mach,” the source added. The missile, integrated with the SU-30 MkI aircraft, has a capability of varying ranges based on the launch conditions. Having the Inertial Navigation System (INS)-Global Positioning System (GPS) navigation with Passive Homing Head (PHH) for the final attack, it is a potent weapon for the Indian Air Force for suppression of enemy air defence effectively from large stand-off ranges, the DRDO said. The PHH can detect, classify and engage targets over a wide band of frequencies. Another source said that once the SU-30 MkI approached the target, the launch processor in the launcher, the on-board computer and the passive seeker in the missile worked in unison to display the required mission data to the pilot. “After completion of alignment of navigation system of the missile, the dynamic launch zone was displayed to the pilot,” the source said. The PHH detected the target, and measured the direction of arrival of radiation and once the PHH seeker got a lock-on to the target (in lock-on before launch mode), the target was designated and the launch operation was performed by the pilot. Auto-launch was invoked and the missile was ejected using the catapult launcher, the source said.  The NGARM is being developed by Defence Research Development Laboratory (DRDL), Hyderabad, as the nodal agency. It is a joint effort involving DRDO labs, the IAF, Hindustan Aeronautics Ltd. and several public and private sector enterprises.
10 October 2020||New Delhi,||Ram Vilas Paswan makes final journey from 12 Janpath||The mortal remains of Union Minister and Lok Janshakti Party patriarch Ram Vilas Paswan left 12 Janpath, his home for 31 years since 1989, on Friday afternoon. The wooden casket was taken on a truck decked with wreaths and huge posters of his smiling face, amid crowds of supporters, party workers and family members. The body was taken to Patna on an Air Force plane. From the airport, the mortal remains will be taken to the Bihar Assembly and then to the LJP office. The funeral will be held on Saturday. Special Cabinet meeting At a specially convened meeting of the Union Cabinet earlier in the day, it was decided to accord Mr. Paswan a state funeral. Mourners lined up outside the Lutyens bungalow from early in the morning, waiting for a glimpse of the Dalit leader as a series of dignitaries paid their last respects. President Ram Nath Kovind and Prime Minister Narendra Modi were among the first to offer their condolences. Mr. Modi was accompanied by BJP president J.P. Nadda, Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad and Animal Husbandry Minister Giriraj Singh. From the Opposition, NCP leader Sharad Pawar, RJD Rajya Sabha member Misa Bharti, CPI general secretary D. Raja and AAP leader Sanjay Singh came to pay homage. Congress Lok Sabha member Shashi Tharoor was one of the early visitors. Former Congress President Rahul Gandhi, accompanied by the party’s Bihar in-charge Shaktisinh Gohil, came in the afternoon. In 2014, Ram Vilas Paswan’s son and current LJP president, Chirag Paswan, blamed Mr. Gandhi’s indifference towards them as one of the reasons for their shift from the UPA to the NDA. Goyal gets charge A Rashtrapati Bhavan announcement said Railway Minister Piyush Goyal would hold additional charge of the Ministry of Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution. Minutes after the announcement, Mr. Goyal reached 12 Janpath to offer his condolences.
10 October 2020||Washington DC,||Senior U.S. official to visit Delhi ahead of 2+2 talks||In the run-up to the U.S.-India 2+2 foreign and defence Ministers’ meeting this year, U.S. Deputy Secretary of State Stephen Biegun is scheduled to visit New Delhi from October 12 to 14. The dialogue, between External Affairs Minister S Jaishankar and Defence Minister Rajnath Singh, and their American counterparts, Secretary of State Mike Pompeo and Defence Secretary Mark Esper, is scheduled to be held on October 26 and 27 in New Delhi. Mr. Biegun will meet senior government officials and deliver the keynote address at the India-U.S. Forum (a platform convened by the Ananta Centre and the External Affairs Ministry). “Building on Secretary Pompeo’s October 6 meeting with Indian Minister of External Affairs Dr. S. Jaishankar and ahead of the U.S.-India 2+2 Ministerial Dialogue later this year, Deputy Secretary Biegun’s engagements in India will focus on advancing the United States-India Comprehensive Global Strategic Partnership,” a statement from the U.S. State Department said. Mr. Jaishankar and Mr. Pompeo held a bilateral meeting in Tokyo on October 6, along the sidelines of the second Quad ministerial meeting between India, the U.S., Japan and Australia. The agenda for the 2+2 is expected to include defence, economic cooperation, and cooperation at multilateral forums, a senior State Department official told reporters last week in Washington.
10 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘SARS-CoV-2 not last virus to spark a pandemic’||The SARS-CoV-2 will not be the last such virus of its kind — in terms of its ability to rapidly spread among people — and the next such virus of its kind can be a “MERS-2” even (a reference to the Middle Eastern Respiratory Virus that is more lethal but less contagious), Susan Weiss, Professor of Microbiology at the Perelman School of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, said here on Friday. Professor Weiss was the keynote speaker at the first TNQ-Janelia India COVID-19 Seminar, 2020. The first of the three online-only talks commenced on Friday. Also participating were Shahid Jameel, virologist and Director, Trivedi School of Biosciences, Ashoka University, and Satyajit Mayor, Director, National Centre for Biological Sciences, Bengaluru. Professor Weiss said SARS-CoV-2 used multiple paths of entry to gain access to the cell and multiply. However, all the evidence pointed to the virus having evolved naturally and was not the result of being manufactured in a lab as it was highly unlikely that somebody would design the specific mutations that allowed the virus to so efficiently target the human host cells. Dr. Jameel underlined that though the number of COVID-19 cases in India were declining over the past three weeks, there was no room for complacency as the country was contributing nearly 24% of the global case load as well as a similar fraction of deaths. There were several collaborative studies under way in India looking at whether particular variants of SARS-CoV-2 were responsible for a higher death toll, but so far, there was no clinching link, Dr. Mayor said. The seminar is the first of three that will held through October. In the past, the seminars have hosted Nobel Laureates including Venki Ramakrishnan and Shinya Yamanaka. Jennifer Doudna, of the University of California, Berkley, one of the two scientists to be awarded the 2020 Nobel Prize for Chemistry, was to be the scheduled speaker for the lecture series in January 2021, but would be lecturing in Mumbai, Delhi, Bengaluru and Chennai in January 2022, said a note on the TNQ website. The ongoing seminar series aims at bringing current research on SARS-CoV-2 and the disease COVID-19 to clinicians, scientists, and students in India and across the world. TNQ Technologies is a publishing technology and services company based in Chennai and Coimbatore.
10 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Silent warriors ease pain in the time of pandemic||Delhi resident Sarada, a 56-year-old former nurse from Kerala, suffering from advanced breast cancer, had lived with severe pain for over two months when lockdown prevented her from accessing any cancer care. Like thousands of cancer patients, whose care and disease outcomes were affected by the pandemic, Ms. Sarada too found herself in much distress. “I thought I could come to my home State and seek care but I was in so much pain, I did not know how I could manage alone. If it were not for Dr. Rajagopal, I may not be alive today to tell this tale,” she says. From July on, right from her quarantine at the medical college hospital and later treatment at the Regional Cancer Centre, she was taken care of by the team at Pallium India. Untold suffering “Apart from the ravages of COVID-19, the suffering that many have gone through during the pandemic because of chronic diseases, loss of income and loved ones is horrendous. Palliative care workers have been at the forefront, doing a lot of silent work,” says M. R. Rajagopal, chairman, Pallium India. Seeks commitment The 73rd World Health Assembly, which approved the resolution on COVID-19 response, had sought the commitment of governments “to deliver palliative care services alongside safe testing and treatment for COVID”. Yet, palliative care is yet to be integrated with the formal strategy to fight the pandemic at the Centre or State level. For administrators, focussing on equipping their health systems to grapple with the care of thousands of patients overwhelming hospitals, the need and importance of palliative care may not be very tangible. But from helping COVID patients manage their lingering physical symptoms to helping the families of COVID patients fight the frightening feeling of stigma and isolation, palliative care workers have been working hard. Flooded with calls “Our helpline (8606 8848 89) was flooded with calls from patients seeking help to get their regular medications and people calling just to air their feeling of grief and loneliness,” says Vyshnavi, who coordinates the helpline at Pallium India “This pandemic has not just taken many lives. Many could not say goodbye to their loved ones before they were whisked away into ICUs or give that final hug before parting. Even the funerals were lonely affairs. These people need help to cope with their daily lives while they are grieving,” Dr. Rajagopal points out. New helpline from today It is for them that Pallium India is launching a new helpline, Sukh-Dukh, wherein trained professionals will offer counselling to help people cope with their loss. The service is being piloted from Thursday, World Hospice and Palliative Care Day.
10 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Prove innocence, Kodiyeri tells Muraleedharan||Communist Party of India (Marxist) State secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan on Friday attempted to turn the tables on the Bharathiya Janata Party by stating that the Union Minister of State for External Affairs V. Muraleedharan had violated protocol by including a public relations consultant as a delegate in the Indian Ocean Rim Association (IORA) Council of Minister’s meet held in Abu Dhabi last year. A ‘counterstroke’ After chairing a State secretariat meeting, Mr. Balakrishnan told journalists that the accusation against the Union Minister was severe. The onus was on Mr. Muraleedharan to prove his innocence. Mr. Balakrishnan’s statement was widely perceived as a counterstroke to the BJP’s repeated targeting of Minister for Minority Welfare K.T. Jaleel on the allegation that he had violated protocol by accepting Koran and dates as gifts from the United Arab Emirates (UAE). The Minister had termed the “Ramzan season charity” as a cultural and religious transaction based on goodwill between people of different nations and not a largesse from a foreign country as alleged by the BJP, Congress, and the Indian Union Muslim League (IUML). Minister’s version Mr. Balakrishnan’s statement came against the backdrop of a report that the Prime Minister’s Office had taken cognisance of the complaint and was examining the conduct of Mr. Muraleedharan. The Central Minister had maintained that he had done no wrongdoing. The PR professional had arrived on her own volition to attend the international conference, which was an open public event. The PR professional, who was also an office-bearer of Mahila Morcha, the women’s wing of the BJP, had said she had attended the conference at her own expense.
10 October 2020||Belagavi,||Jarkiholi’s meeting with Fadnavis fuels rumours||Irrigation Minister and BJP leader Ramesh Jarkiholi’s meeting with Devendra Fadnavis, former Maharashtra Chief Minister, has caused speculation that the BJP is trying to topple the Shiv Sena-led alliance government in the neighbouring State. Mr. Jarkiholi, who claimed to have engineered the resignations of over 20 Congress MLAs to aid B.S. Yediyurappa become the Chief Minister last year, met Mr. Fadnavis in Mumbai on Thursday, the day when BJP national president J.P. Nadda was in the city to address party workers. Mr. Nadda’s statement that the BJP was bound to form a government and install Mr. Fadnavis as the Chief Minister in Maharashtra further fuelled rumours. This is the second time in less than a month that the two leaders are meeting. Mr. Jarkiholi had met Mr. Fadnavis in a private hotel outside Mumbai in the last week of September. Congress leaders in Belagavi district suspect that the BJP may be trying another season of ‘Operation lotus’ and using Mr. Jarkiholi’s “experience” for the purpose. “Mr. Jarkiholi has several friends among the Congress and NCP MLAs in Maharashtra. He has long-standing business relations with some owing to their interest in sugar factories and molasses business. Some others have been introduced to him by his brothers-in-law Ambirao Patil and Appirao Patil who hail from Maharashtra,” said a Congress leader. “The BJP may be trying all kinds of tricks to come to power. But they will not succeed. The coalition government in Maharashtra is very stable,” said Satish Jarkiholi, KPCC working president and brother of Mr. Ramesh Jarkiholi. BJP leaders, however, said there was no such plan. “We are carrying out the role of a constructive Opposition in Maharashtra and we are not doing anything to dislodge the government there,” said Sanjay Patil, BJP district unit president Some farmers’ leaders have questioned Mr. Ramesh Jarkiholi’s “haste” in visiting Maharashtra for political reasons. Mr. Ramesh Jarkiholi’s sojourn has also faced criticism. “The Minister has not rushed to Maharashtra to resolves issues of flooding in the Krishna basin or the water sharing disputes of the Krishna or the Mahadayi, despite repeated requests from farmers’ organisations,” said Jayashree Gurannanavar, a farmers’ leader.
10 October 2020||Kolkata,||Frog to fungus, 544 species add to India’s diversity||Cnemaspis anandani , a rock dwelling gecko endemic to the Western Ghats; Sphaerotheca magadha , a burrowing frog discovered in the farm fields of Jharkhand; Enoplotrupes tawangensis , a dung beetle from Tawang; Amomum nagamiense , a wild ginger variety discovered from the forest behind the Kohima zoo in Nagaland; and Pteris subiriana , a wild fern found in Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra — these are among the 544 reasons India has to cheer, with the Zoological Survey of India (ZSI) and the Botanical Survey of India (BSI) on Friday releasing Animal Discoveries 2019 and Plant Discoveries 2019 . The publications were released by Babul Supriyo, Union Minister of State, Ministry of Environment, Forest and Climate Change, at an event at the Acharya Jagadish Chandra Bose Indian Botanic Garden in Howrah. More insects  Animal Discoveries 2019 lists 368 faunal species as new to science, and 116 species as first records from India. “The publication provides details about 360 new species, four sub-species and four fossil species, and 116 species recorded for the first time from India,” Kailash Chandra, director, ZSI, said. Among the discoveries, 294 species are invertebrates and 74 vertebrates. Insects outnumbered other groups in general and in vertebrates, fish diversity is high with 38 new species and five new records. Dr. Chandra said that with the new discoveries and new records, Indian faunal diversity stood at 1,02,161 species, which was equivalent to 6.52% of all the species across the globe. He added that along with conventional taxonomy, the ZSI had introduced modern methods such as DNA barcoding, entire genome sequencing, and X-rays for the identification of new species.  Plant Discoveries 2019 lists 180 new plant species and 73 new records discovered from the country. New records in a country refer to animal or plant species discovered in other parts of the world and recorded for the first time in the country. “This volume of plant discoveries contains 134 seed plants; five fern and fern allies; six bryophytes; 18 lichen; 51 fungi; 23 algae; and 16 microbes,” A.A. Mao, director, BSI, said. Edible varieties Dr. Mao said that among the discoveries this year, there were plants with horticultural value and those which could serve as alternative foods such as aroids, syzygium (wild jamun), impatiens, mushrooms and zingibers. The number of plant species found in India according to the BSI is 50,012, and accounts roughly for 12% of all flora species in the world.
10 October 2020||Jaipur,||Temple priest set afire over land issue dies in hospital||A 55-year-old priest of a temple in Bukna village of Rajasthan’s Karauli district died of burns at the Sawai Man Singh Hospital here after he was set ablaze over a land issue. He was attacked by five persons, who wanted to encroach on the temple land on Wednesday. On the basis of Babu Lal Vaishnav’s statement to the police before his death on Thursday night, main accused Kailash Meena was arrested on Friday. The police had registered a case of attempt to murder against the five persons. It was converted to that of murder after the priest’s death, and a team led by an Additional Superintendent of Police was conducting an investigation and searching for other accused. The body was taken to the village after post-mortem examination for cremation on Friday. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot said no guilty person would be spared in the case. “There is no place for such an act in a civilised society. The main accused has been arrested and further action is in progress,” Mr. Gehlot tweeted. The priest, along with his family, was farming on 2.5 hectares of land belonging to the Radha Krishna Temple Trust, while the accused had been allegedly trying to encroach on the land. He was attacked by the accused on Wednesday. The Opposition BJP slammed the State government for the incident. It alleged that law and order situation had collapsed, and criminals had no fear of law in the Congress rule.
10 October 2020||Bengaluru,||‘93% of COVID-19 victims in August were symptomatic’||Of 2,697 patients, who succumbed to COVID-19 during August in Karnataka, 93% were symptomatic. While 38% had only breathlessness as a symptom, 37% had breathlessness and other symptoms, such as cough and fever. However, in Chamarajanagar, Uttara Kannada, and Yadgir districts, 50% of the deceased were asymptomatic. The youngest patient who died due to COVID during August was a four-month-old baby in Hassan (Patient No. 2367890), who was recorded as a patient with co-morbidities (diabetes and hypertension). The oldest were three 96-year-old patients (2 males and 1 female) from Shivamogga, Mandya, and Uttara Kannada. According to an analysis by Project Jeevan Raksha, a public-private initiative involving Public Health Foundation of India, the Indian Medical Association, and Proxima, a management consulting firm, 94% of the deceased had breathlessness as a symptom. Over 90% of the deceased in eight of the 30 districts had Severe Acute Respiratory Infections (SARI). In Bagalkot district, all those who died during August had breathlessness, cough, and fever, while 44% from Mandya had only cough. While 67.5% of the deceased had SARI, 17% had Influenza Like-Illness (ILI). The source of infection could not be traced in 15%. Making a presentation on the analysis on Friday, Mysore Sanjeev, convener of Project Jeevan Raksha, said a key observation was that asymptomatic COVID-19 patients have a relatively lower risk of death when compared to symptomatic patients. One-third (33.33%) of the 2,697 victims had no co-morbidities. All those who died in Kodagu district and 89% of the deaths from Yadgir district had no co-morbidities. “While 55% of the victims in Raichur district had hypertension alone, nearly 1/4th of those in Bengaluru Urban had both diabetes and hypertension. Those with diabetes and/or hypertension are at high risk,” he said. Apart from the four-month-old baby, a 11-year-old boy who had hypertension also succumbed to the virus in Dakshina Kannada. Asserting that these deaths should be investigated, Mr. Sanjeev said: “There are two critical issues here: accuracy of the diagnosis and competence of the doctors who treated these children. While the baby died in a government hospital, the boy passed away in a private hospital. We need to find out if they were given appropriate treatment.” While 3% of the victims were brought dead to the hospital, 1.1% died in their residence. While 17% died on the same day of their admission to the hospital, 51% died within 100 hours of admission to the hospital. Nearly 45% of the deaths occurred in COVID-19 Designated Hospitals (DCHs) and 27% died in private hospitals. The place of death has not been disclosed for 25.4% of the victims in August. Although, 3,425 patients died in August, only 2,697 deaths were analysed as the details of all patients were not made available on the Health Department’s website.
10 October 2020||MYSURU,||Air passenger traffic from Mysuru up||The air passenger traffic originating from Mysuru is beginning to pick up for the first time since the COVID-19 threw everything out of gear across all sectors. There are 12 flight movements at the Mysuru airport daily and the authorities say most of the flights carry almost 50% of their carrying capacity. Only ATR flights with 72 seat capacity can operate out of Mysuru given its short runway (1,740 meters). However, only flights with fares subsidized by the government under UDAN are operating. The scheme was introduced to provide flight connectivity to tier 2 and tier 3 cites so as to spur economic growth and lure more investments to the region. A non-UDAN flight was introduced from Mysuru to Chennai last November which underlined the growth in air passenger traffic from Mysuru and the potential to harness it. But it took a hit with the pandemic and the flight service was withdrawn and is yet to be restored. Airport director R. Manjunath said all the six flights - to and from Mysuru - were recording atleast 50% passenger occupancy. In some cases, the occupancy rate was higher. There are flights from Mysuru to Chennai, Bengaluru, Kochi, Hyderabad, Belagavi and Goa. “This is a far from the scenario that prevailed two months ago when there used to be handful of people on a single flight,” said Mr. Manjunath. Though the Mysuru-Chennai sector is popular, flights are not operating daily and will become a daily service from the last week of October, according to Mr. Manjunath. However, stakeholders in the tourism sector – which too has taken a hit – aver that situation is far from returning to normal and only people with business interests and official work were flying. “We don’t see many tourists and the surge in COVID-19 cases will further delay the resumption of normal tourism activities,” stakeholders added. But they agree that the gradual increase in passenger traffic since September compared to June/July is an indication that business and economic activity was gaining traction. But it is going to be a longer wait for the tourism sector to attain the pre-COVID-19 days’ level of footfall.
10 October 2020||KOCHI,||Kerala freezes proceedings against elephant owners||The wildlife crime cases booked against some elephant owners following a YouTube video on trading over 200 elephants brought from other States are taking a curious turn with the State government putting on hold all proceedings against them after considering a petition from the Elephant Owners Association. In his order on Friday, the Principal Secretary (Forest) asked the Chief Wildlife Warden to stop all proceedings against the elephant owners considering a representation submitted to the Forest Minister and called for an urgent report on the complaint that forest officials were defaming the elephant owners.  The Hindu had on Thursday reported that seven cases were booked against M.V. Prasanth of Thiruvananthapuram, V. Shaji of Kaveri Puthenkulam, Kollam, and a few others and 15 elephants taken into custody after Mr. Shaji’s YouTube video. The elephant owners were booked for illegally transporting, trading and maintaining captive elephants in violation of the Wildlife Protection Act and Captive Elephant Management Rules, Kerala. In his representation to the Minister, association president G. Krishnaprasad complained that the officials were unnecessarily targeting Mr. Shaji and alleged that they raised a ruckus at the house of Mr. Shaji after falsely alleging that his elephants did not possess ownership certificates. In the case of Mr. Prasanth, the association charged that he was being falsely implicated regarding the death of an elephant in 2018. The forest officials had conducted the post-mortem of the animal and taken its tusks into custody, it was submitted. Sangham complaint The Forest Department launched the probe against Mr. Prasanth on a complaint from the Aana Ulsava Samrakshana Sahaya Sangham, Thrissur, that an elephant was illegally transported to the State in violation of the rules and instructions of the Kerala High Court. Responding to the government order, A.A. Aneesh, State secretary of the sangham, said the organisation would challenge the order in a court of law. Though the organisation had filed several complaints regarding the illegal practices involving captive elephants, the forest officials had never responded to it, he alleged. At the same time, senior forest officials indicated that the legal proceedings in the cases booked against elephant owners in courts would continue.
10 October 2020||JAIPUR,||A crowdsourced database to help artists during pandemic||In an attempt to extend benefits of the government's schemes during the COVID-19 pandemic, a database of artists practising in different spheres of crafts and techniques in Rajasthan is being created with the help of crowdsourcing. The initiative will ensure support to the artist community that has been deprived of regular livelihood for several months. State Art and Culture Minister B.D. Kalla will formally launch the campaign at a function here on Saturday. The database will include basic details along with genre of art forms, such as performing arts, visual arts, literary arts, dying arts, wandering arts, folk arts and tribal arts. The initiative follows a social media campaign undertaken by civil society groups and research institutions for helping out the Langa-Manganiyar folk artistes of western Rajasthan. The “Maru Mani” (Jewels of Desert) campaign was launched in June this year for getting and distributing monetary support to preserve the rich heritage of traditional music and dance forms of the Thar desert. Mugdha Sinha, Secretary, Art and Culture Department, said on Friday that Rajasthan was the first State in the country to take this initiative. “Reaching out to and involving stakeholder artists themselves in collecting the data through Google Form is going to be a participative policy making and inclusive approach,” she said.  New policy The digital database will form a key part of a new policy on art and culture expected to be announced shortly in the State. Ms. Sinha, who is also Director-General, Jawahar Kala Kendra, said the Chief Minister's Lok Kalakar Protsahan Yojana, launched in April, had extended support to 337 artists with an expenditure of Rs.9 lakh. The “Maru Mani” campaign involved holding of virtual events on safeguarding the intangible cultural heritage and diverse cultural traditions from Jodhpur district's Moklawas village, where a Thar desert museum has been established. At a two-day event in August, experts called for preservation of socio-cultural practices of indigenous people through community-based and government's initiatives. Jodhpur-based Rupayan Sansthan, which established the Moklawas museum, has also opened a folk music school for training young underprivileged boys from the Langa community, whose popular art form faces the challenge of survival because of their global performances having been halted in the pandemic.
10 October 2020||KOCHI,||Customs interrogates Sivasankar again||The preventive wing of the Cochin Customs on Friday interrogated M. Sivasankar, the former Principal Secretary to the Kerala Chief Minister, in connection with the diplomatic baggage gold smuggling case. Mr. Sivasankar arrived in Kochi in the morning and presented himself for interrogation. After interrogating for nearly 12 hours, the Customs let Mr. Sivasankar walk out of its office by 10 p.m. He has been asked to come back to the Customs office again on Saturday, sources said. The agency had interrogated Mr. Sivasankar twice earlier after his alleged links with Swapna Suresh, prime accused in the case, surfaced. The Customs officials were tight-lipped over the investigation. In its final complaint, which was submitted to the court on Thursday, the Enforcement Directorate had indicated that Mr. Sivsankar would have to be grilled again and confronted with digital evidences. Central agencies, including the National Investigating Agency, Customs and the Enforcement Directorate, are conducting separate inquiries into the seizure of gold from “diplomatic baggage” at the Thiruvananthapuram International airport on July 5.
10 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Labour Bureau study gleans migrant data||Labour and Employment Minister Santosh Kumar Gangwar has asked the expert group of the Labour Bureau to finalise the survey on migration at the earliest so that data on the number of migrant workers can be compiled, a Labour Ministry statement said on Friday. On Thursday, Mr. Gangwar addressed the first meeting of the group, chaired by Kolkata University Professor Emeritus S.P. Mukhrjee, to discuss the three surveys to be carried out by the Labour Bureau on migration, domestic workers and professional bodies. The expert group has been set up for a period of three years to provide technical advice to the Labour Bureau regarding the surveys. Mr. Gangwar expressed “deep concern over the difficulties faced by migrant workers in these pandemic times”, and said there was a need for reliable data about these workers, the statement said. “The migration survey to be undertaken by Labour Bureau will provide authentic estimates of the number of migrant workers in the country, along with an assessment of the issues being faced by them. Given the urgent need of this data, he urged the expert group to finalise all the technical details related to this survey at the earliest so that the same can be launched without any delay,” the statement said. Mr. Gangwar said the survey on domestic workers, who form about 3% of the workers in the country, would be a first of its kind and would help the government identify the problems faced by domestic workers in order to formulate policies for their benefit.
10 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Citizen poll throws up three contenders for national butterfly tag||A citizen poll to identify the national butterfly has concluded with three species garnering the highest number of votes. Krishna Peacock ( Papilio krishna ), Indian Jezebel ( Delias eucharis ), and Orange Oakleaf ( Kallima inachus ), the frontrunners, have unique features such as ability to camouflage as a dead leaf, exhibit iridescence to stave off predators, and aid farmers in getting rid of pests. List to be submitted While the organisers will submit the list of the top-three to the Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change, the onus is on the Centre to choose one among them to join the ranks of the Bengal Tiger, Indian Peacock, Indian Lotus, banyan tree, and mango as yet another national symbol, says Kalesh Sadasivan, one of the core members of the organising group. The nationwide poll organised by the National Butterfly Campaign Consortium, a collective of 50 butterfly experts and enthusiasts, from September 10 to the midnight of October 8 yielded 59,754 votes. HIghest votes The highest number of votes were polled from Maharashtra (18,887). The month-long campaign also witnessed considerable support from other States, including Tamil Nadu (4,789), Chhattisgarh (4,754), and West Bengal (3,676). While the polling stood at less than 800 in Kerala on October 1, the quest for a national butterfly gained momentum later with 2,471 casting their votes from the State. Blessed with a vibrant colour pattern, including vermilion (haldi – kumkum) , the Indian Jezebel (or Common Jezebel) is known to deter its predators with its flashy wing colours. Regarded as soldiers of farmers, they also prey on parasites that infest fruit-bearing plants. Widely distributed, the species can be spotted in gardens and other lightly wooded areas. Krishna Peacock Krishna Peacock, a flagship species for biodiversity and conservation, is generally found in large numbers in the Himalayas. Possessing a peculiarly large swallowtail, its iridescent green scales diffract light to coat itself in radiance. Orange Oakleaf is commonly known as ‘dead leaf’ for its ability to camouflage as a dry autumn leaf while striking a stationary pose with its wings closed. The masquerade enables the species to prevent it from being devoured by birds in the moist forests of northern Western Ghats, central, northern and northeastern parts of India where they are generally found. Besides, the Oakleaf is also known to exhibit polyphenism as it assumes specific colour and size during dry and wet seasons.
10 October 2020||Bhubaneswar,||‘Stan Swamy’s arrest a violation of human rights’||Civil rights activists and organisations on Friday condemned the arrest of Stan Swamy, the 83-year-old tribal rights activist, by the National Investigation Agency in the Bhima Koregaon case. Mr. Swamy, arrested on Thursday from his Ranchi house, was sent to judicial custody till October 23. Terming the arrest a gross violation of human rights and democratic norms, the activists said, “Mr. Swamy has worked for Adivasi rights since decades in Jharkhand.” “The inhuman act of the NIA authorities in arresting Mr. Swamy stands out for its sheer vindictiveness. He fully cooperated with the investigating officers when they questioned him for over 15 hours [on 27, 30 July and 6 August],” they said in a statement. The activists pointed out that Mr. Swamy had consistently denied any link with extremist leftist forces or Maoists. “He had also clearly told the NIA that some so-called extracts allegedly taken from his computer shown to him by the NIA were fake and fabricated and that he disowned them,” says the statement. “Among other issues, he works on displacement, corporate loot of resources, the condition of undertrials and the Panchayats (Extension to Scheduled Areas) Act. Mr. Swamy has been a vocal critic of the BJP government’s attempts to amend land laws and the land acquisition Act in Jharkhand, and a strong advocate of the Forest Rights Act, PESA and related laws,” it says. ‘Case baseless’ “We firmly believe that the Bhima-Koregaon case is baseless,” the activists said in the statement. They appealed to Chief Minister Hemant Soren, who had earlier opposed Mr. Swamy’s arrest, to resist the arrest this time too. Mr. Soren should demand the immediate release of Mr. Swamy and closure of the case, said Bharat Bhushan Choudhary of the Jharkhand Janadhikar Mahasabha.
10 October 2020||October 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Lalu Prasad gets bail in Chaibasa treasury case||The case pertains to the fraudulent withdrawal of Rs. 33.67 crore from the Chaibasa treasury in Jharkhand in 1992-93 when Mr. Prasad was the Chief Minister of undivided Bihar. While granting bail, the High Court observed that Mr. Prasad had served half of the five-year sentence awarded to him. It asked Mr. Prasad to submit two personal bonds of Rs. 50,000 each and deposit Rs. 2 lakh for securing bail. On September 11, 2019, the court had rejected bail to Mr. Prasad as he had not served half of the jail term. “We’ll also appeal to the court in another case related to the Dumka treasury in November and seek bail,” Mr. Prasad’s counsel Prabhat Kumar told mediapersons in Ranchi. The Dumka case pertains to the fraudulent withdrawal of Rs. 3.5 crore from the district treasury between 1991 and 1996. In the Chaibasa case, on January 24, 2018, a special CBI court in Ranchi convicted Mr. Prasad and the other accused. However, in July 2019, the Jharkhand High Court granted bail to Mr. Prasad in a fodder scam case related to the fraudulent withdrawal from the Deoghar treasury of Jharkhand as he had served half of his three-and-a-half year prison term in the case. Mr. Prasad has been awarded varying sentences in various fodder scam cases.
10 October 2020||October 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Active COVID-19 cases drop below 9 lakh||The the number of new cases stood at 70,496. As per the data released by the Ministry, 75% of the new recovered cases were reported from 10 States and Union Territories — Maharashtra, Karnataka, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh, Odisha, West Bengal, Delhi, and Madhya Pradesh. “Maharashtra alone has contributed the maximum, with more than 15,000 single day recovery, and 70,496 new confirmed cases were recorded in last 24 hours. 78% of the new cases are from 10 States and UTs. Maharashtra continues to be the State reporting a very high number of new cases, with more than 13,000 cases, followed by Karnataka, with more than 10,000 cases,” the Ministry said. The country also reported 964 fatalities in the past 24 hours, of which nearly 82% were concentrated in 10 States/UT, with more than 37% of the new fatalities reported from Maharashtra (358).
10 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC questions NCPCR on repatriation of children||The Supreme Court on Friday sought a response from the country’s apex child rights body, the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights (NCPCR), to its request to eight States to “produce” children living in care homes before the local child welfare committees for their “immediate repatriation” with their families. The NCPCR reportedly wrote to Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Mizoram, Karnataka, Kerala, Maharashtra and Meghalaya in this regard. These States combinedly have 1.84 lakh children in care homes. This accounts for over 70% of the children in care homes. A Bench led by Justice L. Nageswara Rao asked the NCPCR to respond why such repatriation of the children to their families should not be done on an individual basis. The next hearing is on November 24. The court is suo motu monitoring the welfare of children placed in care homes during the pandemic. The NCPCR, in a letter on September 24, explained need for a child to grow up in a familial environment. In an April 6 order, the court directed juvenile authorities to “proactively consider whether a child or children should be kept in the child care institutions considering the best interest, health and safety concerns”. However, on Friday, the court wondered whether the NCPCR could issue such general directions to the States without considering the education, health, safety of the children, the consent of their parents and their economical situation. ‘More vulnerable’ Amicus curiae Gaurav Agrawal said the NCPCR direction violated the Juvenile Justice Act of 2015. Besides, he argued that the pandemic would make a child more vulnerable to domestic abuse. His note in the court mentions the NCPCR letter to Karnataka in this regard. Additional Solicitor General Aishwarya Bhati agreed that repatriation ought to be considered on an individual basis. Additional Advocate General of Tamil Nadu Balaji Srinivasan placed on record a note from the S. Madumathi, Secretary, Social Welfare Department, that a total of 43,083 children have been temporarily placed with their families. “The children being taken in care homes, are not only orphans/abandoned children, but also children from downtrodden/financially unstable families. All the children in these homes study in nearby government schools,” the note said.
10 October 2020||October 10 2020 00:00 IST,||NIA files chargesheet in Bhima Koregaon case||The NIA said, “It also included various documents regarding mobilisation against the Constitutionally established Government by the Maoist cadres, information about movement of the security forces with an intention to cause heavy damage to the State. Discreet codes were used for secret communication amongst themselves to avoid detection by security forces regarding their conspiracy and planning.” The agency further said, “Investigation also revealed a systematic network of Maoists operating for supply of arms and ammunitions having close nexus with other banned proscribed organisation within and outside India. The Strategy & Tactics adopted by Maoists to carry out so-called urban revolution with their frontal outfits has also been revealed during investigation. Beside this, funding activities of Maoist cadres and their sympathisers to carry out Maoist work in rural as well urban areas came to the fore.” According to the NIA, Anand Teltumbde, played an active role with other Maoist cadres and received funds from them for carrying out the activities. Incriminating documents revealing his deep involvement with the CPI (Maoist) activities also came to the fore. Gautam Navlakha’s active role and involvement also came up in the secret communications with the CPI (Maoist) cadres. Hany Babu, was instrumental in organising visits of foreign journalists to the CPI (Maoist) areas and was assigned present and future tasks of the Revolutionary Democratic Front, a banned organisation in Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. Sagar Gorkhe, Ramesh Gaichor and Jyoti Jagtap are trained cadres of the CPI (Maoist) and members of the Kabir Kala Manch, a frontal organisation of the CPI (Maoist). The agency said Father Stan Swamy is a CPI (Maoist) cadre and was actively involved in its activities. He propagated among cadres that the arrest of urban CPI (Maoist) cadres from different parts of country, particularly in Maharashtra, had caused a huge irrevocable damage to CPI (Maoist).
10 October 2020||October 10 2020 00:00 IST,||RBI forecasts end to contraction by Q4||Although the RBI expects private investment and exports to be subdued in view of anaemic demand conditions, Mr. Das said the farm sector could well lead the growth revival through a rural demand spurt. “Manufacturing firms expect capacity utilisation to recover in Q3... If, however, the current momentum of upturn gains ground, a faster and stronger rebound is eminently feasible,” the Governor said. Wading into the debate about the possible alphabet shape for India’s recovery, Mr. Das dug into cricketing terminology to espouse his own expectation of a three-speed recovery. Apart from agriculture, sectors such as fast-moving consumer goods, automobiles, pharma and power would “open their accounts” first, he reckoned. “The second category of sectors to ‘strike form’ would comprise sectors where activity is normalising gradually. The third category of sectors would include the ones which face the ‘slog overs’, but they can rescue the innings. These are sectors that are most severely affected by social distancing and are contact-intensive,” Mr. Das said. Apart from slashing a layer of red tape to expedite exports, the central bank also announced a rationalisation of risk weightages assigned by banks for all new home loans sanctioned up to March 31, 2022. This would give a fillip to the job-intensive real estate sector that has been flailing in the pandemic, the RBI said. The stock markets reacted favourably to the RBI policy statement, with the BSE Sensex closing the day at 40,509 points, up 0.81%.
10 October 2020||New Delhi,||Shiv Sena seeks norms for social media platforms||Shiv Sena’s Deputy Leader in the Rajya Sabha Priyanka Chaturvedi on Friday wrote to Union Home Minister Amit Shah and Law Minister Ravi Shankar Prasad, seeking guidelines for social media platforms and an investigation into fake social media accounts that aim to destabilise governments and constitutional institutions. Ms. Chaturvedi said that investigation by the Mumbai police uncovered 80,000 fake social media accounts that were used to target it over a film actor’s death. Without mentioning the name of Sushant Singh Rajput, she quoted a study by the University of Michigan about how conspiracy theories about his death were pushed through social media platforms.
10 October 2020||New Delhi,||NRI quota in professional courses is not sacrosanct: SC||Private colleges and institutions that offer professional and technical courses have the discretion to do away with their Non-Resident Indian (NRI) quota of seats after giving reasonable prior notice, the Supreme Court held on Friday. NRI quota was not sacrosanct. Candidates under the quota cannot assert their right to be admitted, the court said in a judgment. “Private colleges and institutions, which offer professional and technical courses, have some elbow room. They can decide whether, and to what extent, they wish to offer NRI or management quotas,” a Bench of Justices L. Nageswara Rao and S. Ravindra Bhat observed. Change in seat matrix The 28-page judgment came in an appeal against the change in seat matrix introduced in private medical and dental colleges in Rajasthan for postgraduate courses. The colleges could completely eliminate the NRI quota for the 2020-21 academic year. The colleges argued in court that the NRI seats would not be filled during the pandemic. Besides, many NRI candidates have been considered for the management seats on the basis of merit. The verdict referred to the seven-judge Bench decision in P.A. Inamdar, which held that 15% NRI quota was “not compulsory” but “only potential”. “It was, and remains, within the discretionary authority of the management of private medical colleges, within their internal policy making domain,” Justice Bhat, who wrote the verdict, observed. The judgment quoted from the Constitution Bench verdict in the Inamdar case, which said the term ‘NRI’ in relation to admissions was itself a “misnomer”. “Neither the students who get admissions under this category nor their parents are NRIs. In effect and reality, under this category, less meritorious students, but who can afford to bring more money, get admission,” the judgment quoted.
10 October 2020||Bhubaneswar,||Court sends Major into Army custody||A local court in the city heard a domestic violence case involving a Major-ranked officer of the Army well past midnight on Thursday. The officer was sent into Army custody by the Sub-Divisional Judicial Magistrate who heard the matter. The court continued the hearing till 1.30 a.m. “Army officers generally respect women. It was the reason for which my parents chose him for me. It was an arranged marriage. But I have been subjected to both physical and mental torture for years now,” the wife of the officer told the court.  ‘I was tortured’ “Family members, including my husband, mother-in-law, father-in-law and sister-in-law, never missed any opportunity to torture me. For the sake of my marital life, I kept quiet for years. When the torture became unbearable, I decided to take the assistance of the police,” she said.
10 October 2020||New Delhi,||Priyanka hails BSP founder Kanshi Ram||Congress general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra on Friday, while paying tribute to the Bahujan Samaj Party (BSP) founder Kanshi Ram on his death anniversary, described him as a “strong pillar” who strengthened the politics of social justice in India. “My salute to Honourable Kanshi Ram ji who emboldened the voice of the Dalit and the deprived and was a strong pillar of strengthening the politics of social justice and Constitutional values,” Ms. Vadra tweeted. The Congress leader’s remarks on the BSP founder is in sharp contrast to her recent twitter barbs at BSP supremo Mayawati, whom she had described as an “informal spokesperson for the BJP”. Her latest tweet also reflects the Congress party’s attempt to reach out to the Dalit community, once its traditional vote bank along with Muslims in Uttar Pradesh, and create a political space for the party.
10 October 2020||Srinagar,||J&K HC quashes FIR against journalist||The J&K High Court has quashed a First Information Report (FIR) against a journalist in Srinagar and questioned whether “fearless and frank reporting” should attract Section 505 of the Ranbir Penal Code (RPC). “The complaint does not disclose the particulars of any such person who has been induced to commit an offence against the State because [of] the publication of the news report in the question. The contents of the FIR, which is based upon the complaint filed by some association of travel agents, are absolutely vague and devoid of any particulars in this regard,” Justice Sanjay Dhar observed on Thursday . The court quashed the FIR registered against Times of India reporter Mohammad Saleem Pandit in 2018 for publishing news regarding stone pelting on tourists at several spots across the Kashmir valley.
10 October 2020||October 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Rush hour||
10 October 2020||October 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Past and present||
10 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Parties get more radio, screen time||The Election Commission on Friday decided to double the broadcast and telecast time allotted to all national and State parties on All India Radio and Doordarshan for the Bihar Assembly election with the increased importance of non-contact based campaigning during the COVID-19 pandemic. “Considering the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic and enhanced relevance of non-contact based campaign, the Election Commission of India, in consultation with the Prasar Bharati Corporation, has decided to double the broadcast/telecast time allotted to each national party and recognised State party of Bihar on Doordarshan and All India Radio during the ongoing general election to the Legislative Assembly of Bihar, 2020,” an EC statement said. The parties are allotted a base time of 90 minutes each and additional time based on their performance in the previous Bihar election.
10 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘PM’s idea of wind turbines impractical’||Can a wind turbine produce water out of thin air? Prime Minister Narendra Modi reckoned it is possible and requested Henrik Andersen, the CEO of Vesta Wind Systems, a Danish maker of wind turbines, if his organisation could develop the technology. Mr. Modi’s reasoning was that the spinning turbine would be able to “suck out moisture” from the air and condense it into water. He further theorised that a turbine could go on to “separate” oxygen from the air, and thereby could produce oxygen, power and clean water. Mr. Andersen said that Mr. Modi’s ideas conveyed “passion” that would keep his engineers “very busy”. The remark was picked up by former Congress president Rahul Gandhi as an example of how none among the PM’s advisers was bold enough to point out how mistaken he was. “Condensation is the enemy of the turbine,” said Amit Rambhia, managing director, Panache DigiLife Ltd., a firm that works on technology applications. In response to Mr. Gandhi’s comment, Railway Minister Piyush Goyal and the head of the Bharatiya Janata Party’s IT cell Amit Malviya tweeted out articles to defend the PM’s conjecture and impugn Mr. Gandhi. An expert from a wind turbine manufacturing facility in Chennai told The Hindu on condition of anonymity that the PM’s suggestion is implausible.
10 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||IMA concern over pitch for AYUSH cure||The Indian Medical Association (IMA) has questioned Health Minister Harsh Vardhan about issuing AYUSH treatment protocol for COVID-19 treatment, and asked him to explain on what basis these recommendations were made. In a communication to the Minister, the association said: “He (Harsh Vardhan) has arranged impressive names of institutions to support his prescription. He admits that these are based on empirical evidence which means that the evidence is anecdotal and based on individual subjective experiences. ” The IMA has demanded to know if there is satisfactory evidence regarding the claims made from studies done on COVID-19 patients and if so whether the evidence is weak or moderate or strong? “The evidence should be in public domain and available for scientific scrutiny,” it said. How many of Mr. Vardhan’s ministerial colleagues have so far made the informed choice of getting treated under these AYUSH protocols, the associaiton asked.
10 October 2020||New Delhi,||House panel must seek clarification from Ministry on TRP: Karti Chidambaram||Lok Sabha member Karti Chidambaram, in a letter to Chairman of the Standing Committee on IT Shashi Tharoor, has requested that panel seek a clarification from the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting on the subject of TRP (Television Rating Point). On Thursday, the Mumbai police claimed that their investigation revealed that certain news channels manipulated the TRP.
10 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Kerala safest place in COVID times: Shylaja||Kerala is the safest place during the COVID-19 pandemic with only 0.36% mortality rate and medical value tourism has immense potential in the State, Health Minister K.K. Shylaja has said. The State has a number of advantages in attracting foreign tourists and the expertise in indigenous medicine can play a vital role in health tourism, she said. She was addressing through videoconference the month-long CII’s 9th Edition of Kerala Health Tourism programme - a conference and exhibition on health care, medical value travel, medical devices - that began on Friday. The Minister suggested developing more Ayurveda medicine production centres with modern standards and focus on import of Ayurvedic medicines.
10 October 2020||Srinagar,||J&K HC quashes FIR against journalist||The J&K High Court has quashed a First Information Report (FIR) against a journalist in Srinagar and questioned whether “fearless and frank reporting” should attract Section 505 of the Ranbir Penal Code. The court quashed the FIR registered against The Times of India reporter Mohammad Saleem Pandit in 2018 for publishing news regarding stone throwing on tourists across the Kashmir Valley.
10 October 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Odisha govt. falls prey to fake news on Oxford University study||A dubious news report citing a purported Oxford University study that praised measures to contain COVID-19 spread in Ganjam district was projected by the top Odisha administration on social media. The Office of Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik tweeted to highlight the ‘recognition’, only to delete it later after doubts were cast on the said study.
10 October 2020||Kolkata,||Kolkata police book senior BJP leaders for unlawful assembly||The Kolkata police on Friday booked BJP leaders and MPs on charges of unlawful assembly and damage to public property during a march to the Secretariat on Thursday, in protest against the law and order situation in the State. A case filed at the Hastings station named 24 people, including senior leaders Kailash Vijayvargiya, Mukul Roy, MPs Arjun Singh and Locket Chatterjee.
10 October 2020||AHMEDABAD,||Gujarat to miss Navaratri garba this year||The Gujarat government on Friday banned garba events during the nine-day Navaratri festival, which begins on October 17, as the State is in the grip of the pandemic, which has already claimed 3,500 lives. The government also released a set of guidelines for the festive season. Group prayers of up to one hour will be allowed, but the number of particip-ants should be less than 200.
10 October 2020||HYDERABAD,||Special legislature session on Oct 13, 14||The Telangana government has called a special session of both Houses of legislature on October 13 and 14 to take up amendments to Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation Act and some other legislations suggested by the High Court. The Assembly will take up the relevant Bills on October 13 and the same will be passed by the Council the following day, a release of Chief Minister's office said. On October 10, the State Cabinet will meet to approve the legislations. The meeting will also discuss regulated farming to be introduced in rabi and procurement policy for food grains produced in ongoing kharif. Hours before the Cabinet meeting, the Chief Minister will review with agriculture and civil supplies officials steps to be taken for regulated farming in rabi and procurement of crop yields in kharif in villages instead of market yards. The release added that the consultations with officials will focus on crops that should be recommended to farmers and those discouraged. The meeting will discuss profits and losses for farmers from a range of crops. A specific issue that will come up will be huge quantities of maize imported by the Centre which will impact local markets. So, the government will take a view on maize cultivation. The crop was not be recommended as it was not remunerative in kharif also. In view of the continued threat from COVID, the meeting will discuss continuation of procurement centres for agricultural produce in villages like in the last season when they were opened to avoid exposing farmers to coronavirus due to movement of produce to market yards The Chief Minister also wanted setting up of 6,000 procurement centres in villages. The government will make all arrangements for smooth purchases and remit money to farmers at the earliest.
10 October 2020||GUWAHATI,||Commercial vehicles start operating with 100% occupancy in Assam||Assam on Friday became the first State in the northeast to allow all types of public transport vehicles to operate at 100% occupancy, almost eight months after the COVID-19 curbs kicked in. This followed a negotiation with the State government to end a strike called by the All Assam Motor Transport Association, seeking an increase in fares if they were forced to carry only 50% passengers.
10 October 2020||Bengaluru,||Bypolls: COVID-19 patients can vote through postal ballot||To ensure that none misses out on voting in the bypolls amid the pandemic, the Election Commission has extended postal ballot facility for voters with physical disabilities, those aged above 80, and active COVID-19 positive patients or suspected patients who are either in institutional or home quarantine. The bypolls to Sira and Rajarajeshwarinagar Assembly segments are scheduled for November 3. A circular from the office of the Chief Electoral Officer, Karnataka, said that voters coming under these three categories have time till October 13 to apply for postal ballot. The returning officer will make arrangement to deliver the postal ballot and collect the same before the date fixed for the polling – November 3. The release added that the application for the postal ballot should be accompanied by a copy of certificate/instructions from competent health authorities that says that the applicant is hospitalised in the State or in quarantine within the State — home or institutional — on account of COVID-19. The elector, the release added, will be intimated in advance about the date and time of visit by poll officials. Such intimation may be given through SMS, by post and/or through booth-level officers. The provision for voting through postal ballot for COVID-19 patients was first extended by the Election Commission of India for the upcoming Bihar elections. Following recommendation by the poll panel and subsequent amendments by the Law Ministry in October last year, voters with physical disabilities and those aged above 80 are allowed to vote through postal ballot. According to Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike’s Special Commissioner (Administration) J. Manjunath, who is also the Additional District Election Officer for Rajarajeshwarinagar bypolls, poll officials have already identified 696 people with disabilities and 5,660 people aged above 80 who were eligible to vote in the bypolls. “With new cases being reported every day, the number of active COVID-19 patients is a dynamic figure,” he said. To be hand-delivered The 381 booth-level officers (BLOs) will be assisted by a separate team constituted to hand deliver the 12D form to those eligible for postal ballot. Health officials, who are in touch with active COVID-19 patients, will assist the BLOs in the activity, Mr. Manjunath said. “Once the voters indicate that they will opt for postal ballot, we will mark it in the voters’ list. This way, they will not be allowed to vote on the day of the polling in the booths. This will also help check proxy voting,” he said, and added that all requests would be reviewed.  Those eligible Active COVID-19 patients Those suspected to have COVID-19 Physically challenged persons Those aged above 80
10 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||70 streets in city declared COVID-19 containment zones||The Greater Chennai Corporation has increased the number of containment zones in the city, following a surge in the number of COVID-19 cases. The number of containment streets now stands at 70. The civic body, which had discontinued the barricading of streets last month, recently resumed the containment zone strategy in places where the number of positive cases is more than three in a particular street. The number of containment zones, which was 10 in the first week of October, rose to 42 and has now touched 70. Ambattur zone, with 29 streets, has 50% of the containment zones. Tondiarpet zone in north Chennai, which had no containment zone earlier, now has 11 streets barricaded. Over 500 cases were reported in the zone in the past week. All the other zones have less than five containment streets. A senior official of the civic body said zonal officials, who had been given the freedom to block streets, are declaring containment zones based on feedback from local officials. An official stressed that residents had the wrong notion that the COVID-19 pandemic was over when the Corporation stopped barricading streets, and members of the public discontinued wearing masks and following safety norms. The containment zones were brought back to keep the pandemic under control, the official said.
10 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||NGT stays move to draw Oussudu water||The Public Works Department (PWD) of the Union Territory of Puducherry has been restrained by the National Green Tribunal (NGT) from proceeding with a project to draw water from Oussudu lake, a notified bird sanctuary, till an impact assessment study is conducted and clearance is obtained from the National Board of Wildlife. The PWD had proposed to draw 20 MLD or 7.3 MCM (million cubic metre) per year from the lake to augment its urban water supply. The Department had proposed to utilise the surplus water released from Oussudu lake through the Pallavaikkal Irrigation Canal. The lake spans areas in both Tamil Nadu and Puducherry, a joint committee submitted in its report to the Tribunal. “The area serves as an important stopover for the migratory birds, which move to Point Calimere during winter. Every year, between the months of October and February, a large congregation of water birds can be seen in thousands in this swamp. The Asian Wetland Bureau declared Oussudu lake as one of 115 significant wetlands in Asia,” the committee said. The committee suggested a detailed study be taken up engaging an independent government organisation to assess the feasibility, quantum of water that can be drawn from the lake and its impact on the biodiversity, flora and fauna and the migratory birds in that area. The committee also recommended that the PWD get mandatory clearance from both the Tamil Nadu and Puducherry authorities. Accepting the submissions of the joint committee, a Bench of Justice K. Ramakrishnan and expert member Saibal Dasgupta directed the PWD to appoint a joint committee comprising officials from the National Institute of Hydrology, Roorkee, the Bombay Natural History Society and the Salim Ali Centre for Orithology & Natural History to conduct an impact study, and submit the findings to the Chief Wildlife Wardens of Puducherry and Tamil Nadu. Following this, the department has been directed to forward the report to the National Board of Wildlife, obtain the necessary permissions and “only thereafter proceed with the project either in the same manner in which it is envisaged or in a modified form on the basis of the recommendations,” the Bench said while staying the project.  The area is an important stopover for migratory birds, which move to Point Calimere
10 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||5,185 fresh infections take State’s tally to 6,46,128||Tamil Nadu’s tally of COVID-19 cases increased to 6,46,128 on Friday, with another 5,185 persons testing positive for the infection. As many as 5,357 persons were discharged and 68 deaths recorded. Till date, 5,91,811 persons have been discharged after treatment and 10,120 have died. The number of active cases stood at 44,197, including 13,446 in Chennai and 4,746 in Coimbatore. Of the 68 fatalities, 34 persons died in government hospitals and an equal number died in private hospitals. A total of 22 of these persons died in Chennai, while Chengalpattu accounted for six deaths and Vellore five. The deceased included a 34-year-old man from Chennai who did not have any co-morbidities. He was admitted to a private hospital in Kancheepuram on October 4 with complaints of breathing difficulty for six days. He died on October 7 due to COVID-19 pneumonia. In Chennai, 1,288 persons tested positive for COVID-19, taking its tally to 1,79,424. The city’s neighbouring districts Chengalpattu and Tiruvallur reported 343 and 226 cases, respectively. Among other northern districts, Vellore recorded 141 cases (including eight imported cases) and Kancheepuram had 147 cases. However, Tiruvannamalai witnessed a dip in fresh infections, at 93. Coimbatore reported 397 new cases and Salem 295. A total of 240 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Thanjavur, while Tiruppur and Erode recorded 159 and 137 cases, respectively. Namakkal had 148 cases, including an imported case, and the Nilgiris reported 109 fresh infections. As many as 23 districts had less than 100 fresh cases of COVID-19. The number of samples tested in the last 24 hours was 97,087 — the highest single-day figure so far. Till date, 81,41,534 samples have been tested in the State.  Of the 68 fatalities, 34 persons died in government hospitals and an equal number died in private hospitals
10 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Low-pressure area may cause rain for two days||People of Chennai can look forward to cool weather and mild showers in the next two days. Owing to the low-pressure area formed over the north Andaman Sea and its neighbourhood, Chennai and its suburbs are likely to get rain in the next 48 hours, officials of the Meteorological Department said. “The sky is likely to be generally cloudy. Light to moderate rain with thundershowers are likely to occur in some areas. Maximum and minimum temperatures are likely to be around 37 degrees Celsius and 27 degrees Celsius,” it said. Krishnagiri, Dharmapuri, Salem, Namakkal, the Nilgiris, Coimbatore, Theni, Dindigul, Tirupathur, Ranipet, Vellore, Tiruvallur, Cuddalore, Villupuram, Kallakurichi and Tiruvannamalai districts are likely to get heavy to very heavy rain, the department added.
10 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Sipcot to form industrial parks in JV mode with private landowners||The State Industries Promotion Corporation of Tamil Nadu Limited (Sipcot) will soon be establishing industrial parks in a joint venture mode with private landowners across the State. After holding several meetings, the request for application has finally been put up by Sipcot. “We have called for expression of interest from private landowners who own 100 acres and above for the formation of industrial parks through a joint venture mode with Sipcot,” said J. Kumaragurubaran, managing director. “Our usual pattern of taking land is direct acquisition. And if it is a government land it will be done through a land transfer route. At times land acquisition takes a lot of time due to various processes involved. So we are trying this mode,” he said. Another senior government official said that with more investors expressing interest to come to Tamil Nadu we need to expand our land bank. “With Chennai already crowded with too many manufacturing units, investors are now open to evaluating newer locations especially down south. Firms also want to look at places where they can commence operations immediately. There are so many land parcels lying idle across the State which can be utilised by Sipcot and land owners can also monetise on this,” he said. Last year, Chief Minister, Edappadi K.Palaniswami mentioned in the Assembly that to enable all districts to become industrial hubs, Sipcot will be floating joint ventures with those who have over 100 acre of land parcel. In March this year, the State government issued a G.O. permitting Sipcot to implement it. Govt. concession The government has decided to extend the benefits that allottees of Sipcot industrial parks enjoy including 50% exemption on stamp duty and allow the concerned joint venture company to retain spaces set apart for roads, recreation purpose like parks and playgrounds. It will also be sharing its knowledge and expertise in development and operations of the joint venture industrial park, if required by the promoter. In case of requirement of government poramboke lands in the vicinity of the proposed project area to have contiguity, Sipcot shall alienate those lands, in its favour and lease out the same to the joint venture company by way of usual business transaction. Established in the year 1971 to drive industrial growth in the State, Sipcot till date has nurtured 23 industrial parks/growth centres, including 7 special economic zones, covering over 34,000 acres across 15 districts in Tamil Nadu.
10 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Three nabbed at airport while trying to flee after robbery attempt||Six suspects, including a former employee of a defunct jewellery manufacturing unit, were arrested for stealing gold in Chengalpattu. While three men were caught on the spot, three others were nabbed at Chennai airport while trying to flee. The police said Sunil Ram from Maharashtra was working as a goldsmith in a popular gold jewellery manufacturing unit at Salavakkam in Chengalpattu. The unit was closed by the Central agencies in 2017. Sunil Ram and five of his friends planned to steal small pieces of gold in the unit. The six men landed in Chennai two days ago and entered the unit on Thursday night. A security guard, who heard noise coming from inside, immediately informed a police patrol, which nabbed Sunil Ram, Kulam Kavuz and Anvuz. Three more suspects Lakshman, Ayubkhan and Ameer Mohammed were arrested at the airport while they were trying to escape. The Salavakkam police have registered a case. All the six were arrested and remanded in judicial custody.
10 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chennai Metro’s weekday traffic sees an increase||A month after resuming services, Chennai Metro Rail Limited (CMRL) has pulled in office-goers on Anna Salai. There is a two-fold increase in the number of passengers travelling on weekdays. From 12,000 a day, the number has increased to nearly 25,000. Yet, this constitutes just 20% of the pre-COVID-19 traffic when 1.15 lakh passengers used the services every day. The airport, High Court and Meenambakkam stations receive the maximum number of passengers. Nearly 2,000 passengers use the airport station, and the High Court and Meenambakkam stations handle nearly 1,800 and 1,600 passengers respectively. Earlier, the stretch from Chennai Central to St. Thomas Mount would have more passengers than the Washermanpet-airport section. But the Washermanpet-airport stretch carries a majority of passengers now, sources said. According to CMRL officials, since most of the government employees have returned to offices, they travel through the stations on Anna Salai. Hence, the stretch from Washermanpet to the airport through Anna Salai now carries more traffic. “Take for instance, AG-DMS, LIC, Government Estate or Madras High Court, there is a gradual increase in the number of people using these stations. As air traffic has improved, we are seeing a mild increase in the number of users at the airport station. But since the airport’s parking fee is very high, many coming from suburbs like Tambaram or Pallavaram head to the Meenambakkam station, leave the two-wheelers there and travel,” an official said. With no IT travellers, the stretch between Chennai Central and St. Thomas Mount suffers from poor patronage, officials said. Data show that a maximum of nearly 6,300 passengers travel between 9 a.m. and 11 a.m. and another 6,300 from 5 p.m. to 7 p.m. These two hours in the morning and in the evening account for nearly 25% each of the total ridership. “Since we don’t have many taking early morning or late night trains or buses, there are only 200-220 commuters from 6 a.m. to 7 a.m. and from 9 p.m. to 10 p.m., only 100-150 passengers travel. Only by mid or late next year, we may see the pre-COVID-19 levels of traffic,” a source said.
10 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Robust research, innovation crucial for India’s growth’||A robust ecosystem of research and innovation is crucial for India to sustain its large and vibrant economy and uplift its society, said K. Kasturirangan, former chairman of the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) and former chairman of the National Education Policy Committee. Mr. Kasturirangan was delivering, virtually, the convocation address at the Vellore Institute of Technology’s (VIT) 35th annual convocation on Friday. The former ISRO chief said that students should aspire to deepen and broaden their knowledge, learn to experience the power of collective teamwork and be guided by higher values which they believe in. With advancement in technologies such as artificial intelligence and augmented reality, an increasing number of hybrid jobs where a person’s vocational skills would complement the capabilities of hi-tech equipment could be foreseen, he said. A higher education system was, therefore, necessary to prepare students for such jobs, he said, and added that vocational education would become an integral part of the larger vision of liberal education. Noting that students from over 50 countries were studying at the institution, G. Viswanathan, chancellor of VIT, said the Kasturirangan Education Policy Committee spoke about internationalisation, as India needed to attract more students from abroad. Many students went abroad for medical education due to scarcity of seats, he said, adding that he hoped that the Prime Minister would increase the availability of medical seats in the country. VIT vice-presidents Sankar Viswanathan and Sekar Viswanathan and assistant vice-president Kadhambari S. Viswanathan were present. A total of 7,444 undergraduates and postgraduate students graduated.
10 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||End in sight to prolonged water woes of east Velachery||The Chennai Metropolitan Water Supply and Sewerage Board (CMWSSB) plans to build an overhead tank to provide round-the-clock water supply in east Velachery. About Rs. 10 crore has been allocated and Adyar zone officials are searching for a vacant plot belonging to the Greater Chennai Corporation, and also drawing up an estimate for executing the project. A senior official of the water board said there was a construction boom in several residential areas in east Velachery. These localities, including Bethel Avenue, VGP Selva Nagar, Balakrishna Nagar, Annai Indira Nagar, Baby Nagar, and Udayam Nagar, had water pipelines but were supplied with limited water. The water board plans to build an overhead tank along with a sump in east Velachery so that the water being received from the Nemmeli desalination plant could be utilised fully. An official of the board said once the overhead tank is built, residential areas located on the perimeter of the Mass Rapid Transit System between Perungudi and Velachery railway stations would not have any drinking water shortages.
10 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 impact on mental health is under-realised||COVID-19 has affected people in more than one way. The lesser known and under-realised being its impact on mental health. More than the fear of contracting the infection, the stigma associated with the disease has had an impact on people, and lingers on. As another World Mental Health Day is observed, psychiatrists look at the ways in which the stigma associated with COVID-19 has affected people — it has made people think twice before getting tested, turned them hesitant from disclosing their COVID-19 status and has deterred many from seeking medical help early for symptoms. There is also the fear of being quarantined/isolated, and homes being barricaded/boarded up. Doctors pointed to instances in which frontline workers were told to vacate their rented homes, neighbours pulling away their children and washing the floor with turmeric water as a healthcare provider lived nearby. A regular office-goer feeling distressed as none of her colleagues contacted her after knowing she tested positive and the wife of a patient being ostracised by villagers — there are numerous such instances of stigma. “Many persons diagnosed with COVID-19, quarantined, or admitted for treatment are feeling stigmatised. Many frontline workers have faced stigmatising experiences. Families have started to hide their COVID-19 status as they feel anxious to talk about it,” R. Thara, vice-chairman of Schizophrenia Research Foundation (SCARF), said. She added: “As a result, people go late for treatment if they have fever for two to three days. The help-seeking behaviour has been affected by the fear of the stigma... Many feel isolated, socially rejected, experience constant anxiety and mild depression.” Some families have not announced the death of elderly persons due to COVID-19, she said, adding: “The stigma is playing up and is making people a little scared. People should know that this is a viral infection and there is nothing to feel ashamed of and nothing to be afraid of.” P. Poorna Chandrika, director of Institute of Mental Health, stressed the need to educate people. “The stigma... does have an impact on the mental well-being of people. It makes them susceptible to distress, anxiety and sleeplessness.” The stigma was more for healthcare workers. R. Mangala, assistant director of SCARF, said that because of the stigma, some have started to think that it was shameful to be infected with COVID-19. This also depended on how an individual perceived the disease.“There is a lot more misinformation on COVID-19 than information... The number of COVID-19 cases, hospitalisation of persons should not get sensationalised in the media. The chatter around COVID-19 is scary. People are unwilling to get tested primarily because they fear that their houses would be boarded up. In such circumstances, public health becomes a disservice. It scares them at a time when they have to be tested in order to control the pandemic,” she said. She said medical personnel started realising that they should address the mental health needs of those in quarantine and isolation facilities.
10 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Bank executive held for identity theft, novel fraud||An engineering graduate, employed in the credit card division of a leading private bank in Chennai, has been arrested by the Ambattur cyber crime cell for committing financial fraud. Karthikeyan, 28, who was working as a customer executive at the bank’s branch in Vadapalani, had meticulously planned and transferred Rs. 10.36 lakh from a man’s credit card to a bank account opened in the name of another person. Explaining the modus operandi, Deepa Sathyan, Deputy Commissioner of Police, Ambattur, said Karthikeyan used a mobile he found on the road to open a current account in the name of one Rajesh Kumar, a resident of Medavakkam, in a small bank in Valasaravakkam, showing Mr. Kumar as a proprietor of a firm and also obtained a merchant point of sale (POS) machine. “Citing the lockdown, he convinced Mr. Kumar to complete the KYC verification via video call without raising suspicion,” she said. Later, he contacted Iruthayaraj, a nursing assistant in Mangadu and a credit card customer at his workplace, and misled him into applying for a credit card. Karthikeyan then obtained the relevant details to use the credit card and used the POS machine, obtained in Mr. Kumar’s name, to charge Rs. 10.36 lakh. When Mr. Iruthayaraj received the credit card bill for the transaction, he approached the bank and learnt that he had been cheated. He then lodged a complaint with the police. The police traced the transaction to Mr. Kumar. When he denied any wrongdoing, the police traced the phone number registered with the bank and found that it belonged to a woman, who had lost her phone eight months ago. They later found that the accused had used the same number to contact Mr. Iruthayaraj. “We examined the CCTV camera footage at the bank in Valasaravakkam. After nearly a month-long watch, we traced the vehicle used by the accused to visit the bank and tracked down Karthikeyan,” Ms. Deepa said.
10 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC permits govt. to go ahead with auctioning of land for mining||The Madras High Court on Thursday permitted the State government to go ahead and confirm in favour of the highest bidders, the recent auctioning of various government lands in Dharmapuri district for mining black granite. Justices M. Sathyanarayanan and R. Hemalatha also permitted the government to ask the highest bidders to submit mining plans, get them approved and then obtain environment clearance too, in accordance with existing rules. The permission was granted at the request of Advocate-General Vijay Narayan, who said that the State government would end up losing hundreds of crores of rupees in foreign exchange and also employment opportunities for many if the auctions were stalled. The A-G urged the court to modify an interim order passed by another Division Bench on September 30, restraining the government from confirming the auction. He said the consequent process of environment clearance could be taken up only if the auctions were confirmed. The interim order was passed on a couple of public interest litigation petitions that insisted that environmental clearance must be obtained even before deciding to auction the lands. However, Mr. Narayan told the court that the guidelines cited by the petitioners were related to ease of doing business and had nothing to do with environment.  After hearing him at length, the Bench led by Justice Sathyanarayanan modified the interim order passed by the previous bench and permitted the government to go ahead with all other processes, except for executing the lease deeds and handing over the lands to the lessors. They also said that the PILs would be taken up for final hearing on November 3.
10 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Salons demand justice for girl’s family||Following the acquittal of the suspect in the rape and murder of a minor girl from Dindigul by the District Mahila Court last month, salons across the State closed down their shutters on Friday, demanding justice for the girl’s family. Protests were also conducted across the State, urging the government to appeal against the acquittal. On April 16, 2019, the body of the girl was found at her house in Dindigul. Subsequently, a 17-year-old boy was arrested in connection with the case. However, a Mahila Court recently acquitted the suspect in the case. “We feel that due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the case was not heard properly and was closed hastily. We want the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court to take up the case,” said V. Palani, State president, Tamil Nadu Maruthavar Samudhaya Peravai, who organised a protest in Chepauk on Friday and called for the shutting down of salons for a day. More than 10 lakh salons were closed across Tamil Nadu. “We also want the government to provide Rs. 1 crore as compensation to the family. The girl was born to the couple ten years after their marriage and her father is a hairstylist. The compensation announced now, which is just a few lakh rupees, will not suffice,” he added. Meanwhile, in the southern districts, too, more than 10,000 salons remained shut on Friday. In Dindigul town and its periphery, more than 1,000 shops were closed. The All India Democratic Women’s Association (AIADWA) also asked the State government to appeal against the verdict. In Salem, members of the Veeratyagi Vishwanatha Das Thozilalar Katchi protested in front of the District Collectorate, condemning the acquittal. The protesters demanded justice for the victim’s family. They said that the sole accused in the case had been acquitted and this was against natural justice. They demanded that the State government appeal against the acquittal. Hairdressers in Krishnagiri, organised under the Veerathyagi Vishwanatha Das Thozhilalar Katchi, also staged a demonstration. They gathered opposite the Anna statue and demanded that the State government appeal against the verdict. The protesters demanded that the family be ensured justice for the brutal rape and murder. Over 1,000 barbershops in Vellore were closed on Friday. “We submitted a petition to the Vellore Collector seeking justice for the family of the girl,” said M. Ganapathy, district president, Tamil Nadu Barbers’ Association.  We feel that due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the case was not heard properly and was closed hastily. We want the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court to take up the case
10 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC wants CCTV cameras at checkposts||The Madras High Court on Friday directed the State government and District Collectors to make sure that Closed Circuit Television (CCTV) cameras were installed in all check-posts at district and State borders to keep a watch on transport of illegally mined minerals. Justices T.S. Sivagnanam and G. Jayachandran issued the direction on a public interest litigation petition filed by activist ‘Traffic’ K.R. Ramaswamy in 2014. He had sought a direction to the government to consider his representations and curb illegal mining across the State. It was in this case that another Bench comprising then Chief Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul (now a Supreme Court judge) and Justice M. Sathyanarayanan had on September 11, 2014 appointed IAS officer U. Sagayam as a Legal Commissioner to inspect granite quarries in Madurai district. Subsequently, the case was listed before different benches and it was heard last on March 26, 2019. In the meantime, Mr. Sagayam filed his report with a slew of recommendations and the government reported to the court that most of those recommendations were acceptable to it. When the matter was listed on Friday, the petitioner’s counsel T. Sundaravadanam insisted on a direction to install cameras in all check posts. Accepting his plea, the judges asked Advocate General Vijay Narayan to make sure that a compliance report was filed by November 9. Justice Sivagnanam told the A-G that in another case being heard by him and Justice C.V. Karthikeyan, they came to know that the State government had collected several crores of rupees in penalty from those who transported illegally mined minerals. “You don’t require any other proof for illegal mining in the State. Huge quantum of penalty collected is a clear indicator. You are stopping transportation but not illegal mining. Mineral resources of the entire State are mapped but if officials close their eyes, nothing can be done,” the judge said. The senior judge wondered how illegal mining could take place at the first instance in the State when all District Collectors get the assistance of an Assistant Director of Mines and Geology, who keeps track of every small detail related to mines and minerals in the district. Despite such effective mechanism, places with hills turn into craters in no time, the judge lamented. He said that recently, limestone, too, had been declared a minor mineral and brought under State rule,s thereby increasing the risk of illegal mining. Limestone quarries “At least, granite quarries are in the open and we could see their condition with naked eyes but these limestone quarries are usually situated close to the factories and they get cordoned off illegally. We cannot even see what is happening,” the judge told the A-G. Hema Babu, Special Public Prosecutor for the Directorate of Enforcement (ED), told the court that the police had booked as many as 70 cases against illegal mining in Madurai district, and the ED had also initiated action under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act. Senior counsel P. Wilson, representing a granite firm, told the court that Mr. Sagayam’s report was exaggerated. He claimed that the officer had simply considered the length, breadth and height of quarries to arrive at a notional loss to the public exchequer.
10 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Kasimedu fishermen seek compensation to bereaved family||Eight fishermen of Kasimedu, who returned home on Thursday after nearly 70 days — 55 days at sea and the rest in Myanmar — said they wanted only one thing: the family of their colleague Babu must be adequately compensated. “Yes, we are back home. But there is no cause for celebration. We are saddened by his death. He did not resurface after getting into the water to anchor the boat against cyclonic winds. He has two school-going children, and their education and future must be taken care of by the government,” said K. Raghu, the boat driver. The fishermen, who arrived from Delhi after COVID-19 tests, said they thought they could return by sea, which was why they wanted to ensure the safety of the craft. “But despite our best efforts, it sank. The boat-owner, too, has lost over Rs. 70 lakh... The government should consider some kind of relief for him too,” he added. Recalling the ordeal, the men said they had turned off the engines after casting the net, as was their practice. But when they tried starting it the next morning, it did not work. The battery ran down while they tried to repair the craft after which communication devices, too, stopped working. “The rations lasted till the 28th day after which we caught some fish now and then and ate them boiled. Then, on some days, it was just plain water,” said V. Parthiban, another fisherman. Fisheries Minister D. Jayakumar said the State had taken steps to search for the men when they went missing. It had also coordinated with the Centre and the Myanmar government to bring them back.
10 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Virtual courts can be made permanent’||Justice T.S. Sivagnanam, chairman of the computer committee of the Madras High Court, on Friday said the institution was fully equipped to make virtual courts a permanent feature, even after the threat of COVID-19 subsides, as recommended by the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Personnel, Public Grievances, Law and Justice. He told committee member P. Wilson that robust infrastructure had already been put in place at the High Court with the guidance of Chief Justice Amreshwar Pratap Sahi. Concurring with the judge, he said the Madras High Court had emerged as a pioneer in the conduct of proceedings through video-conference. The judge told Mr. Wilson that the High Court, with the assistance of the Tamil Nadu e-Governance Agency, had purchased 100 licences of Microsoft Teams software. Each judge had been given an individual licence for seamless conduct of proceedings. The rest of the licences were used by the Registry. Till Monday, only 19 judges used to conduct virtual courts from their chambers in the High Court buildings. The rest were conducting the courts from their home offices. However, from Monday, 33 judges had begun to conduct the courts from the High Court itself. All infrastructure required for it had been put in place. While most judges preferred to conduct the virtual hearings from their chambers, some insisted on conducting the proceedings from the court halls. Arrangements had been made for that in the court halls too. Not just admission cases but also final hearings were being conducted through the virtual courts and the verdicts were being delivered as usual. Individual licence Similarly, all judicial officers in the State had also been given individual licence for the software and they were also conducting the court proceedings seamlessly, he said. The judge went on to state that even the Tamil Nadu Judicial Academy was taking virtual classes and seminars from its offices in Madurai, Chennai and Coimbatore.
10 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Class 12 marksheet distribution from Oct. 14||The Directorate of Government Examinations has announced that the distribution of original mark certificates (marksheets) for students of Class 12 (Plus Two) who took up the exams in March 2020 will begin from October 14. For students who have cleared all the subjects in the class 11 and 12 board exams alone, two separate original mark certificates for each class will be issued. The mark certificates will be out of 600 marks each, as per the new system. Students who have not cleared papers in either the class 11 or class 12 exams, will be given a joint statement of marks. The DGE said only when the students clear all the subjects in both classes will they be issued separate statements of marks. Children can receive the marksheet through schools they and private candidates can get the original mark certificates from the exam centres. In schools where the marksheet distribution will take place, parents and students have to compulsorily wear masks.
10 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Four held for murder||The Washermenpet police have arrested four suspects, including a woman, for allegedly murdering a worker of the Greater Chennai Corporation who failed to repay a debt. The names of the arrested were given as Sasi, 42, Vadivelu, 30, Sathya, 32, and Chithra, 27, all from Washermenpet. Police said the victim had been identified as Jegananthan, 45, a resident of Moolakothalam who worked in the local cemetery. The suspects demanded repayment of a loan that Jegannathan had taken from one of them some time ago. As he failed to repay the loan, the four allegedly attacked him as a result of which he died on the spot, the police said.
10 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Suspend biometric authentication in PDS’||Activists and consumers have urged the government to suspend the use of biometric authentication at PDS shops. They fear that this could add to the rising number of COVID-19 cases. Pattabiram resident K.T. Rajan said that in the shop where he buys the essentials, no tokens were issued. “There were long queues on both days when we went to the shop because tokens were not issued. We usually buy the commodities for my son’s family... Now with biometric authentication, he has to come to the shop leaving his work,” he said. T. Rangarajan, a consumer, said the internet connection was slow at most shops and queues were common. “I am afraid I can contract the novel coronavirus infection if I visit the shop. The shopkeeper holds the hand of the consumer and presses it on the biometric reader,” he said. V. Rama Rao of People’s Awareness Association said the government’s aim of creating a permanent record for the caretaker or helper was absurd. “Even children shift to other cities and countries for work. Domestic workers and caretakers keep changing. Since it is linked to Aadhaar, what is the need for this biometric system,” he questioned. Consumer activist T. Sadagopan said Kerala had suspended biometric authentication at fair price shops. “People are asked to try up to three to six fingers. And if it does not work, it takes up to 10 minutes. People crowd shops, they do not follow personal distancing norms. The system is good. But this is not the time to implement it,” he said. Sources in the Civil Supplies Department said the initial glitches had been set right, and officials were monitoring the implementation of safety norms.
10 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||1,000th South Korean business traveller arrives in city since start of lockdown||The Consulate-General of the Republic of Korea announced the arrival of the 1,000th business traveller in Chennai from Korea since the lockdown was imposed in March. With the suspension of international flights and visa restrictions, South Korean companies faced difficulties in bringing Korean businessmen and engineers to their units in south India that were desperate to continue manufacturing, according to a statement. With the help from the State and Central governments, the Consulate-General in Chennai has arranged the landing of charter flights and facilitated the movement of Korean businessmen and engineers to south India, the statement said. For the safety of local communities, all Korean passengers were told to carry with them a COVID-19-negative certificate after taking one or two RT-PCR tests. Deputy Consul-General H. Y. Lee welcomed the 1,000th business traveller. The release said the South Korean companies retained their national employees here and brought in new employees to ensure smooth business operations and the job safety of Indian employees.
10 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Chennai Mathematical Institute gets new CEO||Ramkumar Ramamoorthy, who recently resigned from Cognizant Technological Services as its India chairman and managing director, has joined the Chennai Mathematical Institute as its chief executive officer. “Starting October 1, I have joined the advisory leadership team of Chennai Mathematical Institute (CMI),” Mr. Ramamoorthy told The Hindu . “My focus will be to accelerate the growth of the institution while preserving the excellence it is known for, attract greater funding for teaching and research, drive higher levels of industry connect for consulting and sponsored research, and strengthen its brand across stakeholders,” he said. With mathematics being the foundation for machine learning, data science, artificial intelligence and quantum computing, CMI had a great opportunity to shape the future of economy, he said. Mr. Ramamoorthy said, “Having spent over 25 years with two of the top IT companies in India, which happen to be the largest recruiters in the private sector, I have worked extensively with the academia in many areas. Likewise, I have had the good fortune to work closely with many professional trade bodies, such as AMCHAM, NASSCOM, MCCI, CII and USIBC, and interact with leaders across industries. I am looking forward to leverage the networks that I have built and take the rich capabilities of CMI to the government, industry and academia to drive higher levels of excellence and innovation.” Founded in 1989, Chennai Mathematical Institute is a centre of excellence for teaching and research in mathematical sciences.
10 October 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Advanced technique helps heart patients make quick recovery||Sanjay, 54, V. Ramesh, 44, and M. Narmada, 70 — all of whom have recovered from a heart attack— are now leading normal lives. All of them had blocks in multiple arteries requiring bypass surgeries. But they were offered an advanced technique, which reduced their hospital stay to just three to four days. In fact, Mr. Sanjay has returned to work already. They had been admitted in the ICU for just a day, and to the regular ward for another day. On the third day, they were discharged and put on a cardio-rehabilitation programme. This was made possible thanks to the hybrid cath lab facility at Kauvery Hospital, said R. Anantharaman, senior consultant interventional cardiologist. Mr. Ramesh had a history of heart attack and blocks in the right and left coronary arteries. His heart was functioning only 30% of the normal level. Conventionally, such patients would have to undergo a coronary artery bypass grafting surgery, which requires surgeons to open the chest cavity. The patient would have to undergo two procedures. Not only would this mean longer hospital stay but also the risk of infection during the ongoing pandemic. The surgeon decided to perform a hybrid revascularisation procedure wherein a 3-4 cm incision was made on the left side of the chest and the main bypass grafting for the left coronary artery was done. After checking its functioning through angiography, the surgeon then inserted a stent through angioplasty in the right coronary artery. “Undertaking a complex procedure and enabling the patient to walk back home within a span of two to three days is a huge step in treatment and provides a lot of hope for patients with such conditions. We were able to perform this with the aid of the hybrid cath lab that can facilitate the procedure to be performed in a single stage -- both surgery and stenting at the same time,” he said.
10 October 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Murugan ambiguous on NDA backing Palaniswami as its CM candidate||BJP Tamil Nadu president L. Murugan on Friday said he welcomed the AIADMK’s announcement of Edappadi K. Palaniswami as its Chief Ministerial candidate, sidestepping questions twice during the day whether Mr. Palaniswami was the CM candidate of the NDA in Tamil Nadu. Mr. Murugan met Mr. Palaniswami on Friday to thank him for the AIADMK’s support for the Farm Acts and the State government’s swift action in the PM KISAN scheme scam. “I also congratulated him for being nominated as the AIADMK’s CM candidate,” Mr. Murugan told reporters after the meeting. When reporters asked if Mr. Palaniswami was the CM candidate of the AIADMK or the NDA, Mr. Murugan replied, “That’s what I said very clearly now.” A senior office-bearer of the BJP said an appointment with Mr. Palaniswami had been sought several days back, well before the AIADMK tussle to decide the CM candidate happened. Earlier in the day as well, when the State unit unveiled its “Vetrivel Yatra” programme, Mr. Murugan told reporters, “The AIADMK has announced their CM candidate [Mr. Palaniswami]. I welcome that.” Vetrivel Yatra The State BJP unit will hold a one-month “Vetrivel Yatra” across Tamil Nadu covering the Arupadai Veedu, seeking filing of cases against Karuppar Kootam members under the NSA and to give support to Hindus whose religious sentiments “are regularly demeaned by the DMK”. “There will be a big change in Tamil Nadu after the Vetrivel Yatra. The BJP’s MLA will be part of the State Assembly after the next elections. The party that we support will only form the next government with a thumping majority,” he said. The party will take out the yatra meeting people across the State from November 6 to December 6. “The DMK has made it a habit of insulting Hindus’ sentiments, Tamil gods, and worshipping practices of Tamil people. We want Karuppar Kootam to be investigated and the DMK’s links with them to be exposed,” he said. Bharatiya Janata Party Tamil Nadau vice-president K.S. Narendran, who explained about the yatra, said it will pave the way for “anti-Hindus and anti-national forces to be thrown out of Tamil Nadu”.
10 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Online registration for PG programmes from today||Candidates aspiring to join postgraduate courses in arts and science colleges in Tamil Nadu may register from Saturday till October 20 on the website tngasapg.in, and tngasapg.org, Higher Education Minister K.P. Anbalagan said in a circular issued on Friday. The websites also provide details of seats available in each branch of study. Candidates must pay Rs. 60 towards the application fee and a registration fee of Rs. 2. The application fee is waived for SC/ST candidates. Aspirants may upload their certificates between October 15 to 20. Applicants may either email care@tngasapg.org or tndceoffice@gmail.com. They may also call 044-22351014/15 or 044-28276791 between 10 a.m. and 6 p.m. on all working days.
10 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Perarivalan gets 30-day parole||A.G. Perarivalan, life convict in the Rajiv Gandhi assassination case, was released on a 30-day parole from Central Prison, Puzhal. Last month, his mother, T. Arputhammal, moved a petition before the Madras High Court seeking a 90-day leave for him. She said her son was being treated periodically at the Government General Hospital for the past five years. Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, he was not provided with proper treatment when he was taken to the hospital recently for a prostate infection and an urinary infection. Moreover, the petitioner stated that she and her husband are 70 and 78-years-old respectively and have been suffering from age-related issues for which they have been taking treatment. The court said that the prisoner should report to the nearest police station daily and that he should surrender himself to the Superintendent of Prisons at the Central Prison, Vellore, on the expiry of the leave or on recall. As per the direction of the court, Perarivalan was taken amid strong police escort to his family residence on Friday morning. Police escort will be provided to him during the leave period. The police escort should ensure that the conditions are complied with and should submit a daily report to the Additional Director General of Police/Inspector General of Prisons, Chennai.
10 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. seeks another extension to Chief Secretary||With the extended term of senior IAS officer and Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam set to end this month, the Tamil Nadu government has requested the Centre to extend his services for yet another term, and is awaiting a favourable reply from Delhi in this regard. Multiple sources told The Hindu that a file seeking another three months’ extension for Mr. Shanmugam had been sent to the Centre and its reply was being awaited. “Even if not three months, the Chief Secretary would get an extension till December this year,” an officer said. Since the Centre has accepted the requests of thegovernments in Andhra Pradesh and Gujarat and extended the tenure of their Chief Secretaries concerned, it is most likely to accept the request of T.N. too, in this regard. As the Assembly elections would be only a few months away, if a new Chief Secretary assumes charge after January it would take time for him/her to get a hold of things in the CS office, officials pointed out.
10 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Online quiz for children today||The Learner Circle’s Quiz Premier League (QPL), an online live quiz contest for students, will be held on October 10 at 6.30 p.m. The quiz, which will be held for students in the 11-16 age group, will be organised by Learner Circle, an online edutech platform focusing on skill development for kids in a membership model. The quiz will be on trivia, covering general knowledge, science, sports and current affairs. The first round will be an Online Multiple Choice Question (MCQ) quiz that has to be answered at a rapid pace and the candidates who clear the cut-off will enter the next round for the live interactive quiz. The event will then be in a tournament format with four semi-finals and then a grand finale, hosted by Siva Chandrasekaran and Prakash Krishnan. Students, mostly Indians from across the globe, will be participating in the contest and stand to win prizes worth Rs. 25,000. Interested students can register for free athttps://learnercircle.in/ competitions/or WhatsApp +917010189101. Registrations will close by 2 p.m. on October 10.
10 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Claimants of LAOP invited for Lok Adalat||The State Industries Promotion Corporation of Tamil Nadu Ltd. (SIPCOT) has invited 1,737 claimants, whose land acquisition original petitions (LAOP) are pending before various courts, to come for resolving disputes through Lok Adalats. These claimants have been seeking a higher compensation for land acquisitions that were made in three specific schemes — Irungattukottai Industrial Park, Sriperumbudur Industrial Park and Oragadam Industrial Growth Centre. These lands were acquired in Irungattukottai, Kattrambakkam, Thandalam, Sriperumbudur, Santhavellore and Oragadam villages, a release said. “We are inviting them so they can get an early release of claims,” an official said. Details may be had from 044-45261776 between 11 a.m. and 4 p.m. on working days.
10 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘No curbs on movement of travellers’||The Tamil Nadu government on Friday told the Madras High Court that it had not restricted the movement of people from other States and countries to Tamil Nadu, but was only insisting that they obtain an auto-generated e-pass for contact-tracing owing to the COVID-19 pandemic. Chief Justice Amreshwar Pratap Sahi and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy were informed by State Government Pleader (SGP) V. Jayaprakash Narayanan that the government was only collecting the basic details of inbound travellers to keep a tab on their movement. However, wondering whether it would be permissible for the State government to do so when the Centre had advised the States to discontinue the e-pass system, the judges directed the SGP to make sure that his submissions were put in writing by Monday. The direction was issued at the hearing of a public interest litigation petition against the insistence on e-passes. The petitioner’s counsel Abishek Jebaraj told the judges that the Centre’s advisory was binding upon the State. He pointed out that the guidelines issued by the Union Home Ministry on September 30 stated that there should be no restriction on inter-State or intra-State movement, and no separate permit would be required. But the State government was insisting that inbound travellers fill up forms online and obtain e-passes without which they would not be allowed to enter the State.
10 October 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Governor, CM condole Paswan’s death||Governor Banwarilal Purohit, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami and senior political leaders in the State condoled the death of Union Minister Ram Vilas Paswan. In his condolence message released by the Raj Bhavan, the Governor said he was saddened by the demise of the Union Minister. “The founder of the Lok Janshakti Party, he was a long-time parliamentarian and a visionary leader with political wisdom. He was known for his simplicity, humbleness, governance skills and commitment towards the deprived class. He was the voice of the oppressed and always stood for the marginalized throughout his life. His contribution in the upliftment of the downtrodden people will be remembered forever,” Mr. Purohit said.  ‘Irreparable loss’ The untimely demise of the Union Minister was an irreparable loss to the people of India, his supporters and particularly to Bihar, the Governor noted. “I convey my deep condolences to the bereaved members of the family and his followers. I pray to the Almighty God to rest his soul in peace and give strength to his family to overcome this unfathomable loss.” Chief Minister Palaniswami said in a statement that the death of the Union Minister came as a shock to him. The Union Minister worked for the people and for social justice and for the downtrodden in Bihar. His death was a loss not only to his family, party workers but to the entire nation, the CM said. “He lived true to the saying ‘one’s birth might be an incident, but the death should be history,’”Mr. Palaniswami said and extended his condolences to the bereaved family, party workers.
10 October 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Focus on efforts to check disease spread among industrial workers||Coimbatore district, known for its industrial activity in different sectors, is focusing on efforts to ensure that the spread of COVID-19 among industrial workers remains controlled. According to an official source, migrant workers are returning to the district from their home States and movement of workers is free now. There have been a couple of cases where the workers were not quarantined on their return and there was a spread of the disease. Further, both, at the Central and State-levels, the governments are giving importance to Coimbatore because of the presence of a large number of industries. There are officials who are regularly monitoring the situation here. Coimbatore Collector held a meeting with officials concerned and industry association heads recently to improve awareness. "Earlier, we used to visit industries to ensure the standard operating procedures are followed. There were a few violations. Now, we go as a team with the local revenue officials and if there are lapses, we will take action," said an official in the Department of Industrial Safety and Health. The Collector has asked all the stakeholders to improve awareness among workers. Further, the industries need to quarantine workers who are returning from their home town. If the workers are tested immediately on their return, the results may be negative. Those who are affected may experience symptoms only after a few days. Hence, the workers should be quarantined for at least a week and those who show symptoms should be tested, the official said. Officials from the District Industries Centre engage with at least 10 MSMEs every week. “The spread is almost negligible among MSMEs. The units are also taking the required precautions. Even the micro units, where the space available is less, have sanitisers, soaps, etc. for the workers," said General Manager of DIC A. Karthigaivasan. Almost 40 % of the migrant workers have returned to the industries here. They return by flight or buses. The Coimbatore District Small Industries Association has appealed to the government to operate special trains so that more workers can come back. Though the industries are taking the required precautionary measures, every one has to be careful and ensure there is no spread among workers, said the association president R. Ramamurthy.
10 October 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Minister inaugurates govt. arts college for women||Municipal Administration Minister S.P. Velumani on Friday inaugurated a government arts college for women, a first for the district, by launching the admission process at a Corporation school in Puliakulam in the city. He said the State Government had fulfilled a long-pending demand by granting permission to establish an arts and science college for women in the district. The college that would offer Tamil, English, commerce, maths and computer science with a total intake of 250 to 300 students would go a long way in fulfilling the higher education needs of girls, rural students and those from the economically weaker section. The college offered the courses at Rs. 2,000 a semester, as against the private colleges that charged in multiples, thereby making higher education affordable. This, Mr. Velumani said, was in keeping with the Government’s promise of making higher education accessible. And, to underscore his point he said the Government had opened arts and science colleges in Thondamuthur, Pollachi, Mettupalayam and Palladam. The Government had also converted the Bharathiar University constituent college in Valparai to a government arts and science college. To improve infrastructure in Pollachi and Thondamuthur colleges, the Government had sanctioned Rs. 8 crore for construction of additional classroom. For the Mettupalayam college, a new building was recently built. Collector K. Rajamani, Corporation Commissioner P. Kumaravel Pandian, Members of Legislative Assembly Amman K. Arjunan, O.K. Chinnaraj, A. Shanmugam and V.P. Kandasamy were among those present at the inauguration.
10 October 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Special cover released on World Post Day||The Department of Post, Western Region, released a special cover here to mark World Post Day on Friday. According to a press release, the special cover commemorates the service rendered by postmen during COVID-19. It is a foiled and embossed cover with Rs. 5 stamp and special cancellation. Priced at Rs. 50 a cover, it is sold at the philately bureau at Coimbatore Head Post Office and 14 philately counters in the western districts of the State. The Department has printed 1,500 covers. For one week from Friday, programmes will be organised to create awareness about postal products and services in the western region of the State. There will be campaigns on postal life insurance, Sukanya Samriddhi Yojana, and an Aadhaar camp.
10 October 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||‘Centre should appeal against Babri Masjid case verdict’||A federation of Jama-aths in Coimbatore, Islamic organisations and political parties on Friday appealed to the Central Government to appeal against the Lucknow High Court verdict acquitting the accused in the Babri Masjid demolition case. A federation press release, issued at the end of a black flag demonstration, said the verdict was shocking as it was against the findings of the Liberhan Commission and the Supreme Court observation in the Ayodhya Ram Janmabhoomi case that the Babri Masjid demolition was an illegal act. The federation also asked the Central Government to disband the Central Bureau of Investigation as it had turned into a pawn in the hands of the ruling party of the day and was ineffective when it came to securing conviction in corruption and other cases that had caught national attention.
10 October 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Six detained under Goondas Act||Coimbatore City Police on Thursday invoked the provisions of Goondas Act against six persons who were arrested in connection with the murder of a Hindu Munnani supporter C. Biju on September 13 . Police sources said that based on the orders of Commissioner of Police Sumit Sharan, Vivek Prabhu (28), Aravind (26), Karthik (34 )and Arun Prasath (23) were detained on Wednesday and Arumugam (56) and Arunkumar (30) on Thursday.
10 October 2020||DHARMAPURI,TAMIL NADU||Drill on monsoon preparedness||A drill was organised by the district fire and rescue services for volunteers engaged in times of relief and rescue operations here as part of the North East Monsoon preparedness programme. Over 15 volunteers participated. R. Jasmine, District Fire and Rescue Officer, said the drill was a basic training programme for volunteers ahead of the North East Monsoon. “We were instructed by Director General of Police (Tamil Nadu Fire and Rescue Services) C. Sylendra Babu to conduct such drills to train volunteers in rescue and relief operations,” she said. All villages had volunteers, and in case of a fire, they would step in to help, even before the fire tenders arrived. The rescue exercises trained such volunteers to assist the rescue personnel, the district fire officer said. The training was held on the premises of a garment unit in Dharmapuri.
10 October 2020||Dindigul,TAMIL NADU||‘Government must make appeal against acquittal’||Staging protests against acquittal of a prime accused in the rape and murder of a 12-year-old girl by a Mahila Court here recently, hairdressers in southern districts downed shutters on Friday. Leading the protest in front of the Collectorate, Dindigul MP P. Velusamy, Karur MP S. Jothimani, MLA R. Sakkarapani and family members and relatives of the victim demanded the State government to make an appeal against the acquittal to render justice. In 2019, the girl, a resident of Kurumbapatti near Vadamadurai, was found dead in her house, when her father Venkatachalam, a hairdresser, and her mother, a casual worker, were away. Inquiries revealed that Kirupanandam, a youth, had allegedly raped the girl along with two other friends. After raping her, they had murdered the girl. The police had arrested the key accused. The Mahila Court, which was hearing the case, however, acquitted the accused and directed the State government to give Rs. 3 lakh as compensation to the girl’s family. CPI-M leader Balabharathi and AIDWA members had staged a protest in front of the court and criticised the judgement. Hairdresser associations called for downing shutters across the State on Friday, condemning the acquittal. Speaking to reporters, Ms. Jothimani said that when Jayalalithaa was the Chief Minister, she promised to establish exclusive courts to hear cases against women. However, after her demise, the present government had forgotten her promise. “We do not want compensation, we want justice,” she said. In Theni, a hairdressers’ association staged a protest and submitted a petition to Collector M Pallavi Baldev seeking justice. Southern districts Hairdressers across Tirunelveli district downed shutters in protest against the acquittal. For want of “sufficient evidence,” the Dindigul court had acquitted a youth who was involved in rape and murder of a 12-year-old girl, they said and demanded justice. After closing down their shops, members of Tirunelveli District Hairdressers’ Welfare Association staged a demonstration in front of the Collectorate. Led by the association’s Thoothukudi district president, Raja, the members staged a demonstration near Chidambara Nagar bus stop, in which CITU office-bearers participated.
10 October 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Motorists want underpass at K.K. Nagar in Erode widened||As vehicle flow on Chennimalai Road is expected to increase after the completion of Erode Outer Ring Road project, motorists want the railway underpass at K.K. Nagar widened to make it easy for heavy vehicles to pass through. After the Corporation limits were extended on Chennimalai Road, many residential localities have come up on the stretch, making it one of the busiest roads in the city. The narrow underpass at K.K. Nagar allows passage of just one bus at a time while lorries and other heavy vehicles cannot use the underpass. Since many residential areas, schools and colleges have come up on the road, movement of vehicles is very high during the day. Seepage from Lower Bhavani Project canal and rain cause water logging in the underpass, thus preventing the movement of vehicles. “It is a busy stretch and two-wheelers, cars and other four-wheelers have to wait when a bus passes through the underpass,” said T. Muthukumaran of Rangampalayam. He said once the ring road project was completed, there would be an increase in the vehicles using the stretch. Members of Erode South District Bharatiya Janata Party have been urging the district administration to construct another underpass for the heavy vehicles. “Devotees from other States visit Arulmigu Subramanya Swamy temple in Chennimalai regularly. But their buses cannot pass through the underpass,” they said. During peak hours, vehicles have to wait on both sides to allow vehicles from one side to pass through. “It is a long-pending demand of the public to widen the underpass,” said T. Jayaseelan of Vellode. He wanted widening works completed during the lockdown period.
10 October 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Irregularities alleged in conduct of election in Chencoptex||Alleging that the election officer appointed to conduct election for the post of directors to the A.A. 399, Chennimalai Industrial Weavers’ Co-operative Society Limited (Chencoptex) had committed irregularities to favour the ruling party, members staged a demonstration in front of the society on Friday. The election was scheduled to be held on October 14 for the post of seven directors and nominations were accepted till October 7 while scrutiny took place on October 8. Members, N. Nagappan and C. Kannusamy, along with four others filed their nominations with election officer Cheran. But they said that acknowledgement for filing nominations were not given to them and despite many requests, the officer failed to give it to them. They said the issue was taken up with the Assistant Director for Handloom and Weaving, who promised to solve it. But on Thursday evening, a list of contestants was displayed in the notice board in which their names were missing. The members said the officer did not issue acknowledgement slips, failed to inform them for scrutiny and also released the list without their names. “The officer had committed a murder of democracy,” they said and wanted their names included in the list before conducting the elections. S. Chinnasamy, State secretary of AITUC, S. Ponnusamy, Treasurer, Erode District Weaver’s Cooperative Association, and members of various trade unions participated in the demonstration. A petition was submitted to societies Special Officer K. Natarajan while a letter was also sent to the Commissioner, Tamil Nadu State Co-Operative Societies Election Commission, Chennai, urging action.
10 October 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||CPI demands regular bus services to hill areas||With normalcy returning after the COVID-19 lockdown, Communist Party of India (CPI) has urged the district administration to operate regular bus services to hill areas of Kadambur and Talavadi. The party’s Talavadi East Union meeting was held at Arapalayam in which S. Mohan Kumar, State Committee member, was a special invitee. Issues Members discussed various issues affecting people during the lockdown and passed the following resolutions. A resolution said that bus services to Talavadi and Kadambur hills were stopped for the past six months. Though the government relaxed restrictions and allowed public transportation to resume, only a few buses were operated to these hill areas from Sathyamangalam. Hardship The resolution said that people live in many remote hamlets in hilly areas had to walk for many km to reach the road and board buses. “With a few buses operated, they face hardship in reaching their workplace, government offices, hospitals or markets,” the resolution said. The resolution said that people could not afford to spend most of their earnings on travelling in pick-up vans to reach their workplace and wanted bus services made regular.
10 October 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Residential school to come up at Vilankombai tribal settlement||Two tribal settlements, Vilankombai and Kembanur, located inside the buffer zone of Sathyamangalam Tiger Reserve (STR) in T.N. Palayam Range will have a school for the first time -- a Government Tribal Residential School (GRTS) or a school run by the Forest Department at Vilankombai. There are 38 families in Vilankombai and 18 in Kembanur, both located behind the Gunderipallam Reservoir coming under Kongarpalayam Panchayat in T.N. Palayam Panchayat Union. A special training centre under the National Child Labour Project (NCLP), with 26 children from classes 1 to 8, is being run at Vilankombai for seven years. To study further, they have to trek 10 km through dense forest to reach Kongarpalayam. But, they drop out owing to the presence of a large number of wild animals on this non-motorable route. School Education Minister K.A. Sengottaiyan recently announced that a school would come up at Vilankombai. It would initially be primary school. The Forest Department had demarcated for the school project 50 cents of forest land at the entrance of the settlement for the school. Resolution needed A resolution needs to be passed in the Gram Sabha meeting for starting the school, which is getting delayed, said a senior official with the School Education Department. He said a request had been placed before the district administration for passing a special resolution so that the works could begin. An official with the District Adi Dravida and Tribal Welfare Department said 26 children from Vilankombai and 24 from Kembanur would be admitted to the school. Since children from Kembanur could not travel six km through the forest every day, accommodation would be provided to them. Once the resolution was passed by the Kongarpalayam Panchayat, works would begin, the official said.
10 October 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Mobile phones given to 10 govt. school students||With poor students finding it difficult to attend online classes, 10 students of Panchayat Union Middle School at Nadagoundampalayam village in Modakurichi Union were given mobile phones sponsored by AJS Trust. At a function held at the school on Thursday, District Educational Officer Madheswaran distributed the mobile phones to the students in the presence of trust founder president Saravanan and headmistress S. Bhuvana. Teachers said online classes were conducted for students and materials were also sent through Whatsapp. “We identified students whose parents did not have android phones,” said Ms. Bhuvana. When they approached the trust members, they agreed to sponsor the phones, she added. The trust members said it was their small contribution for the education needs of the students. A demonstration on how to access online textbooks and other education materials was held for the students.
10 October 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Head constable ends life||A head constable, attached to Sathyamangalam police station, committed suicide at his residence on Thursday. Ramesh Kumar (45) was living with his wife and two daughters at Kombupallam. After returning from work, he was taking rest in his room. Later, his wife found him hanging from the ceiling. The body was taken to the Government Hospital at Sathyamangalam. A case has been registered and an inquiry is on. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104 and Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.
10 October 2020||KARUR,TAMIL NADU||Water released from Aathupalayam Dam||Water was released for irrigation for the second consecutive year from the Aathupalayam dam, located at Karvazhi near K. Paramathi, on Friday. The reservoir has an ayacut of 19,500 acres. Transport Minister M. R. Vijayabaskar opened the sluices and showered flowers on the water flowing from the reservoir along with Collector T. Anbalagan, Public Works Department, Rural Development and Revenue Department officials and farmers. The dam, which was inaugurated in 1992, was constructed to harness surplus flood waters in the Noyyal and the water draining from the Lower Bhavani Project (LBP). However, down the years, the dam became a repository of polluted water and sludge carried by the Noyyal from the dyeing and bleaching factories from Tiruppur and Coimbatore districts. Following a court order, the dam was not opened for 18 years. Last year, water was released from Authupalayam Dam after a court case was withdrawn. The water was released after analyses of samples found that the Total Dissolved Solids level was well within the permitted level. Water has been released from the dam this year too following good storage. As on Friday, the dam had a storage of about 224.34 million cubic feet (mcft) as against its full capacity of 235.52 mcft. Farmers in Anjur, Thukkachi, Karvazhi, Thennilai, Munnur, Athipalayam, Kuppam, Punnam, Manmangalam, Vettamangalam, Punjai Pugalur, Punjai Thottakurichi, Athur, Punjai Kadambakurichi, Kuppuchipalayam, Minnampalli, Kathaparai and Panjamadevi would benefit from the water release. Mr.Vijayabhaskar said that some of the canals carrying water from the dam have been desilted. Renovation works were taken up on the Authupalayam Main Channel at a cost of Rs. 1.49 crore. DRDA Project Director S.Kavitha, and Assistant Executive Engineer, Noyyal River Basin, Subramanian, were present.
10 October 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Rise in admissions to Corporation schools||A total of 6,307 students have been newly admitted to Madurai Corporation schools till date for this academic year. There has been an increase in the number of new students being admitted to Corporation schools when compared to last year, say officials. There are a total of 15 higher secondary schools, nine high schools and 40 middle and elementary schools in the city within the purview of Madurai Corporation. The data provided by Madurai Corporation shows that 1,832 boys and 4,475 girls were admitted to Corporation schools this year. Corporation Educational Officer P. Vijaya attributed the rise in the number of admissions in Corporation schools to the good quality of education provided at these schools. “It is important to note that the new number of admissions for Class 11 have increased in many Corporation schools,” she said. One of the main reasons for the rise in the admission rate is that many students, who were earlier studying at private matriculation schools, had moved to Corporation schools in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic, said Headmistress of N.S.S.B. Corporation Girls Higher Secondary School P. Meenakshi. “The pandemic had financially affected many families and parents were unable to pay the high school fee charged by private schools. This year many students opted to study in English medium sections,” she says. The quality of education provided at Corporation schools is on par with that of private schools, adds Ms.Meenakshi. Apart from the academics, the Corporation schools have many programmes that focuses on the holistic development of students, said R. Murugeswari, Headmistress of Kasturibai Gandhi Corporation Girls Higher Secondary School. The HCL Foundation, along with a few non-governmental organisations, is conducting programmes for students in several Corporation schools. Ms. Murugeswari says that the 'Happy Schooling' programme, which focuses on the mental well-being of students, has helped to reduce instances of bullying among students and have reduced their stress levels too. “The student parliament that is functioning at schools help to improve the leadership skills of the students,” she adds.
10 October 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||HC orders probe by DSP into farmer’s death||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Friday entrusted the investigation into the death of Tenkasi farmer Anaikarai Muthu to the jurisdictional Deputy Superintendent of Police. The farmer’s family alleged that his death was due to custodial torture in the hands of the Forest Department personnel. Justice G.R. Swaminathan directed the DSP to complete the probe and file a final report as expeditiously as possible. The court was hearing the petition filed by Palammal, wife of Muthu. It was said that Forest Department officials had picked Muthu to inquire about illegal tapping of electricity. She had sought a re-post mortem of the body of her husband. Earlier, the court had ordered the second post mortem after it was brought to light that the first post mortem was not conducted in accordance with norms. As the first post mortem report was not submitted, the court directed that the investigating officer be submitted a copy as well as that of the second post mortem report. The court observed that the inclusion of the charge under Section 302 (murder) of the IPC in the case will depend on the contents of the post mortem report. The petition was disposed of.
10 October 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Downpour leads to water stagnation||The heavy downpour on Friday evening resulted in water stagnation at major junctions and roads, leaving pedestrians and two-wheeler riders in a fix. Water stagnation was reported in Goripalayam, Tallakulam, near Periyar Bus stand, KK Nagar and Munichalai. The Secretary of Tamil Nadu Textile Merchants Association Ashraf Tayub said that water-logging was reported in core streets around Meenakshi Sundareswarar Temple, where road works were undertaken by Madurai Corporation. “People had to wade through ankle deep water on East Aavani Moola Street following the rains,” he said. Mr. Tayub added that a woman reportedly fell inside a large pit, which was dug up on Jadamuni Kovil Street, after rainwater filled the pit on Friday evening.  The streets of Chockalingapuram were flooded following the rains on Friday evening, said S. Sridhar Nedunchezhian, a resident. “The rainwater entered the shops and it took nearly three hours for the water to recede,” he said. Mr. Nedunchezhian said that the problem has been present for many years now. “The main issue is that a water channel in the area now lies lower than the level of Bypass Road. So whenever it rains, the water tends to enter the low-lying Chockalingapuram. Though we have complained regarding the issue several times, no action has been taken regarding this,” he added. An official of Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation said that rainwater was stagnant near Periyar Bus stand on Friday evening. City Engineer S. Arasu said that the Corporation officials pumped out stagnant water from streets around Meenakshi Sundareswarar temple after the heavy downpour. “All pits that have been dug up for road projects in the core streets around the temple will be closed by October 15 and the work will resume only after the completion of Deepavali festival,” he added.
10 October 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Strengthen vigilance wing in judiciary to eliminate corruption: HC Judge||Noting that the prevailing vigilance system in the judiciary is insufficient to crush corrupt practices, Justice S. M. Subramaniam of the Madras High Court (Madurai Bench) has called upon the judiciary to strengthen its vigilance wing. “Building confidence in the minds of the citizens on the judiciary system is the constitutional mandate. Doubts in the minds of the citizens will lead to destruction of the constitutional principles. Undoubtedly, the judiciary has to strengthen its vigilance wing and the prevailing vigilance system in the judiciary is insufficient to crush the corrupt practices”, the judge said during the course of hearing in a case. “Corruption is the devil in society”, he said referring to corrupt practices in the administration of government departments but added, “this court has to endorse the fact that the judiciary is also not exempted from corrupt practices”. Justice Subramaniam observed that the conscience of the court would not permit if it fails to mention the increasing corrupt practices in the Judiciary Department as well as in court premises. Justice requires equal treatment of all the citizens and consistency in the justice delivery system. Further, the judge pointed out that many former Chief Justices of India had lamented that the judiciary was not exempted from corrupt practices. Unfortunately efficient measures were yet to be taken to deal with many kinds of corrupt practices in the judicial system, the judge strongly observed in his order. With regard to corruption in government departments, the judge said that it was painful to pen down that even for the implementation of beneficial schemes and government orders, corrupt practices were involved and in some cases involving higher officials. Awareness and sensitiveness need to be created. The Department of Vigilance and Anti-Corruption needs to be strengthened to a greater extent to ensure periodical surprise inspections and raids were conducted to deal with corrupt practices in public services, the judge said. He hoped that the observations would be taken in the right manner to develop an effective and efficient system. The court was hearing the petition filed by N. Ulagaraj from Tirunelveli, an Office Assistant in the Registration Department. He challenged the punishment of compulsory retirement awarded to him on the charges of receiving bribes with regard to registration of sale deeds. The court said that the petition was devoid of merits and dismissed the petition.
10 October 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Police begin petition inquiry at people’s doorstep||Madurai city and rural district police have started to send their police officials to the doorstep of petitioners to resolve their grievances. As per the instructions of the new Additional Director General of Police (Law and Order) Rajesh Das, police officials in the rank of Sub-Inspector of Police and Special SIs are visiting the houses of petitioners and making enquiries on the spot. Superintendent of Police Sujit Kumar said that visiting the villages by the police officials will spare them from travelling all the way to the police stations and save time. “This will also encourage more people to take up smaller issues that would snowball into bigger problems to the police officials,” he added. Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order) R. Shiva Prasad said that on-the-spot visit will give a better picture about the complaint and the people involved in it. Stating that more than 60% of the petitions were related to family disputes and quarrel with neighbours. “During their visit, the police will be able to get details about the quarrel with other people in the vicinity,” he added. Women, children and elderly people will not need to travel to the police station. “It ‘s people-friendly approach by the police,” he added. The SP said the police will also get to go to unvisited areas and their visible presence will instill a sense of fear among local antisocial elements. All the petitions received by the SP, Deputy Inspector General of Police, and IG, Director General of Police and Chief Minister’s cell will be heard at the petitioner’s place, he added.
10 October 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||HC asks Centre why Tamil was not included in the first instance||The Centre on Friday submitted before the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court that it had issued a corrigendum for the admission notice to Pandit Deenadayal Upadhyaya Institute of Archaeology. Postgraduation in Tamil and other classical languages had been included as minimum qualification to PG Diploma course in Archaeology, the Centre said. Taking cognisance of the submission, a Division Bench of Justices N. Kirubakaran and B. Pugalendhi asked the Centre why it was not done so in the first instance itself. Though it was claimed that the omission was done inadvertently, it appeared to be deliberate, the court observed. The court took serious note of the omission and put forth a series of questions to the Centre. The court sought to know who was responsible for the omission and if any action was taken against the official concerned. The judges directed the Centre to submit its response on October 28. The court also directed the Centre to furnish the details on languages that were enjoying ‘Classical Status’. The court hoped that caution would be exercised in such matters in future. The court was hearing the public interest litigation petition filed by S. Ramesh Kumar from Karaikudi, who challenged the Centre’s notification.
10 October 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||T.N. leads in e-governance: Minister||Tamil Nadu has been leading in the country in areas of e-governance, in attracting investments at global level and creating employment opportunities, said R.B. Udhayakumar, Minister for Revenue and Disaster Management, and Information Technology, here on Friday. He was delivering the chief guest address during the inaugural function of Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry’s virtual conference titled ‘Technology Enabled Growth and Opportunities-2020’. Madurai Collector T.G. Vinay and Corporation Commissioner S. Visakan were also present along with the Minister. Mr. Udhayakumar said that the Commissionerate of e-Governance was created in 2006 to lead all e-governance initiatives of the State. The Centre of Excellence in Emerging Technologies (CEET) in TNeGA was created in January 2019 to bridge the knowledge gap between development and application of emerging technologies in government departments. He said that Tamil Nadu is the first state in the country to sign a memorandum of understanding with a premier institution like the IIT Madras to harness the power of Artificial Intelligence (AI) and blockchain technology in areas of health, education and agriculture. “Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan is not only the vision of Prime Minister Narendra Modi, but also the vision of the Chief Minister. To achieve this, we need to pursue policies that are efficient, competitive, resilient and self sustaining,” said the Minister. Later, the Minister delivered the keynote address during the Responsible AI for Social Empowerment (RAiSE) 2020 virtual summit, organised by the Union government. The Tamil Nadu is among the few states in the country to have an integrated IT infrastructure. The State government is investing in emerging technologies like AI for implementing social, economic and welfare schemes of the State in an efficient and cost-effective manner. TNeGA has developed an AI-based Face Recognition System for registering the attendance of students and office staff in a few government schools in Chennai. A ‘pest and disease identification system’ has been developed to help farmers using the Uzhavan application. He added that the State government’s policy for safe and ethical AI has been formulated to provide a roadmap to the state’s adoption of AI policies.
10 October 2020||Nagercoil,TAMIL NADU||Plucking of lotus banned in birds sanctuary in Kanyakumari district||The forest department has banned plucking of lotus leaves and flowers in 10 waterbodies covered under Suchindram Theroor Birds Sanctuary in Kanyakumari district as the activity disturbs the habitat of birds and leads to hunting of green frogs. “They are micro habitats and plucking of lotus flowers and leaves disturbs them and the food chain of birds, particularly Jacanas foraging on the floating vegetation. It is better to leave the habitat without any human intervention,” saidT. K. Ashok Kumar, the District Forest Officer (DFO). A few months ago the forest department arrested two persons for plucking leaves and flowers in Theroor kulam after consistent warnings failed to prevent their activity. The forest department is only enforcing the ruling the Supreme Court which banned the cultivation of lotus in waterbodies in Kanyakumari district, officials pointed out. First, Madras High Court had directed the Public Works Department (PWD) not to lease out the waterbodies in the district for the purpose of cultivation of lotus in view of the damage caused to the environment and the same was upheld by the Supreme Court. “While considering the significance and importance of water flower, when it is grown on commercial basis, the impact of pollution is great and cannot be ignored,” the court ruled. Loss of waterbodies Kanyakumari district had nearly 3,500 tanks in 1962 and their numbers were reduced to 2,447 in 1998 and one of the main causes was infestation of the tanks by aquatic weeds, gradually leading to encroachment. While lotuses are part of any waterbody and remain a source of food for the Purple Moorhen, according priority to its cultivation, causes damage to the waterbody. “Normally the weeds would be removed during the dry season. But those who cultivate lotuses plant the bulbs deeper into the waterbody and in the process affect the diversity of the water body,” said ornithologist Robert Grubh. Moreover, lotus plants also come in handy for those who hunt green frogs, a species protected under schedule IV of the Wild Life Act, 1972. “We fined Rs. 10,000 each from two persons who had hunted green frogs resting on lotus petals in Achankulam and later posted it on social media,” Mr. Ashok Kumar. Forest officials said constant vigil had encouraged Pelicans to nest in Theroor kulam, which had not happened earlier and they argued that any human activities would disturb the birds. The forest department has stepped up its measures to protect the waterbodies and already issued a notice to Theroor town panchayat for letting untreated sewage into the waterbody.
10 October 2020||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Forms for tatkal power connections to be received till month-end||Minister for Electricity P. Thangamani said applications would be received from farmers under the tatkal scheme till the end of October and no application would be turned away. Mr. Thangamani said told press persons, “this year 25,000 tatkal connections were announced and it got over in the first ten days itself. We have advised officials to continue receiving the applications and steps will be taken to provide connections to maximum number of persons after discussions with the Chief Minister.” Minister for Social welfare V. Saroja said the interviews for vacancies in nutritious meal programme had been called off considering COVID-19 situation. The Ministers reviewed various development works and COVID-19 containment measures in the district on Thursday.
10 October 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||371 new cases recorded in Puducherry||Puducherry recorded 371 new COVID-19 cases and two deaths on Friday. The capital accounted for both the fatalities — that of a 73-year-old woman and a 46-year-old man. The Union Territory’s toll touched 558, with Puducherry accounting for 463 deaths, followed by Karaikal (49), Yanam (42) and Mahe (four). A total of 5,006 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours. The Puducherry region accounted for 287 cases, Karaikal 53, Yanam 8 and Mahe 23. The positivity rate stood at 7.41%, case fatality rate at 1.81% and recovery rate at 82.65%. The Union Territory has so far recorded 558 deaths. It currently has 4,803 active cases and its tally has touched 30,904. A total of 25,543 patients have recovered. Of the 2.25 lakh samples tested so far, 1.90 lakh have returned negative. Health Minister Malladi Krishna Rao told mediapersons that more health workers would be trained on early detection of symptomatic cases to monitor the increasing number of patients under home quarantine, better. “We have been able to contain the number of COVID-19 deaths, but we need to reduce it further,” he said. The Minister said that he would raise the need for arranging a function to honour the efforts of all categories of health staff, from specialists to cleaning staff, at the Cabinet meeting on Monday. For the last seven months, they had been working without a break and it was only right to acknowledge their efforts with a certificate or memento, he said. Puducherry’s financial crisis was standing in the way of sanctioning cash incentives for the staff, he said. “We can think of granting monetary incentives only when the financial situation improves,” he said. While Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy is due to visit Karaikal on Saturday, the Health Minister is scheduled to visit Mahe next week to take stock of the augmentation of infrastructure there, especially in the context of a spurt in COVID-19 cases in Kerala, of late. Cuddalore’s tally Meanwhile, as many as 150 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Cuddalore district on Friday. With this, its tally touched 21,429, while its toll stood at 245. According to a Heath Department bulletin, Cuddalore district has 1,230 active cases. As many as 142 persons were discharged after treatment on Friday, from various facilities across the district. Villupuram district reported 73 fresh cases, taking its tally to 12,371. A total of 37 cases were reported in Kallakurichi, taking the total number of infections in the district to 9,593.
10 October 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Consul General of France calls on CM, Health Minister||Consul General of France in Puducherry Lise Talbot Barre on Friday made a courtesy call on Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy at the Assembly. Health Minister Malladi Krishna Rao was present. The Chief Minister had sought assistance from France to strengthen the tourism sector in the Union Territory and to facilitate exchanges between educational institutions in France and Puducherry. Interaction proposed To a specific request made by the Chief Minister, the Consul General agreed to organise an interactive session between industrialists here and French automobile manufacturers based in Chennai. He wanted French automobile manufacturers to set up base in the Union Territory as well. The Chief Minister also sought assistance from France to develop the IT sector. The government wanted France to explore the possibility of setting up call centres in Puducherry, considering the large French speaking population here.
10 October 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||‘Ready to go behind bars to protect people’s interests’||Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy on Friday said he was ready to go behind bars to protect the interests and rights of the people of the Union Territory. Addressing a press conference, the Chief Minister said he had made the remarks about attempts by the Union Government to merge the Union Territory (U.T.) with Tamil Nadu, in the context of various decisions made by the Centre recently. “The Centre is trying to grab the powers of the U.T. government in a phased manner. I made the remark that the Centre was trying to merge the U.T. with Tamil Nadu, in this context,” he said. To substantiate his charge against the Centre, the Chief Minister said that the Union Home Ministry delayed giving sanction for presenting the U.T.’s budget, by about four months. The territorial administration wanted to provide rice, but on the basis of the Lieutenant Governor’s advice, the Centre directed the government to deposit the money in the accounts of the beneficiaries. Again, the government wanted to provide clothes to the poor during Deepavali, but on the Lt. Governor’s advice, the Centre directed the administration to transfer money to the needy, the Chief Minister said. The U.T.’s administration has full powers with respect to decisions on land issues, but the government was denied the right to sell land belonging to Anglo French Textiles to compensate the mill workers, he said. “Following my statement against the Centre, some people in the U.T. wanedt me to be arrested for indulging in ‘anti-national’ activities. Some are taking out processions demanding that a case be registered against me for indulging in such activity. Now, it has become a practice for the BJP government to register cases on anti-national charges and use law enforcement agencies such as the CBI, I-T and ED against Opposition leaders in the country. I am ready to go to jail to protect the rights of the people and of the U.T. Do not try to scare us with such threats,” he said. Opposition parties in Puducherry have been “sleeping” while the Centre and the Lt. Governor have been meddling with the affairs of the U.T., he said. “The rights of the people of the U.T. are being taken away. The Centre and the Lt. Governor are trying to block welfare and development schemes. Without responding to them, Opposition parties are just silently watching the developments,” the Chief Minister said.
10 October 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Police to step up vigil during festival season, says Kiran Bedi||Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi said on Friday that police deployment would be increased in view of the arrival of tourists and the impending festive season. Ms. Bedi, who held a review meeting, said it was also proposed during the meeting to rope in students of private medical colleges for IEC (information, education and communication) activities related to COVID-19 prevention. The expertise of JIPMER, Karaikal, would be tapped for COVID-19 treatment in the enclave. The testing levels are to be sustained at an average of 5,000 samples every day. Teams would be assigned route maps for collection, she added. Ms. Bedi also called for the timely procurement and provision of relevant materials to all primary health centres and regular updation of clinical protocols for sharing with private practitioners. T. Arun, Health Secretary, and Pankaj Jha, Special Secretary, Relief and Rehabilitation, participated in the review. Meanwhile, R. Murali, Deputy Director of Health, has directed private practitioners to refer patients (including those from Tamil Nadu districts) with symptoms of fever, cold, cough or breathlessness to government institutions for COVID-19 testing. This has to be followed in adherence with the the Indian Council of Medical Researc (ICMR) protocols using prescribed referral slips. It was also decided that data on seasonal diseases such as dengue, malaria and chikungunya would be shared with the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme.
10 October 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Centac publishes revised draft merit list||The Centralised Admission Committee (Centac) on Friday published the revised draft merit list for non-NEET admissions to professional and arts and science degree courses. The list is available on its website,www.centac puducherry.in, said a release from CENTAC. Objections can be registered using the dashboard login credentials before 5 p.m. on October 12. Students will be allowed to update their course preferences till 5 p.m. on October 12, the press release added.
10 October 2020||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Ramanathapuram fully geared up for monsoon||Ramanathapuram district administration was fully geared to face any eventuality during the north-east monsoon, said officials at a meeting presided by senior IAS officer Dharmendra Pratap Yadav here on Friday. Collector K. Veera Raghava Rao said 39 low-lying areas had been identified and steps had been taken to prevent inundation. As many as 135 teams had been formed with officials from various departments, including Revenue, Rural Development, Health and Family Welfare, Fire and Rescue Services, Police and Highways. A core team would monitor the situation daily and brief the other teams on steps to be taken, Fishermen had been instructed not to venture into the sea when it is rough. Fisheries officials would be in constant touch with the India Meteorological Department (IMD) office and fishermen associations. Health officials would take steps to prevent outbreak of rain-related diseases. PWD officials would monitor all tanks and breaches would be plugged and surplus water channelised to prevent flooding. Thirty-two relief centres would be set up where affected people could be relocated, if needed. First response teams, stationed across the district, would rescue people during emergency situations. Later, Mr. Yadav toured Paramakudi and Mudukulathur where kudimaramathu works had been carried out and mini forests raised to increase green cover. Superintendent of Police E Karthik, Additional Collector M. Pradeep Kumar, DRO A Sivakami and PWD (WRO) Superintending Engineer Venkatakrishnan participated in the meeting.
10 October 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Pinktober celebrations held to create awareness on breast cancer||The ‘Pinktober’ celebrations to create awareness on breast cancer was held at the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital here on Friday. N. Yuvaraj, Director, National Health Mission, K. Senthil Raj, Director, NHM in Tamil Nadu, and other senior officials took part in the event. Dr. Yuvaraj said, “the information must reach everybody. Women basically neglect their health. Most of the breast cancer cases are reported at later stage and it is better if detection is done at earlier stage.” He added that it would be a great achievement of the campaign if every woman was made to visit a public healthcare facility and undergo screening. He said that it was a highly avoidable cancer. Dr. Yuvaraj said Salem was doing well in containing COVID-19 and the Centre had provided various schemes like insurance for healthcare workers and legal protection. Dr. Senthil Raj said 14% of cancer detected among women was breast cancer. He advised officials to take the awareness campaign to entire district and Salem should become breast-cancer free. On COVID-19 containment and treatment measures, Dr. Senthil Raj said the Hospital was doing RT-PCR tests on a par with Madras Medical College and importance must be given for non-COVID-19 treatment as well. Collector S.A. Raman appreciated the efforts of Hospital authorities in COVID-19 treatment. R. Balajinathan, Dean of the Hospital, said a 450ft banner had been erected outside the Hospital with awareness messages on breast cancer as part of the campaign . Dr. Venkateshan, Head, Department of Oncology, said early detection was important in treating and curing breast cancer. He added that since 2018, 858 breast cancer cases were reported at the Hospital and chemotherapy had been provided to 2,100 patients, radiotherapy to 250 patients and over 2 lakh tablets had been distributed. The officials awarded nursing students who won in drawing competition held as part of the event and honoured cancer survivors. The officials reviewed the construction of facilities on the Hospital premises.
10 October 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||PMK man donates plasma in Salem||A member of Pattali Makkal Katchi (PMK) donated plasma at the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital here on Friday in view of the birthday of party leader Dr. Anbumani Ramadoss. Arul, State vice-president of the party, took part. Nine more party members were expected to donate their plasma in the forthcoming days, party functionaries said.
10 October 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Man found dead at Yercaud foothills||The Salem City police on Friday recovered the body of an elderly person from the foothills of Yercaud. According to the police, an elderly person was found hanging from a tree near the check post on Yercaud Ghat Road. On information, personnel from Kannankuruchi police station rushed to the spot and recovered the body. The police are yet to ascertain the identity of the deceased. The Kannankuruchi police have registered a case.
10 October 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Periyar University results declared||Vice-Chancellor of Periyar University P. Kolandaivel released the results of examinations held in April this year. According to a release, students can view the results on University websitewww.periyaruniversity.ac.inand SMS is also being sent.
10 October 2020||Sivakasi,TAMIL NADU||Temple land retrieved||Revenue officials have recovered 7.76 acres of land belonging to Sri Lakshmi Narayana Perumal Temple near here from an individual. The land, worth several lakhs, was restored to the temple. Sivaksi Sub-Collector C. Dinesh Kumar said that on hearing that the temple land was being sold by an individual, officials verified the temple records. It showed that the land was inadvertently registered in the name of an individual due to an error in the survey number. The error was rectified and the patta name transferred to the temple.
10 October 2020||Sivakasi,TAMIL NADU||Godown sealed for illegal stocking of crackers||Revenue officials sealed a godown where crackers were stocked illegally in Anuppankulam here on Friday. Acting on a tip-off, Sivakasi Sub-Collector C. Dinesh Kumar and Special Tahsildar (Matches and Fireworks) G. Loganathan raided the godown of Sri Vishnu Transport where fireworks goods were stocked in a defunct packaging unit. “As per Explosive Rules, the fireworks godowns should get LE-3 licence. The godown should have no electricity connection and also have a list of safety measures in place. Lightning arrester is one of the major requirement,” Mr. Dinesh Kumar said. These safety features were insisted upon to prevent fire accidents. However, in this godown the rules were flouted. The officials found 1,894 big bundles of crackers worth around Rs. 60 lakh. They sealed the premises. Sivakasi East police have registered a case under the provisions of Explosives Act against N. Dharmaraj,65, who was running the godown.
10 October 2020||Thanjavur,TAMIL NADU||Chandrakala and Suryakala, Thanjavur’s sweet offerings||BG Subramani Sharma, managing director of Bombay Sweets, smiles when he answers a question on when he entered the business in Thanjavur. “I started assisting my father Guru Dayal Sharma when I was in Class XI, mainly with measuring out the ingredients and learning how to knead the dough for samosa. I was nicknamed maida maavu by my classmates because I would come to school straight from the kitchen with flour on my hands,” he says. There is a hum of activity at this 10,000 square-feet industrial kitchen complex in Thanjavur, even though lockdown restrictions have mandated a reduced staff strength. Teams of men and women are preparing a host of snacks and savouries that will be displayed and sold at the store’s 14 branches in Thanjavur and Pattukottai. Clearly, it’s been a long journey, from a small tuck shop opposite Thanjavur railway station in 1949 to an e-commerce savvy business today. “My father was a traditional sweet maker in Mathura, Uttar Pradesh, who migrated down South in the 1940s, and after working for a short while in Chennai, settled down in Thanjavur. He was a master chef who believed in using the best ingredients,” says Sharma. “He loved every step of cooking — he would begin his day listening to Surdas bhajans while slicing cashew nuts. He remained as enthused about his work in his later years, as when he was starting out.” Since 1949, Bombay Sweets (named so by Sharma Senior because the city symbolised sophistication and novelty to him, even though he had never actually been there), is a favourite snack food destination for both local residents and tourists in Thanjavur. While the original menu has expanded from North Indian snacks to include Southern Indian tiffin items and fast food, its best-sellers are the sweets Chandrakala and Suryakala, a Guru Dayal innovation that combines the best of north and south festive cuisines. These are little fried pastry parcels filled with khoya or mawa (whole dried milk) mixed with nuts and seasoned delicately with saffron and cardamom powder, then dipped in a light sugar syrup. “For this recipe, my father was inspired by the gujiya, a dry fried pastry that is commonly prepared for festivals like Holi in the North. Chandrakala and suryakala, both of which have the same filling, get a south Indian twist with a brief dip in hot sugar syrup at the very end,” says Subramani. Around 250 kilos of Chandrarkala are made per day during lockdown. Their name derives from their shape — Chandrakala looks like a crescent moon, while the Suryakala is round, like the sun. Due to the lockdown, Suryakala is made only during the weekends, while three varieties of Chandrakala – regular, ghee and almond filling — are churned out from Monday to Friday. Where possible, machines like paddle mixers and dough extruders help to streamline the production process in Bombay Sweets. For the Chandrakala preparation, a heavy-duty mixer kneads maida and water into a silky dough that is then passed through a mechanical cutter which forms equal sized portions for rolling out. Workers then sit in assembly-line fashion to break down the task of rolling out, filling, and then delicately folding the edges of the pastry discs by hand. Another team of cooks supervising huge oil-filled pans is on hand to fry the Chandrakala. The flame is kept on medium heat, to ensure that both the casing and filling are well-cooked. The parcels are turned constantly with slotted spoons in the hot oil, and once drained, the fried pastry is passed on to the next team overseeing the sugar syrup. The Chandrakala pockets are removed as soon as the fluted edges look glazed. “If this step gets delayed, you can end up with soggy Chandrakala, so the cooks have to be very careful,” says Subramani Sharma. We get to sample a Chandrakala fresh from the kitchen. The crisp pastry and soft filling get a low sugar kick from the syrup, making it an ideal teatime snack. With footfalls at restaurants reducing due to the lockdown, Bombay Sweets has started offering pre-packaged snack combinations for both online and offline sales. “As the festive season is set to begin, and due to the improvement in delivery logistics, we have decided to reach out to Indian customers through our website. We also get many orders from Thanjavur residents living abroad,” says Subramani Sharma. The demand for Chandrakala and Suryakala has grown with the new mini versions that are ideal for gifting. Subramani Sharma has catalogued all the recipes that are being used by Bombay Sweets, and hopes the family’s forthcoming generations will develop the patriarch Guru Dayal Sharma’s vision further. “Even at the age of 52, I miss my father, who passed away in 1991. His career in Thanjavur alone lasted 50 years. Though the branches have grown since his demise, at the end of the day, Bombay Sweets is the tree that he planted. And Chandrakala and Suryakala are fine examples of his creativity,” he says.
10 October 2020||THENI,TAMIL NADU||‘Do not use ‘Vellalar’ for other communities’||Condemning the remarks made by the DMK, Congress and BJP leaders that the term ‘Vellalar’ can be used for some other communities also, members of Vellalar Munnetra Kazhagam staged a demonstration in front of the Collectorate here on Friday. The members said the ‘Vellalar’ identity should not be given to other communities as suggested by DMK president M K Stalin, Congress president K.S. Alagiri and BJP State president L Murugan. They should immediately withdraw their statment and the government should clarify on the issue so that there was no confusion. Even as the COVID-19 lockdown restrictions were in force, hundreds of the protesters assembled for the protest. A large posse of police was brought and the protesters were instructed to submit the petition to the Collector. Traffic was disrupted for some time.
10 October 2020||Thoothukudi,TAMIL NADU||Minister flays Pon. Radhakrishnan’s electoral alliance remarks||State Information Minister Kadambur C. Raju on Friday said former Union Minister Pon. Radhakrishnan was speaking against the BJP’s electoral alliance with the AIADMK out of extreme frustration. According to him, the BJP and the people of Kanniyakumari (a constituency represented by Mr. Radhakrishnan in the past) have sidelined the former Union Minister. Mr Raju was responding to a question about Mr. Radhakrishnan’s recent remarks that the BJP would align with either the AIADMK or the DMK or even form a front under its leadership for the next Assembly polls in 2021. Speaking to reporters at Kazhugumalai on Friday, Mr. Raju said Mr. Radhakrishnan was neither a national-level leader in the party nor the president of BJP’s State unit, a post which was being held by L. Murugan, who had clarified that the electoral alliance with the AIADMK was intact. The Minister claimed that the Tamil Nadu government, led by Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami, was fulfilling all poll promises given by late Chief Minister Jayalalithaa during the 2016 election campaign and performing exceedingly well. It had even won accolades from the Prime Minister for its anti-COVID-19 operations, he said and added that Mr. Murugan had also lauded the administration. “Either the BJP high command or Mr. Murugan, in the capacity of the BJP’s State president, can say something on the electoral alliance. As they have backed the Tamil Nadu government, we need not give any importance to the views of Mr. Radhakrishnan, who is speaking out of frustration as both the BJP and the people of Kanniyakumari have sidelined him,” said Mr. Raju. He also informed that the Chief Minister would visit Thoothukudi on October 13 for reviewing the anti-COVID-19 operations and also the ongoing development works.
10 October 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Delay in acquiring land for service roads criticised||People turned up for a demonstration, led by Tiruverumbur MLA Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi , at Ariyamangalam on Friday in response to a call by Federation for Retrieval of Tiruchi Palpannai-Thuvakkudi Service Road, to register their protest against the delay in acquiring the land for laying service roads along the city stretch of Tiruchi-Thanjavur Highway. Functionaries of the joint action committee of Federation of Ellakkudi Township Welfare Associations and other welfare associations questioned the delay on the part of the office of the Special DRO/Land Acquisition, National Highways, Tiruchi, in taking appropriate steps, citing the directive issued by the Madurai Bench of Madras High Court during October, 2019, after hearing a writ petition filed by the Federation, that land must be acquired within six months. The High Court had directed that land must be acquired to a width of 60 metres for overbridges, 50 metres at locations identified as bus stops, and 45 metres at other places along the 14.5 km stretch from Palpannai to Thuvakkudi. The Project Director of NHAI-Thanjavur had even issued the Revised Land Plan Schedule during April this year. The functionaries flayed the ‘token act’ by the office of DRO Land Acquisition for issuing advertisements in local newspapers for acquiring a mere 68 cents of land for the project, though there have been loss of several lives due to accidents in the absence of the service roads. ‘This constitutes just one per cent of the land required to be acquired for the project,’ S. Sakthivel and S. Subramaniyan, organisers of the federation, said, demanding issue of an advertisement in keeping with the Court ruling within 15 days. The land must be acquired on a rapid pace and compensation must be awarded to the owners within two months, they emphasised, calling for initiation of coordination work by the NHAI with other departments for smooth implementation of the project.
10 October 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||More occupancy in Chennai trains||Passenger occupancy on special trains originating from the Tiruchi Railway Division and passing through Tiruchi Junction has been mixed ever since rail services resumed from September 7. While the occupancy in some special trains, especially those to Chennai, ranged between 70 - 80 %, there were others in which the occupancy ranged from 55 % to 65 %. In a few trains, the occupancy was less that 45 % during September. Three intra-State special express trains presently originate from the Tiruchi Railway Division: the Tiruchi - Chennai express special train via mainline section covering Thanjavur, Kumbakonam, Mayiladuthurai and Chidambaram; Tiruchi - Nagercoil Intercity special via Madurai and Mayiladuthurai - Coimbatore Jan Shatabdhi express special (barring Tuesdays). The resumption of intra-State rail services on select routes enabled movement of travellers to Chennai and other districts from their respective destinations by the special trains. Occupancy in the day-time Tiruchi - Chennai Egmore special (Train No. 06796) being operated via mainline section was around 77 % in September. This was due to the fact that this was the lone service at present to be run on the mainline section up to Chennai Egmore with stoppages at stations including Thanjavur Junction, Kumbakonam, Mayiladuthurai, Chidambaram and Cuddalore. The occupancy in the Chennai Egmore - Tiruchi special (Train No 06795) via mainline section was a little over 70 %. As for the evening Mayiladuthurai - Coimbatore Jan Shatabdhi express (Train No. 02083), the occupancy was around 67 % during September, while it was about 57 % on the Coimbatore - Mayiladuthurai Jan Shatabdhi express (02084) last month. The occupancy in the Tiruchi - Nagercoil Intercity express seemed to be moderate as compared to the other two trains originating from the Tiruchi Division. The sources said occupancy on board the early morning Tiruchi - Nagercoil Intercity special (Train 02627) via Dindigul, Madurai and Tirunelveli was about 43 % in September. It was nearly 46 % in the case of Nagercoil - Tiruchi Junction Intercity special. The occupancy on the Karaikudi - Chennai Egmore via Tiruchi Junction superfast special via Srirangam, Ariyalur and Vriddhachalam (Train No. 02606) and Chennai Egmore - Karaikudi via Tiruchi special (Train No. 02605) were around 55 % and nearly 52 % respectively in September. As compared to other trains, the occupancy on the Madurai-Chennai Egmore and Chennai Egmore- Madurai specials being operated via Tiruchi in both directions was much higher. The occupancy in September with respect to the Chennai - Madurai superfast special (02635) was around 80 %, while it was about 79 % in the case of Madurai - Chennai Egmore superfast special. All special trains were being operated only with reserved coaches, said a railway official.
10 October 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||‘Revamp bad roads leading to fish market’||Vendors attached to the Puthur Fish Market will sell their wares from the newly constructed Kasivilangi market, set up by the Tiruchi Corporation from Saturday onwards. The market, built at a cost of Rs. 3.32 crore, has 24 retail shops and nine wholesale shops. All vendors, who had been selling at allotted shops at Puthur, have got shops at the Kasivilangi market, on Kuzhumani Road. After vendors shift, the market in Puthur will be demolished and construction of a commercial complex will soon begin. Some vendors began sales from the new market on Wednesday when it was inaugurated. Meanwhile, a section of residents, led by CPI Urban District Secretary Suresh on Friday petitioned the Assistant Commissioner, K. Abishekapuram Zone, Tiruchi Corporation seeking relaying the road leading to the market as it was in a bad state. The road, which would be frequented by trucks transporting goods to and from the market would worsen, they said. “The road from the Nachiyar temple to the market is about a 1.5 km stretch. The road there is filled with potholes and is uneven,” Mr. Suresh said. The civic body could expand its size to benefit residents and vendors, he said. Trucks from the southern districts and Andhra Pradesh ferry fish to the market. “If the road is not repaired soon, the residents will suffer,” he said. Officials at the assistant commissioner’s office said that the matter would be taken to the attention of the Corporation Commissioner soon.
10 October 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Fabrication units see no benefit from interest subvention scheme||Ancillaries of BHEL in Tiruchi and nearby districts do not find any benefit from the latest notification by Reserve Bank of India extending validity of the Interest Subvention Scheme for MSMEs till March 31, 2021. Interest relief of two % is extended to working capital or term loans to the extent of Rs. 1 crore under the subvention scheme, to eligible MSMEs. But the major impediment for the fabrication units in availing the scheme is the stipulation that loan accounts on the date of filing claim should not have been declared as NPA. The scheme clearly states that no interest subvention shall be admissible for any period during which the account remains NPA. The scheme holds no relevance to the fabrication units that are mostly BHEL’s ancillaries since a majority of the industries are gradually turning into NPAs and the properties are being auctioned by banks. “The present plight of the struggling ancillary units is that the promoters are not able to obtain stay order from the courts in time for the notices sent by banks under the Securitisation and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Securities Interest Act,” Rajappa Rajkumar, president of BHEL Small Industries Association, said. For instance, the banks give only 15 days for the industries that have defaulted on payment to settle the dues. But, the scope for legal recourse does not exist since the cases are not taken up for hearing within the deadline period. Unfortunately for the MSMEs in Tiruchi region, neither the Central Government nor the State have shown any inclination to sustain their survival. Desirable outcomes can be expected if representatives of small and medium industries’ associations find a place in the expert committees constituted by the State Government with the specific mandate of bailing out the struggling units. ‘For some reason, it is not happening in Tamil Nadu,’ Mr. Rajappa Rajkumar said. Sanction of additional loans means precious little for the fabrication industries in the absence of adequate orders. The units that had taken additional loans find themselves in a piquant situation since it has only meant expansion of liability with a lengthier repayment period, with no scope for settling the loans. ‘It is tantamount to slow and agonising death,’ Mr. Rajappa Rajkumar explained. Unless the BHEL, which has the capability to undertake projects for defence and railways, becomes pro-active in securing orders, there will be no turnaround for the MSMEs in the region, he emphasised.
10 October 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Central districts record 631 cases||Central districts on Friday recorded 631 cases for COVID-19, an increase over Tuesday’s tally 559. However, the region recorded only two deaths, one from Ariyalur and Thanjavur. A 57-year-old man from Ariyalur and a 58-year-old man from Thanjavur both suffering from systemic hypertension and diabetes succumbed to the viral infection on Friday. Meanwhile, Thanjavur continued to record a high number of cases, with 240 patients testing positive for the infection. A staff nurse from the Thanjavur Medical College Hospital, two assistant engineers at the Public Works Department, a doctor on COVID duty at the Tiruvarur Medical College, a doctor and a staff nurse at the Thanjavur Medical College Hospital, nine beneficiaries of the National Rural Employee Guarantee Scheme were among those who tested positive. Tiruvarur recorded 113 new cases, an increase over the past few days, while in Tiruchi, 81 patients tested positive for the infection. Of the 81 in Tiruchi, around 50 hailed from within the city limits and belonged to existing containment zones. They were primary contacts, inter-district travellers and patients with a history of respiratory illnesses. “No new containment zones have been added in the last week. A total of 12 containment zones currently exist,” S. Sivasubramanian, City Corporation Commissioner said. In Pudukottai, 69 patients tested positive for the viral infection on Friday while in Nagapattinam, 51 fresh cases were reported. Patients in both districts were local index cases with no history of travel or contacts who tested positive earlier. A total of 36 patients tested positive in Ariyalur while Karur recorded a slight drop in cases with 34 patients testing positive for the viral infection. In Ariyalur, five hailed from Ariyalur, four from Thirumanur, four from Sendhurai, three from T.Palur, four from Andimadam and 11 from Jayankondam. In Karur, residents from Gandhigramam, Vengamedu, and Thanthonrimalai were among those who tested positive. Meanwhile, in Perambalur, seven patients tested positive. Of the seven patients, two hailed from the Perambalur block, two from Veppanthattai, one from Veppur and two from Alathur blocks.
10 October 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Corporation launches survey||The Tiruchi Corporation has launched a perception survey to ascertain the interest of residents on cycling as a mode of transport in the city in line with the Cycle4Change Challenge launched by the Central Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs (MOHUA). The challenge was initiated by the Smart Cities Mission of the MOHUA to create a cycling-friendly environment and encourage people use a clean mode of transport. The initiative is to gauge the interest of the people of Tiruchi before taking first steps towards making streets cycle-friendly. The survey, available online includes questions on whether the individual would take a cycle to go to work place or school, what the biggest barrier is to cycling in the city and if roads are safe. While the civic body has demarcated a two-wheeler lane in the city on Salai Road from Head Post Office to MGR statue, it is yet to be put to use. “The civic body and the police are completing the work and ensuring all facilities are available and safety of the public is guaranteed. The lane will put to use soon,” a senior official said.
10 October 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Unions defer strike plan||Following a conciliation meeting with the Chief Labour Commissioner (Central) on Friday, federations of defence employee unions have deferred their indefinite strike planned from October 12 opposing corporatisation of the defence production units. A joint circular issued by All India Defence Employees' Federation, Indian National Defence Workers’ Federation, and Bharatiya Pratiraksha Mazdoor Sangh said the Department of Defence Production has agreed at the meeting that pending conciliation, the government will not proceed with the process of corporatisation of ordnance factories in accordance with Section 33(1) of the Industrial Disputes Act, 1947. So, the indefinite strike planned from October 12 is hereby deferred.
10 October 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Bid to end life||A 25-year-old transgender recruit police constable from Pudukottai undergoing training at the police recruit school at Navalpat consumed surgical spirit with the alleged intention to end her life here on Friday. The recruit was admitted to the Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital at Tiruchi. The constable was the lone transgender at the recruit school in Tiruchi to undergo training along with over 300 women constable recruits. She had underwent operation for change of gender a couple of years ago prior to joining the police service. She is said to have been undergoing pain after the operation and had been taking treatment regularly. The transgender had even availed medical leave. The recruit, currently under treatment, is said to have told the police that she had consumed the substance unable to bear the severe pain as a sequel to the surgery. No case has been registered so far in this connection. Assistance for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State’s health helpline 104.
10 October 2020||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 protocol violators cough up Rs. 2.49 lakh in fine||The Corporation, which has deployed a special team each in all the four zones to conduct surprise checks in the business establishments across the city to look for COVID-19 protocol violations, has so far collected fine to the tune of Rs. 2.49 lakh in the past 25 days. As the number of fresh COVID-19 cases getting admitted in the Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital and other designated hospitals in the district, especially from the Corporation area, refuses to subside, the urban local body announced that those who fail to wear masks and maintain physical distancing when they come to public places would be fined. This was decided as per the recently enacted ordinance. Though the operation against the violators started in August itself, four special teams were deployed to identify the violators after the ordinance was promulgated. This enabled the official machinery to slap on-the-spot fine on violators. “After the intensive operation started in September 12, we’ve so far collected Rs. 2,49,400 from individuals and shops who violate COVID-19 protocol such as not maintaining physical distancing and not wearing masks,” said G. Kannan, Corporation Commissioner. Of this, Rs. 1.20 lakh was collected from business establishments that failed to enforce physical distancing among customers on their premises and Rs. 64,000 was collected for similar offence from individuals. Another Rs. 65,400 was collected from the business establishments that entertained their customers without masks. Mr. Kannan said the special teams are conducting random checks at business establishments including meat stalls, eateries, restaurants, hotels, tea shops, grocery shops, supermarkets, fruits and vegetable shops, marriage halls, places of worship, bus terminuses, textile showrooms and other places. “If business establishments are found to be violating the COVID-19 protocol repeatedly, the special team will seal the erring shops immediately. Hence, we appeal to the owners and employees of all business establishments within the Corporation limits to strictly follow the norms prescribed by the government to check the spread of COVID-19. Moreover, the individuals should also strictly follow the norms,” Mr. Kannan said.
10 October 2020||TIRUNELVELI/MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Fresh cases in Kanniyakumari continue to remain above 90||Even as Thoothukudi’s COVID-19 infection tally is nearing 14,000-mark, the number of fresh cases in Kanniyakumari district still remains high as the district reported 96 cases on Friday. With this, Kanniyakumari’s tally rose to 13,600, with 821 active cases. While 103 patients were discharged from hospitals, the district’s death toll remained at 230. Madurai recorded 93 new cases, which took the district’s total case count to 17,310. Fifty-nine people were discharged and there are 750 active cases. There was one death, with which the district’s toll went up to 396. Thoothukudi recorded 77 fresh cases, which raised the district’s tally to 13,994. With 75 people having been discharged, the district has 509 active cases. One more patient succumbed to the viral infection, raising the toll to 124. With the addition of 72 new cases, Tirunelveli’s total case count touched 13,372, with 725 active cases. While 96 people were discharged from hospitals, one more patient died, taking up the number of fatalities to 201. Theni had 65 fresh cases, with which its tally moved up to 15,490. There were 65 discharges from hospitals. The number of active cases is 467. As many as 185 people have died. Dindigul’s tally rose to 9,235 with 39 new cases. There were 18 discharges. The district, which has marked an overall death toll of 173, has 420 active cases. Sivaganga reported 26 fresh cases. The district’s tally touched 5,434. The district, which marked discharge of 26 people, has 201 active cases. So far, 122 people had died. Ramanathapuram registered 22 new cases to have a tally of 5,700. Hospitals in the district discharged 20 people. The number of active cases is 155. The district has so far witnessed 123 deaths. Virudhunagar recorded 20 new cases, which took its case count to 14,722, with 215 active cases. Twenty-seven people were discharged. The death toll remains at 214. Fourteen people tested positive in Tenkasi even as 37 people were discharged. There are 215 people with the viral infection. The district’s tally rose to 7,572. With one more death, its toll touched 146.
10 October 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Constable accused of inquiring about caste for mask violation||A police constable attached to the Armed Reserve (AR) was accused of asking about the caste details for a mask violation case at Perumanallur in Tiruppur district. VCK functionary P. Sivakumar, a functionary of Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi from Avinashi, said that he was driving a two-wheeler with his wife on the pillion in Perumanallur, near Avinashi, around 1.30 p.m. on Thursday. “We just finished having lunch at a restaurant and I was not wearing a mask while driving, but my wife was wearing her mask,” he recalled on Friday. The two-wheeler was stopped by the constable, Kasiraja, who asked for his particulars such as name and address for not wearing a mask. Mr. Sivakumar alleged that the constable then proceeded to ask his caste, which he refused to disclose. He began recording a video of Kasiraja on his smartphone during an argument and circulated it on social media platforms on Thursday evening. Action initiated A senior officer with Tiruppur District Police told The Hindu on Friday that Avinashi Deputy Superintendent of Police L. Baskar called Kasiraja and two police constables attached to the Perumanallur police station namely Nataraj and Veluchamy, for inquiry following the viral video. Shifted Mr. Nataraj was at the spot along with the AR constable during the incident while Mr. Veluchamy assigned the duty to them. Both the police constables were shifted to the AR on Friday, the officer said. Further disciplinary action will be initiated after the inquiry is completed, according to the officer. The officer said that according to an order issued by the State government on September 17, police officials “not below the rank of Sub-Inspector” only could levy the fine amount for mask violations, as part of the COVID-19 precautionary measures.
10 October 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Three arrested for selling counterfeit masks||The Central Crime Branch (CCB) of Tiruppur City Police arrested three men on charges of selling counterfeit masks in the name of a popular cotton brand on Friday. R. Seenu (30), S. Nermainathan (32), and S. Murugan (32) were arrested by a special team on Friday. A total of 437 masks and 1,532 stickers with the counterfeit logos of Ramraj Cotton were seized and their bank accounts were ordered to be frozen, the police said. The accused were allegedly selling the masks online for nearly three months. Based on a complaint from the management of Ramraj Cotton, the CCB police registered a case on Thursday. The accused were booked under Sections 468 (Forgery for purpose of cheating), 471 (Using as genuine a forged document), 420 (Cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property) and 120B (Criminal conspiracy) of the Indian Penal Code along with provisions of Copyright Act, Trade Marks Act and Information Technology Act. They were remanded in judicial custody and fiurther nquiry is on, the police said.
10 October 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||NGO transplants tree from government hospital premises in Tiruppur||Amid the construction works at Tiruppur Government Medical College Hospital, members of an NGO stepped in to transplant a decades old peepal tree from its premises on Thursday.  Estimated to be around 75 years old, the tree was initially planned to be felled for the construction purposes, said J. Gnanavelan, co-founder of the NGO Green ‘n’ Clean. Upon hearing this, he and founder A. Senthilkumar met with the hospital’s Dean Valli Sathyamoorthy in September requesting to not cut the tree and allow the organisation to help with the transplantation, he said. After receiving the no-objection certificate (NOC) from the hospital, the team from the NGO proceeded to commence the transplantation process. Mr. Gnanavelan said that its branches were cut off and the trunk with the roots was lifted using an earthmover, which was transported to a private land in the Tiruppur Corporation limits on Thursday night for transplantation. “We have applied organic medicines on the roots for the tree’s growth,” he said. Dr. Sathyamoorthy said that the tree was standing next to a building that needed to be demolished to construct the hostel building for the medical college. The NOC was issued to the organisation in consultation with District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan, she said. Based in Rayapuram, Green ‘n’ Clean has been involved in various environmental activities in Tiruppur district for the past 15 years, including the plantation of 1.33 lakh saplings, according to Mr. Gnanavelan.
10 October 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||‘Over 90% of cash recovered from ineligible PM-KISAN beneficiaries’||Over 90% of cash transferred to ineligible beneficiaries registered in Tiruppur district under the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM-KISAN) scheme has been recovered, official sources said on Friday. The Agriculture Department has identified around 2,580 ineligible beneficiaries comprising those from the district and from other districts. Out of this, approximately Rs. 75 lakh transferred to nearly 2,400 beneficiaries has been recovered. The Department will recover cash from the remaining ineligible beneficiaries in another 10 days. Upon the recovery of cash, the process to segregate the ineligible beneficiaries from Tiruppur district and those from other districts, who had registered for the scheme in Tiruppur district, will commence and is expected to be completed by November, according to the sources.
10 October 2020||Udhagamandalam,TAMIL NADU||‘Containment strategy is working in the Nilgiris’||On October 7, 106 people tested positive, taking the total confirmed COVID-19 cases in the Nilgiris to 4,940. The easing of restrictions has led to a rising number of cases. But the limited healthcare facilities in the mountainous district have so far been able to cope, says District Collector J. Innocent Divya. While raising awareness and dealing with economic difficulties remain pressing challenges, the lockdown has had unintended benefits for the ecology of the Nilgiris. Edited excerpts from an interview:  What is the present COVID-19 situation in the Nilgiris? We are at a very, very fragile location, at a trijunction, with Coimbatore, Karnataka and Kerala bordering us. We had to start early on; before even the government had put in some restrictions, we ensured that tourist places were closed. So when Kerala was reporting a large number of cases, we had a manageable situation, and for the last few months, we have kept it under control. But the recent easing of restrictions has affected us and the fact that cases are increasing in Kerala, Karnataka and Coimbatore. So our numbers also keep increasing. We have no other alternative because our people are entirely dependent on these places for trade or commerce. It is a catch-22 situation. Our strategy is that we are trying to maintain strict perimeter control of these containment areas, ensuring that SOPs are followed without any deviation, for which we have special squads, ensuring face-mask wearing, and restricting entry with e-passes. This is helping us keep numbers in check. Of course, this does not apply to local residents, who do travel outside a lot, and so cases are increasing. But right now this containment strategy is working fine, and I am sure we will be able to reduce the numbers in the coming days. What are the special challenges because of the geography of the Nilgiris? One is our location at this trijunction, the other is access to medical facilities as we don’t have so many private players, we are entirely dependent on the government machinery for health care. So that is one stress on the administration as well as on the health infrastructure, because the numbers are increasing. We are doing a delicate balancing act between those who require medical care, immediate medical support and those who require less support in COVID-19 care centres. As far as COVID-19 care centres are concerned, we are very comfortable. The Coimbatore infrastructure is helping us, in some cases the ESI hospital there is taking our patients who have 70% of their lungs affected where they require immediate support. The other problem here is with a higher elevation, the oxygen saturation also keeps dipping. So for those patients who have an unstable saturation level, we prefer to send them to Coimbatore. Raising awareness among the public on mask-wearing has been a big challenge, because people start complaining they are not able to breathe, also because there are lower oxygen levels in the mountains. I don’t think anybody isn’t aware of the fact that if you don’t wear a mask in public, you are likely to get infected. We have also levied fines; it will have to sink into the minds of each and every one. They have to have this feeling that when I go out on the road and I don’t have a mask, I will be fined or I will be severely penalised. Given that tourism is a big source of revenue in Ooty and Coonoor especially, how bad has the economic impact been? In the last five months, we have had absolutely no income from the tourism sector. From last month, we have started issuing e-passes for tourists and opening up public parks such as the Botanical Garden. We have been increasing the number of tourist passes, first we started with 50 and now we are processing 200 requests per day. So this way, we are trying to rejuvenate that sector, but also balancing it with the medical infrastructure, because any tourist who turns positive here will also have to be treated here. (Full interview is available online at http://bit.ly/AnanthNilgiris )   We are doing a delicate balancing act between those who require medical care, immediate medical support and those who require less support in COVID-19 care centres
10 October 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Heavy rain inundates low-lying areas in Udhagamandalam||Heavy rain on Thursday evening inundated many low-lying areas in the Udhagamandalam town. Kodappamund Channel  The areas most affected were the ones in the immediate vicinity of the Kodappamund Channel that cuts through the town and drains into the Ooty lake. Water entered many houses around Green Fields, forcing people to spend the whole of Friday cleaning up their houses. According to officials, a total of 62.5 mm rainfall was recorded in Udhagamandalam town on Thursday evening. S. Ramani, a resident living near Green Fields, said that heavy rain each year led to water entering her house. “There needs to be a permanent solution that the district administration or the municipality adopts to prevent flooding . At the very least, the Kodappamund Channel and the sewage system needs to be cleaned prior to the monsoon season each year,” she said. Water overflowed from the Kodappamund Channel and flooded the areas surrounding the Udhagamandalam Railway Station and the main town bus stand. The Railway Police Station was inundated, with personnel stating that they had to wade through more than a foot of water to get into and out of the station.
10 October 2020||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||SHGs venture into e-commerce||P. Tamil Selvi, 47, from Kangeyanallore in Vellore district, and her six-member women’s self-help group (SHG) that makes wooden toys, are elated — for the first time, they have received an order for a wooden cow through an e-commerce site. Ms. Selvi’s SHG has been part of the Tamil Nadu Urban Livelihood Mission (TNULM) for three years. Recently, TNULM officials called for a meeting between representatives of the e-commerce site and nine SHGs from Gudiyatham and Vellore that have been involved in making toys, glass paintings, lungi, wall-hangings and other gift articles. The idea was to sell their products through the e-commerce sites. “Our families have been making wooden toys for generations. We make walkers for children, horse cradles and wooden animal figurines for children. Most of our customers have been from Vellore and its surrounding areas. Now, we hope to get more orders from other parts of the country,” said Ms. Selvi. Business hit Similarly, S. Hemavathi, 44, from Katpadi and her SHG members have got their glass paintings put up on the e-commerce site. “We make emboss paintings and fur toys too. We were trained under TNULM in 2019. We spoke to banks and colleges and started getting orders. But due to COVID-19, demand has been low,” she said. M. Ramadasu, city livelihood centre manager, Vellore, said that earlier, the products used to be sold in exhibitions or to customers in Vellore and its surrounding areas. “We wanted to help them market the products better. We hope to add more products in the coming days,” he said.
10 October 2020||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Infections in Vellore surpass the 16,000-mark||The total number of COVID-19 cases in Vellore district crossed the 16,000-mark on Friday. With 141 fresh cases, the total number of cases touched 16,009. While a total of 14,882 persons have been discharged, the active cases in the district increased to 861. The district’s toll stood at 266. As many as 44 new cases were reported in Ranipet district, taking its tally to 13,914. In Tirupathur, the total number of cases stood at 5,611, with a total of 68 new cases on Friday. In Tiruvannamalai district, as many as 93 news cases were reported, taking its tally to 16,390. Of this, 15,402 persons have been discharged and 746 are active cases.
10 October 2020||VILLUPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Woman held on charge of murdering her baby||The Villupuram West police on Thursday arrested a 29-year-old woman for murdering her three-month-old daughter by feeding her milk laced with pesticide. The crime took place on August 28. Based on the post-mortem report, the police altered the case of suspicious death to murder and arrested the mother, S. Yasmin of Pappankulam, in Villupuram. According to the police, the couple, Sadiq Basha and Yasmin, have a son and a daughter. The couple had another baby three months back. On August 28, the couple brought the infant in an unconscious state to the Villupuram Government Medical College and Hospital (VGMCH), where doctors pronounced her dead on arrival. “During investigation, we found something amiss, and waited for the viscera report. We got the report on Thursday and it said that the baby died due to pesticide poisoning,” said a police officer. Yasmin was arrested and she confessed to murdering the infant, the police said. During inquiry, it was found that the couple was living in poverty and Yasmin was unhappy that her third child too was a girl.
10 October 2020||October 10 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore sees minor dip in cases||Salem and Coimbatore districts saw a minor dip in the number of fresh COVID-19 cases on Friday, with Salem reporting 295 cases and Coimbatore 397. While Salem saw 362 new cases on Thursday, Coimbatore reported 448. On Friday, four deaths were reported in Coimbatore and one in Salem. A 78-year-old man from Dharmapuri died at a private hospital in Salem. A 71-year-old man died at a private hospital in Coimbatore and three men died at the Coimbatore Medical College Hospital, the media bulletin said. Of the total 36,332 cases in Coimbatore district, 31,103 have recovered and 4,746 were active cases. A total of 483 deaths were reported so far in the district. On Friday, 413 patients were discharged from various hospitals. Orientation session The Health Department organised a COVID-19 orientation session for medical professionals at V.O.C. Park Ground in Coimbatore city. Deputy Director of Health Services (in-charge) P. Balusamy conducted the session and offered instructions on handling the COVID-19 patients. Block medical officers, sanitary inspectors and nurses from private hospitals participated in the session, sources said. Tiruppur Tiruppur district reported one death and 159 new cases, taking the district’s overall tally to 9,659 cases. A 62-year-old woman from the district died at a private hospital in Coimbatore, according to the bulletin. Out of the 9,659 persons who have tested positive so far, 8,386 have recovered and 1,118 were active cases. Tiruppur district has so far reported 155 deaths. On Friday, 197 patients were discharged. Erode district reported 137 new cases taking the district’s tally to 7,976. While 149 persons were discharged, 1,063 are under treatment. Salem district reported 295 new cases and one death. According to health officials, all cases were indigenous including 141 in Salem Corporation limits. Three patients had returned from Namakkal. Namakkal Of the 148 fresh cases reported in Namakkal district, eight had returned from Erode, Salem, Chennai, Karur, Madurai and six from Kerala, Karnataka and Odisha. In the Nilgiris, 109 persons tested positive for the disease. With the latest infections, the total number of confirmed cases in the district stood at 5,141. Krishnagiri recorded 84 new cases and Dharmapuri 67 cases.
10 October 2020||October 10 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Is a new bridge over the Cauvery on the cards?||With motorists commuting on the bridge across the Cauvery river in the city continuing to experience severe jolts due to gaps in the expansion joints despite repeated repairs by the Highways Department, residents of Srirangam are now clamouring for the construction of a new bridge. A senior Highways Department official said they were planning to take up a study for rehabilitation of the existing bridge and also on the feasibility of constructing a new bridge. However, he indicated that the move was in still in the drawing board stage and constructing a new bridge will be a long term plan. Built in 1976, the Cauvery bridge is a vital link connecting Tiruchi city with Srirangam and caters to a huge volume of traffic. Extensive damages to the road surface at some of the expansion joints in between the spans of the bridge forced the Highways Department to take up repairs repeatedly over the past few years. In September 2018, the department officials had said that advanced guniting methods were used to repair the damaged edges. The work was taken up at six expansion joints where broken edges were identified. Repairs were taken up subsequently at a few other joints on the bridge. Yet gaps keep surfacing on the expansion joints of the bridge “The gaps make for a back breaking ride. It is time the Highways Department came with a new bridge. Since it is vital link, there is a need for proper planning,” said T. M. Ranganathan, a resident of Srirangam. Residents are exasperated over the repeated repairs without much relief. “The repairs have not helped; we are not sure whether any further rehabilitation of the bridge will also be fruitful as the gaps keep re-surfacing. It is better to go for a new bridge,” observed B. Hemanathan, president, Arangama Nagar Nala Sangam. The Highways Department says it will initiate a proposal soon. “We are going to prepare an estimate for rehabilitating the bridge fully; we have deployed experts to study the structure right from its base on the river bed. In the meanwhile, a proposal to build a new bridge will be drawn up and forwarded to the government for approval,” said a senior official of the Highways Department However, Highways officials are wary of giving a time frame for their plans to materialise. “Everything is under study right now. We cannot say when the rehabilitation or the proposal for a new bridge will be approved,” the official said. When pointed out that a team from the Highways Research Station, Chennai, studied the bridge a few years back and had given its recommendations, the official conceded that the team had given its findings based on which some remedial measures were carried out on the road surface of the bridge. “We now want to diagnose the entire bridge,” he added.
10 October 2020||October 10 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Tamil degree as qualification for archaeology course: CM thanks Modi||In a corrigendum to its admission notice issued on October 8, the Joint Director-General of Pt. Deendayal Upadhyaya Institute of Archaeology has said the qualification norms have been altered, including Tamil this time. According to the corrigendum, anyone with a master’s degree in all classical languages notified by the Government of India — Tamil, Sanskrit, Kannada, Telugu, Malayalam, Odia and Pali, Prakrit, Arabic or Persian — would qualify for the course. Madurai MP Su. Venkatesan, who was the first to highlight the issue, has welcomed the decision. “Injustice that attempted to render Tamil students unqualified and deny them entry into the Archaeological Survey of India at its very doorsteps has been thwarted,” he said. He recalled that several parties and organisations had condemned the notice that did not include a master’s degree in Tamil as qualification for the course. “It was Tamil Nadu that had raised its voice against the injustice meted out to the classical languages other than Sanskrit,” the CPI(M) MP said. Mr. Venkatesan also said the Centre should dissolve the expert committee constituted by the Ministry of Culture to conduct a study of the origin and evolution of Indian culture. The announcement on the committee also ran into criticism. The Chief Minister drew the Prime Minister’s attention to the fact that the committee did not have any representative from the southern States.   Madurai MP Su. Venkatesan, who was the first to highlight the issue, has welcomed the decision
10 October 2020||October 10 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Fine imposed||Awareness was created among the public by beat officers at TR Pattinam Market area and several residential localities about safety protocol to be followed to contain spread of COVID 19. They called upon the public to wear masks, maintain social distancing, and frequently wash hands with soap. They appealed to the public to download Aarogya Setu App in their mobile phones for better information about the containment zones and the precautions to be taken. They exhorted the shopkeepers and traders to scrupulously follow the safety protocol themselves and to educate the customers about the necessity to comply with the safety requirements. The police also imposed fine on violators.
10 October 2020||October 10 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Nobody’s envy||
10 October 2020||October 10 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Respite from heat||
10 October 2020||October 10 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Correction||The report ‘Hold Centre accountable for non-payment of GST compensation: Stalin’, published on Friday, erroneously mentioned that DMK president M.K. Stalin had written to Tamil Nadu’s Chief Minister. His letter was addressed to the Chief Ministers of Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Puducherry, Kerala, Punjab, Chhattisgarh, Rajasthan, Delhi, Jharkhand and West Bengal. These States had declined to accept both the borrowing options proposed by the Union government at the GST Council meeting held on October 5. Tamil Nadu had chosen Option 1. The error is regretted.
10 October 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Sports ground inaugurated||Sri Dnyanaraj Manik Prabhu, seer of the Manik Prabhu Samsthan, inaugurated the Siddharaj Cricket Ground in Manik Nagar in Bidar on Tuesday. He was among the players in a friendly match between Maniknagar veterans and Melgiri Cricket Club of Hyderabad. The ground has been built by the Manik Sports Academy on a four-acre plot behind the Manik Public School on the samsthan premises. The ground built using modern methods of pitch preparation, has eight turf pitches of 75 metres each. This is the first turf ground in Bidar district and the second in Kalyan Karnataka region, said Anand Raj Prabhu, chairman of the academy. The ground has amenities such as covers and rollers. Work on a large pavilion with multiple facilities is nearing completion. The ground was built in the memory of Sri Siddharaj Manik Prabhu, erstwhile seer of the samsthan.
10 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||More birds injured by kite strings||An increasing number of citizens are taking to kite flying, especially over the last few weeks after restrictions were eased, and this is reflected in the number of bird rescue calls that animal and avian welfare organisations are receiving. BBMP wardens rescued around 150 birds in September. According to Avian and Reptile Rehabilitation Centre (ARRC) in Horamavu, there has been a significant increase in the number of rescue of birds entangled in manja and other strings made of nylon, plastic or synthetic threads since May. While the team rescued 45 birds in May this year, the number went up to 73 in June, 102 in July, 247 in August and 232 in September. As many as 65 birds were rescued in January by ARRC followed by 46 in February and 27 each in March and April. Jayanthi Kallam, executive director, ARRC, said that these days they are receiving seven to eight calls a day. “It is very unusual for this time of the year. We had a total of 354 manja rescues in 2019. This year, with three months to spare, we have had around 900 cases,” she said. She added that the figures only represented rescue cases involving the Centre. “The number of birds injured due to people flying kites is definitely higher as there are many other organisations that are involved in such rescues. And there’s the fact that many cases go unreported,” she said. Activists and experts say that the ban has been ineffective as manja and other strings made of nylon and plastic are still available in the city. A senior official from the Forest Department of the BBMP acknowledged that the rescue calls they were getting were “unusually high” and that they would take action. Rajesh Kumar, chief wildlife warden, urged people flying kites to use cotton thread and report the sale of manja and banned material to the authorities. “The government should take strict action against the production, transportation, storage and distribution of such banned strings. Only then can the problem be solved,” he said.  We had a total of 354 manja rescues in 2019. This year, with three months to spare, we have had around 900 cases Jayanthi Kallam, executive director, ARRC
10 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Vidyagama not leading to infections’||Amid reports that over 23 children in Belagavi and four in Kalaburagi districts had tested positive for COVID-19 after attending Vidyagama,  a continuous learning programme for children of government schools, Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar on Friday said children who tested positive were “not infected because of attending Vidyagama” and that the initiative was “safe”. It was reported that over 23 children from Timmapura village in Belagavi district and four students from Mashala village in Kalaburagi district tested positive after attending Vidyagama programme held on a temple premises and a school campus, respectively. “In Timmapura village, many villagers, including 23 children, have tested positive. The Deputy Director has clarified that there is no basis for the argument that the children got infected because of Vidyagama,” Mr. Kumar said. The Deputy Director of Public Instruction, Belagavi, told The Hindu that the students were asymptomatic and that the head master and teachers had tested negative. Reacting to media reports on cases in Kalaburagi district, Mr. Kumar said that on September 22, 203 students from Mashala village were tested on random sampling basis out of which four tested positive. “However, even there the Deputy Director has said that the students did not contract the virus on the school campus where Vidyagama was conducted as minimum number of students participate in the programme with necessary precautions,” he said. Mr. Kumar said that it was unfortunate that a good initiative like Vidyagama was being portrayed in poor light. However, there have been reports on concerns about COVID-19 precautions, including wearing masks and social distancing, not being followed during Vidyagama. Basavaraj Gurikar of the All India Teachers’ Federation urged the government to stop Vidyagama as it violated various COVID-19 precautionary measures and rules.
10 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State reports 10,913 new cases, 114 deaths||Continuing to record over 10,000 cases for the third consecutive day, the State on Friday reported 10,913 new cases, taking the total to 6,90,269. With 114 deaths, the toll rose to 9,789. This is apart from the 19 non-COVID deaths. As many as 9,091 persons were discharged on Friday taking the total recoveries to 5,61,610. Active cases continued to remain over a lakh, with 1,18,851. Bengaluru Urban reported 5,009 cases taking the tally to 2,72,371. With 57 of the 114 deaths from Bengaluru, the toll in this district rose to 3,290. As many as 1,09,980 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours, including 49,618 rapid antigen tests. The total number of tests rose to 57,39,530. This is the third consecutive day that the State has conducted over 1 lakh tests.
10 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Chalanachitra academy reaches out for archival material||The Karnataka Chalanachitra Academy (KCA), which is working on an ambitious plan to set up a state-of-the-art Kannada Film Archives and a Kannada Film Museum, has reached out to institutions and the public for archival material, including scripts, songs, posters, and beta copies of films. At a press conference on Thursday, Suneel Puranik, KCA chairman, said the academy had already reached out to directors and producers for material and information for both the archives and the museum. They have also sought help to locate negatives of old films and to identify people who own them. The film archives and the museum are expected to come up at the KCA headquarters at Nandini Layout. The National Film Archives of India (NFAI), Pune, has agreed to support the KCA in establishing a full-fledged archives of its own. Committee set up A seven-member committee, set up in July, has been tasked with studying and submitting a report on setting up the archives and the museum. “The main task of the committee is to formulate modalities for acquiring and preserving film prints, beta copies, publicity stills, songs, still photographs, and other things related to film and film culture of Karnataka and Kannada,” said Mr. Puranik, adding that the academy would restore and digitise films in phases. Materials and books Film-related materials and books in Kannada, Tulu, Kodava, Konkani, Byari, and Banjara languages can be donated to the academy. The KCA would preserve and restore them by making use of the financial assistance extended by the Bangalore Development Authority (BDA) apart from the funding the State government. Those interested in contributing may contact the academy in person or write them at kcabdaarchives@gmail.com.
10 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Ranga Shankara to present play online||Ranga Shankara is rebooting its ‘Staged@RS’ programme from October 10 onwards to present plays exclusively recorded for online streaming. Staged@RS was launched in May with some recorded plays for children that were staged under AHA! - Theatre for Children. The second phase of the programme kicks off with the Kannada play, Sankramana , directed by Surendranath S., featuring Sihikahi Chandru, Kalpana Naganath and B.V. Shrunga. Sankramana is the Kannada version of the Hindi play Sankraman , written by renowned playwright Kamtanath. The play, in three monologues, portrays the generation gap in a middle class family in Karnataka strained by tortured relations. It has already been staged over 50 times. “This is the first time we staged the play exclusively for an online audience with multiple cameras,” says Surendranath, who is also Ranga Shankara’s artistic director. His experience working in television and cinema came in handy. “It was different, nevertheless. As theatre artistes, you are accustomed to certain things. For instance, you pause for a bit, waiting for the audience to react. And now, there is no audience.” Though the government has permitted theatres to reopen with 50% seating capacity from October 15, Arundhati Nag, Ranga Shankara’s founder, is concerned about safety. “We are not going to open this month. Even with half occupancy, I am not sure if it’s safe for people to be inside an enclosed space yet.” Sankramana will be available to stream from October 10 to 18.
10 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Yet to take a call on reopening, says CM||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa has said that the government would take a call on reopening schools after discussing the issue with all party leaders, officials, experts, and other stakeholders. He also appealed to parents and students not to pay heed to any rumours. Meanwhile, Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar has reiterated that the government is “not in a hurry” to reopen schools.
10 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Admission process for NLUs begins||The admission process to get into National Law Universities (NLUs) began on Friday. The Consortium of National Law Universities announced in a press release that 14,992 candidates for undergraduate (UG) and 4,081 candidates for postgraduate (PG) courses have been called for counselling. “Of the candidates called for counselling, only 8,227 for UG courses and 2,166 for PG courses paid the counselling fee and are now eligible for admission in order of merit. Many candidates who did not have the realistic chance to get into any National Law University or the university of their choice did not pay the counselling fee. Those who do not get a seat will get a full refund of their counselling fee,” the release stated. The release also stated that by 5.30 p.m., as many as 2,786 candidates had been admitted to various National Law Universities in the first allotment list released on Friday.
10 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Siddaramaiah asks govt. not to reopen schools||With more than 67,000 people aged under 20 infected with coronavirus and a high number of COVID-19 cases being reported across the State each day, Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah has suggested to the government not to reopen schools till the situation is brought under control. He has suggested to the government to make arrangements to continue online classes and promote students to higher classes this academic year. Responding to a letter from Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar, the former Chief Minister quoted government data and said 20,256 children aged below 10 and 47,061 students aged between 11 and 20 had been infected. Sixty-one children had succumbed to COVID-19, he said. The number of cases were increasing with increased number of tests and this had created a panic situation, he said. On the Minister’s concerns on increasing child marriages and child labour on account of closure of schools, the Congress leader said the district administration must provide work and financial support for weaker sections of society. A total of 24,527 deaths were reported in the State during July–September 2020 as against 16,670 deaths during the same period in 2019. About 7,857 more deaths were reported this year in the three months, he said, and alleged that the government had been covering up mortalities related to COVID-19.
10 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Police seize drugs, arrest trio in Bengaluru||The East Division police unearthed a narcotics ring and arrested three foreign nationals who were allegedly peddling synthetic drugs in K.R. Puram on Thursday. Narcotics worth around Rs. 11 lakh was seized from them. The accused have been identified as Anthony, 44, Ejiofam Frank, 30, and Francis, 32, all from Nigeria. According to the police, none of them had the relevant papers and hence they were booked under the Foreigners Act as well. The police seized 123 grams of cocaine, 36 grams of MDMA, and 15 Ecstasy tablets from them. “Anthony had come to India four years ago to export garments. He set up the business at Tiruppur, Tamil Nadu, for two years, but later ran into losses and relocated to Bengaluru, where he opened an eatery. However, it also made losses and had to be shut down. Later, he shifted to peddling drugs along with two of his associates,” a policesource said.
10 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HC quashes criminal complaint against judge||The Karnataka High Court, in proceedings initiated suo motu, quashed a criminal complaint against a senior civil judge by a magistrate’s court in Ballari based on a private complaint an accused in a criminal case last year. The HC held that the judicial magistrate shouldn’t have entertained the complaint in view of the protection from prosecution provided under the Judges (Protection) Act, 1985 as the allegations against Vijay Kumar S. Jatla, senior civil judge, were related to his acts during the course of discharge of his official or judicial duty. A Division Bench quashed the complaint, filed by one C.M. Manjunath of Hagaribommnahalli in Ballari district against Mr. Jatla.  The Bench said that a judge had the protection under Section 3 (1) of the Act, which stated that no court shall entertain or continue any civil or criminal proceedings against any person who is or was a judge for any act committed/word spoken by him while acting or purporting to act in the discharge of his official or judicial duty. “...all the allegations, made against Mr. Jatla by the complainant are about the acts done by the said judicial officer in the course of, acting or purporting to act in discharge of his official or judicial duty,” the Bench said.  Mr. Manjunath lodged a complaint with the police against a Davangere hospital and its doctors over the death of his seven-year-old son, and he was facing a criminal case filed by a manager of a credit cooperative society in relation to non-repayment of loan. It was alleged in Mr. Manjunath’s complaint that Mr. Jatla , who was serving as a civil judge and judicial magistrate first class (JMFC) at Hagaribommanahalli, told him to withdraw the complaint against the hospital and doctors when he was produced before the JMFC in connection with the case filed by the society. He was remanded in judicial custody the next day as he didn’t withdrawn the complaint against the hospital, it was alleged.  He had filed complaint against Mr. Jatla before the magistrate’s court by wrongly interpreting a written response, given to him by the office of the Chief Justice on his letter seeking sanction for prosecuting Mr. Jatla.  ...all the allegations, made against Mr. Jatla by the complainant are about the acts done by the said judicial officer in the course of, acting or purporting to act in discharge of his official or judicial duty,
10 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Festival shopping on e-com sites||The tech capital, Bengaluru, is leading the e-com wave in the country, even during the pandemic, if numbers put out by an independent survey are anything to go by. Some 64% of the city’s residents, who were surveyed, are planning festive purchases through e-com sites and apps as they feel it is ‘unsafe’ to venture out to shops during these times, said a study conducted by LocalCircles, a Delhi-based community social media platform. As many as 63% of people surveyed in Hyderabad said e-com sites would be their primary channel of shopping during this festive season. The corresponding percentage for Chennai was 50%, Mumbai 42%, Delhi 41%, Pune 36% and Ahmedabad 25%, against the national average of 51%, as per the study. Some 29% of Bengaloreans surveyed also said they will call local retail stores and get things home-delivered while only 16% said they will physically visit malls, markets and local retailers for the festive shopping. The survey covered 50 cities across the country and gathered responses from over 3,00,000 people. Although ‘safety’ was the key reason for the majority to shop online, 10% of respondents said convenience, 5% said better value or price, for another 5% it was the better selection and 5% found online shopping offered ease of return and refund. When asked what purchases they have planned for during the festive season, 13% said smartphones and consumer electronics (mobile, tablet, laptop, printers, router and all other electronics, etc.), 4% said while goods and appliances (AC, heater, vacuum cleaner, TV, fridge, air purifier, etc.), 13% said home renovation (furniture, furnishings, paints, sanitary ware, hardware, etc.), 4% said fashion and festive wear, and 37% said grocery and food supplies. National percentage The national percentage of consumers wanting to use e-commerce as their primary channel for festive purchases has almost gone up from 27% in 2019 to 51% in 2020, found the survey. Although the popularity of e-commerce has increased, the percentage of people who plan to spend during this festive season has gone down from 78% last year to 61% this year, it added.
10 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Unaided schools seek clarity||The Recognised Unaided Schools Association (RUPSA) has urged the government to issue “clear guidelines” on the academic calender, syllabus, and conducting the mid-term examination. They have also requested the State government to immediately release the pending RTE funds as unaided schools were in “deep financial stress”. At a press conference, Lokesh Talikatti, president of the association, said private schools were clueless as to what needs to be done regarding mid-semester exams, syllabus, academic calender, and other things. “It has been months since we started online classes. What next ? There is no clarity in any order issued by the government as there is policy paralysis,” he said. “Even we are against reopening of schools amid surge in the number of COVID-19 cases. We are ready to follow government guidelines, which are missing,” he added.
10 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Deadline to sell unsold beer extended||The Excise Department has extended the deadline to sell beer stocks that are over six months old to December 31. The earlier deadline was September 15.  Order The department recently brought out an order extending the deadline for beer sales from the Karnataka State Breweries Corporation Ltd. depots in view of requests for the same from breweries as well as pending stocks in the breweries corporation’s depots.
10 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Board to issue revised circular||PU Board Director Snehal R. admitted that there was miscommunication and a revised circular would be issued shortly. She clarified that the circular dated October 8 applied to only students who had remained absent for examination in February and students from earlier academic years. “It is not for those who have received certificate of clearing the I PU examination,” she told The Hindu.
10 October 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BBMP seeks nod to maintain high density corridors||The BBMP has written to the Urban Development Department seeking permission to maintain and develop 12 high density corridors in the city. Earlier this year, it had been decided to hand over these corridors, measuring a total of 191 km, to the Karnataka Road Development Corporation Ltd. for development and maintenance. The civic body would have been required to pay maintenance and development charges amounting to Rs. 1,120.48 core over five years. In the letter, civic chief N. Manjunath Prasad has maintained that the BBMP’s Road Infrastructure department was already maintaining 474 km of arterial and sub-arterial roads in the city, which includes these 12 high density corridors.
10 October 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Exclusive library for COVID-19 patients in Sagar, Shivamogga||The COVID-19 hospitals located at Sagar and Shivamogga have got an exclusive library for patients. This initiative by the employees of the Health Department is to motivate those in COVID-19 wards, who are often in distress or anxiety as they have no access to relatives and friends. A library was first set up at the sub-divisional hospital at Sagar and the second library was inaugurated at McGann Hospital in Shivamogga on Friday. Ma.Sa.Nanjundaswamy, the president of District Health Department Employees Union, who works as an X-ray technician at Sagar hospital, took the initiative to set up the library. Initially, he and his colleagues contributed 100 books and now with the help of donors, the number of titles has increased to 500. “As I work in the hospital, I have noticed many patients feeling lonely, dejected and worried about their health. Through the day they were disappointed as they could not meet their loved ones. I thought good books and newspapers could give them a good company so that they could relax,” said Mr. Nanjundaswamy. He chose books that could motivate people. The collection includes Randy Pausch’s Last Lecture, a few biographies of achievers and religious books like Bhagwad Gita, and the Holy Quran, among others. “We have not got funds from the government for this activity. Our staff, taluk health officers, surgeons, medical officers and elected representatives have contributed books,” said Mr. Nanjundaswamy. The second library has been set up at COVID-19 ward at McGann with the support of the director of the medical college and other staff. C.S. Shadakshari, president of Karnataka Government Employees’ Association, inaugurated the library on Friday. “Soon we will collect more books and strengthen the library. Our idea is to collect the books that motivate the patients to face the challenges,” he added.
10 October 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Notification of reservation on ULB posts leaves Janata Dal (S) agitated||The notification of reservation for the posts of presidents and vice presidents in urban local bodies has left the JD(S) in Hassan agitated. Despite winning the highest number of seats in Hassan City Municipal Council and Arsikere CMC, it cannot hold power in either of the bodies. The posts of presidents in both ULBs have been reserved for Scheduled Tribes and the only party that has members to suit the reserved category is the BJP. As a result, the BJP will assume power in Hassan CMC and Arsikere CMC. In the elections held in September 2018 for the 35 wards of Hassan CMC, the JD(S) won 17 sets, the BJP won 13, the Congress two and Independents won three. The JD(S) was confident of holding power with the support of Independents. In Arsikere, of the 31 seats, JD(S) won 22, BJP won five, Congress won one, and Independents won three seats. The JD(S) was sure of holding power there too. However, the reservation notified by the government keeps the party out of power. Former Minister and JD(S) leader H.D. Revanna, at a press conference in Hassan on Friday, said both the national parties were afraid of the JD(S). They had been engaged in all forms of tricks to keep the JD(S) away from power. “The post of Harihar CMC president was initially reserved for the ST. However, it was changed overnight. The courts should take note of this injustice. The BJP is doing what the Congress did in the past,” he alleged. Mr. Revanna said the party would fight the issue legally. During the last ZP elections, when the Congress was in power, the post of Hassan ZP president was reserved for the Scheduled Tribe, to accommodate a Congress member, while the JD(S) had won more seats. Earlier in the day Arsikere MLA K.M. Shivalinge Gowda of the JD(S) also held a press conference to criticise the BJP government on this issue. He termed it murder of democracy. “The State government had made a mistake. Chief Minister Yediyurappa has fallen under the influence of vested interests,” he said. In a democracy, the party should have a majority to come to power. But, the government’s notification had allowed the party with fewer seats to take over to the urban local body, he said and added that he would fight the case in court.
10 October 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Corporation status depends on census figure, says Hassan MLA||Hassan MLA Preetham J. Gowda has said Hassan city municipal council could be updated to a corporation once the population in its limits increases to three lakh. If the population census to be held in 2021 showed the figure, Hassan could become a corporation. Speaking at a press conference, here recently, Mr. Gowda said the State government had brought in 25 villages located on the outskirts of the city under the ambit of the City Municipal Council. With this the population in the city limit would stand at 2.26 lakh, as per the census held in 2011. Reacting to JD(S) leader H.D. Revanna’s comments that the proposal to include villages was submitted in his period, he said the proposal was rejected by the State government. “The earlier proposal was not in the prescribed order. The fresh one was submitted and was approved by the government”, he said. He commented that the JD(S) leader had the habit of claiming credit for all development works of the district. “He could claim credit even for Hoysaleshwara Temple at Halebidu or Bahubali statue at Shravanabelgola.” Further, he said the State government had sanctioned a project worth Rs. 165 crore to improve the underground drainage in the city. This was necessary to avoid filth reaching the Yagachi, which had been declared one of the polluted rivers. “Mr. Revanna, despite having clout in previous governments, could not get the project sanctioned. I have done this”, he said.
10 October 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||A low-key Dasara in Shivamogga||The Shivamogga City Corporation has decided to keep Dasara celebrations a low-key affair this year due to COVID-19 pandemic. There would be no procession on the occasion, which was a regular affair in the previous years. Mayor Suvarna Shankar, in a press conference in Shivamogga on Wednesday, said the corporation had allocated low budget for the event due to the pandemic. Religious programmes would be held at Chandika Durgaparameshwari Temple on October 17. COVID-19 warriors would take part in the programme. Instead of elaborate committees to oversee the event, a reception committee had been constituted under the chairmanship of the Mayor and a decoration committee would function under the leadership of the leader of the opposition. The corporation would provide funds for decoration of all temples in the city. Last year, the corporation had spent Rs. 163 lakh for the event; however, this year only Rs. 38 lakh had been earmarked for the occasion.
10 October 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Theft accused arrested||The Arsikere police have arrested a man, accused of involvement in many theft cases, and recovered valuables worth over Rs. 40 lakh from him. He was wanted in 19 theft cases reported in Hassan, Chikkamagaluru, Tumakuru and Shivamogga districts. R. Srinivasa Gowda, Hassan SP, at a press conference in Hassan on Friday, said he had formed a team of officials after a theft was reported in Arsikere town on September 1. Unknown people had taken away valuables worth over Rs. 1.22 lakh after breaking open the back door of a house in the town while the residents were away. The team arrested Mubarak, 25, from Tumakuru on Wednesday in Tiptur. During the interrogation, he admitted to involvement in six thefts each in Hassan and Chikkamagaluru districts, four in Tumakuru and three in Shivamogga. The police have recovered 760 grams of gold jewellery and 1 kg of silver items from him. The police team included Arsikere Dy.SP Nagesh, CPI K.M.Vasanth, PSIs Arun Kumar and other staff members.
10 October 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Cases in Hassan cross 20,000 mark||The number of confirmed cases of COVID-19 in Hassan district crossed 20,000 on Friday. With 483 new cases reported on the day the total figure rose to 20,363. Among them, 15,904 have recovered and 4,089 are under treatment. Of these 49 are in intensive care units. Including four deaths reported on the day, so far 370 people have died of the infection, stated the bulletin released by the district administration. Among the cases reported on the day, 11 are from Alur, 81 from Arkalgud, 66 from Arsikere, 36 from Belur taluk, 57 from Channarayapatna, 173 from Hassan taluk, 25 from Holenarasipur and 34 people are from Sakleshpur.
10 October 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Inaugurated||The renovated building of State Bank of India’s New Town Road branch in Bhadravathi was inaugurated on Thursday. T. Rama Rao, Regional Manager of the SBI, inaugurated the office in presence of bank’s staff. Mr. Rao, speaking on the occasion, said the branch’s premises was renovated to respond to the needs of the customers. The ambience would help the staff provide the customers with better service.
10 October 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Nomination papers of eight candidates in West Graduates Constituency rejected||After scrutiny of nomination papers filed by a total of 19 candidates in the election to the Karnataka West Graduates Constituency of the Legislative Council, officials rejected the nomination papers of eight candidates on Friday leaving 11 candidates in the fray. The Karnataka West Graduates Constituency comprises the districts of Dharwad, Uttara Kannada, Haveri and Gadag and a total 19 candidates had filed 32 sets of nomination papers before the deadline ended on Thursday afternoon. Scrutiny of nomination papers was taken up at the office of the Deputy Commissioner in Dharwad on Friday by Regional Commissioner and Returning Officer Amlan Aditya Biswas and Assistant Returning Officer and Deputy Commissioner of Dharwad Nitesh Patil in by the presence of Election Observer and Additional Chief Secretary of Department of Planning, Programme Monitoring and Statistics Shalini Rajneesh. During scrutiny, the officials found that the nomination papers filed by Prakash Kamble of Azad Mazdoor Kisan Party, Manjunath Bhadrappa Belavatti of Nationalist Congress Party, Mallikarjun Channappa Gangadhar of Janata Dal (United) and Independent candidates Ashok Mallappa Javali, Krishna Hanumanthappa Baligar, Channappa P. Brahmanapad, Charanraj K.A. and Ravi Shivappa Padasalagi were not as per the prescribed formats and that there were discrepancies and mismatch in details and affidavits filed. All these nomination papers were rejected by the authorities. Additional Deputy Commissioner Shivanand Karale and other election staff assisted them. Valid After scrutiny, the nomination papers of 11 candidates R.M. Kuberappa of the Indian National Congress, Shivashankar Kallur of the Janata Dal (Secular), Siddalingappa V. Sankanur of the BJP, Shivaraj Kenchappa Kamble of the Karnataka Rashtra Samiti, Somashekhar Virupakshappa Umrani of the Shiv Sena, Independent candidates Dasharath Chandrahas Rangareddy, Basanagouda Dyamanagouda Hiregoudra, Basavaraj H. Gurikar, Basavaraj S. Teradal, Shafiuddin S. Nagarakatti and Shivakumar Mahadevappa Talawar were adjudged as valid, Returning Officer Amlan Aditya Biswas has said. October 12 is the last date for withdrawal of nomination papers by the candidates. Open The authorities have communicated that the Election Office would be functioning on Saturday, which happens to be second Saturday of the month. The candidates could withdraw their nomination papers on Saturday too, the communication said.  Meanwhile in a communication here, Mr. Amlan Aditya Biswas has said that the Election Commission of India has appointed [Additional Chief Secretary] Ms. Shalini Rajneesh as the Election Observer for election to the Karnataka West Graduates Constituency. The public are requested to submit any grievance or complaint pertaining to the election by contacting the observer on Ph: 0836-2444556 or 9449847645.
10 October 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||South Western Railway saves Rs. 1.78 cr. on electricity bills last financial year||Installation of solar power generation units across the South Western Railway Zone has resulted in saving Rs. 1.78 crore in electricity bills during the last financial year. Such saving is expected to rise to Rs. 1.88 crore in the current financial year. According to a press release issued by the Chief Public Relations Officer of South Western Railway, the railway zone generated 4.4 million units of electricity using solar power generation stations and it is expected to increase to 4.6 million units this year. In accordance with the Indian Railway’s plan to produce about 1,000 MW of solar power and 200 MW of wind power progressively by 2021-22, the South Western Railway had taken major steps towards harnessing solar power, the release said. The railway zone has taken up installation of solar panels at stations, service buildings, level crossing gates and other steps across the zone with an aim to contributing towards meeting power needs of all railway stations and also save expenditure, the release said. According to the release, South Western Railway has provided 4.37 MW solar power plants on developer (Renewable Energy Supply Co) mode and also 165 kWp solar plant through the zone. Rooftop solar power plants have been set up in 128 stations in the zone, including major stations in Hubballi, Bengaluru, Mysuru, Yesvantpur, Hosapete, Gadag and Ballari. This apart seven service buildings, including Rail Soudha, West and Central Wing of Divisional Railway Manager’s Office and Railway Hospital in Hubballi, Divisional Railway Manager’s Office, Parcel Office and Railway Hospital in Bengaluru and the Divisional Railway Manager’s Office in Mysuru. The workshops and sheds have also been provided with solar rooftop plants. In addition, 221 level crossings are provided solar photo voltaic cell lights, the release said. As per the release, the South Western Railway is expanding its solar initiatives and plans to opt for land-based solar plants on track-side land and also vacant railway land. Tenders Rail Energy Management Co. Ltd., a public sector unit of the Ministry of Railways, has already floated a tender for land-based solar plants of 20 MWp in vacant land and 8.3 MWp on land by the side of tracks in South Western Railway limits, the release said. According to the authorities, the land has already been identified for further installation of 98 MW power plants.
10 October 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Implement ‘One Nation One Tax’ policy, say merchants||The office-bearers of the Karnatak Chamber of Commerce and Industry (KCCI) and Merchants Association, Hubballi, have urged the Director of Agricultural Marketing to clarify and find solutions to the technical problems being faced by traders while operating from APMC yards after the recent ordinance. Led by president of KCCI Mahendra Ladhad, secretary Ashok Gadad, the former KCCI president Shankranna Muanvalli, president of Merchants Association Basavarj Yaklaspur, they submitted a memorandum to the Director of Agricultural Marketing Karigouda during an interaction in Hubballi on Friday. The Department of Agricultural Marketing organised the interaction with APMC merchants on KCCI premises on Friday regarding the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance, 2020, and the subsequent developments. During the interaction, the APMC merchants raised several queries and also sought further clarification from the government on some technical issues. Welcoming the State government’s decision to reduce cess to 0.35 % from 1.5 %, the merchants demanded the implementation of “One Nation One Tax” policy of the Union government as it is, in the State also. They submitted a detailed memorandum comprising their demands, including the problems caused due to the “35A and 35B permit system” to merchants and customers inside and outside the APMC yards. The merchants also brought the issue of non-availabilities of basic amenities at the APMC yard at Amargol in Hubballi, considered the biggest APMC yard in Asia, and sought the cancellation of property tax imposed prior to 2008-09 on shops operating from the APMC yard. In the memorandum, they have also urged the government to clarify on various technical issues pertaining to the cess, permits and related issues.
10 October 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Education Department staff seek revocation of transfer of IAS officer||Education Department employees and teachers in six districts of Kalyana Karnataka region have written a letter to Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar expressing discontent over the transfer of Kalaburagi Division Additional Commissioner of Public Instructions Nalin Atul. In the letter, the teachers urged the State government to revoke the untimely transfer of Mr. Atul. Terming it as premature transfer, the teachers said that the officer took charge in October 2019, and as per the rules framed by the Civil Services Board, an IAS officer will serve a minimum of two years in each posting. “Mr. Atul has chalked out various programmes to improve the quality of education and SSLC results in the backward region. If the government keeps shifting such determined officers, there will be no continuity in the manner programmes are being implemented,” they added. Meanwhile, Block Education Officers, staff and teachers of Public Instructions Kalaburagi Division took to social media to express their displeasure over the sudden transfer of the officer. Mr. Atul has been transferred before the completion of his tenure in office and posted until further orders as Deputy Secretary of Kalyana Karnataka Regional Development Board. Despite COVID-19 hurdles, Mr. Atul roped in senior officials in the department, including the Director, Joint Director, Deputy Directors, Career Technical Education and District Institutes of Education and Training staff in the region, and chalked out various programmes to help keep academic activities on track. The Education Department in coordination with the District Institutes of Education and Training and Career Technical Education has organised various programmes on pedagogy. During COVID-19-induced lockdown, online training programmes were conducted by 922 resource experts for 9,067 Nali-Kali teachers. And, 243 teachers at Nali-Kali Urdu centres in 34 blocks in the region were trained online ans 1,044 headmistress of government high schools, 27,160 headmasters of higher primary school were also given training to upgrade their teaching skills. As many as 6,860 primary school teachers, 62,000 higher primary school teachers, including 9,934 subject teachers (English, Mathematics and Social Science) and 9,152 (Kannada, Science and Hindi) teachers have benefited from the training programmes. A non-profit organisation, Association of People with Disability, had conducted training programmes for teachers working in institutions meant for physically challenged students. Meanwhile, Kalyana Karnataka Regional Development Board (KKRDB) sanctioned Rs. 10.62 crore for educational programmes in the region. And, Mr. Atul played a vital role in the allocation of adequate funds for improving the quality of education in government institutions in the region. The KKRDB sanctioned the amount to, among others, convert derelict classrooms into sophisticated smart classes, provide green boards and computer laboratories, conduct intensive care learning programmes in 521 government schools, and to hold free coaching classes for those who have completed D.Ed and B.Ed to take Teacher Eligibility Test (TET) and to spread awareness about the importance of education in rural areas to arrest drop-out rate in the six districts of Kalyana Karnataka region.  ‘Atul has chalked out various programmes to improve the quality of education and SSLC results in the backward region and if the government keeps shifting such determined officers, there will be no continuity in the manner programmes are being implemented’
10 October 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Sasihithlu Beach kept under lock by gram panchayat||The verdant Sasihithlu beach that hosted the first Indian Open Surfing Championship in 2017 is kept under locks by the Haleyangadi Gram Panchayat, with many people saying that the gram panchayat had been acting without any authority. While the panchayat has erected a gate at the entry of the beach, it has also been, through a contractor, collecting entry fee, Rs. 30 to Rs. 50, depending upon vehicles, which even the local people have objected to. Besides being closed during nights, the gate remains closed in the mornings too, said a stakeholder in the tourism sector. It all started when the district administration upgraded a kutchcha road to a bitumen road from Sasihithlu village to the estuary of the Nandini and the Shambhavi, about one kilometre, before the Surfing Challenge. The Haleyangadi Gram Panchayat not only erected the gate but also built some small structures leasing them out. Subsequently, sea erosion swallowed most part of the beach, mainly due to non-removal of coffer bund built upstream the Nandini to facilitate construction of a bridge. Shobendra Sasihithlu, a fishermen leader, told The Hindu that local residents registered their opposition during a recent held Grama Sabha to entry fee collection without the gram panchayat providing any facility. Residents want the beach to remain open throughout the day, he said. However, the Panchayat Development Officer, who did not want to be named, told The Hindu , “What can the panchayat do if the contractor does not open the gates.” Chief Executive Officer of Panambur Beach Development Project Yatish Baikampady said that the land around Sasihithlu beach does not belong to the gram panchayat but to the Revenue Department. The gram panchayat has no authority to restrict people’s entry into the beach. Dakshina Kannada Zilla Panchayat Chief Executive Officer R. Selvamani, however, defended the gram panchayat action saying that the local government had the authority to ensure safety of people under the Panchayat Raj Act. He, however, did not reveal the provision of law. The gram panchayat opens the gates at 9 a.m., he said and added that he would direct it to keep the gates opened from dawn to dusk. The gram panchayat had to take the step when the district administration and the police and others said that the beach could not be patrolled all the time and the local people too did not want visitors there. Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra said that no beach could be kept out of bounds for general public and he would get the Sasihithlu issue examined. The administration is committed to developing the beach into a tourism destination offering recreation facilities to the public and providing livelihood to the local people.
10 October 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Living in harmony with nature vital in preventing pandemics’||Chief Scientist and Deputy Director General of World Health Organisation (WHO) Sowmya Swaminathan on Friday said that living in harmony with the environment and animal kingdom was very critical to preventing global pandemics. This week, the world witnesses 32 million known COVID-19 cases and over a million deaths, she said. She was delivering the convocation address at the 10th Annual Virtual Convocation of Nitte (Deemed to be University) here through a video message. Nitte, on the occasion, conferred a honorary doctorate degree D.Sc on K. Kasturirangan, scientist and Chancellor, Central University of Rajasthan. Speaking on the pandemic outbreak, Dr. Swaminathan said, “But the fact is that, over the years, viruses have made the jump from the animal kingdom to human beings. We have seen it with HIV, SARS 1, Zika, Nipah and Ebola. There is also a long list of lesser known viruses. Most of these viruses have jumped from animals to human beings. The way in which we are living in harmony with the environment and with the animal kingdom is very critical.” She said that human beings come into close contact with animals through deforestation by urbanisation. It also includes illegal wildlife trade, where animals come in contact with domesticated species. “It is believed that SARS-CoV-2 virus originated from bats but there was an intermediate host and that investigation is in progress,” she said. Dr. Swaminathan said that socio-economic disparities impact health outcomes that became clear during the pandemic. Minorities and marginalised people in countries around the world were the most vulnerable. The mortality rate among the Black and the Hispanic populations in the U.S. was two times that of the White American. In the U.K., British Asian minorities, African and Asian ethnic minorities had a much higher incidence of infection. Scientists had said that the outbreak would happen one day as WHO’s list had a disease called Pathogen X, meaning an unknown disease related to respiratory Pathogen that could occur any time. It was a question of when and not if that there would be a pandemic caused by this type of virus, she added. Pro-Chancellor M. Shantharam Shetty, Pro Vice-Chancellor M.S. Moodithaya and others were present.
10 October 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Spandana Award goes to Father Muller Charitable Institutions||The Karnataka Chapter of the Indian Psychiatric Society presented Spandana Award for 2019-20 to Father Muller Charitable Institutions, Mangaluru, at an event here on Friday. The award was in recognition of its service in the field of de-addiction and related counselling. Professor of Psychiatry at K.S. Hegde Medical Academy Sateesh Rao, who was the chief guest, handed over a cash prize of Rs. 10,000 and a certificate to the director of the institutions Richard Aloysius Coelho. The award had been announced in the 29th annual e-conference of the society a week ago. Speaking on the occasion on Friday, the director of the institutions thanked the faculty, staff and students of the Department of Psychiatry in helping people in their times of distress and bringing them to the light of life through counselling and de-addiction programmes. The Department of Psychiatry in Father Muller Charitable Institutions, which was established in 1966, now has 140 beds with 60 beds dedicated to de-addiction facility, a release said. The De-Addiction Centre of Father Muller Medical College Hospital was set up in 1992. The centre functions round the clock with an average of 700 patients per year availing its services. The centre operates under the name of Vailankanni ward at Kankanady in a building with modern medical facilities. The facility has male and female inpatient unit provisions to cater to individual treatment needs. The centre offers a one-month residential treatment programme. The centre also provides de-addiction training for graduate and postgraduate students in the various disciplines such as Psychiatry, Psychiatric Nursing, Clinical Psychology, and Psychiatric Social Work from various institutions in and around Mangaluru. The centre also does community outreach programs, the release said.
10 October 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Gearing up for surfing championship||Kanara Chamber of Commerce and Industry (KCCI), which actively co-hosted the India Open Surfing Championship 2017 at Sasihithlu Beach, is working to host it again in 2021. Championships editions in 2018, 2019 and 2020 could not be held due to elections to the Assembly, Lok Sabha and COVID-19 lockdown, respectively. Chamber member and CEO of Panambur Beach Development Project Yatish Baikampady told The Hindu  that the KCCI was actively working with the district administration, the Tourism Department and other stakeholders in this connection. Realising the tourism potential of the event as well as Sasihithlu beach, the government had spent Rs. 3 crore towards publicity and Rs. 60 lakh towards infrastructure in 2017, he recalled. Chamber president Issac Vas said that the championship is planned for May next on a relatively small scale. The venue is yet to be decided, he added. Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra said that the administration would strive to hold the championship next year finding suitable dates.
10 October 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Exploit social media for publicity too, Information Dept. officials told||Commissioner of Information and Publicity Department P.S. Harsha on Friday presented Ayushman Bharat-Arogya Karnataka health cards to journalists at the department office in Udupi. Dr. Harsha visited the Udupi office of the assistant director of the department and inspected its working. A release said that the Commissioner impressed upon the officials to effectively connect people and the government through their work. For this, officials have to effectively coordinate between various departments. Earlier, the department’s role was mainly to create awareness about government programmes and schemes, he said. At a time when people were increasingly relying on social media for gathering and disseminating information, the department should also rise to the occasion and indulge in publicity through social media, Dr. Harsha said. He told the officials to provide comprehensive and proper information to people. District Information Officer B. Manjunath and others were present.
10 October 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Sahyadri College projects to get grant of Rs. 80 lakh||The Vision Group on Science and Technology (VGST), under the State government, has selected two projects of the Department of Computer Science and Engineering at Sahyadri College of Engineering and Management, Mangaluru, to sanction financial assistance of Rs. 80 lakh for 2019-20 to establish two centres of excellence. The grant is to set up the Centre of Excellence in Digital Forensics Intelligence and Cybersecurity and the Centre of Excellence in Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning, according to a release from the college. Ananth Prabhu G. is the principal investigator and Harisha isthe co-principal investigator at the Centre of Excellence in Digital Forensics Intelligence and Cybersecurity. Its main objective is to create a benchmark framework for network and system forensics for the benefit of modern society, capacity building of law enforcement agencies, legal practitioners, including judges, faculty and students of higher learning, and to offer courses on cybersecurity with interactive portal. The release said that Pushpalatha K. is the principal investigator and Duddela Sai Prashanth the co-principal investigator at the Centre of Excellence in Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning. Its objective is to foster research, develop solutions to address societal problems, and to become an AI competency centre to provide a platform for collaboration between industry and academia. It would also help impart AI-based high-quality training for students and faculty members of institutions of higher education and engage them in design thinking. VGST promotes science and technology education and research in the State, the release said.
10 October 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Hospital helps 50 positive women give birth safely||The Dr. TMA Pai Hospital, Udupi, has successfully conducted deliveries in 50 cases where pregnant women had COVID-19 between May 27 and October 3. The 50th delivery was conducted on October 3. In a press release, Professor of the Obstretrics and Gynaecology of the hospital Shashikala K. Bhat said that all the 50 babies are healthy and there were no complications. The babies were looked after by staff from the Paediatrics Department. The hospital took steps to ensure that mother and baby were free from COVID-19 infection. Medical Superintendent of the hospital Shashikiran Umakanth said that with COVID-19, additional efforts had to be taken to ensure the safety of mother and the child. Doctors and staff have strictly followed precautions and patient care protocols while conducting delivery. All patients are being evaluated thoroughly. With active support of the Udupi district administration, the hospital was serving all COVID-19 patients. The hospital has 150 dedicated COVID-19 beds.
10 October 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Gold worth Rs. 25.45 lakh seized||Customs sleuths have arrested Sumesh, a resident of Kasaragod, Kerala, at the international airport here on the charge of illegally trafficking in gold worth Rs. 25.45 lakh. The sleuths examined the goods on Wednesday. They found gold concealed inside heating element of an electric rice cooker brought by Sumesh. On Thursday, Sumesh was arrested and produced before the jurisdictional court, the officials said.
10 October 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Awareness event for parents of special children||Nitte Special Child Care Centre under the Department of Paediatric and Preventive Dentistry, A.B. Shetty Memorial Institute of Dental Sciences, Deralakatte, organised an awareness programme on COVID-19 for parents/care takers of special children and distributed masks to differently abled children in Thokkottu here recently. The programme was conducted at the Inclusive Education Centre as part of the outreach initiative of the centre, Amitha M. Hegde, Head, Department of Paedodontics and Preventive Dentistry of the college, said in a release. It distributed 60 masks and two airbeds. Awareness was created on social distancing, wearing masks properly, using hand sanitisers and maintaining hygiene during the time of the pandemic. The participants were trained by forming small groups of four-five persons, the release said.
10 October 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Most districts exceed RT-PCR test targets, but fail in RATs||Last month, in a span of five days, Mysuru had a positivity rate of 22%. Out of 100 persons tested for COVID-19, an average of 22 returned positive between September 17 and 23. As per the data available on testing from 15 districts, including Mysuru, none of the districts achieved the target set for carrying out Rapid Antigen Tests (RAT). Ramanagaram did the highest — 79% of the RAT target — while the lowest was Chitradurga (8%). Mysuru achieved 32% of the RAT target — 1,424 of 4,400. The September statistics on testing in Mysuru worried the district administration even as the cases surged alarmingly, resulting in Minister for Medical Education K. Sudhakar and Minister for Health B. Sriramulu rushing to Mysuru to take review of the situation. After Bengaluru, Mysuru is the second hotspot identified by the Centre over the alarming surge in cases. Besides the number of cases, the death count is also high in Mysuru. However, when it came to RT-PCR and other methods of testing during the same period, most districts, including Mysuru, exceeded their targets. Surprisingly, Chitradurga, whose RAT target was just 8%, achieved 295% of the target in PCR in the same period. As against the target of 300, it conducted 886 tests. Haveri achieved 180% the target with 540 tests. Overall, 800 PCR tests was the target set to most districts, while Dakshina Kannada was given a target of 1,000 for the period. Mysuru conducted 922 PCR tests, against the target of 800, while Dakshina Kannada conducted 1,174 tests (117%). The lowest numbers on the PCR front came from Bengaluru Rural (62%). Hassan and Chikkamagaluru also exceeded their PCR targets, carrying out 824 and 568 tests, respectively, achieving 189% and 118% their targets. Data from the 15 districts — Mysuru, Bengaluru Rural, Chikkamagaluru, Hassan, Haveri, Dakshina Kannada, Belagavi, Mandya, Chitradurga, Ramanagaram, Davangere, Ballari, Tumakuru, and Shivamogga — shows an average of less than 20% positivity rate. In this period, the positivity rate was highest in Bengaluru Rural (24%), followed by Mysuru (22%). In other districts, it was less than 20%. If the average tests — both RT-PCR and RAT — are considered, none of the districts achieved more than 75% of their target. Ramanagaram hit 75% while all the others fell below that mark.
10 October 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||War room looking for volunteers||The COVID-19 War Room in operation in Mysuru to contain the infection in a ‘combat mode’ is in immediate need of volunteers to assist the pandemic situation. The war room was established at the Town Hall to assist those testing positive. The number of persons testing positive has gone up with the ramping up of testing. The Mysuru City Corporation and the Department of Health and Family Welfare have jointly operated the war room for the past four months. After an upsurge in cases and also deaths by COVID-19, the district administration, the MCC and the Health Department have evolved an action plan to contain the pandemic. As a part of it, 22 testing centers had been set up across the city. MCC Commissioner Gurudatta Hegde said those testing positive at the centers would be given assistance, including shifting cases that require hospitalization. The staff at the war room will make arrangements so that they do not face any inconvenience and get proper guidance. As the war room is in need of more staff to coordinate and assist in triaging of infected persons and COVID-19 management, the MCC has planned to rope in volunteers. Those wishing to work as volunteers can call the MCC control room on 0821-2418800, 0821-2440890, 0821-2418816, 9449841196, or the MCC Environment Officer on 8105739384.  Those interested can call the MCC control room on 0821-2418800, 0821-2440890, 0821-2418816, 9449841196, or the MCC Environment Officer on 8105739384.
10 October 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Civil contractors stop MCC work over dues amounting to Rs. 120 cr.||The Mysuru City Corporation (MCC) Civil Contractors’ Association has resolved to stop the civic body’s works in protest against the failure of the authorities to clear their long-pending dues. The cash-strapped MCC had accumulated dues for over three years, amounting to Rs. 120 crore. The association’s representatives said they had decided to suspend all the civil works of the MCC after their repeated meetings and appeals to the authorities to clear the dues had not yielded any result. Association president Chandrashekaraiah said that dues in several cases were pending since 2017. Most of the contractors had taken loans from banks and private financiers to carry out the works while many others had pending dues to clear for the construction material they had taken to complete the works. The contractors had come under immense pressure to clear their dues and it has become extremely difficult for them to lead their lives, lamented Mr. Chandrashekaraiah in an appeal submitted to Mayor Tasneem. Though they had met the MCC Commissioner on several occasions, the latter only offered assurances, but not clear the dues. “Hence, we have suspended all works of the MCC from October 3,” he added before urging the Mayor to take steps to expeditiously clear their pending dues and pave the way for resumption of civil works of the MCC. General works amounting to a total of Rs. 86.42 crore are pending from May 2017 including Rs. 20.54 crore from 2017-19, Rs. 45.51 crore from 2018-19 and Rs. 19.36 crore from 2019-20. Similarly, Rs. 31.68 crore is pending towards underground drainage (UGD) works since October 2016 including Rs. 19.5 crore due from the works executed in 2018-19 alone.
10 October 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Wall collapse claims a life in Mysuru||One person died in the city on Friday when a section of awall attached to the KSRTC bus depot collapsed following the heavy rains in the region for three days. The incident took place at Kuvempunagar. The deceased has been identified as Nanjundaswamy, a tailor. A few vehicles parked nearby were also damaged as a large span of the wall, spread over 50 to 60 metres, caved in following heavy rains late in the afternoon. The police shifted the body of the victim to a hospital for autopsy.
10 October 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||COVID-19 death rate drops in Chamarajanagar||The COVID-19 fatality rate in Chamarajanagar that saw a big jump in the number of active cases recently, has dropped to 1% from 1.8%. The number of deaths was high among those between 40 and 60 years. The mortality rate that stood at 1.8% last month came down to 1.27% in the last 15 days and it dropped further to 1.02% until last week. In the last five days, the fatality rate fell to 1%. Deputy Commissioner M.R. Ravi said the death audit was studied and strategies were worked out with the help of doctors to contain the fatalities. The reasons for spurt in deaths were analysed and steps taken accordingly, showing the results, after a rise in cases and deaths noticed over the last two months. Mr. Ravi said the testing target had been exceeded with 1,250 tests being done almost every day as against the target given by the State at 950 tests a day. The ramping up of testing led to rise in cases and the contacts of the infected persons are being tracked effectively to contain the spread. An 80-bed COVID-19 Care Centre has also started functioning in Chamarajnagar since Monday, the DC said, adding that persons between 40 and 60 years should not neglect symptoms and take appropriate precautions considering the fatality rate among this particular age group.
10 October 2020||October 10 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||BMTC set for trial run of e-bus||After a gap of over six years, the Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) is conducting another round of trials of electric buses. This time, a Hyderabad-based company named ‘Olectra’ has provided an e-bus for the trial run. The Corporation is waiting for clearance from the Transport Department before starting the trial. “We may operate the bus for one month,” said an official. As part of the trial, the Corporation plans to run buses to Electronics City, Kadugodi, Kempegowda International Airport, among other places. In the coming days, the BMTC will also be receiving e-buses from Ashok Leyland and JBM. In 2014, the BMTC ran trials with an e-bus manufactured by a China-based company. The bus was operated for four months on Bengaluru’s roads to assess various parameters, including the passenger experience. The Corporation wanted to procure the bus, but the high cost quoted by the company – about Rs. 2.5 crore – proved to be a deterrent. For the last six years, the BMTC has been attempting to include electric buses in its fleet, but has not been successful, missing deadlines one after another. An official said, “There has been a lot of progress in the technology over the years. We have to make sure that the e-buses meet our specifications, such as energy consumption, carrying capacity and how it performs on busy roads.” The AC electric bus provided by the Hyderabad-based company for the trial run is 12 metres long, has seating for 37 passengers and can run up to 180 km on a single charge. “During the trial, passengers will not be allowed to board the bus. We will use sandbags to assess how the bus runs with different load factors. We will also use heavy traffic roads, routes having flyovers and grade separators,” the official said. The BMTC hopes to lease and operate 300 e-buses under the Centre’s FAME 2 scheme. It had recently cancelled the tender process as it was not financially viable, and sought an extension in the deadline from the Centre to float tenders. Sources said the government has given the extension and fresh tenders will be floated in the coming days. According to BMTC official, the tender evaluation is under process to lease another 90 e-buses under the Smart City project. These nine-metre buses will be operated as metro feeder services.
10 October 2020||October 10 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||BBMP prepares report card for waste segregation||H.S.R. Layout, H.B.R. Layout, Hongasandra, Kadu Malleswara and Nagapura are the top five wards that have been segregating waste at source while K.R. Market, Sampangiramanagar, Sunkenahalli, Bharatinagar and Nagawara fared the worst. In a first, the Solid Waste Management Cell of the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has ranked wards, divisions and zones on their effectiveness in segregating waste. While the data released is for the month of August, BBMP’s Special Commissioner (SWM) D. Randeep said the civic body will be undertaking this exercise every month. It will be an exercise of self-reflection for citizens who can see how they fare when compared to other areas, he said. The information is available on the BBMP’s SWM portal and will be updated regularly. Mr. Randeep said that no ward had reached 70% segregation of waste at source. This, he said, is one of the main reasons for more waste being sent to the landfill than the processing plants. For the assessment, the BBMP took into account the quantum of segregated wet waste collected and transported to processing plants, frequency of secondary transportation vehicles transporting wet waste to the plants, quantum of mixed waste going to the landfill and frequency of secondary transportation to the landfills. Each parameter has been given specific weightage. Another set of rankings have been arrived at by accounting for fines levied by the junior health inspectors in the various wards for SWM violations. According to data made available on how zones fared, Bommanahalli zone secured the first place, followed by Dasarahalli, Yelahanka, Rajarajeshwarinagar, West, South, East and Mahadevapura zones. With regard to division-wise ranking, Bommanahalli secured the first place, followed by Mahalakshmi Layout, Bengaluru South, Kengeri and Byatarayanapura. The last five ranks were secured by Jayanagar, Mahadevapura, Chamarajpete, Shivajinagar and Chikpete divisions. ‘Rankings will change’ He added that the performance ranking of many wards will change in September, as new garbage tenders are being implemented. “In wards where the new garbage tenders are in place, there is already mandatory collection and transportation of segregated waste,” he added.  No ward had reached 70% segregation of waste at source. This is one of the main reasons for more waste being sent to the landfill than the processing plants D. Randeep, Special Commissioner (SWM), BBMP
10 October 2020||October 10 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Mantri Developers gets SWAMIH fund to complete ‘Mantri Serenity’||Bengaluru-based Mantri Developers, on Friday, announced its plan to revive its residential project ‘Mantri Serenity’ in the city, having been chosen as the maiden beneficiary of the Rs. 25,000-crore SWAMIH Investment Fund, which is a special window formed by the Union government to ensure completion of stalled brownfield projects in the affordable housing/mid-income category. However, the company did not disclose the size of the funding it received. The fund pertains to the construction and completion of a project called Mantri Serenity catering to 3,000 homebuyers, on Kanakapura Main Road. It was started in 2012 but had stalled. Homebuyers had recently registered a criminal complaint against the promoters and were also pursuing litigation at the Real Estate Regulatory Authority – Karnataka. The funding comes less than a month after Bengaluru South MP Tejaswi Surya intervened on behalf of homebuyers and wrote to the Ministry of Home Affairs urging steps to suspend passports of the promoters of Mantri Developers. The Ministry of Home Affairs had referred the MP's letter to the Passport Seva Programme of the Ministry of External Affairs for “urgent appropriate action”. On Friday, Mr. Surya said that in the interest of 3,000 families, he had requested Finance Minister Nirmal Sitharaman to sanction SWAMIH funds for completion of the project. ‘Last-mile funding’ Irfan A. Kazi, Chief Investment Officer, SWAMHI Fund, SBICAP Ventures, said, “Our mandate is to provide the last mile of funding required to complete affordable housing projects to ensure delivery of homes to buyers. We do not disclose the size of individual funding.” With this, Mantri Developers hopes to turn the tide in the real estate market, which has been affected by a financial slowdown. Sushil Mantri, Chairman & Managing Director, Mantri Developers, said, “With this financial closure of last-mile funding, we will be able to speed up the remaining construction and reach an early completion of the project so that we can deliver homes to our customers in the next 12-24 months, in phases.”
10 October 2020||October 10 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||PU Dept. circular puts colleges in a quandary||“Accordingly, we issued marks card to all students, including those who secured passing marks, and admitted to II PU course,” said Umesh Karkera, principal of Narayana Guru PU College and president of Dakshina Kannada PU Principals Association. “How can we now go back and hold examination for the failed students. It serves no purpose when the circular says minimum passing marks will be given,” he said. Questioning the new circular, Madhav Poojary, vice-president of Uttara Kannada district PU Principals Association, said it had been issued at a time when students were studying the II PU course. Indresh, secretary of Chikkamagaluru District PU Principals Association, said the new circular had created anxiety among parents of PU students who were “slow” learners.
10 October 2020||October 10 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||In new uniform, new gear||
10 October 2020||October 10 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Hues of Dasara||
10 October 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||At 793, Alappuzha sees a surge||In a major spike in COVID-19 cases, 793 people tested positive for the disease in the district on Friday. According to the Health Department, 778 people out of the total cases contracted the virus through local transmission. Rest of the fresh cases include 12 people who came from other States, one from abroad and two health staff. The district reported two COVID-19 related deaths, taking the official tally to 56. The deceased were identified as a 68-year-old man and a 63-year-old man. They died on October 2 and October 4 respectively. Of the 793 new cases, 125 were logged from Alappuzha municipality and 70 from Punnapra North grama panchayat. Mannancherry (52), Punnapra South (49), Mararikulam South (41), Ezhupunna (40), Kayamkulam (27), Krishnapuram (24), Aryad (24), Panavally (24), Kadakkarapally (20), Arattuppuzha (16), Mavelikara (15), Haripad (14), Ambalappuzha South (14), Thrikkunnappuzha (14), Ambalappuzha North (12), Purakkad (12), Chennam Pallippuram (13), Kuthiathode (10), Muhamma (10), Chunakara (10), Cherthala and Chettikulangara (10) recorded double-digit case count. Meanwhile, 348 people who were undergoing treatment for the disease recovered. The active COVID-19 caseload in the district stands at 6,047. Cases registered The police registered 48 cases and arrested 38 people for violating the restrictions imposed to check the spread of COVID-19 in the district. Action was taken against 295 people for not wearing face masks, 1,492 for not maintaining physical distance and two persons for violating containment zone norms. Another seven cases were registered for violating prohibitory orders imposed under Section 144 of the Cr.PC. Action was taken against 43 people in connection with the seven cases. Containment zones Ward 1, 6 and 11 in Kavalam, ward 6 in Ezhupunna, ward 1 in Thrikkunnappuzha, Ward 14 in Punnapra North and ward 4 and parts of ward 14 in Chennam Pallippuram were declared as containment zones.
10 October 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Brothers sentenced to life term for murder of youth||The Alappuzha District Additional Sessions Court-III on Friday sentenced two persons to life imprisonment for murdering a 19-year-old man at Pallippad, near Haripad. Those sentenced were Shyam Das, 31 and his brother Sharon Das, 29, of Haripad. Judge P.N. Seetha ordered the convicts to pay a compensation of Rs. 2.5 lakh each. Hareesh and Sunil Kumar, who helped the duo escape from the crime scene were sentenced to three years in prison. In 2011 The prosecution case was that Sarath Chandran of Pallippad, near Haripad, was killed by the brothers when he objected to their consuming liquor at a cricket ground in Pallippad in March, 2011. They hit the victim on his head with a cricket stump. The court found Shyam and Sharon guilty under sections 302 (murder), 326 (voluntarily causing grievous hurt by dangerous weapons or means) and 324 (voluntarily causing hurt by dangerous weapons or means) of the Indian Penal Code (IPC). The third and fourth accused were found guilty under section 212 (harbouring offender) of the IPC. The court ordered to pay Rs. 2 lakh to the parents of the victim out of the fine amount. Additional Public Prosecutor P. P. Geetha and advocate P.P. Baiju and advocate Arya Sadasivan appeared for the prosecution side.
10 October 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||153 new cases in Idukki||Munnar continued to report more COVID-19 cases with nine more persons testing positive on Friday. As many as 153 persons tested positive for the infection in the district. Ninety-three contracted the infection through local contact. The source of infection in 25 cases could not be identified.
10 October 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Anakkampoyil-Meppadi tunnel proposal a gimmick, say greens||Environmental organisations in the district have alleged that the proposed Anakkampoyil-Meppadi tunnel road is a stunt by the ruling party foreseeing the forthcoming elections. The Chief Minister launched the proposed project recently before conducting feasibility studies or ecological and social impact assessment, N. Badusha, president, Wayanad Prakruthi Samrakshana samiti, said. Moreover, the government is yet to submit the project report before the Ministry of Forest and Environment for prior approval. Hence, such a move could be seen only as a gimmick, he alleged. The Chief Minister had claimed that work on the multi-crore project, which is estimated to cost Rs. 858 crore, would be completed in three years. However, the construction of the 9.02-km-long Atal Tunnel at Rohtang in Himachal Pradesh had been completed in a span of 10 years by the Border Roads Organisation, while work on the 900-metre Kuthiran tunnel is yet to be completed even after six-and-a-half years, Mr. Badusha said. The camel hump mountain complex, including the Chembra and Vellarimala peaks, is a highly ecologically fragile area on the Western Ghats, and the proposed tunnel will passed under the peaks. The eastern slopes of the region are a landslip-prone, and landslip sites such as Puthulama and Mudakkai near Meppadi are on the hill slopes. The region has also been getting more rainfall compared to other parts of Wayanad. A study by the Geological Survey of India proposed that anthropological intervention be restricted in the area. The Kasturirangan and Madhav Gadgil commissions also suggested the need to conserve the region, Mr. Badusha said.
10 October 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Magisterial probe gives clean chit to the police||A magisterial inquiry into the Maoist encounter at a private resort at Lakkidi in Wayanad district on March 6 last year has given a clean chit to the police. A report submitted to the District and Sessions Court here by former District Collector A.R. Ajayakumar states that the death of C.P. Jaleel, 25, occurred in a gun fire between Maoists and the police at a private resort at Lakkidi. The police had claimed that Thunderbolt commandos fired at him while he was extorting money from the resort staff. They claimed that the firing was in self-defence. ‘‘The circumstance of the incident, as inferred from the documents examined and the evidences adduced from the depositions of witness, reveals that the death occurred in gunfire by the Thunderbolt commandos,’’ Mr. Ajayakumar says in his 250-page report. Though the report was submitted on November 5, 2019, C.P. Rasheed, Jaleel’s brother, got the copy of it on Tuesday. The report says the commandos were exercising their right to private defence while shooting at the victim and his companion. So no person can be said to be responsible for the death. There is nothing available on record or on evidence to show any conspiracy or wilful omission, the report says. Legal action However, Mr. Rasheed told The Hindu that the report was an arbitrary one to give a clean chit to the police and Thunderbolt commandos. The report was prepared after considering the words of the police to protect the officials. Mr. Rasheed said he would adopt legal steps seeking a probe by a government agency into what he termed a fake encounter in the wake of the contradictory reports.
10 October 2020||KASARAGOD,KERALA||Call to empower farmer producer organisations||Farmer producer organisations should be strengthened in the coconut sector to enhance the availability of quality seedlings through decentralised coconut nurseries, according to representatives of coconut producer federations. Chandran Thiruvalath, president, Kunnamangalam Coconut Producer Federation; Rajan Master, president, Changaroth Coconut Producer Federation, and Thomas Mathunni, president, Bhranikkavu Coconut Producer Federation, raised the demand after receiving awards for the best performing decentralised coconut nurseries managed by farmer producer organisations. The Central Plantation Crops Research Institute (CPCRI) organised the function through videoconferencing. CPCRI Director Anitha Karun presented the awards comprising a cash prize of Rs. 30,000, Rs. 20,000, and Rs. 10,000. The awardees said that strengthening farmer producer organisations would immensely help coconut growers who were being exploited by various agencies. A lot of nurseries are cheating farmers by supplying inferior quality seedlings at exorbitant prices, they added. They also shared their experiences of managing decentralised coconut nurseries and gave suggestions for sustaining such activities with the support of the Department of Agriculture. In her inaugural address, Dr. Anitha endorsed the viewpoint that community nurseries managed by coconut farmer producer organisations was a prudent strategy to enhance the availability of quality seedlings. Two publications on coconut nursery management and coconut plant protection were released on the occasion.
10 October 2020||KASARAGOD,KERALA||Fisherman found dead||A 32-year-old fisherman, who went missing after he left the home at Ramguru in Bekal for fishing, was found dead near the construction site of an auditorium near Bekal on Thursday night. The deceased was identified as Sudhakaran. In the preliminary probe, an injury was found on the face of the deceased, the police said. The auditorium supervisor found the body on Thursday night.
10 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Canal rejuvenation project nearing completion||A Rs. 10-crore initiative to rejuvenate the 2-km-long Andhakarathodu in Thripunithura and to build walkways on either side, is nearing completion. The project to rejuvenate the water body which connects the Konothupuzha and Chambakkara canal, can be commissioned in three months, said sources in the Irrigation Department, which is executing the works. The Andhakarathodu was built during the reign of kings in Kochi, mainly to transport cargo. Over the years, it fell into disuse and became a garbage dumping ground. This is the first KIIFB-funded project in Kerala and rejuvenation work began in 2018. Apart from immense tourism potential, the project has a role in checking flooding in and around Thripunithura. Well over 50 per cent of the work is over, including cleaning and desilting of the waterbody. “Pre-cast piles and slabs have been cast at our yard in Muvattupuzha and will be fixed on either end of the water body. There was a few months’ delay due to the pandemic. We have directed the Thripunithura Municipality to close drainage pipes which pump household and other sewage into the canal. Most encroachers have been removed, while the rest will be removed in the coming weeks,” the Irrigation sources said. Walkways The project was entrusted to the Kerala Irrigation Infrastructure Development Corporation. Under this, 2-m and 3-m wide walkways are being built on either side of the waterbody. A pair of eight-foot-high fences will be erected to prevent dumping of waste. Ninety per cent of the fabrication of the fencing material is over. A Rs. 1-crore project to install lights and to landscape the walkways will be tendered shortly. Most of the trees on either side have been retained while unwanted ones have been cut. The walkways could well be used as joggimg tracks like the Marine Drive waterfront, they said. Yet another project to rejuvenate the 18-km Konothupuzha is awaiting the government’s sanction. Its banks will be reinforced using geo-textiles, while low-lying bridges will be rebuilt in the second phase, it is learnt. The project will lessen the impact of flooding in the town, while also improving the quality of well water on its banks, said V.C. Jayendran, convenor of the Thripunithura Rajanagari Union of Residents’ Associations (TRURA). “It could have been realised earlier if there was better coordination in executing the works. This will become the second waterfront project in Thripunithura after the Thannerchal park,” he said.
10 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Thammanam-Pullepady stretch to be made a four-lane road||Aimed at augmenting the much-needed east-west road connectivity in the city, the PWD (Roads wing) has completed a survey to develop the narrow Thammanam-Pullepady Road as a four-lane road, and to extend it on either side towards MG Road and NH Bypass. The road will be widened into a four-lane one having 22 metre width. A median, footpaths on either side and a duct to carry utility cables and pipelines are part of the project. The existing alignment will be altered wherever needed, while junctions will be widened as per KIIFB norms, to enable free-left turns. The survey report will be shortly finalised, said sources in the department. The report will be forwarded to the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB), following which a Detailed Project Report (DPR) will be readied. A few dozen land owners had surrendered land free of cost for the project, while land has to be acquired from the rest of the people. Currently, only two small stretches in the Katrikadavu-Karanakodam stretch are four lane. This was made possible by using Rs. 25 crore allotted by the UDF government. A critical part of the survey, which was undertaken during the past few months, was to do soil testing at multiple points in order to widen/rebuild narrow bridges and culverts on the 4-km corridor which will link Padma Junction on MG Road with Chakkaraparambu on Palarivattom-Vyttila NH Bypass. The KIIFB had promised funding to implement the project that would considerably decongest SA Road and Banerjee Road, a senior PWD official said. The four-lane road is expected to be completed latest by 2023. A two-lane bridge will be built parallel to the Pullepady overbridge. At present, commuting through the narrow corridor is a nightmare due to its uneven width. Similarly, pedestrians have to risk their lives and walk through whatever little space is available on the edge of the road. Even as the PWD did a survey of the stretch, it has not formally taken it over from the Kochi Corporation/Local Self Government Department, it is learnt. Bund Road In the meantime, the Greater Cochin Development Authority (GCDA) has not been able to widen a 100-metre stretch on Chilavannooor Bund Road that has been stifling movement of vehicles along the road that links Thykoodam on NH Bypass with Panampilly Nagar. “A couple of land owners on the stretch are unwilling to move over to alternative land which we showed them in Panampilly Nagar. We have identified land in another locale to rehabilitate them,” said V. Salim, chairman of the agency. The GCDA did not have funds to compensate them in cash, he said.
10 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||District reports 911 positive cases||As many as 20 health workers were among the 911 persons who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Friday in the district. The source of infection of 118 patients remains untraced, while 753 people have contracted it through local contact and 20 people who arrived from outside the State have tested positive. About 458 people tested negative on the day and 437 patients were discharged from hospitals and first-line treatment centres. A total of 29,777 people remain in quarantine in the district. The district’s active caseload now stands at 12,409. A majority of people recovering from the infection remain in isolation at home. Around 8,818 people are in isolation at home, 217 patients are admitted to the Government Medical College Hospital, 53 patients are being treated at PVS Hospital, 78 at INHS Sanjivani, 874 patients are at private hospitals and 1487 at first-line treatment centres. Of those who tested positive of Friday, 58 people were from Fort Kochi and 45 from Thrikkakara. Areas including Thripunithura, Rayamangalam, Muvattupuzha, Palluruthy, and Chernalloor registered more than 20 new positive cases of the infection each. A total of 5,511 samples were collected for testing on Friday. A release from the district administration said that an average of 6,000 tests were being conducted daily, with a focus on testing all symptomatic people. In the past two days, about 15,000 samples were collected. With the number of locally transmitted cases of the infection climbing, District Collector S. Suhas has asked all sector magistrates to ensure that COVID-19 protocol is strictly followed in all business establishments and public places. The magistrates and the flying squads constituted at the taluk level will step up inspections to ensure adherence to COVID-19 restrictions.
10 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Rs. 90-lakh cash seizure kicks up political storm||Following the alleged seizure of Rs. 90 lakh in cash from a Kochi-based businessman at Anjumana, near Edapally, on Thursday night, the Income Tax investigation department is trying to ascertain the source of the sum. The case, however, attained political dimensions with questions being raised about the role of P.T. Thomas, Congress MLA, in the reported property deal involving the businessman who deals in used bottles. ‘Tried to mediate’ The legislator on Friday told media that he had only tried to mediate a land deal involving the family of a late Communist activist, Dineshan, an accused in the Edapally police station attack of 1950. According to an IT sleuth, the businessman intended to procure three cents of land near Anjumana in the possession of a family for several decades. “When we finally finished counting the money seized, it was Rs. 90 lakh and it’s only natural that we try to find out the source of such a large sum. It could not be immediately ascertained and the businessman is indisposed,” said the officer. When the IT sleuths reached the spot, the legislator was leaving. Denies charge With jibes doing rounds on online platforms targeted at him, Mr. Thomas told the media that reports of him scooting the place on seeing Income Tax sleuths were baseless and libellous. “The family is close to me as the late Dineshan’s son was my driver from 2001 to 2006. I was present at the meeting in which the agreement between the family members and the businessman was read out. The agreement condition was that money would be transferred to the family through bank,” he claimed. ‘No idea’ Mr. Thomas also contended that he had no idea whether the buyer was holding unaccounted money and it was left to the investigating agency to take necessary action. “The local CPI(M) leadership, ward councillor and representative of the residents’ association were also aware of the land deal,” he claimed. He also said that he was contemplating legal action against those trying to malign his reputation by spreading false information. The Income Tax Department, it is learnt, would also discuss the developments with the Enforcement Directorate.
10 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Chottanikkara tops waste management rating||Chottanikkara grama panchayat has topped the list of local bodies in Ernakulam in the assessment test on solid waste management conducted by the Department of Local Self-Government. The local body earned 87 points out of 100. Twenty-seven panchayats and five municipalities won more than 60 marks and turned eligible for receiving certificates from the government for effective solid waste management. However, only 32% of the panchayats in the district qualified the test. Eight municipalities also failed to make it to the list. The government had chalked out a 20-point criteria for evaluating the steps taken by local bodies for effective management of biodegradable and non-biodegradable waste generated within their limits. Varapetti panchayat missed the top slot by one point and emerged runner-up with 86 points followed by Kunnukara (84 points). The top 10 panchayats included Nedumbassery (79); Pallippuram (77); Kalady (77); Kumbalanghi (77); Rayamangalam (72); Mulanthuruthy (72); Amballur (71); and Vadakkekara (71).  North Paravur North Paravur topped the list of municipalities, with 93 points for implementing source-level treatment mechanisms and effective collection and storage of non-biodegradable waste. Eloor and Aluva shared the second place. Interestingly, Aluva municipality figured among the five municipalities in Ernakulam pulled up by the State Pollution Control Board for non-compliance of Solid Waste Management Rules, 2016. The authorities informed the appraisal committee that they had depended on Brahmapuram for biodegradable waste alone while claiming to have initiated steps for proper collection and segregation of non-biodegradable waste. Piravom and Kothamangalam municipalities earned 67 and 64 points respectively.  Criteria The criteria for evaluation included use of members of Haritha Karma Sena for collection of non-biodegradable waste; number of households handing over waste to the green volunteers; and families remitting user fee for collection of non-biodegradable waste at doorstep. The evaluation also took into account the source-level treatment of biodegradable waste undertaken by the local bodies. The availability of material collection and resource recovery facilities for management of non-biodegradable waste was evaluated as part of the overall rating process. The evaluation committee checked whether the local bodies had set up public toilets. The presence of waste dumping yards and the quality of water resources in each civic body were also analysed.
10 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Where the elderly find the spirit of camaraderie||For 63-year-old Pushpavally from Maneedu panchayat, her retired life assumed a new meaning after joining a neighbourhood group (NHG) for the elderly three years ago. Among the youngest in a group of 16, she was made the president, and since then she has been busy holding monthly meetings and taking care of three different micro-enterprises of her NHG till the pandemic put brakes on them. “Corona has hit the market for our products a bit, but that is manageable, since we have local demand. What we miss the most are interactions during our meetings held twice a month. The meetings were always a lot of fun with singing and dancing and often overshot the supposedly two-hour duration,” said Ms. Pushpavally. The meetings have remained suspended since February, and M.V. Yakub, a 66-year-old retired postman, looks back at them with so much longing. “At a time when neighbourly relations were not once they used to be, the meetings were occasions for people of our age to sit and reminisce about our past and share joyful moments by celebrating birthdays and wedding anniversaries,” he said. Going online It was on realising the significance of the meetings for the elderly that the Kudumbashree started weekly Google meets a fortnight ago, and they were received with great enthusiasm. “We are accommodating as many members as possible in the meetings, though those without smartphones cannot join. We are also urging participants to educate fellow members on how to join the meets considering that they may be able to better communicate among themselves,” said Ponni Kannan, Kudumbashree district programme manager. Google meets are among a slew of services organised by the Kudumbashree for the elderly in the wake of the pandemic. Under the Grand Care project, being implemented in association with the Department of Women and Child Development, the Kudumbashree has been reaching out to the elderly to enquire after their well-being and offer psychological support. A mobile application-driven project was facilitated by local body-specific data on the elderly. “We have deployed at least one resource person for a panchayat who, among other things, create awareness about the need for proper quarantine and reverse quarantine and ensure delivery of essentials, especially medicines. In individual cases beyond the capabilities of resource persons, our community counsellors take over,” said Arathy Aravind, district programme manager, Startup Village Entrepreneurship Programme. So effective and frequent has been the communication that many elderly now personally contact the resource persons when faced with problems.
10 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Kudumbashree to organise week-long online fair||Not prepared to be bogged down by the hurdles posed by the raging pandemic, the district Kudumbashree Mission is set to organise a week-long social fair, one of its flagship annual events, on multiple digital platforms from Saturday. Organised by its 92 Gender Resource Centres, the event was introduced last year and was a resounding success. Among other things, it showcases the full array of products, services, and projects being run by Kudumbashree through its Neighbourhood Groups (NHGs). “Rather than organising it as a social fair, this time around we have conceived it as social fair with social distancing by taking it to digital platforms. The slew of events to be organised in this connection will be streamed over our YouTube channel and through Google Meet sessions besides making use of Google Forms and WhatsApp,” said Shine T. Money, district programme manager, Gender, Kudumbashree. Training has been imparted to NHG members to familiarise themselves with the digital platforms. The week-long fair coincides with the observance of six different international days starting with World Mental Day on Saturday, followed by Days for Girl Child, National Disaster Reduction, Rural Women, Food, and Eradication of Poverty. This will be followed by interactive webinars on various projects being run by Kudumbashree aimed at helping out NHG members affected by the pandemic. “The idea is to convert the event into a much-needed morale booster for our members and rejuvenate them after the lows inflicted by the pandemic. Many members have lost their livelihood and the fair will be a window of opportunity for them. We will also offer online shopping platform for the products of our members,” said Mr. Money. Besides, cultural events, both live and recorded, will be streamed in the evenings all through the fair. Cookery shows, quiz competitions, selfie contests and fancy dress contests for members of Balasabhas are some of the programmes scheduled as part of the event.
10 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Spotlight on mental health during pandemic||Could lemon juice help bust mental stress? While it may not be backed by any scientific reasoning, lemon juice turned out to be one of the preferred ways to fight mental stress for a person who shared his experience through the District Child Protection Unit’s (DCPU) #sharemystress campaign, coinciding with World Mental Health Day on Saturday. The campaign, under which the DCPU invited short one-minute videos on simple techniques to deal with mental stress, has thrown up several such interesting methods. Though drinking water, travelling, reading and doing yoga emerged among the numerous methods to fight mental stress, the most common outlet turned out to be sharing it with a close confidante. “We came up with such a campaign since we could not organise events as we usually do to observe World Mental Health Day. The videos will be posted on the official Facebook page of DCPU,” said M.K.P. Hafzeena, project officer for non-institutional care, DCPU. The organisation may even explore the possibility of bringing out a compilation of selected videos. The DCPU has been offering emotional succour through counselling ever since the outbreak of the pandemic and, going by the feedback, children are getting used to the changed world with online classes and being confined indoors. Psychiatrist C.J. John said being restricted indoors posed emotional, mental and intellectual hurdles in the growth of children. Dr. John said that in a world ravaged by the pandemic, people needed to acquire “psychological first aid” skills to empower the community to identify those in mental distress, listen to them and enable them to access help. He said it would be in tune with the year’s World Mental Health Day observation that calls for ‘Mental Health for All - Greater Investment - Greater Access’.
10 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Rise in use of plastic carry bags in Ernakulam||The relaxation of rules in the wake of the COVID-19 crisis has resulted in a spike in the use of single-use plastic carry bags and disposable materials in Ernakulam. Green volunteers involved in the collection of non-biodegradable waste have reported an increase in the piling up of single-use plastic carry bags. The government had allowed the use of single-use disposable cups and plates in hotels and other places in place of reusable ones as a precautionary measure against COVID-19. Estimates by the Haritha Keralam Mission revealed that the collection and storage of non-biodegradable waste was hit in many local bodies due to the restrictions imposed by the authorities. People were using plastic carry bags instead of reusable ones while purchasing groceries. They prefer plastic bags and disposable containers as those can be incinerated after single use. But this will affect the environment as plastic piles have shot up considerably at various places, according to officials of the Department of Local Self-Government. The enforcement agencies remain hesitant to clamp down on the use of single-use plastic products as it may invite opposition from traders and the public amidst the pandemic crisis. The inspection of shops and commercial establishments for violation of rules has come to a halt over the last five months. The members of the Haritha Karma Sena are also witnessing opposition from a section of households while they visit the homes for collection of non-biodegradable waste. Many residents prefer burning waste materials at home instead of permitting the workers to enter their homes, fearing the possibility of contracting the disease. Worried The green volunteers are also worried about collecting waste from containment zones in the district.
10 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||CSL gets green certification||The public sector Cochin Shipyard Limited (CSL) has been certified by the Confederation of Indian Industries (CII) for the GreenCo Silver rating, which has made it arguably the first in the shipping sector to get the certification. The certification is considered ‘very special’, as it was obtained amid the pandemic, and the process was completed in a short span of time, the yard said in a press release. Rating ‘GreenCo’ rating is awarded to a company for its environment-friendly ways of functioning. The award is based on performance evaluation of the company under various parameters such as energy efficiency, water conservation, renewable energy, greenhouse gas emission, waste management, material conservation, recycling and recyclability, green supply chain, product stewardship, life cycle assessment, innovation for environment, green infrastructure, and ecology.
10 October 2020||Kochi,KERALA||NHGs run by the elderly thrive in Kochi||Five years after they were set up on an experimental basis in a single block panchayat in the district, the neighbourhood groups (NHGs) exclusively for the elderly have turned out to be a resounding success with their number soaring to 2,977 across 101 local bodies in the district. Initially, the Kudumbashree formed 441 NHGs on a pilot basis in just five panchayats in the Mulanthuruthy block panchayat — Edakkattuvayal, Maneedu, Mulanthuruthy, Amballoor and Udayamperoor — under the Elderly Inclusion project of the National Rural Livelihood Mission in November 2015. Unlike other Kudumbashree NHGs, which are the preserve of women alone, NHGs for the elderly were open to both men and women aged 60 and above. In due course, the number of beneficiaries under the project rose to 6,548 and they collectively set up 206 micro enterprises. The main goal of the project was to provide a better social security net for vulnerable elders in the rural areas through health care, social protection, psycho-social care, livelihood support and other age-appropriate services in order to ensure an active, healthy, and dignified life. “The success of the project encouraged the formation of such elderly NHGs across the district cutting across rural and urban divides. We were in the process of scaling up their activities and forming micro enterprises and joint liability groups for group farming when the pandemic set in and disrupted the activities,” said Ponni Kannan, district programme manager who is also in charge of the NHGs. The NHGs attracted men and women from all walks of life, except a small relatively affluent section of people. Notwithstanding the fact that positions in these groups are reserved for women, men were happy to be part of the collective. Repayment The groups set up at Mulanthuruthy have been regular with the repayment of funds allocated for various initiatives till the pandemic played havoc with their disciplined functioning and their regular weekly meetings. They have also been very effective with the mobilisation of thrift funds and their utilisation...
10 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Nedumbassery murder case: two more arrested||A special investigation team of the Ernakulam Rural police on Friday arrested the two key accused in the murder of a youngster at Nedumbassery. The arrested were identified as Basil, 26, and Vinu Mani, 22, both residents of Cheriyavappalasery. Earlier this week, the police had arrested Manu Mani, 24, of Cheriyavappalassery, Ajay K. Sunil, 19, of Kunnumpuram, and Vipin Ashly, 20, of Thevakkal, from Thoothukkudy in Tamil Nadu, in connection with the murder of Jimson of Cheriyavappalasery last Sunday.
10 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||One held under KAAPA||The Ernakulam Rural police on Friday arrested a man under the Kerala Anti-Social Activities (Prevention) Act (KAAPA) based on a report by District Police Chief (Ernakulam Rural) K. Karthik. The accused, Ratheesh aka Kara Ratheesh, 37, of Malayattoor, had several cases, including those related to murder, attempt to murder, assault, inciting communal hatred and charges under the Explosives Act and the Arms Act registered against him in Kollam, Thrissur, and Malappuram districts. He had been slapped with KAAPA twice in the past. Recently, he was arraigned as key accused in connection with demolishing a film set at Kalady.  The Ernakulam Rural police has so far arrested 11 persons and banned 23 from entering their limits by invoking KAAPA as part of the ongoing Operation Dark Hunt.
10 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||LIFE Mission case diary handed over to court||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) probing the irregularities in the LIFE Mission project on Friday handed over to the Kerala High Court the case diary relating to the probe. The CBI had sought permission of Justice V.G. Arun to produce the case diary in connection with the case filed by the State and Santhosh Eappen of Unitac challenging the FIR. Meanwhile, Congress MLA Anil Akkara, on whose complaint the CBI registered a case, said in an affidavit filed in the court that the Consulate General of the UAE had no authority to float any tenders on behalf of the UAE Red Crescent for the construction of apartments and health centres with its financial aid for the LIFE Mission. Mr. Akkara said the claim in the petition of Mr. Eappen that Rs. 3.80 crore received by the companies was paid to Khalid, an officer of the UAE consulate, was not true. The allegation that one of the phones purchased by the petitioner as demanded by Swapna Suresh was presented to Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala was a politically motivated one, he said.
10 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||‘Provide free education to kids from weaker section’||The Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) on Thursday informed the Kerala High Court that private unaided schools are bound to provide free education to children belonging to weaker and disadvantaged sections under the Right to Education Act. In a statement filed in the High Court, the CBSE submitted that school managements could get the cost reimbursed from the respective State governments. The statement was filed in response to a petition by Albert K.P. of Ernakulam for a directive to take appropriate steps to appoint officers to assess the actual tuition fee for conducting online classes. The petitioner contended that due to the ongoing lockdown and economic slow down, most of the parents were in dire straits. Therefore, they found it difficult to pay the full fee demanded by the school authorities. The State government submitted that it discouraged parents to choose unaided CBSE schools.
10 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Municipal staff post protest against govt. online||Members of the Kerala Municipal and Corporation Staff Association posted the pictures of their protest against the “government’s denial of benefits to employees” as their WhatsApp status on Friday. The new mode of agitation was adopted by the association to mark is protest against the government’s policies. The protest was organised in compliance with the COVID-19 protocol, said association State secretary O.V. Jayaraj. 63 civic bodies State president P. I. Jacobson and general secretary M. Vasanthan were among those who led the protest meetings, which were held in all the 63 civic bodies, said a statement issued by the organisation.
10 October 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Court rejects unaided colleges’ plea against CAP||The Kerala High Court has upheld the Mahatma Gandhi University’s decision to conduct the Centralised Allotment Process (CAP) for 50% of the seats in unaided arts and science colleges. The court passed the judgment while dismissing a writ petition filed by the Kerala Arts and Science Unaided College Managements’ Association and others. According to them, there was no statutory provision enabling the university to take over the admission to unaided arts and science colleges. As a result of the CAP, even if seats were vacant in the 50% quota, the managements could not fill them. The State government and the university submitted that CAP was used by all the universities in the State to enable students to apply at a single point for admission to undergraduate courses in any college under the university. CAP was introduced as the separate admission procedures adopted by individual colleges were found detrimental to the interests of the students. Besides, while granting the NOC for institutions in the self financing sector, the institutions had entered into an agreement with the government for parting with 50% of the seats for making merit-based admissions.The setting apart of 50% of the seats was a condition for the grant of affiliation. Members of the petitioners’ association had already entered into agreements with the government for conducting admissions through CAP in 50 per cent of the seats, the government and the university submitted. The court said that the inconvenience faced by the managements of unaided private colleges affiliated to the university was not a sufficient ground to hold that the CAP was illegal.
10 October 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Vellappally slams govt. over open varsity VC post||Sree Narayana Dharma Paripalana (SNDP) Yogam general secretary Vellappally Natesan on Friday slammed the LDF government for not appointing a community member as Vice Chancellor of newly inaugurated Sree Narayana Guru Open University in Kollam. Alleging that the government has been persistently making key positions inaccessible to backward and scheduled communities, Mr. Natesan said the decision was a devastating blow to the community. ‘Ignored our demand’ “We wanted a person who has studied Sree Narayana philosophy to head the university named after one of the greatest social reformers the world has ever seen, but the government has simply ignored our demand. It has left the community disappointed and the incident has dented the image of the LDF government,” he said. The government had appointed P.M Mubarak Pasha as the first Vice Chancellor of the University. Accusing that the government had succumbed to the pressure of minorities and organised religious outfits, the Yogam general secretary said: “There is widespread resentment at the decision and it has irked some members of the LDF Ministry. The community is offered Pro Vice Chancellor post with limited powers. It seems they don’t want any Ezhava community member to take key positions.” He added that Higher Education Minister K.T. Jaleel had hurt the secular values of the State by appointing an NRI and a resident of Malabar as the first Vice Chancellor disregarding several qualified persons from the community. “Also, community organisations were not given any representation during the inauguration of the Guru’s statue in Thiruvananthapuram recently,” he said. BJP too flays govt. BJP president K. Surendran on Friday slammed the government’s choice of Dr. Pasha as Vice Chancellor. He accused the government of playing vote bank politics by “reserving” top academic posts for the proteges of particular vested interests. The government had bypassed several eligible candidates to post Dr. Pasha, he alleged.
10 October 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Record recoveries in Kollam||The number of recoveries hit an all-time high of 1,384 in the district on Friday while a total of 714 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. The recoveries have crossed 1,000 for the first time in Kollam. The figure had reached 485 on October 6 and 400 on October 4. Among the patients are 704 persons infected through local contact and three health workers. Others include one NRI, one from another State, and five persons without known source of infection. The Health Department confirmed that the deaths of a 53-year-old Nilamel resident, 45-year-old Anchal resident, 68-year-old Ervaipuram resident, and 81-year-old Kundara resident are due to COVID-19. Cases with known source have been reported from Karungappally, Velinallur, Mulankadakam, Poruvazhi, and Thekkevila. The health workers who tested positive include a 27-year-old Perayam resident, 47-year-old Thiruvananthapuram resident and 56-year-old Neendakara resident. Kollam Corporation reported the most number of cases, at 193. Family’s refusal Janaki Amma, a 90-year-old, Kozhikode resident who recovered from COVID-19 was shifted to NS Samiti, Mayyanad, as her relatives refused to take her back. Though she had tested negative days ago, she was staying in Kollam District Hospital. The hospital had arranged special staff for taking care of the elderly woman.
10 October 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Eggs distributed among patients at FLTCs||The Indian Veterinary Association’s Kollam branch observed World Egg Day on Friday by distributing eggs to patients undergoing treatment at various COVID-19 first-line treatment centres (FLTCs) in the district. M. Mukesh, MLA, inaugurated the event held at Regional Poultry Farm (Turkey), Kureepuzha, by handing over the eggs to Mayor Honey Benjamin. Free eggs A thousand eggs will be distributed in the first phase of the project that aims at spreading awareness of the health benefits of eggs. Free eggs will be made available to all patients in FLTCs functioning in Kollam city as part of the project. “Every day 7,14,000 eggs reach the district from other places while the domestic production of Kollam is 2,85,000. To increase domestic production, we need more hatcheries and quality parent stock for breeding,” said D. Shine Kumar, assistant director, Animal Husbandry Department. The department expects to attain self-sufficiency in domestic production after the hatchery complex in Thottathara becomes functional. Indian Veterinary Association State president K.K. Thomas, Animal Husbandry Department assistant director S. Raju, veterinary surgeon Josephine Francis, and Deputy Medical Officer Jayashanakr were present on the occasion.
10 October 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Paddy cultivated by hospital harvested||M. Naushad, MLA, and Mayor Honey Benjamin jointly inaugurated N.S. Koithulsavam, the harvest of paddy cultivated by NS Cooperative Hospital, on Friday. The hospital staff had converted three acres of land into a paddy farm with the support of the Agriculture Department. Hospital president P. Rajendran and agriculture coordinator Shivakumar, who led the organic farming project, were honoured on the occasion.
10 October 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||KC factions celebrate formation day||Different factions of the Kerala Congress (KC) on Friday held separate functions to mark the 56th formation day of the party. Inaugurating the celebrations organised by the Mani group, party leader Jose K. Mani, MP, said a final decision on the party's entry into a coalition would be taken in a few days. The forthcoming local body elections would be a setback for those who had tried to dismantle the Kerala Congress, an integral part of Kerala politics for more than five decades. Mani group’s move  A steering committee meeting of the party, which was convened online, decided to raise various farmer-related issues before the State government for its immediate consideration. Marking the official launch of a green initiative, Mr. Mani planted a sapling at the party headquarters in Kottayam. Joseph group function The Joseph group, on the other hand, organised a separate function at a private hotel in Kottayam to celebrate the occasion. Inaugurating the event, party leader P.J. Joseph, MLA, accused Mr. Mani of being treacherous and said the Mani faction had been unable to ensure a berth in the Left Democratic Front (LDF) despite repeated attempts. Meanwhile, the Kerala Congress (Jacob) faction convened a meeting of its high power committee in Kottayam. Inaugurating the meeting, party leader Anoop Jacob, MLA, launched a scathing attack on Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on the Life Mission scam. The meeting decided to organise dharnas in front of government offices and in all constituency headquarters on Wednesday demanding the resignation of the Chief Minister. In a separate event, Kerala Congress (Democratic) leader K.C. Joseph inaugurated a meeting of the party. The meeting resolved to fight against the move to destabilise the LDF-led government. Meanwhile, the Kerala Congress faction led by P.C. Thomas observed the formation day of the party as anti-corruption day. A meeting of the party secretariat was convened via online.
10 October 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||In a first, Kottayam’s daily tally crosses 500||The number of daily COVID-19 cases in Kottayam crossed the 500 mark for the first time on Friday. As per estimates, 522 persons tested positive and of these, 499, including a healthcare worker, contracted the virus through local contact. The cases also included 200 women and 41 children. With 38 cases, Kottayam municipality led the tally. With 449 recoveries during the day, the district currently has 4,958 active cases.
10 October 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Kozhikode records highest number of cases in State||The district on Friday not only breached the 1,000-mark in fresh COVID-19 cases on a single day again but also saw the highest number of cases in the State. As many as 1,205 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on the day. Of them, 1,158 contracted the infection through local transmission, while the source of infection in 39 cases remained unknown. On Friday, 9,218 samples were sent for testing, while the results of 9,188 were available. The test positivity stood at 13.11%, while the number of recoveries was 835. As of now, 17,038 people have recovered from the illness, but 88 succumbed to it, officials said. According to the Health Department, 31,817 people are under observation at homes, COVID Care Centres, and hospitals, while 2,494 persons have returned from abroad. Eleven of the infected cases were pregnant women. As many as 4,31,131 samples have been sent for testing so far, and 4,02,052 returned negative. The results of 2,304 are awaited. In Kannur In Kannur, a total of 556 people tested positive for the virus on Friday. As many 520 persons contracted the disease through local contact. While three were from abroad, 16 came from other States, and 17 are health workers. This brings the total number of cases in the district to 15,940. As many as 9,957 people have been cured of the disease. Of the existing cases in the district, 4,082 are being treated at home, and the remaining 1,111 are being treated at various hospitals and first-line treatment centres. In Kasaragod In Kasaragod, 366 persons tested positive for SARS-COV-2 on Friday. Of those tested, 363 contracted the disease through local contact, while two were from other States and one from abroad. With this, COVID-19 has so far been confirmed in 13,926 people in the district. Meanwhile, a total of 5,294 people are under observation. In Wayanad As many as 127 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Wayanad district on Friday. Of the total number of cases reported on the day, 119 persons, including four health workers, contracted infection through local contact, while eight persons came back from other States. The district has so far reported 4,645 COVID-19 cases. Of them, 3,537 have recovered, including 152 persons on Friday. As many as 4,129 people are under observation.  (With inputs from Kannur, Kasaragod and Wayanad bureaus)
10 October 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||UDF takes out protest march demanding CM’s resignation||The United Democratic Front (UDF) district committee on Friday organised a protest march to the collectorate, demanding the resignation of Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan. Inaugurating the march, Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) leader and Deputy Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly M.K. Muneer sought the Chief Minister’s resignation in the light of evidence that a key accused in the gold smuggling case was appointed as consultant with the approval of the Chief Minister’s Office. Mr. Vijayan had degraded himself by encouraging and protecting suspects in the case through the diplomatic channel, he alleged. Dr. Muneer said the Chief Minister could not feign ignorance about the case following the confession of Swapna Suresh, the key accused, that she had met him on several occasions. If the Chief Minister is adamant not to step down, the UDF will have no recourse but to intensify its agitation, he said. M.K. Raghavan, MP, said the public by now had seen the real face of the Chief Minister who colluded with the corrupt and looters. The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) had also clarified about the mafia links to the LIFE (Livelihood, Inclusion and Financial Empowerment) Mission project, he said. Kerala Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) vice president T. Siddique said the Chief Minister had also violated the oath of office by hiding facts about the appointment of Swapna Suresh. KPCC general secretary K. Praveenkumar and IUML district president Ummer Pandikashala participated in the protest march.
10 October 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||VACB squads conduct flash raids at crusher units||Complaints raised by various environmental organisations against the illegal operation of a few leading quarry and crusher units in the district have found results, with the latest flash inspections by Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau (VACB) squads. The inspections at nine large-scale quarries on Friday found that there had been attempts to mine beyond the permitted quantity and evade payment of ad valorem royalty to the government. Officials said they had impounded 21 goods vehicles, which were used to transport excess quantity of stones and other quarry products. There were also vehicles without the required passes and permits to carry such materials. The flash check brought to light the need for intensified vigil in the area, they added. “Details of the offences have already been submitted to the VACB Directorate and the Geology Department for follow-up measures. Those held for violations will have to pay both the compounding fee and the pending royalty before resuming lawful operations,” said a senior VACB officer. The officer also confirmed that those who were nabbed for serious violations owned large-scale companies. Based on the VACB report, Geology Department officials will initiate action. The regional units of the VACB have been directed to step up vigil and conduct follow-up inspections by deploying more squads. A State-level meeting will soon be convened to discuss the matter. Meanwhile, leaders of environmental organisations said the Geology Department was accountable for poor surveillance in the sector and absence of legal action against violators. They also accused officials of cold-shouldering confidential petitions against major quarry operators, besides ignoring local agitations against such projects. “The illegal players in the field are equally exploiting natural resources and the poor government mechanism. If the government is truthful, it should enhance the strength of the Geology Department and streamline checking,” said M.V. Rajan of Paristhithi Samrakshana Samiti. He pointed out that the mishandling of explosives and their storage in quarries would be another area of unseen violations.
10 October 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Lightning causes widespread damage||Lightning struck a tile-thatched house at Cherukulam near Kakkodi on Thursday night. A 75-year-old woman sustained head injuries as broken tiles and wooden parts fell on her. Four others in the house escaped unhurt. Window panes, wiring, and electrical equipment were damaged in the incident. The walls of the house too developed deep cracks. Lightning damaged seven other houses in the neighbourhood. A local resident said electric wires, supply cables, and switch boards got completely damaged in four houses. “One house will have to be reconstructed,” he added. Eyewitnesses said an electric meter fell on a private car breaking its windshield. Owners of the damaged houses said they would be able to carry out maintenance work only with government aid.
10 October 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Driver attempts to kill self||A 34-year-old tipper lorry driver from Mukkom who was nabbed by the Vigilance and Anti-Corruption Bureau (VACB) squad for alleged overloading reportedly attempted to end his life on Friday. The man who was admitted to KMCT Medical College said the Geology Department had imposed heavy fine on him on the basis of the VACB report. Those in distress or having suicidal tendencies may seek help and counselling by calling the Indian Medical Association’s ‘Thanal’, a Kozhikode-based centre, at 0495-2760000.
10 October 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||290 in Pathanamthitta||As many as 290 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Pathanamthitta on Friday. Of the new cases, 253 persons contracted the disease through local contact while five cases had landed from abroad. The contact source of 27 cases were yet to be ascertained. With 204 recoveries during the day, the district currently has 2895 active cases.
10 October 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Closure of Popular Finance branches ordered||Pathanamthitta Collector P.B. Noohu on Friday issued a directive to close down all branch offices of Popular Finance Limited and its affiliates in Pathanamthitta and attach all assets, including cash and gold, kept in these offices. The order, which follows directives from the Kerala High Court and the government, invokes Section 4 of the Financial Institutions Act, 2013 to protect the interests of investors. It also seeks to prohibit transfer of any asset and freeze all accounts maintained by Popular Finance or its partners in all financial institutions, including cooperative banks and chit funds. Accordingly, the Collector directed the District Police Chief to close down and seal all buildings owned by the firm and produce the keys, besides providing security to these offices, if required. Further, the District Registrar was directed to take all necessary steps to prohibit the transfer and alienation of immovable property owned by the fraud-hit financial institution. Directives were also issued to the District Lead Bank Manager, Joint Registrar of District Cooperative Societies, and other financial institutions in the district to take necessary steps to freeze all accounts of Popular Finance and allied institutions. The Pathanamthitta Regional Transport Officer was also directed to provide details of motor vehicles owned by the firm or its associates to prevent the transfer of listed vehicles. Similarly, the District Subdivisional Magistrate and tahsildars have been directed to provide details of immovable property owned by the financial institution.
10 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Reach I of NH bypass complete||The commissioning of the 26.7-km Reach I of the Kazhakuttam-Mukkola corridor of the 43-km National Highway 66 Bypass from Kazhakuttam to Karode on the Kerala-Tamil Nadu border is taking place four decades after it was conceived. The National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) that executed the four-laning on Engineering, Procurement, and Construction (EPC) mode, overcoming several hurdles, including opposition from the local people, saw the cost going up from Rs. 778.41 crore sanctioned for the construction and ancillary works in 2015 to Rs. 1,120.86 crore in 2020. The 24-month EPC contract given to the Hyderabad-based KNR Constructions Ltd. (KNRCL) for Reach I was over in November 2017. In 1974 The 43-km bypass is part of the 212-km NH 66 bypass project of the NHAI from Thuravur, the work on which started in 1974. The 22-km first phase from Kazhakuttam to Kovalam was made two-lane 20 years ago. Land for a four-lane carriageway was acquired up to Kovalam Junction when the bypass was conceived. But, the lanes on either side of the bypass have been encroached upon at many places. Removal of illegal buildings, felling of trees, shifting of utilities, demand for underpasses, and opposition from the local people were the challenges faced by the NHAI. The construction of the 1.6-km four-lane flyover in front of Thiruvananthapuram airport’s international terminal at a cost of Rs. 142 crore for hassle-free connectivity to the airport after the EPC contract was awarded dragged the work on the 3.5-km Chakka-Eenchakkal-Muttathara stretch. A two-lane bridge parallel to the existing one at Akkulam and the rail overbridge at Chakka across the Thiruvananthapuram-Kollam railway line were part of the bypass project. When the Reach I is being commissioned on October 13, the foot overbridges at Guru Nagar after Infosys and Vazhamuttom are yet to be installed and a service road at Guru Nagar is yet to be completed owing to opposition. Besides de-congesting the city that still lacks a mass rapid transit system, the Reach I of the NH 66 Bypass has further boosted the prospects of Technopark, the Thiruvananthapuram international airport, Veli and Akkulam tourism villages, Kovalam-Poovar tourism corridor, and the forthcoming Vizhinjam International Deepwater Multipurpose seaport. The toll plaza of Reach I is to be set up by the NHAI between Thiruvallam and Vazhamuttam,1.2 km from Thiruvallam Junction. “The works have commenced and a temporary toll booth will be set up till the permanent toll plaza is ready,” a senior NHAI official told The Hindu . Around 85% of the work on the 16.3-km Reach II from Mukkola to Karode had been completed. “The stretch is the first using pavement-quality concrete in the State. The aim is to commission it in March 2021,” he added.
10 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||1,012 people test positive in capital||The sense of panic returned to Thiruvananthapuram after 1,012 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Friday, a day after the daily caseload fell below 500. The recovery rate remained high with 1,074 people recovering from the illness, leaving the number of active cases at 11,731. Among those who were diagnosed with COVID-19, 878 people acquired the infection through local transmission while the source of infection was unknown in 112 cases. Those infected included 176 senior citizens and 85 persons aged below 15. The pandemic claimed seven more lives, taking the district’s COVID-19 death toll to 288. Those who died were natives of Neyyattinkara (75), Parassala (70), Vamanapuram (29), Nagaroor (65), Kezharoor (68), and Aryanad (68). A 53-year-old man who hailed from Kanyakumari also succumbed to COVID-19 in Thiruvananthapuram a few days ago. Six more police officers attached to the City police tested positive during antigen testing conducted at the Special Armed Police (SAP) camp. These included two officers attached to the Museum police station where 26 personnel have been diagnosed with COVID-19 within a few days. The district administration placed 2,732 more people in quarantine. In all, 30,946 people are currently being monitored for COVID-19 symptoms in the district. The police booked 151 people for violating the COVID-19 protocol in the city. These included 124 people who failed to wear masks and seven people who violated social-distancing norms. Two commercial outlets were also booked for failing to comply with the guidelines. Another 17 people were also charged under provisions of the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance 2020.
10 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||NH six-laning work begins on Oct. 13||Overcoming a host of hurdles, the National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) will kick off the six-laning of the NH 66 from Thalapady on the Kerala-Karnataka border on October 13. Union Minister for Road Transport and Highways Nitin Gadkari and Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will dedicate the 26.79-km Reach I of the Kazhakuttom bypass to the nation in the presence of Union Minister of State for External Affairs V. Muraleedharan and Minister for Public Works G. Sudhakaran. Eight works of the NHAI, estimated to cost Rs. 13,196 crore, including six-laning of the NH 66 stretch in Kasaragod, Kannur and Kozhikode districts with a Right of Way (RoW) of 45 metres and reconstruction of the Cheruthoni bridge on NH 185 in Idukki district that was damaged in the 2018 floods, will also be launched. Safe travel The height of the Cheruthoni bridge will be raised to ensure safe travel between Adimali and Kumily. The works in Kasaragod, Kannur and Kozhikode involve the first 39-km corridor from Thalapady to Chengala in Kasaragod district, Chengala-Neeleswaram, Perol-Taliparamba,Taliparamba-Muzhappilangad, reconstruction of the Paloli and Murad bridges into six-lane,Vadakara-Azhiyur-Vengalam stretch, and the Kozhikode bypass that will link Malappuram and Kozhikode districts. Only four-lane now The road corridor being six-laned will be part of the 526-km NH 66 corridor from Thalapady to Kazhakuttom in the capital. At present, the State has a four-lane NH corridor on the 32-km stretch from Chalakudy in Thrissur to Edappally in Ernakulam. Initiatives The much-delayed six-laning of the NH 66 was being taken up following a series of initiatives taken by the Left Democratic Front government and the intervention of Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Mr. Gadkari, Minister for Public Works G. Sudhakaran said. The hurdles over fixing the alignment, acquiring land, and fixing the compensation were overcome through talks, the Minister said. Funds The State is paying 25% of the cost of the land being acquired by the NHAI and the funds are being made available by the Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB). For getting speedy clearance, the entire NH 66 corridor in the State has been split further into small packages to take advantage of the Centre’s decision to allow MoRTH to approve projects of up to Rs. 2,000 crore.
10 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||A night’s rain overwhelms city canals||One night’s rain on Thursday was enough for the water level in the Ulloor and Pattom canals to rise to the brim and breach the banks at several points by the next morning. Water seeped into the adjacent roads and into some of the houses that line the canal. Although the Major Irrigation Department had removed all the obstructions in the canals as part of the city Corporation’s project ahead of the monsoons this year, the canal still does not have the capacity to hold all the water during heavy rains. The absence of even a low side wall in many places makes matters worse. Decrease in depth According to Pattom ward councillor Remya Ramesh, the issue cannot be solved until the depth of the canal is increased by removing all the silt that has accumulated over the years. “As usual, water entered our home near Murinjapalam last night as the rain intensified. The removal of obstructions that get collected near the bridges or at the narrow regions of the canal alone cannot solve this problem. With silt and waste getting collected on the floor, the depth of the canal has reduced considerably over time. Also, in some places, residents carry out plantain cultivation in areas where sand has collected and formed small land portions by the side of the canal. This also constricts the flow,” she says. Mayor K. Sreekumar says that the Corporation’s projects for the improvement of the canals in the city are progressing. “Water flowed smoothly through the main Amayizhanjan canal without overflowing in any places owing to all the work that the Corporation carried out recently. The work on the Ulloor-Pattom canal will be taken up soon too. Overflowing happens also because of the high-intensity rains that we are getting these days. Even in the Ulloor canal, the water receded as soon as the rains seized,” says Mr. Sreekumar. A major project for the construction of side walls along the Ulloor canal and for desilting, at a cost of Rs. 9 crore, has been in the works for some time. Another similar project for the area from Kannammoola to Akkulam at a cost of Rs. 25 crore is also about to take off.
10 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||First connection under Jal Jeevan Mission in State||K.P. Muhammad of Pachakkad, Kuttichal in the district, has become the first person to get a water connection under the Jal Jeevan Mission (JJM) in the State, the Kerala Water Authority (KWA) said on Friday. The connection was given by the Head Works Division, Aruvikkara. The division has so far provided 45 connections under the centrally assisted JJM in Kuttichal, Aruvikkara, Panavur, Pangode, and Pullambara. Three tribal families were given water connections at Sulthan Batheri, Kalpetta, and Mananthavadi under the Wayanad division. The State government plans to provide 21.42 lakh connections in the State under the JJM in 2020-21. Administrative sanction has been accorded for 16.48 lakh connections in the first stage.
10 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Phase 1 of virology institute to go operational on Oct. 15||The first phase of the Institute of Advanced Virology (IAV) will go operational on October 15, the State government said on Friday. Akhil C. Banerjee will soon take over as the director. Established under the Kerala Biotechnology Commission, IAV is located at the Bio 360 Life Science Park, Thonnakkal, and is equipped with laboratories and diagnostic facilities for high-end research. The divisions on clinical virology and viral diagnostics will be operational in the first phase. The two new divisions will function in a 25,000 sq ft pre-fab building. Equipment and facilities required for disease diagnostics, including RT-PCR, gel documentation system, biosafety level cabinets, and nano photometer are ready at the facility.  Autonomous institution In the initial stages, IAV will function under the Science and Technology Department, but it will be developed into an autonomous institution once it is fully operational. The governing council of the institute is headed by the Chief Minister. The government has created 18 posts for the institute. In all, eight scientific divisions on various aspects of virology research are envisaged at IAV. It will have research facilities for viral vaccines, anti-viral drug research, viral applications, viral epidemiology vector dynamics and public health, viral genomics, general virology, and bio-informatics and statistics. Eventually, IAV will occupy an 80,000 sq ft building.
10 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Make digital classes for school students more vibrant, says KSSP survey||Difficulty in grasping the topics, Internet-related glitches, and lack of access to televisions and smart phones are among the issues highlighted by school students and their parents in a study conducted by the Kerala Sasthra Sahithya Parishad (KSSP) on the digital classes launched on the KITE-VICTERS channel from June 1. The KSSP handed over the study report, along with a set of recommendations, to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Friday.  Pace of classes The report has underlined the need to make the digital classes more student-friendly. According to the KSSP study, only 23% of the students surveyed had no difficulty in following any of the classes. The remaining 77% admitted that they faced difficulties in one or more subjects in this regard. Around 21% cited the pace of the classes as a problem and 22% faced difficulties in taking down notes as the class was in progress. The survey said 12% of the children lacked television at homes, while 8% lacked smartphones. Several children continue to depend on neighbour's houses, libraries, cultural centres, and other facilities. Digital divide Only 67% of the respondents could attend all the classes without interruption since June 1. Other than personal reasons, technical, financial, and social issues have prevented children from attending all the classes. The study said that 39.5% cited low internet bandwidth and connectivity as problems. While this issue has, in general, affected the hilly regions and tribal areas, connectivity issues plague other parts of the State as well. Absence of Internet (17%), and absence of smartphones (14.5%) are the other major issues. Notably, 76% of the parents who took part in the survey have more than one school-going child. This has led to shortage of facilities. Only 79% of the students were getting proper feedback from the teachers. Others were depending on parents or friends. The teachers too face immense pressure owing to the added responsibilities, the study noted. Further, it said the children were gradually losing interest in the digital classes. The classes needed to be improved and made more vibrant, it noted. The KSSP has urged the government to intervene to resolve the problems linked to Internet bandwidth. Surveys also need to be carried out to identify and help students who lack equipment such as televisions or mobile phones. An important recommendation pertains to the feasibility of decentralising the online classes. The KSSP has suggested that the responsibility for the subjects of different classes should be divided among the 14 District Institutes of Education and Training (DIET). Teachers' groups can be formed under the DIETs for specific subjects. The KSSP has also urged the government to pay special attention to the classes for the differently abled. Data were collected from 1,252 school students, 1,046 teachers, and 1,340 parents from 14 districts for the survey.
10 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Self-certification may suffice to build small houses||The Local Self-Government Department (LSGD) is considering the introduction of a self-certification system for construction of houses below 300 square feet, with an aim to ease the process for lower income groups. But, the required change can be brought about only after amending the Kerala Municipality Act and the Panchayat Raj Act and considering the technical issues in allowing such leeway without checking whether the house is to be built in paddy land or wetland or in CRZ (Coastal Regulation Zone) zones. According to LSGD sources, the proposal was considered along with the amendments to building which were notified recently, but the propsal was set aside at that time due to the changes required in the Acts. As per the plan, the owner can get a certified engineer to certify that the construction of the house below 300 sq ft will be carried out within the rules. Once this self-certification is submitted to the local body, construction can begin after a specific time period of a week or two, in case there are no objections. Inspection An official from the local body needs to inspect the construction before it reaches lintel level to ensure that all setback measurements are being followed. In case of violations, the construction can be stopped.
10 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||New machine at govt. press||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan will on Saturday inaugurate the new multicolour offset machine installed at the Government Press at Mannanthala in the capital. He will also make the official declaration of the Printing Department winning the ISO 9001:2015 certification. As part of the modernisation of the Government Press, an Orient Excel multicolour web offset machine has been installed. It is part of efforts to equip the press to take up all of the government’s printing jobs. Work on textbooks and diaries can be completed quickly with the new system. It has a capacity to print 30,000 copies per hour. The government expects to save on printing costs with the new system. Tourism Minister Kadakampally Surendran will preside over the function.
10 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||CPI(M) to counter ‘media blitz’ against govt.||The CPI(M) State secretariat, which met here on Friday, decided to counter the “propaganda war” unleashed by the “right-wing corporate-owned media” against the Left Democratic Front (LDF) government. CPI(M) State secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan, who chaired the meeting, told journalists that the media blitz against the government was an attempt to eclipse its achievements ahead of the local body polls. Television shows solely focussed on defaming the party and the government by laying down a smokescreen of lies and accusations. The print media were also no exception.  Gold smuggling case He said the statement given by an accused in the gold smuggling case was used by a section of the media to berate the government. The media had nothing to say about issues that mattered to the people. It has turned a blind eye to the Centre’s agriculture reform legislation. Mr Balakrishnan said the right-wing media, working in tandem with vested interests, had infamously toppled the first Communist government led by E.M.S. Namboodiripad in 1957. The party and the LDF have become more resilient since. It could easily withstand another coming together of communal forces reminiscent of the “liberation struggle” to topple the LDF government. The people had given the LDF the mandate to rule and not media barons, he said. The CPI(M) would observe October 17 as the 100th anniversary of the formation of the Communist party. CPI(M) units would raise the red flag and commemorate the sacrifices of fallen comrades. The CPI(M) condemned the brutal killing of its branch secretary Sanoop in Thrissur.
10 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||SI dies a week after suicide attempt||A sub-inspector (SI) who allegedly attempted suicide at the Vilappilsala police station a week ago died at the Government Medical College Hospital here early Friday. Grade sub-inspector G. Radhakrishnan, 53, of Rahul Nivas in Ambalathinkala, near Kattakada, was found hanging from a ceiling fan at the station’s dressing room on October 1. Ever since, he has been undergoing treatment at the hospital where he succumbed to his injuries by around 5.30 a.m. on Friday. Radhakrishnan, who had nearly three years of service left for retirement, had been promoted to the rank of grade sub-inspector and posted to the Vilappilsala police station four months ago. The family of the deceased blamed his seniors for subjecting him to mental harassment. Radhakrishnan’s brother Vinodan accused Vilappilsala station house officer (SHO) Sajimon of maltreating him ever since he had joined the station. “He [Radhakrishnan] used to be insulted often with the SHO rejecting all reports that he filed. Despite the mental trauma, he refrained from complaining to higher officials considering the SHO’s career,” he said. Shortly after Radhakrishnan’s death, Mr. Vinodan submitted a formal complaint at the Vilappilsala police station. The police are likely to institute an inquiry into the incident, official sources said. Suicide prevention helpline: DISHA: 1056, 0471-2552056.
10 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Misplaced stance: CPI(M)||CPI(M) State secretary Kodiyeri Balakrishnan on Friday said the contention of the SNDP Yogam leadership that only a member of a particular caste could assume the mantle of Vice Chancellorship of the Sree Narayana Guru Open University was a misplaced thought. No particular religion or caste could claim to have obtained the exclusive patent for the legacy of the social reformer. The Guru’s teachings and bequest to society were enduring and universal. Those who claim to practice the values propounded by the seer should not view matters through the narrow, restrictive and resentful prism of caste. They should not forget that the Guru had battled for a casteless and secular society.
10 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||PSC rank holders’ virtual meeting||The Assembly committee on Youth Affairs and Youth Welfare is organising a videoconference of representatives of Public Service Commission (PSC) rank holders on October 15 and 20. The virtual meet will be held at 10.30 a.m.
10 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||New District Police Chief for Kollam||The State government has posted R. Ilango as District Police Chief, Kollam. He replaces Hari Shankar, who is the new SP, VACB, Intelligence, Thiruvananthapuram.
10 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Health workers honoured||The Kerala Municipal and Corporation Staff Union and the Thiruvananthapuram Municipal Corporation Workers’ Association (CITU) honoured health workers involved in COVID-19-related activities at the Corporation office here on Friday.
10 October 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Rs. 10 lakh aid for Shiju’s family||The Forest Department on Friday announced Rs. 10 lakh as financial assistance to the family of Shiju, the 14-year-old boy who was killed in an elephant attack in the Neyyar wildlife sanctuary on Wednesday. Forest Minister K. Raju also announced medical assistance to the boys who were hurt in the incident. The four boys, hailing from tribal families in the Thenmala settlement, had entered the forest to collect herbs and reeds when they encountered an elephant herd. Three of them, including 16-year-old Shiju's brother and two cousins, aged 18 and 19, escaped, but Shiju was killed. Shiju's family will also get the accident insurance amount of Rs. 1 lakh, the Minister said. Mr. Raju also urged tribal settlements to ensure that children are accompanied by adults when they enter the forest to collect forest resources.
10 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Three held for motorcycle theft||The Poonthura police on Friday arrested three youths on charges of motorcycle theft. The accused have been identified as Sajid Khan, 20, from Beemapally, Muhammed Sajad, 18, and Mubarak, 20, from Varkala. According to the police, they had stolen a motorcycle owned by one Masood from Azad Nagar in Beemapally on October 1.
10 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Lecture series organised||The Kerala State Literacy Mission Authority organised a lecture series on ‘Decentralised planning and informal education’ from October 2 to 8 to mark the 25th anniversary of the People’s Plan campaign.
10 October 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Flash floods wreak havoc in Thrissur||Heavy rain that lashed the district on Thursday night wreaked havoc in the outskirts of Thrissur. Many houses were inundated at Mattathur, Vellikulangara, Kodassery and Kodaly. People panicked as the sudden rain in the night flooded irrigation canals, which were dry the previous day. The Mattathur irrigation canal overflowed at many places inundating around 150 houses at Mattathur and Vellikkulangara villages. Several acres of paddy fields with saplings were submerged. Flash flood Local people said water came through the canal like a flash flood. The service station road near Poovalithode, near Kodaly, went under water, flooding around 75 houses. Electronic equipment and furniture in many houses were damaged in the unexpected flooding and kitchen utensils were washed away. Houses were submerged in Korachal Colony, Moonnumuri, Chettichal, and Chembuchira too. According to the Mattathur panchayat president and village officers, water from the Kodassery hills reached Chelakkottu Canal, flooding Matthathur and Kodassery villages. However, the situation was under control now and there was no need to rehabilitate people, they said. As it was cultivation time, the shutters of the canal were closed, which aggravated the situation, local people said. The water level dipped after the shutters were opened. Around 20 acres of paddy ready for harvesting was destroyed in the Kodaly fields. Standing crops were damaged in Alukka Padam and Chembuchira too. The Kappathode overflowed at Pariyaram, near Chalakudy, inundating standing crops such as tapioca, plantain, and vegetables. Encroachments on paddy fields and canals made the situation worse, said the farmers. Meanwhile, a few families were shifted from Mechira and Mettippadam after mud and rock got washed into their houses in the flash floods. Around five houses were damaged at West Koratty and Mangalssery. A huge tree got uprooted on the Wadakkanchery-Kunnamkulam road on Thursday night near the Good Shepherd ITI Institute disrupting traffic and power supply. The Fire and Rescue Services removed the tree and restored traffic. Trees uprooted Trees were uprooted at Chovvannur, Kanippayyur, and Kakkad areas too. Power supply was disrupted in many areas.
10 October 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Positive cases shoot up to 755 in Thrissur||After a day’s dip in cases, the number of COVID-19 patients increased once again in Thrissur with 755 testing positive on Friday. However, 860 patients recovered from the disease and were discharged from hospitals. There are 8,235 active cases in the district and 125 people from Thrissur are undergoing treatment in hospitals in other districts. So far, 19,910 cases have been confirmed in the district while 11,519 patients have recovered. According to official statistics, 749 people contracted the infection through local contact on Friday. Cases were reported from 12 clusters. In all, 20 health workers contracted the disease. There are 81 patients above the age of 60, including 48 men and 33 women. There are 55 children below the age of 10. In all, 4,988 patients are under home observation. Antigen tests were conducted on 3,034 people. Meanwhile, the District Collector declared Avinissery panchayat as a containment zone as 33 people tested positive in tests conducted at the Primary Health Centre, Avinissery. Containment zones The containment zones declared on Friday are Kaipamangalam grama panchayat ward 9; Elavally grama panchayat ward 7; Muriyad grama panchayat ward 1; Kolazhy grama panchayat ward 1; Varantharappilly grama panchayat ward 19; Porkkulam grama panchayat ward 2; Orumanayur grama panchayat ward 13; Kadappuram grama panchayat ward 16; Kondazhy grama panchayat ward 9, and Wadakkanchery Municipality Division 17.
10 October 2020||October 10 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||For a glitch-free poll||
10 October 2020||October 10 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||For a new look||
10 October 2020||October 10 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Mission demolition||
10 October 2020||October 10 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Rallying for respect||
10 October 2020||October 10 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Lighting up||
10 October 2020||October 10 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Checking for glitches||
10 October 2020||October 10 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Short cut to destination||
10 October 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Penukonda all set to shine by R-day||‘Clean and Green’ Penukonda, a programme launched on the New Year’s Day, but which had slowed down due to the pandemic, is back on track and all set to be completed by the next Republic Day. Represented by Roads and Buildings Minister Malagundla Sanakranarayana, Penukonda, aspiring to be a district headquarters, has been expanding at a fast pace following the establishment of KIA Motors India car manufacturing plant about 6 km from the town. Sub-Collector T. Nishanthi has asked all the government offices and other business establishments to keep their premises clean and plant saplings to improve the green cover. The Sub-Collector’s office stood as an example for all other offices and it became the first-ever Sub-Collector’s office to receive the ISO 9001:2015 Certification. All offices, along the National Highway No-44 in Penukonda Revenue Division, were given a fresh coat of paint and people welcomed the change. The offices have been asked to improve greenery and get all the development works done by January 26, 2021. As part of the beautification programme with the slogan ‘Andamaina Penukonda’, while the excise department painted boundary walls sending social messages based on the theme ‘No to alcohol, drugs’, the animal husbandry department displayed famous breeds of cattle, dogs etc. Penukonda Revenue Divisional Office became the first in Andhra Pradesh to get the ISO 9001-2015 certification. Pillalu Navvulu -a programme for holistic development of school children was launched in government schools, Ms. Nishanthi said. Extra-curricular skills such as music, dance, drawing and martial arts were imparted with the help of teachers and volunteers. The programme was launched in the ZP High School, Roddam, as a pilot project with 272 school children.
10 October 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Texport Garments factory staff seek minimum wage||Around 4,000 employees of the Texport Garments factory in the Hindupur industrial estate close to the Karnataka border, have been agitating since October 5, seeking minimum wages of Rs. 18,000 per month as recommended by the Centre. On the fourth day of the agitation on Friday, the Left parties including the Communist Party of India (Marxist), its trade union wing Centre of Indian Trade Unions (CITU) and Communist Party of India (CPI) leaders staged a dharna in front of the tahsildar’s office and submitted a memorandum to the tahsildar, seeking resolution of the ongoing industrial dispute in the three units of the Texport Garments. Addressing the workers, CITU State president Ch. Narasinga Rao said that the Centre had passed a law making Rs. 18,000 as the minimum wage all over the country, but this was not being implemented in many industries. “The $80-million Texport company with several garment manufacturing units across the country pays the lowest wages to the Hindupur unit workers, with an average of Rs. 6,000 per month,” he said. He also alleged that the working conditions for the women employees at the unit was very bad and they were paid somewhere between Rs. 5,000 and Rs. 7,000, depending on how many days they worked. The company is granting additional pay only when they work on all 26 working days in a month, said Mr. Narasinga Rao. He said the Jockey garments factory in Karnataka, just 2 km away from this industrial cluster on the other side of the inter-State border, paid Rs. 12,000 per month. “The Joint Commissioner of Labour Department has promised to hold a joint meeting of the management, workers and the department to discuss the wage revision issue,” he said. House arrest The trade union leaders were put under house arrest on Thursday morning. The CPI(M) Hindupur district secretary E.S. Venkatesh, CPI leader Dada Peer, AITUC leader Intiaz also accompanied the workers while submitting the memorandum.
10 October 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jagan’s rule dictatorial: JC||After a long spell of silence, former Anantapur MP and TDP leader J.C. Diwakar Reddy on Friday hit out at the YSRCP, terming the rule of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy as dictatorial, while preparing for an agitation against the government’s denial of permission for limestone quarries. Limestone quarry Mr. Diwakar Reddy, who had come to the office of Assistant Director of Mines at Tadipatri, questioned as to why his family members’ application for sanction of permission for limestone quarry was not being given and why was a Vigilance inquiry ordered instead. “The Y.S. Jagan government is using the government officers to harm our family by foisting false cases. The SC/ST cases against my brother and his son are an example. The officers need to understand that for fear of transfer, they should not act against my family with vengeance,” Mr. Diwakar Reddy said. In his inimitable style, he quipped, “I do not know why the government and officials have shown sympathy on me and spared me alone, while targeting my family members.”
10 October 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Snake-catchers having a field day in Chittoor||Wild growth in vacant areas and lack of activity due to the COVID-19 lockdown for a few months has led to a sudden growth of snake population in rural and urban (mostly outskirts) habitations in Chittoor district. The man-snake conflict has yielded unexpected dividends for many snake-catchers but hundreds of reptiles are getting killed in the process. The presence of lizards and frogs in stagnant water amidst the wild growth near residential localities has attracted snakes to the habitations. The thick vegetation that resulted from the copious rains since June and lack of maintenance activity by civic authorities owing to the pandemic situation and staff shortage helped turn these environs into safe havens for reptiles, according to a forest official. In the Chittoor Municipal Corporation people of several divisions on the outskirts and abutting hillocks are sighting snakes regularly while Srikalahasti and Vedam village offer a regular spectacle of snakes invading houses and getting killed. The problem is also serious in the newly developed municipalities of Nagari and Puttur and Kuppam. However, a majority of the snakes killed are non-poisonous ones like rat snakes. There are also instances of killing cobras, vipers and pythons. “Due to public fear, we just can’t interfere in the matter. We prefer the issue to be overcome naturally over a period of time,” says the official. Prize catch Amidst the new found demand for snake-catchers, a woman from Kalyanapuram in Puttur mandal has turned into a household name since a couple of months ago. “I have killed 23 snakes, including 16 cobras, at various localities in Puttur town in a month. Killing four cobras in a day is the highlight. As it’s a dangerous game, I charge a flat Rs. 2,000 for each snake,” she claims. When a cobra enters a house, it will be near impossible to track it, says a snake-catcher at Satyavedu. “Unlike other snakes, it hides in holes and corners without movement for a couple of days. In some cases, the search will go on for a couple of days. We charge Rs. 5,000 per snake in such conditions,” he adds. It is observed that the sentiment attached to the killing of snakes works in favour of catchers, as youth who usually dare to kill viper species are advised by elders to stay away from cobras.
10 October 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||VRO caught taking bribe||The officials of Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) from Tirupati on Friday caught a Village Revenue Officer (VRO) red-handed when he was accepting a bribe from a farmer for processing an application for a pattadar passbook. Deputy SP (ACB) Alla Bakshu said the VRO, identified as Bhanumurthy of Kongatam panchayat in V. Kota mandal, allegedly delayed the process of issuing the pattadar passbook over a month. The VRO was caught red-handed when he was accepting a bribe of Rs. 3,000. A case has been registered and the VRO will be produced before the ACB court in Nellore.
10 October 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man stabs four people, attacks police personnel||A 30-year-old man allegedly stabbed four persons and attacked police personnel with a stick, at Dalitwada of Madireddipalle panchayat in Yadamarri mandal, 15 km from here, on Friday. He was arrested. Suresh, who is an accused in four cases including murder and kidnap, recently got bail. On Friday, he, in an inebriated condition, roamed around in the neighborhood, wielding a stick and a knife. Claiming that some villagers were responsible for the criminal cases registered against him, he allegedly beat some residents. When some people tried to contain him, he stabbed four residents. The injured were rushed to a hospital at Chittoor. Yadamarri SI and four constables rushed to the spot and took Suresh into custody. Seeing the police, the accused advanced at them, brandishing the stick. In the melee, the SI and the other police personnel sustained bruises. The police sent Suresh to Chittoor hospital for a medical examination. The police said cases would be booked against Suresh under sections of attempt to murder and SC/ST Atrocities (Prevention) Act.
10 October 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Suspecting fidelity, man slits wife’s throat||A man allegedly slit the throat of his wife, suspecting her fidelity, while she was asleep, at Gundla Buruju in Madanapalle rural circle in the early hours of Friday. The accused Babu Rao (30) is an auto-rickshaw driver. His wife, Kiranmayi (25), was rushed a government hospital at Madanapalle. She underwent a three-hour surgery. Her condition is said to be stable. Babu Rao has been taken into police custody. COVID patient ends life An 80-year-old woman reportedly ended her life by hanging herself from a tree at Kalijavedu in GD Nellore mandalon Friday . The police said the woman, who was said to be ill since a week, tested positive for the virus on Thursday evening and the COVID-19 task force was planning to put her under institutional isolation in Chittoor. The people in distress can seek help by dialling 100.
10 October 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rich tributes paid to Ram Vilas Paswan||Dalit leaders, cutting across political parties, paid rich tributes to Union Minister for Food and Consumer Affairs Ram Vilas Paswan at a meeting held at Ambedkar Bhavan here on Friday. Mr. Paswan died in New Delhi on Thursday. Member of Legislative Council Dokka Manikya Vara Prasad said that Paswan emerged as an undisputed leader of the Dalit community, for whose progress he fought for nearly five decades. Paswan was also instrumental in bringing in several legislative acts for the uplift and economic progress of Dalit community. Stating that Paswan had worked under six Prime Ministers and was also instrumental in implementing the Mandal Commission report, he said that his life and times were also a role model for many aspiring Dalit leaders. Former Minister Nakka Ananda Babu said it was due to Paswan’s efforts, that the then V.P. Singh Government decided to declare the birthday of Dr. B.R Ambedkar as a national holiday. Former MLA Tenali Sravan Kumar said that Paswan had left an indelible mark on national politics and added that had Paswan become rime Minister, the lives of Dalits would have undergone a tremendous change. Chairman of Agricultural Market Committee, Guntur, Chandragiri Yesuratnam said that the death of . Paswan was a huge loss to the Dalit and marginalised communities. Dalit leaders Maddirala Joseph Emmanuel, Dalit Bahujan Front leaders Korivi Vinay Kumar, VCK Party state president N.J Vidya Sagar, and other leaders were present.
10 October 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||FCV tobacco growers oppose move to broaden the scope of CTRI||Flue Cured Virginia (FCV) Tobacco Growers and Traders’ Associations have opposed the proposal to broaden the research work of the Central Tobacco Research Institute (CTRI) in Rajahmundry, which has been hand-holding the farmers in implementing the the Good Agricultural Practices (GAP) in the cultivation of FCV tobacco. A proposal of the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) to widen the scope of the CTRI to other commercial crops and even change the nomenclature of the institute as the Indian Institute of Research on Commercial Agriculture (IIRCA) is a cause for concern for the FCV tobacco farming community. Memorandum to Nirmala A group of farmers belonging to the Federation of All India Farmer Associations (FAIFA), the Virginia Tobacco Growers’ Association (VTGA), the Kaligiri FCV Tobacco Growers’ Association, and the traders represented by the Indian Tobacco Association met Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman during her visit to Vijayawada recently and submitted her a memorandum. The Union Minister reportedly assured the delegation that she would look into the issue. The ICAR-CTRI was established in Rajahmundry in 1947, and is one of the oldest research institutions functioning under the ICAR, New Delhi. Its mandate is to conduct basic, strategic, and applied research on different tobaccos grown in India. It has done a tremendous work by developing a number of improved varieties. “The CTRI has also helped the farmers by introducing several eco-friendly technologies for improving the efficiency of tobacco production and the lives of small and marginal farmers. The CTRI is the only government R&D institute supporting the farming community through research and guiding the farmers to opt for good agricultural practices. We urge the Centre to stop the proposal to widen the scope of the institute, which may result in lack of focus on tobacco-related research and support the farming community,” said CH. Yashwanth, national spokesperson, FAIFA.
10 October 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||HC issues notices to Vemuru MLA over illegal sand mining||The High Court of Andhra Pradesh has served notices on Vemuru MLA Meruga Nagarjuna and former MLA of Repalle Devineni Mallikarjuna Rao on a writ petition on illegal sand mining filed by Dalit farmers belonging to Oleru village in Bhattirprolu mandal. Farmers belonging to Aadi Andhra Tenants Cooperative Society, at Oleru, filed a petition stating that the supporters of the two leaders had been illegally mining huge quantities of sand on the “lanka lands” in the fertile river beds for the last three months. The farmers, represented by Meruga Devadanam and Bussa Suguna Raju, said that they had submitted representation of River Conservator, Vijayawada, State Pollution Control Board, Deputy Director, Mining and Collector, Guntur, but no action had been taken so far. Oleru village, ituated near Repalle, is located downstream of Prakasam Barrage. In 2009, a breach at the sluice gates in the village caused enormous flooding and submerged many villages and Repalle town. Later, the sluice gates were repaired. G. Arun Shourie, advocate, who represented the farmers, said that any further sand mining could cause flooding of the villages located on either side of the river, which could severely affect their livelihoods, deplete natural resources and cause them displacement.
10 October 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Action plan to develop Mangalagiri and Tadepalli rolled out, says MLA||Mangalagiri MLA Alla Ramakrishna Rsddy has said that a comprehensive plan to develop Mangalagiri and Tadepalli has been prepared. The proposals for a transport, road, underground drainage and solid waste management has been made, he said. On Friday, the MLA along with municipal commissioners of Mangalagiri and Tadepalli discussed the detailed project reports to develop both municipalities. He recently affirmed Amaravati would be the Legislative Capital for the State. Speaking to the media after the meeting, he said the DPR has been finalised with a government-affiliated company and we have discussed again before we move on it,” he said. Underground drainage and drinking water round the clock for Mangalagiri are first priorities. Burial grounds for all religions, and a ropeway to Panakala Swamy Temple will be built. “We readied a plan to development Mangalagiri at an estimated cost of Rs. 200 crore for traffic and transport issues, Rs. 100 crore for drinking water, Rs. 360 crore for underground drainage, Rs. 60 crore for the temple development,” he said adding that all these all works would be completed be February next year.
10 October 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||VVIT students get campus placement||Thirty-one students of Vasireddy Venkatadri Institute of Technology, Namburu, have been selected in campus interviews held by Tata Consultancy Services, college chairman V. Vidya Sagar said here on Friday. The students were selected as part of Code Vita season 8 recruitment tests held on August 8 and 9. The students were able to use a lot of time during the lockdown in which they were trained by Training and Placement cell even before the commencement of 2020-21 academic session. The students would get 3.6 lakh to Rs. 7 lakh per every year. Principal Y. Mallikarjuna Reddy, placement officer T. Srinivasa Rao and training officer K. Suresh congratulated the students.
10 October 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Collector warns village, ward secretariat staff||District Collector I. Samuel Ananda Kumar has called upon the secretaries at the village and ward secretariats to perform their duties responsibly. After a surprise inspection of the secretariats at Arundhati Nagar and at Vengalayapalem, Mr. Kumar said the secretaries should verify all the applications relating to welfare schemes and suggested that they improve in the area of processing of pending applications. The cash registers should also be maintained, the Collector said after warning secretaries. Training programmes should be held to improve the service delivery, he said and asked the Municipal Commissioner to monitor the functioning of secretariats. At Vengalayapalem, the Collector inspected the posters of welfare schemes. He expressed displeasure over the maintenance of registers and creating awareness on solid waste management.
10 October 2020||Harish Gilai,ANDHRA PRADESH||Multi-level car parking project works pick up pace in city||The much awaited multi-level car parking (MLCP) project, one of the Smart City projects of Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC), has picked up pace and is nearing completion. The officials are planning to complete the project before the year-end and are going to start trial run soon. According to the GVMC officials, almost 80% of the works have been completed. Last year, there was some delay due to various reasons and again in this year, the project has suffered due to COVID-19 situation. But since the last few weeks, the works have been going on in full swing. “The trial run might start after 15th of this month. With some more weeks of work, 90% of the project will be completed. The plan is to bring it for public use before the end of this year,” Executive Engineer, Smart City works, V. Sudhakar said.. It may be remembered that on January 9, 2019, the ‘bhoomi puja’ for the project was conducted. The G+5 MLCP project is being taken up by a Pune-based private company with a budget of Rs. 9.7 crore near Jagadamba Junction. The facility, which is completely computerised and mechanical, can accommodate 100 cars, as per the Smart City wing officials. According to a senior official from the GVMC, had the project gone as per the plan, it would have been completed on time, last year. After the change in government and several issues, it got delayed for over one-year. Officials from the traffic police wing say that once the project is completed, traffic problems being faced due to the unauthorised parking of four-wheelers in the lanes of Jagadamba Junction are likely to be solved. “A number of four-wheelers are being towed away due to unauthorised parking. With many hospitals and commercial establishments in the area and many still lacking cellars, MLCP project will come in handy for car owners,” said a police officer.
10 October 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Three killed in road accident in E. Godavari||Three persons were killed when the two-wheeler they were riding was knocked down by a van on the national highway at Jonnada village under Alamuru police limits in East Godavari district on Friday. The accident occurred when they were trying to cross the highway. While I. Srinivas (28) and Karri Vishnu (45) died on the spot, Thorati Ram Prasad (35) died while undergoing treatment at the District General Hospital in Rajamahendravaram, police said. All the three belonged to Moolasthanam village in Alamuru mandal. The police registered a case and post-mortem was performed at the GGH.
10 October 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Foundation stone laid for Ekalavya model school||Araku Member of Parliament G. Madhavi and Rampachodavaram MLA N. Dhanalakshmi on Friday laid the foundation stone for the Ekalavya Model Residential School building at Rajavommangi in East Godavari Agency. The model school will be constructed with the grant of Rs. 20 crore sanctioned by the National Education Society for Tribal Students of the Ministry of Tribal Affairs. The school will offer education from class VI to XII with special features for preserving local art and culture apart from providing training in sports. The total number of seats are 480. In a separate programme, Ms. Madhavi and Ms. Dhanalakshmi inaugurated additional classrooms constructed at a cost of Rs. 2 crore at the ZP High School in Rajavommangi, funded by NABARD.
10 October 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man held for ‘sexual assault’ on minor||A 60-year-old man was arrested on Friday on charges of sexually assaulting a nine-year-old girl under Ramachandrapuram division police limits in East Godavari district. P. Satyanarayana Reddy had allegedly sexually assaulted the girl when she visited his shop to buy some snacks on Thursday. The girl was admitted to the local hospital on Thursday and later shifted to Government General Hospital, Kakinada, on Friday. Ramachandrapuram DSP D. Balachandra Reddy said a case had been registered under the Protection of Children from the Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (POCSO Act). Minister Taneti Vanitha promised stringent action as per the Disha Act. The TDP too constituted a seven-member fact-finding committee headed by TDP Mahila president Vangalapudi Anita on the incident.
10 October 2020||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Recoveries outnumber new cases in Prakasam, Nellore||The recovery count outnumbered the single-day spike in coronavirus infections in the south coastal Andhra districts of Prakasam and Nellore during the last 24 hours, ending on Friday. The two districts recorded 796 new positive cases, while 1,090 patients were recovered from the infections during the period, said a health bulletin released by the State government on Friday night. Meanwhile, the death toll rose to 985 in south coastal Andhra Pradesh, with eight more patients succumbing to the virus in Nellore and Prakasam districts in the last 24 hours. Five more patients died in Prakasam, taking the toll to 517, while three deaths in Nellore took the count to 468. More people recovered from the infections than new admissions into hospitals in the two districts, bringing the much-needed respite to the health officials. Cumulative tally The cumulative tally rose to 53,488 with 486 persons testing positive for the virus in Prakasam district. Nellore reported 310 positive cases in the last 24 hours, taking the tally to 57,634.  Active cases decline With more recoveries, the number of active cases dropped to 3,427 in Nellore. As many as 462 patients were discharged from hospitals in the district. As many as 54,207 patients have been recovered till date. In Prakasam district, as many as 628 patients were recovered, bringing down the active cases to 4,447. So far, as many as 48,524 patients have won the battle against the virus in the district.
10 October 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Crop coverage drops in Prakasam district despite good rain||With 46 rainy days, the drought-prone Prakasam district registered 40% excess rainfall till October first week, after a gap of several years. Added to this, major reservoirs in the Krishna basin, including Nagarjunasagar which irrigates over 1.60 lakh hectares in the district, were filled to the brim. Despite this, the crop coverage during kharif season fell short by 12% in the rain-fed district for various reasons. The Agriculture Department is leaving no stone unturned to make up for the shortfall during winter, as both kharif and rabi cropping seasons overlap in the district, which had been in the grip of drought for several years in the past, including a 15% deficit rainfall during last year. The district recorded a rainfall of 548.3 mm as against the normal rainfall of 456.6 mm. Bengal gram, the pulse crop grown as an alternative to tobacco, is likely to see a surge in acreage during Rabi this year in the wake of the Tobacco Board's decision to cut down on tobacco cultivation in the traditional tobacco growing areas in the district in view of the depressed global market condition for the principal commercial crop. Overseeing registration of the names of ryots at the Rythu Bharosa centres for distribution of subsidised seeds, Agriculture Joint Director P.V. Sriramamurthy said farmers should switch over to alternatives like jowar, black gram, etc., as they might burn their fingers if they grew bengal gram in more than the normal acreage of about 80,000 hectares during winter. With 23,336 hectares under paddy, the coverage was 98% during kharif thanks to the good inflow into Krishna Western Delta and Nagarjunasagar Right Bank branch canals this year. However, the area under red gram, the principal pulse crop grown during kharif, fell to about 80,000 hectares, a dip of 13% over the normal extent. The overall pulse crop coverage, including black gram, green gram and horse gram, was 88% of the normal acreage 1,00,000 hectarea, according to a report compiled by the Agriculture Department. Cotton cultivation was taken up in 31,671 hectares so far as against the normal extent of 38,210 hectares and chilli in 25,612 hectares as against normal acreage of 28,598 hectares.
10 October 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Man held, gold and silver items recovered||The police arrested a 28-year-old man, a native of Visakhapatnam, and recovered allegedly stolen gold and silver items worth more than Rs. 4.50 lakh from his possession, at Kumarole near Giddallur in Prakasam district on Friday. Markapur Deputy Superintendent of Police G. Nageswar Reddy told the media that the accused, identified as Mastan Wali, a native of Gopalapatna area in Visakhapatnam, had allegedly committed thefts at five places including a temple recently. Tight security Mastan Wali was nabbed near a petrol bunk at Kumarole by the police personnel who have stepped up vigil to protect the places of worship in the wake of untoward incidents in some parts of the State. The police, following the directions of Superintendent of Police Siddharth Kaushal, have conducted security audit at 6,708 places of worship, including 161 major ones. As part of the move to ensure security, CCTV cameras have been installed at 632 places of worship across the district. Guards have been appointed at 813 places of worship. Committees comprising 5,731 members have been formed for 759 temples to ensure round-the-clock surveillance.
10 October 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ten held for ‘betting’ on cricket||Prakasam police arrested 10 persons for their alleged involvement in organising betting on the ongoing IPL cricket matches, at Racherla in on Friday. Acting on credible information, a police team rushed to the Racherla bus stand and nabbed K. Krishna, said to be the betting organiser, and nine others. The police seized nine cellphones and Rs. 10,700 in cash. A case under Section 3 and 4 of the Andhra Pradesh Gaming Act has been registered against the accused.
10 October 2020||Rajulapudi Srinivas,ANDHRA PRADESH||Sub-Inspector booked for submitting false certificates||The Eluru Three Town police registered a case against Sub-Inspector of police G. Prabhakar Reddy for allegedly submitting false certificates for getting age relaxation during the recruitment. Mr. Reddy, who was serving as Station Fire Officer (SFO) in A.P. State Disaster Response and Fire Services department, had applied for SI (Civil) and got selected in 2015. However, as the age exceeded as per the State Level Police Recruitment Board (SLPRB) norms, Mr. Reddy, an OC candidate, reportedly submitted age relaxation certificate for two years, allegedly stating that he worked as NCC instructor in a private junior college at Ongole. The SI produced the service certificate issued by an NCC Commandant, which was fake, said Eluru Range DIG K.V. Mohan Rao. After completing training, he was posted in Komaravolu police station in Prakasam district. Later, he was attached to Nagarampalem station in Guntur district. Following a complaint against the SI, the Principal Secretary (Home), Director General of Police (DGP) and Guntur IGP ordered inquiry into the allegations. Based on the preliminary inquiry report submitted by Markapuram DSP, the Eluru Three Town police registered a case for submitting false certificates, forgery and other charges. “West Godavari district Additional SP will conduct investigation on the criminal case and Gudur DSP of Nellore district will take up departmental inquiry,” the DIG said. Meanwhile, Mr. Reddy has been absent for duty for the past few days, the Guntur police said.
10 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Torrential rain leaves low-lying areas, streets waterlogged||Heavy rains lashed parts of the State on Friday, inundating many low-lying areas. Friday saw an overcast sky in the morning and the blue patch was further obscured by dense thick clouds as the day progressed. Vijayawada city witnessed downpour in the evening, catching people on the roads off guard. The streets were water-logged and people had difficulty in wading through ankle-deep or knee-deep water. Many other parts of the State witnessed torrential rains, throwing normal life out of gear. According to the weather report of the Andhra Pradesh State Disaster Management Authority, parts of State will witness rains in the next four days. On Saturday (October 10), heavy rains are likely to occur at scattered places in Prakasam, Nellore, Chittoor, Kadapa, Anantapur and Kurnool districts. Light or moderate rain is likely at isolated places in Srikakulam, Vizianagaram, Visakhapatnam, Krishna, Guntur and East and West Godavari districts. The weather department said the upper level cyclonic circulation of south coastal Andhra Pradesh and neighbourhood is now lying over Rayalaseema and the adjoining south coastal Andhra Pradesh and extends up to 1.5 km above the mean sea level. The low pressure area which lies over north Andaman Sea and adjoining east central Bay of Bengal. It is very likely to concentrate into a depression over Central Bay of Bengal by Saturday (October 10) and move west-northwestwards and cross north Andhra Pradesh coast as a depression on Monday morning (October 12).
10 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||New cases take a further dip in State||The State has reported 5,145 new COVID-19 infections and 31 deaths in the 24 hours ending Friday morning. With this, the infection tally went up to 7,44,864 and the death toll increased to 6,159, which was 0.83% of the former. The number of recoveries was inching closer to the seven lakh. So far, 6,91,040 persons, including 6,110 in the last one day, recovered. The recovery rate was 92.77%. The number of active cases further came down to 47,665. For the first time, the recovery rate in 11 districts was more than 90% and it was more than 89% in the remaining two districts. The death rate remained highest in Krishna at 1.57%. Chittoor had the second-highest death rate of 1.01%. In the remaining districts, the death rate was less than 1%. Anantapur, which crossed the 60,000-mark in terms of positive cases, had the highest recovery rate of 96.55%. It was followed by Kurnool (96.33%). Krishna had the lowest recovery rate of 89.48% because of increasing number of deaths. A similar situation was in Chittoor, whose recovery rate was 89.80%. Tests conducted Meanwhile, the number of tests conducted crossed 64 lakh and reached 64.20 lakh, including 70,521 tested in last one day. While the overall positivity rate was 11.60%, the figure in the last one day was 7.30%, the lowest in three months. West Godavari reported the highest number of new infections and surpassed Chittoor and East Godavari, which had been witnessing biggest spike of late. Prakasam reported highest number of new deaths. The district-wise new cases and deaths are as follows: West Godavari (862 & 1), Chittoor (757 & 4), East Godavari (738 & 3), Prakasam (486 & 5), Kadapa (352 & 1), Guntur (342 & 1), Nellore (310 & 3), Krishna (310 & 3), Anantapur (285 & 3), Kurnool (211 & 1), Vizianagaram (194 & 1), Visakhapatnam (159 & 4) and Srikakulam (139 & 1). The tallies are as follows: EG (1,04,636), West Godavari (73,391), Chittoor (68,903), Anantapur (60,285) Guntur (58,941), Kurnool (57,811), Nellore (56,068), Prakasam (53,488), Visakhapatnam (52,037), Kadapa (47,097), Srikakulam (41,323), Vizianagaram (36,969) and Krishna (31,020).
10 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Jagan mama’ portraying Telugu in poor light: Thulasi Reddy||APCC working president N. Thulasi Reddy on Friday warned Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy against committing a “historical blunder” by replacing Telugu with English as the medium of instruction in the government schools in the State. In a statement, Mr. Thulasi Reddy ridiculed Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy for calling himself “mama” (maternal uncle) of the schoolchildren at a programme organised to launch the Jagananna Vidya Kanuka scheme on Thursday. Referring to the Chief Minister’s claims that he would help the children progress in life by making them proficient in English language, Mr. Thulasi Reddy said, “Jagan mama is showing Telugu language in a poor light, and portraying it as inferior to English.” The Congress leader said that 98% of the Nobel laureates had pursued education in their mother tongue. Great people such as Mahatma Gandhi, poet Rabindranath Tagore, architect of Indian Constitution B.R. Ambedkar and former President Abdul Kalam were proponents of the use of mother tongue as the medium of instruction in primary education, Mr. Thulasi Reddy said. He said the Chief Minister should not spoil the future of the children and allow them to pursue their primary education in Telugu medium.
10 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Notices served on 17 persons for occupying roads in city||The traffic police conducted a special drive at different places in the city on Friday, and imposed fines on 24 cars and eight lorry owners for stopping vehicles at no-parking zones. Police issued e-challans to the vehicle owners under M.V. Act during the drive and collected Rs. 16,320 as penalty from the violators. Similarly, police served notices on 17 persons who were running mechanic sheds, water servicing sheds and other petty business by occupying the roads. Fourth Traffic police station CI A. Umamaheswara Rao, SIs D. Chandrashekar and K. Subba Rao and other staff participated in the drive.
10 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Online darshan ticket must at Durga temple during Dasara||Devotees seeking darshan of Goddess Kanaka Durga atop Indrakeeladri hill during Dasara festivities must possess online darshan ticket, said Krishna District Collector A. Md. Imtiaz and City Police Commissioner B. Srinivasulu. Addressing a coordination meeting attended by officials of different departments on Friday, they said only people who show online darshan ticket would be allowed inside the temple. Vast crowds of devotees from the deprived sections of Vizianagaram and Srikakulam districts had been traditionally visiting the temple during Dasara festivities. The online darshan ticket rule applied to them also, they said, adding that local devotees would also have to register online for darshan. They said so far 60,372 devotees had enrolled their names. Of them, 29,710 were for free darshan, 19,273 were for Rs. 100 ticket and 11,389 for Rs. 300 darshan ticket. Only 10,000 people would be allowed darshan in a day, they informed. The temple priests and staff would undergo rapid tesst and the devotees would be thermal scanned. People showing any symptoms would be isolated and shifted to the nearest Covid Care Centre or the Government General Hospital in an ambulance. Special darshan The Collector and the Police Commissioner said special darshan for VIPs would be arranged between 7 a.m. and 9 a.m., and 3 p.m. and 5 p.m. and appealed to the VIPs to visit only during these slots. They said during the festival days, only two-wheelers belonging to the temple priests and staff would be allowed to go up the hill and special vehicles would be organised to pick up VIPs from the model guest house at the foot of the hill and they would be dropped back at the same place after the darshan. Barricades The Collector asked the Irrigation Department to install barricades for maintaining queue lines and said that people who would board the Hamsa Vahanam on October 25, marking the conclusion of the festivities, must give their names in advance.
10 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||IIT Tirupati to host live JEE Open House session today||The Indian Institute of Technology Tirupati (IITTP) will host a live JEE Open House session with Director of the institute K.N. Satyanarayana at 5 p.m. on Saturday. With the JEE Advanced results announced and registrations already starting, the virtual interactive session, in view of the prevailing COVID-19 situation, is aimed at guiding the JEE Advanced qualified students and their parents about different engineering branches available at the IIT Tirupati and campus development and also to help them understand the IIT system better. A statement released by the institute on Friday said the participants would be able to interact with Prof. Satyanarayana and the Deans of Academic Affairs and Student Affairs. They will also get insight into educational innovations by IITTP since its inception. The session will mainly focus on the institute’s undergraduate curriculum, including dual degrees, policy for branch change and Career Development Services (CDS) provided by the institute, hostel infrastructure health centre facilities and other student-centric initiatives. Interested students and their parents can join the session by using the link provided by the institute websitehttps://www.iittp.ac.in.
10 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||60,780 students clear POLYCET||Of the 88,372 students who applied for Polytechnic Common Entrance Test (POLYCET 2020), 71,631 (84.85%) appeared for the examination held on September 27 and 60,780 of them have cleared the test. Special Chief Secretary, Skill Development and Training Department, G. Anantha Ramu and Special Commissioner, Technical Education M.M. Nayak released the results on Friday. He said of the total applicants 50,706 were boys and 20,925 girls. Among them, 42,313 boys (84.85%) and 18,467 girls (88.25%) passed the exam conducted by the State Board of Technical Education and Training (SBTET) for admissions into diploma-level programmes conducted in government, aided, private, unaided polytechnics and second shift polytechnics run in existing private unaided engineering colleges. Students belonging to the Scheduled Castes (9,293) and Scheduled Tribes (2,972) secured cent per cent result. The top 10 rankers in the State are Matta Durga Sai Keerthi Teja from Undrajavaram mandal in West Godavari district (first position), Sunkara Akshay Praneeth, Savitala Sridatta Syama Sundar and Tangirala Saravana Mitra Soma, all three from Rajahmundry rural (second, third and fourth respectively). The fifth rank is shared by V.S. Neeharika from Visakhapatnam, Sadanala Sanjana Ram from East Godavari and Mariwada Sree Sathwika from Rajahmundry rural. Ivaturi Naga Surya Srikar Prana and Garapati Shankmukh Vishal from Rajahmundry rural secured the eighth and ninth positions respectively while Koddiboyina Leela Varshini of Kakinada, Taneti Naveena Rhema of West Godavari and Degala Chandra Sekhar of Rajahmundry rural shared the 10th position. In 2019, students in the State secured 84.33 pass percentage, 80.19 in 2018 and 78.20 2017. The POLYCET is held for 16,155 seats in 84 government colleges, 598 seats in two aided colleges and 49,989 seats in 185 private colleges in the State.
10 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||SCR officials take part in ‘Jan Andolan’||The officials of the South Central Railway (SCR) participated in the ‘Jan Andolan’ campaign, an awareness drive launched by the Centre for COVID-19 appropriate behaviour in view of the upcoming festival season, across the division on Friday. Union Railways Minister Piyush Goyal administered the COVID-19 pledge to the officers and staff of the Indian Railways. Mr.Piyush Goyal asked the General Managers, Divisional Railway Managers (DRMs) and other officers to engage the common public and the passengers to spread the awareness on coronavirus. The officers would put up banners, posters and display the dos and don’ts to check the spread of the virus, Mr. Goyal said.
10 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘CM claiming credit for Central schemes’||BJP State general secretary Vishnuvardhan Reddy on Friday criticised the YSRCP government for claiming the entire credit for launching schemes sponsored by the Central government. Using his Twitter handle, the BJP leader said that the Centre had released 60% of the Rs. 655.60 crore funds under the Samagra Shiksha Abhiyan 2020-21, to which the State added the remaining 40% and launched the Jagananna Vidya Kanuka. Calling Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy a “sticker CM,” he said the school bags and belts distributed to the students had stickers of ‘Jagananna Kanuka’ on them. He reminded that the YSRCP had criticised former Chief Minister N. Chandrababu Naidu for the same reason in the past.
10 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jail term for undertrial who escaped on way to hospital||The Fifth Additional Magistrate Court on Friday awarded seven months imprisonment to K. Venkateswara Rao, who reportedly escaped from a COVID care centre. Police shifted 17 prisoners, who ontracted the virus to a COVID Hospital, located at Edupugallu in August 6. However, Venkateswara Rao gave the slip to the police and the Kankipadu police booked a case. The accused, a native of Lingapalem village, in West Godavari district, was facing trail in a murder that occurred under Machavaram police station limits, in Vijayawada, the police said.
10 October 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||NDRF team plugs acid leak from tanker||Personnel of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF), 10th Battalion, plugged a leakage of hydrochloric acid from a tanker on the NH, near Acharya Nagarjuna University (ANU) campus, on Friday. According to Commandant Zahid Khan, a head constable, Ranga Swamy noticed the leakage at the toll gate, and alerted the NDRF Control Room. Two teams of Chemical, Biological, Radiological and Nuclear (CBRN) trained force took the tanker to an isolated place in the University, barricaded the area and arrested the leakage after two hours. The tanker was proceeding from Narsaraopet in Guntur district to N. Narsapuram of Visakhapatnam district. The swift response of the NDRF personnel prevented a major tragedy, Mr. Khan said. In a similar operation, the NDRF teams prevented leakage of acid from a tanker in Guntur district a few days ago, Mr. Khan said.
10 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Torchlight walk at Pavurallakonda today||Heritage conservationists and enthusiasts and citizens concerned will take up a torchlight walk at 2000-year-old Buddhist site Pavurallakonda, here on Saturday. The walk will be led by heritage narrator and INTACH member Jayashree Hattangadi. Speaking to The Hindu , she said that the ancient site is being misused by many and it is time that people understand the importance of the site. This is a 3rd Century BC Buddhist site and was a Buddhist monastery along with Thotlakonda and Bavikonda, but people have been going on bikes and littering the sites with empty alcohol bottles and other things. Since there is no gate protecting the entry to the sites, people are driving up to the protected area, and it needs to be stopped, she said. According to heritage enthusiast and environment activist Sohan Hattangadi, a request was made to the Department of Archaeology to build a gate at the foothills, to restrict the entry and free flow of traffic, but it is still to materialise. “Since it was taking some time, we volunteered to build a gate, but that proposal is pending approval from the higher-ups,” he said. Pavurallakonda is located near Bheemunipatnam and flourished as Buddhist monastic complex from 3rd century BC to 2nd century AD. It is one of the largest hilltop Buddhist monasteries in this part of Coastal A.P. And initial excavations had revealed a number of relics and evidences suggesting that viharas, stupas, meditation halls and circular chaityas were part of the monastery. The basic idea is to create an awareness about the site and why it needs to be preserved and conserved, said Mr. Sohan. The walk will begin at 4.30 p.m. from the foothills.
10 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||6 injured in LPG cylinder blast||Six persons, including two women and a minor girl, suffered injuries when a gas cylinder exploded in a house at Sabbavaram area in Visakhapatnam district on Friday. The condition of a 45-year-old woman is said to be critical. According to reports, the incident reportedly took place in the house of one Appa Rao near RTC Complex at Sabbavaram. Appa Rao’s wife Maheswari (45) reportedly tried to connect the valve to a new cylinder, when she found gas leaking from the cylinder. Unable to fix it, she sought the help of Appa Rao and Ganga Raju, who run a shop near their house. Both of them along with Maheswari tried to solve the problem. When they found flames coming out from the valve of the cylinder, both the youth, Maheswari and her daughters Soumya (17) and Amulya (15), and another neighbour tried to run away from the kitchen. The cylinder exploded moments later with a loud sound causing injuries to all the six persons. Maheswari, her two daughters, Appa Rao and Ganga Raju and the neighbour were admitted to a local private hospital in Visakhapatnam after they were given first aid at private hospital in Sabbavaram. It was learnt that the blast destroyed furniture, windows and walls of the house.
10 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Over two lakh students received Vidya Kanuka kits: Minister||Tourism Minister M. Srinivasa Rao on Saturday said that Jagananna Vidya Kanuka kits were handed over to about 2,03,200 students in 4,034 schools from 43 mandals of the district by the end of second day. He said that owing to COVID-19 situation, they are giving the kits after asking the parents to come at different times. He was taking part in a Jagananna Vidya Kanuka programme organised at ZP High School, Gidijala area in Anandapuram, here on Friday. As many as 3.17 lakh students in the 43 mandals in the district will be benefited by the scheme, the officials said. The Minister said that all facilities are being created at the schools as part of Nadu-Nedu initiative. He said that the district would be further developed by bringing Agnampudi-Bhogapuram metro rail project. District Collector V. Vinay Chand said that no child should drop out from education due to financial problems. District Educational Officer B. Lingeswara Reddy and other officials were present.
10 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Fino Payments Bank launches ‘human ATM’||Fino Payments Bank launched its ‘human ATM’ here on Friday at Anuradha Auto Service Centre, a Bharat Petroleum (BPCL) outlet. The outlet has become the banking point of Fino Payments Bank. Equipped with Fino’s Micro ATM and Aadhaar-enabled payment system (AePS) devices, the staff at the outlet transform into a human ATMs, helping people with deposit, withdrawals or money transfer transactions and even open new accounts. Customers can also purchase insurance (health, life, COVID and motor) pay utility bills, recharge mobile and DTH at the BPCL outlets. “Fino’s objective is to help customers bank anywhere, any time by bringing services closer to their doorstep, especially in rural areas. Towards this we are making neighbourhood outlets such as local shops and BPCL outlets as banking points. The outlets are close by and are open till late in the evening allowing customers transact at their convenience either using a debit card or through Aadhaar authentication, without the need to visit a bank branch. Importantly, customers can focus on their work or business, while merchants can earn on every transaction. Also, cash is always available at these outlets unlike at some ATMs,” said Divakar Babu, Cluster Manager, Fino Payments. Anuradha Auto Service is a part of the Fino’s 10,000 strong and growing network of banking points in Andhra Pradesh. This network also includes around 450 outlets of Fino’s strategic partner Bharat Petroleum (BPCL) spread across the State. The points are spread across the remote rural areas of the State as well as Visakhapatnam district.
10 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Justice sought for rape, murder victims of U.P.||Working Women Coordination Committee and Insurance Corporation Employees Union jointly organised a protest demanding justice to rape and murder victims of Uttar Pradesh and strict action against the accused here on Saturday. Convenor of WWCC, T. Sunanda demanded that for safety and security of women, special patrolling teams be launched and economic packages be given to the families of the victims. In another candlelight protest led by Jahanara of Muslim Thinkers Forum and K. Padma of Mahila Chetna and others at Ambedkar Statue, the protesters demanded the dismissal of Yogi Adityanath-led BJP government in UP. V.S. Krishna of HRF, who participated in the protest, said that the alleged gang-rape case at Hathras be handed over to a Supreme Court initiated criminal investigation team, consisting of officers with impeccable integrity and credibility. K. Sudha of HRF, P.D. Satyapal and others participated.
10 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District records 159 new cases and four deaths||District reported 159 new COVID-19 cases and four deaths in the last 24 hours, as per the COVID-19 bulletin released on Friday evening. The new cases take the tally to 52,549 and the death toll to 436 in the district. As many as 209 persons, undergoing treatment under home isolation, COVID-19 care centres and hospitals, recovered in the last 24 hours. With the new discharges, the total recoveries stand at 49,253 till date and active cases have further dropped to 2,860. The district has 317 clusters, including eight very active and 64 active. The Health Department officials appealed to the public to continue taking precautions without fail. They cautioned that cases may rise again if precautions are ignored.
10 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ration kits distributed||Due to the pandemic, the football coaching centres under the aegis of District Football Associations are closed and some of the coaches are facing problems. The Association of Indian Football Coaches with the support of Andhra Pradesh Football Association distributed ration kits to some of the coaches from Visakhapatnam, Vizianagaram, Srikakulam, East Godavari and West Godavari, here on Friday at the office of Andhra Pradesh Football Association.  The kits were distributed by president of AP Football Association Kosaraju Gopala Krishna.
10 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Pandemic taking a toll on mental health’||Lockdown for several months, loss of jobs and uncertainty in the wake of the coronavirus pandemic has created a sense of insecurity among the people. Apart from the monetary loss, the fear of contracting the infection, the impact on global economy and career prospects of students remain the worrying factor. The ongoing National Mental Health Week and the World Mental Health Day-2020 scheduled to be observed on October 10 assume significance against this backdrop. “The pandemic has affected all. The world is experiencing global health emergency due to COVID-19, which has also an impact on mental health. Measures such as social distancing and restrictions on public movement, isolation and uncertainty are causing anxiety, fear and emotional stress in people,” says Sudha Rani, Superintendent of Government Hospital for Mental Care.  The theme for the World Mental Health Day-2020 decided by World Federation for Mental Health is “Mental Health for all - Greater investment, greater access to everyone and everywhere”. Studies conducted by the WHO point out that there has been an increase in mental health issues across the globe. Around 450 million people are suffering from various mental disorders. These mental health issues affect the capability of individuals to cope up with their daily living, way of sustaining relationships and working ability. Suicide is the second leading cause of death among youths in the age group of 15 to 29 years. One person is dying by suicide in every 40 seconds. Poor awareness “Only 15% to 20% of people with mental illness are able to get treatment and this gap can be attributed to poverty, poor awareness and social stigma. Awareness and increasing the access to mental healthcare are the needs of the hour. Given the pandemic situation, no one should be denied of mental healthcare,” says Dr. Radha Rani, a psychiatry professor. The common mental health problems are anxiety, depression, phobias, schizophrenia and bipolar disorder. One can maintain a good mental health by adopting measures such as giving time for self, participating in recreational activities, exercise, yoga and meditation, good diet and sleep and maintaining good relationships with family and friends, she explains.
10 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Botcha inspects STP works||Minister for Municipal Administration and Urban Development (MA&UD) Botcha Satyanarayana along with Visakhapatnam MP M.V.V. Satyanarayana and Greater Visakhapatnam Municipal Corporation (GVMC) Commissioner G. Srijana inspected the works of 108 MLD sewage treatment plant (STP) at Narava area here on Friday. Officials from the Engineering Department explained about the project in a power point presentation. Inspecting the project works, Mr. Satyanarayana has asked the officials to expedite the works related to project-1 and deliver treated water to PSUs. Works related to project – II should be completed by August 2022, he instructed. The Minister also asked the GVMC Commissioner to bring to his notice if she had any issue. Pendurthi MLA Adeep Raj and a few others were present.
10 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Improve facilities for the destitute’||Association for Urban & Tribal Development (AUTD) secretary Pragada Vasu has appealed to the government to improve facilities for destitute and homeless persons in Visakhapatnam. He said that the government should set up a 100-bed shelter for every one lakh population. He said working hostels should be set up separately for men and women near labour workplaces. Special shelters should be arranged for mentally challenged and differently-abled persons, he added.
10 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Faculty Development Programme from Oct. 13||The AICTE Training and Learning Academy sponsored five-day ‘Faculty Development Programme’ (ATAL FDP) on ‘Photography and Media Communication’ will be organised by Lendi Engineering College in Vizianagaram district from October 13 to 17. According to V.V. Rama Reddy, Principal, and Tammineni Haribabu, director of the programme, the programme would help the teachers in updating their skills.
10 October 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Child rights activist dies of COVID-19||Child rights activist Abdul Raqeeb (57) died in the early hours of Friday. He was admitted to a private hospital a few days ago, after testing positive for COVID-19. Raqeeb was an advocate and served as a member of Juvenile Justice Board, District Legal Services Authority and as vice-president of Visakha Forum for Child Rights. Rahimunnisa Begum, joint secretary, Visakha Forum for Child Rights, said that he worked tirelessly for the cause of child rights and improvement of correctional schools. He is survived by his wife and two sons. Forum of Legal Professionals on Friday condoled the death of Abdul Raqeeb. He was also one of the founding members of the forum, said Kuppili Muralidhar of the forum.
10 October 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||100 LED screens in Vizianagaram to show Sirimanotsavam live||The historic Sirimanotsavam of Sri Pyditalli Ammavari temple here is going to be a low-key affair this time with restrictions on movement of devotees on the festival day on October 27, thanks to the COVID-19 pandemic that has already created a havoc in Vizianagaram and many parts of the district. Normally around three lakh people participate in the utsavam when the Sirimanu would move three times from Sri Pyditalli Ammavari temple and the fort of Pusapati Gajapathi families. Taking a cue from the recent Puri Jagannath utsavam and Sri Venkateswara temple Brahmotsavam at Tirumala, the Andhra Pradesh government has come out with many guidelines for conducting the festival without breaking local traditions and customs. After taking the opinion of political leaders and representatives of various non-governmental organisations in the Collector’s office here on Friday, Minister for Municipal Administration Botcha Satyanarayana urged people not to attend the Sirimanotsavam directly since it might to lead to spread of coronavirus in the absence of social distance. Shops to be closed “We will set up nearly 100 LED screens in the entire city to enable devotees to watch Sirimanotsavam from their respective streets. Also, women devotees who carry Ammavari ghatams should not come to the temple with their family members and relatives. All the shops and establishments will have to be closed on the day. We will also restrict movement of buses and other vehicles to prevent people coming from other places,” he said. MLA Kolagatla Veerabhadra Swamy urged people to have darshan of Goddess Pyditalli now onwards instead of waiting till the day of Sirimanotsavam. MP Bellana Chandrasekhar and YSRCP district political coordinator Majji Srinivasa Rao urged citizens not to invite their relatives and friends for the festival this year. Collector M. Hari Jawaharlal said that all cultural events and traditional dances were cancelled this year.
10 October 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Vidya Kanuka will ensure quality education: Dy. CM||Deputy Chief Minister and Minister for Tribal Welfare Pamula Pushpa Srivani has said that the renovation of government schools under the Nadu-Nedu programme and the ‘Jagananna Vidya Kanuka’ scheme would bring in remarkable changes to the education system in the State. The Minister distributed Vidya Kanuka kits comprising uniforms, shoes, bags and others to students at Andhra Pradesh Model School at Kurupam in Vizianagaram district on Friday. She recalled pathetic situation at government schools during the previous regimes and said that things would change for the better from now. She said that the government was trying its best to ensure quality education in government school on par with their private counterparts. Parvatipuram Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA) Project Officer R. Kurmanath hoped that the refurbished government schools with more facilities would ensure enrolment of more students.
10 October 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||New building of IRCS inaugurated||Minister for Municipal Administration and Urban Development Botcha Satyanarayana on Friday inaugurated a building of Indian Red Cross Society (IRCS) near the Collector’s office in Vizianagaram. The building was constructed at a cost of Rs. 86 lakh. The IRCS had been functioning from a small building in the Cantonment. The Minister assured all help to ensure all the equipment for the IRCS blood bank and other service activities. IRCS former chairman and Revenue Divisional Officer K.R.D. Prasada Rao, Vizianagaram MP Bellana Chandrasekhar, MLA Kolagatla Veerabhadra Swamy, Collector M. Hari Jawaharlal and others were present. They planted saplings to mark the occasion.
10 October 2020||October 10 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Childhood lost!||
10 October 2020||October 10 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Having their fill||
10 October 2020||October 10 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Good catch||
10 October 2020||October 10 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Traffic comes to a crawl||
10 October 2020||October 10 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Who will be the early bird?||
10 October 2020||Bhadradri-Kothagudem,TELANGANA||Probe into payments by colllege||A detailed inquiry was ordered into the allegations of irregularities in disbursement of wages to contract lecturers and scholarship to some students at the College of Teacher Education (Tribal Welfare) in Bhadrachalam in recent years. The authorities of the Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA), Bhadrachalam, constituted two panels each comprising three senior officials to probe the matter. Sources said an MLA brought the matter to the notice of the authorities. Deputy Director, Tribal Welfare, Zaheeruddin said a detailed inquiry was being conducted.
10 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Telangana adds 1,891 more COVID cases||Telangana State recorded 1,891 coronavirus cases on Thursday, taking the total number of positive cases to 2,08,535. Seven more persons succumbed taking the total number of casualties to 1,208. The total number of active cases as on Thursday was 26,374 with 21,801 persons under home/institutional quarantine. The reports of 915 of the 53,086 samples tested are awaited and the total number of samples tested till date reached 34,49,925, a shade lower than the 35 lakh mark. The case fatality rate continued to be much lower at 0.57% against the national average of 1.5%. The number of recoveries continued to be on par or higher than the positive cases with 1,878 persons recovering from the impact of the virus on Thursday taking the total number of recovered persons to 1,80,953. The recovery rate at 86.7% was slightly higher than the national average of 85.5%. Of the total new positive cases, Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation continued to contribute the major share with 285 persons testing positive on Thursday. Neighbouring Medchal-Malkajgiri and Rangareddy districts reported 195 and 175 new cases respectively while Nalgonda too reported cases in three digits at 128. The number was just short of 100 in Karimnagar which reported 97 new cases during the day. Kumrambheem Asifabad district reported the lowest number of positive cases at 10 and the number of positive cases was on the lower side in Narayanpet (13) and Bhupalpally (18). Nirmal with 22 cases and Mancherial with 23 were among the districts that reported lower number of cases, according to the bulletin released by the Health department.
10 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Heavy rain pounds Hyderabad||An intensive spell of rain lasting for over an hour on Friday has rendered Hyderabad a virtual Venice, throwing life out of gear for several hours, and giving commuters the taste of a living hell. Roads became streams, and rain water entered homes in several low lying areas and slums. Several localities in the city recorded what could be more than a day’s rainfall otherwise, within an hour between 6.30 p.m. and 7.30 p.m. As per the data received from the automatic weather stations across the city, Asif Nagar received the highest rainfall at 15 centimetres, followed by Shaikpet at 13 centimetres. Khairatabad, Red Hills, Vijaynagar Colony, and Banjara Hills were next in line with over 10 centimetres of rain, while Shaikpet, Srinagar colony, Tolichowki, Mehdipatnam, Gudimalkapur, Abids, Secunderabad, Patigadda, and Ziaguda all recorded very heavy rain. In fact, for several localities such as Asifnagar, Khairatabad, Banjara Hills, Shaikpet, Mehdipatnam and Tolichowki, Friday’s was the highest rainfall recorded during the whole season. Other areas receiving heavy rain included Sardarmahal, Begum Bazaar, Padmarao Nagar, Golkonda, Malakpet, L.B.Nagar, Kawadiguda, Nampally, Musheerabad, Asmangadh, Monda Market, Attapur, Amberpet and others. Streets were virtual streams in low lying areas, and rain water entered homes in slums such as Anjaiah Basthi in Adikmet, Bapuji Nagar in Musheerabad and Shankar Nagar in Amberpet, and Osman Gunj near Jambagh. Heavy water stagnation on main roads was reported from areas such as Karwan, Kala Pathhar, Musarambagh, Malakpet, Dilsukhnagar, Banjara Hills, Mehdipatnam, Attapur, Mallepally, Basheerbagh, Koti, Khairatabad, Somajiguda, Punjagutta and Hayatnagar which hampered the traffic flow severely for a long time. People travelling from outside got stuck in the city, unable to reach the railway stations or bus terminals due to the heavy traffic jams on all roads. Drainage network failed at several locations, leading to sewage water overflow on roads. At locations such as Chintal Basthi, overflowing storm water drains posed threat to commuters with waist deep water, forcing them to return. Up to 8 p.m., GHMC has received a total of 271 rain-related complaints, 168 of them about drainage overflow, and 68, about water logging. Eight were complaints about tree fall or fallen branches obstructing traffic. Department of Meteorology has predicted thunderstorm accompanied with lightning very likely at isolated places over Telangana, with occasional heavy to very heavy rains for the next three days. Officials have attributed the rain to the low pressure area in North Andaman sea and Middle Eastern Bay of Bengal, coupled with an upper air trough. The phenomenon could transform into a cyclonic depression in mid Bay of Bengal and travel towards North and North-Western direction to hit the Northern coast of AP.
10 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Bathukamma saris’ distribution begins||The State government launched its annual distribution of saris to poor women for Bathukamma festival, beginning on October 17, with fanfare on Friday. Just as last year, one crore saris will be distributed but what makes the programme different this time was introduction of an additional 187 varieties. Ministers, MLAs and other leaders formally inaugurated the programme taken up at a cost of Rs. 318 crore. The cost went up this year from Rs. 295 crore last year as the government introduced gold and silver colours in the zari of the saris. Only gold colour was added to zari last year. According to Mr. V. Ashok Rao, Assistant Director of Handlooms and Textiles at Sircilla where the entire production of saris in huge bundles began six months ago, women of below-the-poverty-line families will get saris in 287 varieties as against 100 last year. The saris were produced in 20 colours. About 15,000 workers were employed day and night on 25,000 powerlooms in the town. They were assured of an income of Rs. 16,000 to Rs. 25,000 per month. The government had launched the programme in 2017 but it was only from the following year that the bundles of 15 to 16 saris each were produced in toto in Sircilla. Since only four months were available for production in the first year, 50% of saris were outsourced from manufacturing facilities in Surat. The programme was taken up by government with the twin objectives of gifting saris to poor women and providing employment to powerloom workers at hundreds of `sanchas', as sheds in Sircilla housing the looms are called. Mr. Ashok Rao said seven crore metres of cloth was produced locally from which 90 lakh saris of 6.3-metre length and 10 lakh saris of 9-metre length were made. Each sari will have a blouse piece of 80 centimetres. The 9-metre saris were meant for women adopting Maharashtrian culture in border areas of the State. The programme was handled by Telangana State Handlooms Cooperative Society right from placing orders, selecting varieties and designs, procurement from looms and supply to districts. The cost of 6.3-metre sari worked out to Rs. 300 while it was Rs. 330 for 9-metre saris. The society began dispatch of cloth from Sircilla to processing units in Hyderabad in July. The cloth underwent heating in water, cutting and packing at Hyderabad. After the formal launch on Friday, distribution committees comprising panchayat secretaries, fair price shop dealers and representatives of women groups will either take up door delivery or distribute with COVID-19 precautions at gram panchayat buildings.
10 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Lukewarm response to Metro service||It’s been a month since Hyderabad Metro Rail (HMR) has commenced operations after a gap of five and a half months due to the COVID-19 pandemic and passengers gingerly stepping into the three-coach trains has reached about 80,000 in all the three corridors. “We have been expecting passengers’ count to rise gradually and the numbers are as per our expectation. By and large, citizens have been disciplined in adhering to the safety protocols of mandatory face masks, physical distancing and personal hygiene at the stations and inside the trains too,” said managing director N.V.S. Reddy. Corridor One or the Red Line - L.B. Nagar to Miyapur has about 48,000 passengers daily, the second corridor or the Green Line - Jubilee Bus Station to MGBS (Imlibun) is seeing about 4,000 passengers and the third corridor of Blue Line - Nagole to Raidurg is carrying about 28,000 passengers. Everyday, 51 trains are making about 750 trips with frequency between five and seven minutes depending on the rush from 7 a.m. to 9 p.m. The MD stated that save for a few groups of youngsters seen removing their face masks and congregating inside the trains, it has been a relatively smooth affair. “Our staff have been politely telling such passengers to keep the masks on. So far, we have not taken any action because it is clear most citizens are conscious of potential virus spread of the raging pandemic and are following the safety protocols diligently,” maintained Mr. Reddy. Metro Rail authorities started commercial operations with a new set of rules of thermal screening of passengers at entry level, hand sanitation stands, making face masks compulsory and social distancing marking done inside stations and trains - standing and seating too. Before the lockdown HMR was carrying close to five lakh passengers a day with most passengers travelling towards the IT/ITES corridors on the Blue Line towards Hi-Tec City and Raidurg. “Till the IT/ITES employees start travelling to their respective offices, we are not expecting a surge in passenger travel. In any case, we are having the second highest passenger count in Metro rail travel across the country with Delhi Metro carrying seven lakh passengers a day as against the pre-lockdown of 26 lakh. However, we are not yet witnessing rush during the peak hours as is being witnessed in the national capital where passengers are being urged to stagger their travel timing,” explained the MD.
10 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||SCCL to boast 15 MW floating solar plants||The third phase installation of solar power generation with a capacity of 80.5 MW by Singareni Collieries Company Ltd (SCCL) would be at six places including floating plants at two locations. A pre-agreement kick-off meeting with two private agencies selected for establishing the solar plants – Adani Group and Novus Green – was held here on Friday by Director (Electricial & Mechanical) D. Satyanarayana Rao. Representatives of the two developers and general managers of three areas (mines) of SCCL participated in the meeting. According to officials of SCCL, the meeting was held to finalise the final agreement draft so that the establishment of the solar plants could be completed within a year. The officials stated that the third phase of solar power capacity addition would be of three types – on land, overburden dumps and water bodies of the company. Of the 80.5 MW capacity to be developed in the third phase, 33.5 MW would be on land including 22.5 MW plant at Garimellipadu in Kothagudem area and 11 MW plant near Chennur in Srirampur area. First time in the coal companies’ annals, 32 MW solar plants would come up on the overburden dumps of closed mines. They would come up at opencast-1 dump of Ramagundam-3 area (22 MW) and opencast-1 dump of Dorli in Bellampally area (10 MW), the officials explained. Of the floating solar plants, 10 MW plant would be developed in the water reservoir of Singareni Thermal Power Plant at Pegadapalli near Jaipur and another 5 MW plant in closed Dorli opencast-1 quarry water. “The contract of floating solar plants has been given to Novus Green Energy Systems since it has the experience of establishing 230 MW capacity solar plants in association with a few other firms in Maharashtra”, the officials said. The solar plants on land and overburden dumps would be developed by the Adani Group. Significance of the third phase of solar power capacity development was use of indigenous photovoltaic panels and the Central government was extending a subsidy of Rs. 50 crore at Rs. 68 lakh per MW for using the indigenous solar panels.
10 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||No LRS, no TRS: TPCC chief||TPCC president N Uttam Kumar Reddy has asked people not to apply for Land Regularisation Scheme (LRS) and the Congress would do it free of cost once it is returned to power. “It is the most inhuman scheme to fleece people and we are calling upon people not to apply for TRS,” he said while speaking to reporters on Zoom App. “Congress would go to people with the slogan No LRS and No TRS,” he said. Retired District Registration Officer Vishnuvardhan Raju termed the LRS scheme a burden on the people for no fault of theirs. He said 80% of the plots in Telangana were under gram panchayat layouts and this scheme will burden all of them to the tune of lakhs of rupees. Giving an example, he said people from just one village on the outskirts of the city would have to pay Rs. 80 crore under LRS and imagine the burden on all the villages included. Anyone who owns 200 yards plot would have to pay Rs. 50,000 and the amount increases sharply as the plot size increases. He said it was strange that 14% additional fee was imposed where land was not left vacant for civic purposes. “Will the government provide that land now,” he asked.  ‘KTR misled’ Stating that there was no humane angle in the LRS but only an intention to fill up the coffers at the cost of people, MLC T. Jeevan Reddy said the very intention of the government was to make money at a time when people had lost employment and were under tremendous financial stress due to COVID. He accused Municipal Administration Minister K.T. Rama Rao of cheating people and not keeping his word on the statement made in the Assembly. He said KTR promised on the floor of the House that charges would be levied based on the value at the time of the plot registration. But the subsequent GO issued did not mention anything about it. People who bought the plots years ago for small sums would have to pay the penalty based on the present rates, which was illegal and unethical, he argued.
10 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Facial recognition software helps identify missing teen||A 13-year-old autistic boy who went missing from Uttar Pradesh five years ago was traced at a child home in Assam with the help of the facial recognition tool of Telangana State police ‘Darpan’. The boy was reunited with his parents on Friday. The boy, a resident of Handia in Allahabad, Uttar Pradesh, went missing from his home on July 14, 2015. Police said that in July 2015, Assam’s Golpara Police spotted him after which he was taken in by the Child Welfare Centre. Meanwhile, the Telangana State Police began to match missing children’s photographs with photos of those who are inmates of children homes across the country using Darpan. As soon as Som’s photos were matched, they informed the Handia Police Station of the development who immediately alerted the child’s parents.
10 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Special postal cover on corona warriors||Chief Postmaster General of Telangana Circle S. Rajendra Kumar on Friday released a special postal cover with the theme “A salute to the Postal Corona Warrior” on the occasion of World Post Day celebrated on October 9 every year. He also inaugurated the celebrations for the national postal week. In a press release, Mr. Rajendra Kumar said that World Post Day is celebrated to mark the anniversary of the Universal Postal Union (UPU) established in 1874. The purpose of the celebration is to bring awareness to the Post’s role in the everyday lives of people and businesses. This year, the postal industry showed the world its resilience and determination with its invaluable role in every society in spite of the COVID pandemic, he stated. Those who are interested may purchase the special cover at the Hyderabad GPO for Rs. 20.
10 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||FGG moves HC, seeks special Task Force for cases against MsP, MsLA||Forum for Good Governance (FGG) has filed a PIL petition in Telangana High Court seeking a direction to the State government for constitution of a special Task Force for completion of trial of all criminal cases against MsP and MsLA within a year. A voluntary organisation, FGG asked the court to instruct the government to appoint a public prosecutor and staff members to the Special Court to try cases against MsP and MsLA. It also wanted the government to update the HC about the progress in the trial of these criminal cases every month. ‘Inaction illegal’ Seeking to declare inaction of the government on the matter as illegal, the petitioner requested the court to direct the government to initiate immediate steps for completion of trial of all criminal cases involving MsP and MsLA. Stressing the need for constitution of a special Task Force, FGG secretary M. Padmanabha Reddy said in the petition that seven criminal cases were pending against seven Ministers of Telangana Cabinet and the Chief Minister. In majority of the cases, the Station House Officer who is supposed to investigate the cases would be working at the pleasure of the local MLA or Minister, the petitioner said. Under such circumstances, the investigators would tend to drag the cases and would not take interest in successful prosecution of the case against the public representative concerned. In this backdrop, a special Task Force on the lines of an agency like Anti-Corruption Bureau was the need of the hour to probe such cases, the petitioner contended. It was stated in the plea that not all cases registered against MsP and MsLA were transferred to the Special Court. 300 cases While there were more than 300 cases against public representatives (133 involving MsP and 150 cases involving MsLA), only 118 were transferred to the Special Court. The plea is likely to come up for hearing next week.
10 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||CPI seeks extension of time for data collection||The Communist Party of India State council has requested Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao to extend the deadline for enumeration of non-agricultural properties including houses, flats and vacant lands till January end. In a letter addressed to the Chief Minister, Communist Party of India State secretary Chada Venkat Reddy said enumeration of non-agricultural properties was a welcome step. ‘Time constraints’ But setting 15 days’ deadline would not serve the purpose given the limited staff available with the government. Faced with the time constraints, employees assigned the task of enumeration could not effectively complete the task and this could result in lapses in the data collection. Moreover, the same set of employees were assigned the responsibilities of smooth conduct of the forthcoming elections to the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation making it difficult for them to effectively handle the twin responsibilities, the CPI leader said. In view of this, the government should extend the deadline till January end so that the objective of the exercise could be achieved.
10 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Moinabad case: Cong. leaders extend aid||Former Minister Mohammed Ali Shabbir on Friday extended financial assistance of Rs. 50,000 to family members of victim of Moinabad ‘rape and murder’ case. Victim's sister , brother and other relatives met Mr. Shabbir Ali at his residence on Friday. Hyderabad Congress Committee Minorities Department chairman Sameer Waliullah and other Congress leaders had a detailed discussion with the family members on the status of case and also their economic conditions. Shabbir Ali spoke to the investigating officer Ashok Chakravarthy and enquired about the progress of the investigation. The accused Madhu Yadav is already lodged in prison and it would be difficult for him to come out on bail as he was arrested under PD Act, the police told Mr. Shabbir Ali. The Congress leader said the victim, who was allegedly raped and murdered by the TRS leader, was the sole bread earner of the family. He slammed the State government for not extending any financial assistance. Further, the Congress leader said that the victim’s sister had no formal education so far. Therefore, he announced that he would bear all the expenses if any NGO provides her basic education, including Deeni Taleem.
10 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Don’t seek votes in villages with Indiramma houses: Ponnam||Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee working president Ponnam Prabhakar has challenged Finance Minister T. Harish Rao to visit the villages in Dubbaka constituency where double bedroom houses were built and Congress leaders would visit where Indiramma houses were constructed. The visit was enough to expose how the ruling party had been deceiving people in the last six years, he said at a press conference here on Friday. “You don’t go and seek votes where Indiramma houses were constructed and we will not visit any village where double bedroom houses were constructed,” he maintained. Mr. Prabhakar said Mr. Harish Rao was lying about the development in Dubbaka and asked the voters to see the promises made by the Finance Minister in all the constituencies where byelections were held. “Why is he afraid of Congress leaders if TRS has really developed the constituency?” he said questioning, ‘forceful’ admission of Congress leaders into the TRS. He also wanted to know how many times did the Chief Minister visit Dubbaka? Harish assailed  Sangareddy MLA T. Jagga Reddy said Mr. Harish Rao was raking up unnecessary issues in the election campaign to divert attention from core issues. The Finance Minister should explain how many farmers in Dubbaka were extended farm loan waiver, how many unemployed youths got the Rs. 3,016-dole promised in the Assembly elections, why didn’t the pension age was not reduced to 57 years as promised and how many Dubai returned youths were given employment? While these were the real issues that Mr. Harish Rao should talk about, he was diverting attention, Mr. Reddy alleged. He also said that Dubbaka farmers lost crop in the rains but not one got financial assistance.
10 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Dharani will be a household survey’||The Telangana unit of the Congress has said that the new exercise of seeking details of non-agricultural property details would end up like ‘Samagra Kutumba Survey’ taken up five years ago and the data would be used by Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao for political and electoral purposes. “Just like another Samagra Kutumba Survey the data of which was never made public and used by the Chief Minister for political and electoral purposes and people will gain nothing from it,” Telangana Pradesh Congress Committee Treasurer, Gudur Narayana Reddy said in a statement here. ‘Apprehensions’ The Congress leader said the government had been creating apprehensions among people by taking up registration of non-agricultural assets in Dharani portal and that too without stating the objectives. People of the State were unable to understand the reasons for seeking uploading of registration of the details of their non-agricultural assets. What would be the use of passbooks to be issued through Dharani, the Telangana Pradesh Congress leader asked.
10 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Owners, worker of go-karting facility arrested||Two days after 21-year-old Kapa Varshini was involved in a freak go-karting accident, and later succumbed to her injuries, Meerpet police on Friday arrested the proprietors of the Hasten Go-Karting in Balapur, and one of their employees. The accused have been identified as Gurram Lohith Reddy (29), and Modini Kiran Kumar. Both are residents of B N Reddy Nagar in Vanasthalipuram. The duo are partners at Hasten Go-Karting. The third accused has been identified as Kongara Srikanth (23). Police said that it was on October 7 that the victim, along with her relatives, went to Hasten Go-Karting. While she and her uncle were in the go-kart, the helmet which she was wearing came off and her hair got entangled in the rear wheel. According to police the accused did not have requisite permissions to run the establishment. They allegedly also did not have security measures in place.
10 October 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘NEP will make India global hub of quality education’||Governor Tamilisai Soundararajan said that the National Education Policy 2020, proposed by the Central government, will transform the education system and make the country a global hub of quality education. NEP-2020 is set to mould students as job creators, not job seekers. The Governor said this while addressing a webinar on NEP, organised by the Centre for South Indian Studies (CSIS) on Friday. She said the new policy envisaged creating global citizens with strong Indian roots. NEP-2020 would enable the country regain its position as ‘Vishwa Guru’ if implemented in true spirit by all stakeholders. There is a need for active participation by different sections of people in effective implementation of the policy for making India a global knowledge super power. Towards this end, all educational institutions should be in a position to offer world class education.
10 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Woman attacked by son’s in-laws||A 55-year-old woman was allegedly assaulted by her son’s in-laws over disputes in connection with civic amenities in a house. The victim has been identified as Tasneem Sultana, a resident of Feroz Gandhi Nagar. The accused, also around 55-years-old, has been identified as Asifa. The attack came to light after a video clip which purportedly captured the incident was widely shared on social media. It also shows another woman, said to be her daughter-in-law, attacking the victim According to Humayun Nagar police, who are investigating the case, the duo have filed cases against each other in the past and have frequent disagreements. Ms Sultana’s son married the accused on the phone and lives in Saudi Arabia. “We have booked a case under Section 323 of the IPC. The two families have been having problems,” Humayun Nagar inspector Korani Sunil said.
10 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||PDS rice racket busted||The task force police of North Zone on Friday busted a racket in sale of rice meant for public distribution system by arresting a man selling the stocks at a higher price. The arrested man, Md Alauddin (25), was a businessman who resided in Bholakpur. According to police, Alauddin came in contact with one Syed Mohiuddin Quadri, a resident of Mailardevpally, who is involved in the illegal purchase of PDS rice from agents. Police said that Quadri is absconding.
10 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Two killed, three injured on ORR||Two persons were killed and at least three, including a minor, were injured early on Friday morning on the Outer Ring Road, under the Narsingi Police Station limits. According to police, those killed were Pradeep Chandra (24) and Vishwanath (26). Police said that Pradeep was driving a vehicle on the wrong side of the road. He was in an inebriated condition. “The accident was reported around 4 a.m. They started for Nagarjunasagar from Hayatnagar in a drunken condition. Because they were drunk, they took a wrong route and reached Kokapet instead. After realising that they came the wrong way, they drove back on the wrong side of the road resulting in the collision,” the police said.
10 October 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Petition on ‘Disha encounter’ film release closed||Justice P. Naveen Kumar of Telangana High Court on Friday closed a writ petition filed by the father of victim in Disha case seeking to stop the release of a film made by Ram Gopal Varma (RGV) on the sexual assault and murder of his daughter. The petitioner’s daughter, a veterinarian, was violated by a quartet of youngsters before brutally killing her and torching her body in Shadnagar on Hyderabad outskirts in November last year. Subsequently, the Cyberabad police arrested the four accused. They were killed in an exchange of fire with the police when they allegedly tried to flee after being taken to the crime scene for reconstruction of crime. The victim’s father stated in his petition that it was not proper to make a film on her when the case was still being inquired into by a judicial commission constituted by the Supreme Court. He requested the court to pass instructions restraining the director from releasing the movie this November 26 as already announced by him. Justice P. Naveen Rao sought to know from the Assistant Solicitor General Namavarapu Rajeshwara Rao what was the stand of the authorities and the Censor Board on the matter. A lawyer attached to ASG’s office informed the court that the officials and the Censor Board authorities did not receive any representation from any person raising objection over making the film on Disha’s case. The judge disposed of the petition asking the authorities to resolve expeditiously if an application was received raising objection over the film.
10 October 2020||hyderabad,TELANGANA||Neem-coated urea seized, man held||The task force police of south zone in Hyderabad and agriculture department officials on Friday apprehended a man for illegal procurement of subsidised urea. The accused, Nishanth Sobti (37), was a businessman from King Kothi. The State government has been supplying urea to farmers at subsidised rates. The accused, police said, had been buying urea for a less price and using this to manufacture raw material used in making fibre plates. The officials seized 325 bags weighing a total of 15 tonnes of neem-coated urea of the Jai Kisan brand. Sobti along with the seized material was handed over to the Kamatipura police for further investigation.
10 October 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||CPI(M) protests against LRS||Terming the Government Order (GO Ms No 131) pertaining to the Layout Regularisation Scheme (LRS) as an "unjustified move" aimed at filling the State's coffers, cadres of the CPI(M) laid siege to Khammam Municipal Corporation (KMC) office here on Friday demanding withdrawal of the GO. Holding placards containing slogans against GO 131, the demonstrators staged a sit-in protest at the entrance of KMC office. Some of the placards read: "Condemn levy of hefty penalties under the LRS - stop burdening people for filling up coffers" and "Take up LRS with nominal charges." Speaking at the protest, the party district secretary N Nageswara Rao came down heavily on the TRS government for allegedly imposing a huge financial burden on people at a time when the State is grappling with the ripple effects of COVID-19 pandemic. The persons at the helm have virtually issued an ultimatum to people to pay the stipulated charges before January 31, 2021 in the name of LRS, Mr Rao alleged, deploring that the move is tantamount to compelling people to pay hefty charges for filling up the State treasury in the current crisis situation. Stir to continue "People will teach a fitting lesson to the rulers at the hustings for such arbitrary measures," he said, vowing to continue the agitation against the GO 131 by enlisting the support of all sections. CPI (M) State committee member P Venkateshwara Rao, district executive committee members Y Srikanth, M Bharathi, Y Vikram, N Manohar, B Ramesh and others took part in the sit-in protest.  A delegation comprising CPI(M) district leaders submitted a memorandum with their charter of demands to Municipal Assistant Commissioner Malleshwari.
10 October 2020||Kulabgur,TELANGANA||Layout made on govt. acquired land||Tension prevailed for sometime at this village in Sangareddy mandal on Friday when officials cleared an illegal layout. The Revenue officials have to take heavy police protection to clear the layout. Villagers had a heated argument with the officials with some villagers even using abusing words against them. About 13 acres of land in different survey numbers was acquired by the government about two decades ago for house sites. Even pattas were issued for about 316 beneficiaries by the officials then. Only 80 members have constructed houses, whereas the remaining land was vacant. During the time of land acquisition, some farmers approached the court and the government deposited the money in the court and now the land belongs to government and the case pending in court. The land was purchased by the government by paying Rs. 35,000 per acre. Feeling that justice was not meted out to them, the farmers who sold their land to the government approached a local leader who promised to do justice. The farmers were reportedly lured by some local leaders who promised them to offer plots and some money. In the vacant land, new a layout was drawn by the local leaders. But, according to officials, the beneficiaries will have only two years to time to construct houses, if not the land can be resume by the Revenue Department. The farmers who lost their land are of the impression that they are being rendered justice by the local leader by allotting them a plot and offering some money, which they could not receive so far “At least some leader came forward to do justice to us. We feel this is right as our repeated efforts to get justice failed. We might have purchased lands then itself at some other place had we been paid compensation in one go,” some farmers said. Knowing about the layout in the government acquired land, Mandal Revenue Officer Swamy visited the house sites allotted area in Kulabgur on Thursday and Friday and interacted with locals for some time. Finally with police protection the illegal lay out was removed by the revenue officials. “It is a government acquired land and lay out there is illegal. Hence we have removed it,” said the MRO.
10 October 2020||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||‘Empowering women through legal awareness’||“There can be no women empowerment if women are not aware of their legal rights.” Asserting the purpose statement by the National Commission for Women (NCW), the District Legal Services Authority (DLSA) conducted a legal awareness session aimed at empowering women here on Thursday. Launched as part of the 74th Independence Day celebrations, the NCW campaign aims to familiarise women with the various organs available for justice, ways and channels to approach the redressal system and sensitise women and girls about various laws. Principal District and Sessions Judge, Nalgonda, M.V. Ramesh, speaking at the campaign inaugural said the district administration, the police and the DLSA should take responsible part in imparting awareness to women. He said such sessions serve as an important platform. DLSA Secretary G. Venu, Addl. District Judge of Women’s Court V. Sharada Devi, III Addl. District Judge M. Bhavani and other resource persons discussed and explained the various women-related legislations to the gathering. The NCW’s legal awareness campaign was so far launched in eight States – including Telangana and Andhra Pradesh.
10 October 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Tension as officials attempt ‘forceful’ vacation of village||Tension prevailed for some time at Errvalli in Kondapaka mandal on Friday when officials and police reached the village with heavy force, directing the villagers to vacate. The village will get submerged by Mallannasagar along with some other villages. According to sources, a large number of police and revenue staff reached the village in the morning and asked the villagers to vacate, stating that they would be provided accommodation at Mutrajpally near Gajwel town. However, the villages refused to vacate, saying some villagers were yet to get compensation and package. There was a heated argument between villagers and officials. The officials promised to address the pending issues. They visited every house and collected details of pending compensation and package. They said the issue would be presented to the Collector and addressed immediately. Some villagers told the officials that they would vacate only after Dasara as they wanted to celebrate the last festival in the village and play Bathukamma. The officials promised to give them time till the festival was over. “We have postponed our decision to get the village vacated as per their request. The double bedroom units are ready for house-warming,” K. Rameswar, mandal revenue officer, Kondapaka, told The Hindu .
10 October 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Dubbak was once TDP fortress||The Telugu Desam Party, which once ruled the State, is history. This was once again proved in the ongoing by-election of Dubbak. Dubbak constituency was formed after reorganisations of constituencies during the united Andhra Pradesh. Before that it was Dommata constituency. In 1957. the constituency was represented by Ananta Reddy of PDF, followed by K. Moinuddin of Congress in 1962, M. Bhim Reddy, Independent in 1967, S. Ramachandra Reddy of Congress in 1972, A Lingaiah of Indira Congress in 1978, A Lingaiah of Congress in 1983, D. Ramachandra Reddy of TDP in 1985, Cheruku Muthyam Reddy from TDP in 1989, 1994, 1999 and 2009 (from Congress), S. Ramalinga Reddy in 2004, 2008, 2014 and 2018. Model constituency It was Muthyam Reddy who developed Dommat constituency as a model when he was with the Telugu Desam Party and it had become a model for other legislators to visit and develop their respective constituencies. Not only that, even officials from other areas visited the constituency to understand the development model designed by Mr Muthayam Reddy. The Congress, TDP and TRS have represented the constituency - four times each. From 1985 to 1999, it was like a fortress for the TDP. But after Mr. Muthaym Reddy left the party, it lost many leaders to other parties and finally could not find a leader who can even contest the elections.
10 October 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Notification issued for Dubbak bypoll||Notification for the conduct of by-election for Dubbak Assembly seat was issued by Returning Officer B Chennaiah on Friday. The last date for submitting nominations is October 16. Scrutiny of nominations will be on October 17. Withdrawal of nominations will be on October 19. The election will be held on November 3. Meanwhile, six independents - Burra Ravitheja, Revu Chinna Dhanaraju, Srikanth Siliveru, Mother Naresh, Meesala Raja Sagar and Kota Shyam Kumar filed nominations on the first day.
10 October 2020||SURYAPET,TELANGANA||‘CMs of erstwhile AP were ignorant of Bathukamma’||Chief ministers in the erstwhile Andhra Pradesh did not know the importance of Bathukamma festival and the then leaders from the Telangana region also did not care, Energy Minister G. Jagadish Reddy remarked on Friday. Similarly, the welfare schemes that are central to the Telangana Rashtra Samithi government were not visible prior during the terms of the previous governments up to 2014 — “that difference itself is good governance,” he said. Speaking at an event to launch the distribution of Bathukamma sarees to eligible beneficiaries in the town, Mr. Reddy drew a comparison with the governments before the formation of State of Telangana, and said the State has been continuing its march of progress with the re-election of the TRS in 2018. The Energy Minister referred to a number of issues that were part of prominent electoral speeches — that the previous governments resorted to lathi charge when asked for seed and electricity supply, and wondered why States ruled by the Congress and Bharatiya Janata Party, and their leaders, do not have people-centric schemes like Rythu Bandhu and free electricity supply for farm sector, among others.  ‘Proactive CM’ “TRS government is giving Kalyana Lakshmi, Rs. 13,000 to women at first delivery and celebrating festivals with the poor, which were never asked by anyone, but Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao delivered,” he said, describing it an example of good governance. Municipal Chairperson Perumalla Annapurna and Rajya Sabha member Badugula Lingaiah Yadav were present in the distribution programme.
10 October 2020||SURYAPET,TELANGANA||Man booked for sexual assault on eight-year-old||A 20-year-old man, S. Raju, was booked under provisions of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act and the Section 376, for allegedly sexually assaulting a minor girl. The incident came to light on Friday, after the aggrieved parents of the eight-year-old girl approached the police and the District Collector for action. It was learnt that the family had approached a local doctor on Wednesday after the assault. According to information, the girl’s father, a masonry worker, was away, and her mother was at a neighbour’s house when the incident took place on Wednesday. The petition to the police said the father, who had returned from work, discovered the scene from the window as the door was locked from inside. The man escaped after an alarm was raised. Town police said the suspect was taken into custody within 24 hours and relevant cases booked. District Collector T. Vinay Krishna Reddy on Friday assured swift action and compensation as per POCSO Act.
10 October 2020||New Delhi,||Parents move HC against fee hike in DPS||Parents of nearly 150 students studying in various branches of Delhi Public School (DPS) have approached the Delhi High Court against the increase in annual and tuition fees in alleged contravention of government orders. The application has been moved by the parents seeking to intervene in a plea filed by DPS Society against the Delhi government’s orders of April 18 — which directed all the private unaided schools not to charge fee, except tuition fees during the lockdown period — and August 28 — which directed them to refund or adjust the amounts other than the tuition fees charged by them.
10 October 2020||GURUGRAM,||Amid farmers protests, a political subplot is brewing||Protests by farmers in Haryana and Punjab over the three controversial farm legislations, marked by road blockades and sporadic incidents of clashes with the police, show no signs of abating. Though both the ruling Congress party and the Opposition Shiromani Akali Dal have come in support of the agitating farmers in the neighbouring Punjab, Jannayak Janta Party, the junior partner in the BJP-led coalition government in Haryana, continues to be at the receiving end of the Opposition and farmers’ ire in the State for supporting the legislations. In a bid to mount pressure on JJP leader and Deputy Chief Minister Dushyant Chautala to step down, seventeen farmers’ unions in Haryana, under the aegis of All India Kisan Sangarsh Co-ordination Committee, tried to lay siege to his residence in Sirsa on Tuesday. It led to a clash with the police, which lobbed teargas shells and water cannons to disperse the protesters. A day later, several farmers’ leaders, including Swaraj India national president Yogendra Yadav, were detained and later released. Unlike SAD that parted ways with the National Democratic Alliance on the matter, Mr. Chautala, who claims the legacy of Chaudhary Devi Lal, one of the country’s biggest farmers leaders, continues to resist the pressure to step down. Caught in a dilemma Though the JJP rejects the protests and the clamour for Mr. Chautala’s resignation as “politically motivated” and aimed at “destabilising the coalition government”, head of Political Science Department of Maharishi Dayanand University, Prof. Rajendra Sharma argues that it is a choice between the devil and the deep blue sea for the party. “Since Chaudhary Devi Lal fought Congress all his life, forming a government with them is out of question for the JJP if it decides to pull out of the coalition. In that event, there is a possibility of a large chunk of party MLAs quitting JJP to support the BJP. Even if JJP manages to hold his flock together, the BJP can continue to run government with the support of the Independents, especially with the party being in power at the Centre as well,” says Prof. Sharma. He adds that, therefore, it makes more political sense for the JJP to continue in the coalition and remain politically relevant. Political climate The JJP’s decision to enter into a post-poll alliance with the BJP, despite campaigning against it during the polls, was seemingly guided by a similar political compulsion. Also, the JJP insiders believe that unlike SAD, which needs to face elections in over a year, the Haryana Assembly elections are four years away and the party could afford to wait-and-watch. JJP spokesperson Deep Kamal Saharan says that the farm legislations are indeed “progressive” and the party hopes the protests to fizzle out gradually with the farmers reaping the benefits of the laws. Political observers and local leaders differ on the possible political repercussions for the JJP for its pro-legislations stand. Haryana Kisan Sabha vice-president, Inderjit Singh, believes that the decisions of the JJP to first support BJP in government formation and now support the farm legislations have angered its core vote bank comprising Jats and farmers. He says the two decisions have the potential to push the party into political oblivion. “A young leader like Mr. Chautala should think long term,” opines Mr. Singh. However, former Haryana Agriculture University professor and political analyst Ram Kanwar says the three farm legislations herald a new era of freedom for the farmers and the JJP could actually benefit in the long run by supporting these laws.
10 October 2020||GURUGRAM,||Left parties in Haryana declare support for farmers’ stir||The Haryana units of four Left parties on Friday declared their active support for the farmers’ ongoing agitation against three farm Bills. At a joint meeting at Rohtak, the parties asked their cadres and urged upon the mass fronts to mobilise all sections of people in support of the programme of action announced by All-India Kisan Sangharsh Co-ordination Committee for boycotting all those public representatives who were supporting the bill for their personal vested political interests. The meeting held under the presidentship of Prem Singh Gehlawat of CPI(ML) was attended by Surender Singh and Inderjit Singh (CPM), Daryao Singh Kashyap and Satpal Beniwal (CPI), Satyawan and Anoop Singh of SUCI(C). At the meeting, farmers of Haryana were greeted for putting up a stiff resistance against the three farm Bills imposed in dictatorial manner and were bound to destroy the crucial sector of agriculture as well as the larger national interests, including food security. The left parties will also support the November 26 and 27 ‘Delhi Chalo’ programme. The meeting condemned the Hathras horror and denounced the Yogi government of Uttar Pradesh whose conduct was a blot not only on the Constitution and rule of law, but also against the humanity.
10 October 2020||Mumbai,||No objection to increasing frequency of locals: State to HC||The Maharashtra government told the Bombay High Court on Friday that it does not have any objection to increasing the frequency of local trains and even the general public can use the services provided they wear masks and follow physical distancing norms. A Division Bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G.S. Kulkarni was hearing a bunch of public interest litigations seeking a direction to the State government to include lawyers among staff rendering essential services so that they can use local trains to attend physical court hearings. At present, only people working in essential services are permitted to use the trains, which are running in limited numbers amid the COVID-19 pandemic. Advocate General Ashutosh Kumbhakoni said, “The State has no objection now. But people are not wearing masks and do not maintain social distancing. It is almost like people would rather wear an oxygen mask in the ICU bed of a hospital than a face mask covering their nose and mouth.” He added, “The [novel] coronavirus has not booked a return ticket. It is here to stay. Hence, people need to be careful.” Mr. Kumbhakoni gave the example of late singer S.P. Balasubrahmanyam, who was infected with COVID-19 “because of a mistake of sharing a mike with another person”. The Bench had earlier this week suggested the State government to request the Railways to increase the frequency of trains on the Central, Harbour and Western lines. Mr. Kumbhakoni told the court that the government had written to the Railways. The proposal was forwarded to the Railways Board, which has approved it. The Bench said, “It is the State government’s duty to enforce safety norms and social distancing rules. In the month of March, the novel coronavirus was unknown to us. But now more than six months have passed and we know more about the virus.” The Chief Justice said media reports indicate a second wave is expected in December and January. “We need to be prepared for the future,” he said. Chief Justice Datta said, “Survival is of utmost importance. Something needs to be done to ensure that everyone does not end up at the railway station at the same time. For this, the involvement of ministers is required. It cannot be done by just officers. We need to take a holistic approach.” The Bench has posted the matter for further hearing on October 19.
10 October 2020||Mumbai,||Maharashtra expands tele-ICU service to beat COVID-19 in districts||The Maharashtra government on Friday said it is rolling out the tele-ICU service in a number of districts as it has given effective results to combat COVID-19. On Friday, State Health Minister Rajesh Tope inaugurated the tele-ICU service for Jalgaon and Akola districts. “We have already started this service in Bhiwandi, Aurangabad, Jalna and Solapur. We are now adding two more districts. The method has been proving effective in curing COVID-19 patients. We aim to bring down the fatality rate to 1% using this,” said Mr. Tope. A tele-ICU enables off-site clinicians to interact with bedside staff to consult on patient care. Last month, participating in a videoconference with Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray had mentioned about the implementation of tele-ICU method in the State and had said that the government intends to expand the scheme, especially in remote parts which lack medical experts and can help the patients from distant places using latest communication technology. “State-of-the-art technology must be used to lower the death rate and to save lives. We are concerned about the death rate of corona patients in the State. We aim to bring it down to 1% or even less,” said Mr. Tope. The Health Minister said that lack of availability of experts in medical field can be compensated using the tele-ICU method. “We have started these services in six districts as of now. But we want to expand the scope of this scheme in all remote areas and primary discussions for the same are complete,” he said. Presently, the scheme is being provided under the Corporate Social Responsibility initiative of Mediscape India Foundation.
10 October 2020||Mumbai,||CR to ply 22 more trains||In a bid to prevent crowding in local trains, the Central Railway (CR) will ply 22 additional special services starting Saturday, an official said. Of them, 18 will be operated on the main line, while four will run on Harbour Line. The CR will increase the number of daily services from 431 to 453. The extra trains will not halt at Thanshet and Umbermali stations on the Chhatrapati Shivaji Maharaj Terminus (CSMT)-Kasara route and Shelu station on CSMT-Karjat route. Trains on CSMT-Panvel route will halt at all stations, except Reay Road, Cotton Green, King’s Circle, Chunabhatti and Manasarovar.
10 October 2020||Mumbai,||Protests across Maharashtra||Members of Maratha organisations hit the streets in different parts of Maharashtra on Friday to protest against the inept handling of the quota for the community in jobs and education by the Maha Vikas Aghadi government. The protesters accused the State government of adopting a lackadaisical attitude. They said the Maharashtra Public Service Commission exams should not be conducted till there is clarity on reservation for candidates from the community in government jobs. BJP Rajya Sabha MP Udayanraje Bhosale has supported the demand to postpone the October 11 exams.
10 October 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Out on bail, contractor arrested for extortion||The Panvel City police have arrested a civil contractor, who recently secured bail citing the risk of contracting COVID-19, for threatening to kill a building material supplier if he did not hand over his construction contracts. Police inspector Shatrughn Mali said the Rajesh Kaikadi alias Raja (40), threatened the complainant on several occasions, but on October 4, he pointed a gun at him. “The same day a complaint was filed. We suspect that the accused has threatened many others in a similar way,” Mr. Mali said. On October 7, a team of 12 personnel reached Mr. Kaikadi’s house in Karanjade at 2 a.m., but he refused to open the door. The police then broke open the door and found him waiting to attack them with a rod. The police said the accused tried to inflict injuries on his body by banging his head against a window pane when he realised he would get caught. The team finally nabbed him at 5 a.m. A country-made pistol worth Rs. 25,000 and two live cartridges were recovered. The accused has been previously arrested in 12 cases, with charges including murder, attempted murder, rape and attacking government employees. He has also been booked under the Maharashtra Control of Organised Crime Act, and was in jail in connection with the murder of Sada Sable, a local leader in Panvel. The police have appealed to citizens, including developers and building material suppliers, to file a report if they have received extortion calls from the accused. The accused has been charged under Sections 385, 506 (2), and 504 of the Indian Penal Code; Sections 3 and 25 of the Arms Act; and Sections 37(1) and 135 of the Maharashtra Police Act.
10 October 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Four arrested with gutka worth Rs. 35 lakh in Mahape||The Anti Narcotic Cell and the Central unit of the Navi Mumbai Crime Branch arrested four people with gutkha worth Rs. 35.53 lakh in Mahape MIDC area on Friday. The accused have been identified as Priyavrat Abhaykumar Das (29), Munna Shrijanardhan Yadav (28), Jitendra Karthikchandra Das (26), and Akheya Budhadev Khonda (22). Acting on a tip-off, the police intercepted three trucks carrying the contraband. “The main accused, who had sent the consignment, is yet to be arrested because he has tested positive for COVID-19 and has been admitted to hospital. He was managing the operations from the hospital. We are investigating the source of the contraband and who was supposed to receive such a large quantity of gutkha,” senior police inspector Nivrutti Kolhatkar from the Central unit said. The police have received information that a man based in Gujarat had supplied the gutkha to the accused. The accused have been charged under relevant sections of the Food Safety and Standards Act and the Indian Penal Code. They have been remanded in police custody till October 12.
10 October 2020||New Delhi,||Capital sees 2,860 new COVID-19 cases; active cases stand at 21,955||As many as 2,860 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Delhi in the past 24 hours, taking the total number of cases to 3,03,693, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government on Friday. Moreover, 39 more deaths have been reported, taking the total number of deaths to 5,692. Of the total cases, 2,76,046, people have recovered and there are 21,955 active cases. The number of new cases has been less than 3,000 for the past eight days, but the number of daily tests which was above 60,000 in mid-September was only 48,692 on an average during these eight days. As per Friday’s bulletin, the number of active cases, people in hospitals, and people under home isolation have decreased compared to Thursday. Out of the total 15,833 beds available for COVID-19 treatment in the city, 66.9% are vacant as per government data. But 55.06% of the ICU beds with ventilators and 57.6% of the ICU beds without ventilators are full. The positivity rate (percentage of people testing positive for every 100 tests done) was 5.8%, which is lower than September. The overall positivity rate till now is 8.6%. The number of containment zones in the city is 2,727.  Likely surge Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Friday said that a report by an expert committee has directed Delhi to prepare for a surge of 15,000 daily COVID-19 cases and said that they will implement the suggestions given by the committee. “It has been said [in the report] that there could be 15,000 cases a day. We have to look at it, the last 15 days trend has been decreasing. We have around 16,000 beds and the occupancy is around 40%. Even if cases increase a little we can handle. If we have to increase [beds], we will,” he said. On Thursday, The Hindu had reported that the report, which is yet to be made public, said that the Capital should prepare for a surge of 15,000 COVID-19 cases a day during winter months and patients may come from outside Delhi in “large numbers”. “The experts have done a lot of hard work [for the report] and the government will implement the recommendations,” he added.
10 October 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi Cabinet gives nod for ‘Tree Transplantation Policy’||The Delhi Cabinet, at a meeting on Friday, approved the ‘Tree Transplantation Policy’ for the preservation of trees in the Capital. The Cabinet, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said, also gave its nod for the installation of the second smog tower in the world at Cannaught Place, within ten months. A minimum of 80% of trees affected by a development or construction project will be transplanted and as much 80% of the transplanted trees must survive after transplantation, Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal said. Mr. Kejriwal also said that the Delhi government will form a panel of agencies for tree transplantation and the government departments concerned will contact these agencies for the task of transplantation. “A few days back, the people of Delhi started a huge movement, ‘Yuddh, Pradushan Ke Viruddh’, against the air pollution levels in the city. Various measures will be taken under this, including EV, tree transplantation, preventing stubble burning. One of the key components of this campaign was the tree transplantation policy,” Mr. Kejriwal said at a digital briefing. The woodland of Delhi is very dense and the trees are old and strong because Delhi is quite an old city and the Delhi government constantly tries to save and preserve trees but often due to construction and development work trees are cut down, Mr. Kejriwal said. Until now, he said, the policy entailed planting 10 saplings as a compensatory effort if one tree was supposed to be cut. The tree which was cut could be around 400-500 years old and a symbol of how nature preserved it and nurtured it for so many years and was different from newly planted saplings. “We have passed the tree transplantation policy. Delhi is the first State in the country where this policy has been passed. Along with retaining the policy of planting 10 saplings for every one tree that is cut, we can transplant trees additionally. The process involves uprooting a tree from a particular spot, lifting it, and planting it at another spot,” the Chief Minister said. A minimum of 80% of trees affected by a project, he said, over and above compensatory afforestation of planting of 10 saplings, will be transplanted. Also, a minimum of 80% of the transplanted trees should survive and ensuring this would be the responsibility of the agencies that will take permission from us. The Delhi government will also form a panel of the agencies that excel in the task of transplantation and whichever department wants trees to be transplanted can approach any agency out of the panel that is being formed. The payment of the agencies will be made only if 80% of the trees continue to survive after a year, he said. Tree Transplantation Cell  A dedicated Tree Transplantation Cell will also be formed by the Delhi government and local committees, which will include government officials, citizens, RWAs to monitor the transplanted trees and to certify that the task has been done with due diligence. “A smog tower will also be installed in Delhi that will be the second smog tower in the world. The first smog tower in the world was set up in China. Two smog towers are being installed in Delhi, out of which one will be done by the Centre at Anand Vihar and the second by the Delhi government at Connaught Place,” Mr. Kejriwal said. The technology used in the smog tower installed by the Delhi government, he said, is different from the technology used in China. In China, the smog tower sucks the polluted air from below and releases clean air from above. “Our smog tower will suck the polluted air from above and release clean air from the bottom. The Delhi Cabinet has sanctioned Rs. 20 crore for the installation of this first-of-its-kind smog tower, and we hope that the installation work will be completed within the next 10 months. We are calling it a pilot project for now, and if it is successful, many more smog towers will be installed across Delhi,” he also said.  Two smog towers are being installed in Delhi... one will be done by the Centre at Anand Vihar and the second by the Delhi government at Connaught Place Arvind Kejriwal Chief Minister
10 October 2020||New Delhi,||HC asks Delhi govt. to purchase insurance policies before Nov. 30||The Delhi High Court has asked the Delhi government to purchase before November 30, insurance policies from LIC and New India Assurance Company (NIAC) for over 29,000 lawyers under the Chief Minister’s Advocates’ Welfare Scheme. The court passed the order on various petitions relating to implementation of the welfare scheme. It was informed that for the group (term) life insurance policies for 28,774 lawyers, the Life Insurance Corporation’s (LIC) final quotation is finalised at Rs. 10,07,70,894. For group mediclaim insurance policies for 29,077 advocates, the NIAC has finalised at a final rate of Rs. 10,500 as per family premium, along with 25% co-payment by advocate concerned. With the above figures having now been finalised with the companies, the Delhi government shall proceed to purchase the insurance policies from LIC for 28,744 members and from NIAC for 29,077 lawyers, who are members of the Bar Council of Delhi, whose names are already verified. The purchase shall be effected on or before November 30, Justice Prathiba M. Singh said.
10 October 2020||New Delhi,||Court rejects PIL claiming EPF Act not being followed while enrolling members||The Delhi High Court on Friday dismissed a PIL which claimed that the Employees’ Provident Funds and Miscellaneous Provisions Act of 1952 and the schemes framed under it were not being followed while enrolling members. A Bench of Chief Justice D.N. Patel and Justice Prateek Jalan declined to entertain the plea, which had alleged that ineligible persons were being enrolled as members in the EPF schemes resulting in “major losses” to the Central government and the Employees’ Provident Fund Organisation (EPFO). The petitioner, an Accounts officer in EPFO, said that certain employees contributing to the provident fund and availing income tax benefits withdraw money from their PF accounts on grounds of illness as no document is necessary for such advances and when they leave the service, the balance in their account is “so meagre” that there is no tax liability. “This also results in huge loss of government revenue by evading Income Tax provisions,” the petition by Shovan Patra had alleged. The plea had also alleged that “in order to save tax and other benefits, employers enrol their old relatives or even themselves as PF members on full pay though they are not eligible for PF membership. “As there is no age limit for enrolment under PF, they keep on contributing to the fund till their death and are able to get tax-free benefits under EPF schemes and also additional Employees Deposit Linked Insurance scheme of Rs. 6 lakh,” it said. The petition had sought directions to the Centre to modify the existing EPFO software, in accordance with the provisions of the 1952 Act and the schemes framed thereunder, “so that only eligible employees of the covered establishments may be enrolled as members”.
10 October 2020||New Delhi,||AAP attacks civic bodies over health trade licence issue||AAP on Friday attacked the BJP-ruled municipal corporations for allegedly opposing the Delhi government’s decision to end the requirement of a ‘health trade license’ for hotels and restaurants. AAP chief spokesperson Saurabh Bharadwaj said that Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal had told commissioners of the three BJP-ruled municipal corporations that ‘health trade licence’ from the corporations was no longer required. “The BJP-ruled MCD has opposed the decision of the Delhi government to end the health trade licence. This shows that the corporations are against finishing the licence raj . The FSSAI wrote a letter on September 7 to the municipal corporations of Delhi, saying they check standards of food and safety of all hotels and restaurants, therefore, there is no need to issue separate certificates by MCDs,” Mr. Bharadwaj said.
10 October 2020||New Delhi,||BJP takes a jibe at AAP govt. over MSP on crops of Delhi farmers||The Delhi government had announced it would increase the MSP on crops of Delhi farmers by 50% and crores were spent on advertisement, but not a single rupee worth of crop has been purchased so far, the Opposition BJP alleged here on Friday. West Delhi MP Parvesh Verma alleged that Delhi’s Ministers were saying they had written letters to the Central government, but not a single letter had been written by the Kejriwal government addressing the issue of the farmers. “Delhi’s farmers go to Haryana to sell their crops because the Delhi government does not pay them according to the increased MSP. The Kejriwal government now remembers that the farmers of Delhi are not getting the benefit of the MSP Scheme,” Mr. Verma alleged.  Leader of Opposition in the Delhi Assembly, Ramvir Singh Bidhuri, challenged Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal to discuss the issue of farmers on media platforms or in any village with him.  Meanwhile, AAP national spokesperson Raghav Chadha said, “After AAP exposed the Centre’s apathy towards Delhi’s farmers, the BJP seems to be completely rattled... The Centre has not purchased a single grain from the farmers of Delhi in the last five years.”
10 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||DU addresses queries on UG admissions||In a special online session held for Delhi University (DU) aspirants, officials addressed queries pertaining to the upcoming UG admissions. The webinar was, however, marred by a technical glitch and several students expressed concerns over the completely online admission process, which is set to begin from Monday after over a three-month delay due to the ongoing pandemic. Shoba Bagai, Dean of Admissions, said that a suggestive calculator will be available online to assist applicants in ascertaining the eligibility criteria to each course.
10 October 2020||Pune,||Maratha leaders bicker on eve of shutdown to demand quota||While Maratha outfits have called for a shutdown on Saturday in protest over the Supreme Court’s stay on the implementation of the quota law, prominent community leaders appear to be bickering among themselves. On Friday, the Bharatiya Janata Party’s (BJP) Rajya Sabha MP from Kolhapur, Chhatrapati Sambhajiraje, launched a thinly-veiled attack on other Maratha community leaders like Shiv Sangram president Vinayak Mete and Praveen Gaikwad for merely giving sound-bytes on television instead of actually leading the Maratha activists on the streets. Considered an influential Maratha community leader, Mr. Gaikwad had attempted to secure a nomination for the Pune Lok Sabha seat in the 2019 general election with the covert backing of Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) chief Sharad Pawar – an effort which eventually came a cropper. Mr. Sambhajiraje, who was leading an agitation in Tuljapur in Osmanabad district in Marathwada region, said, “Certain leaders only express their indignation over the apex court’s stay [on the Maratha quota] on television… if they have any courage, they must come forward and agitate along with the people on the streets.” The MP said the Maha Vikas Aghadi (MVA) government must put its best foot forward in fighting to vacate the Supreme Court’s stay order on the implementation of the Maratha quota law in the State. “It will not take much time for these agitations presently comprising only thousands to transform into protests with lakhs of seething and disgruntled Maratha community people,” warned Mr. Sambhajiraje. Meanwhile, the Pune-based Sambhaji Brigade hit out at Mr. Gaikwad as well, while chastising Maratha leaders from the BJP as well as the ruling MVA for using the agitation as a means to gain political mileage. “Mr. Gaikwad, who is a broker of Sharad Pawar’s NCP, had earlier demanded that the Maharashtra Public Service Commission (MPSC) exams be held as scheduled on October 11 without any concern for the safety or security of Maratha community students in the time of the pandemic. However, the government has fortunately announced the postponement of the exams, nullifying Mr. Gaikwad’s demands,” said Manoj Akhare of the Sambhaji Brigade. Brigade leader Santosh Shinde said in reality, certain Maratha leaders from both the ruling party as well as the opposition BJP were using the quota movement for their selfish political ends. “These leaders are not really interested in fighting for the rights of the communities… they have been propped up by the ruling and opposing political factions to drive a wedge in this agitation. The furore over the MPSC issue was a deliberate diversionary tactic,” said Mr. Shinde.  Certain leaders only express their indignation over the apex court’s stay on television. If they have courage, they must agitate with people on the streets Chhatrapati Sambhajiraje BJP Rajya Sabha MP from Kolhapur
10 October 2020||October 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Year-long fight for justice||
10 October 2020||October 10 2020 00:00 IST,||China slams Quad as a ‘closed clique’||China on Friday said it was opposed to “organising closed and exclusive cliques”, underlining its wary response to this week’s ministerial meeting of the Quad grouping, or India, Australia, Japan and the U.S. At Tuesday’s ministerial meet in Tokyo, U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo singled out China as a threat to the region, although the three other Foreign Ministers, including External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar, did not directly mention China. They did, however, express broad concerns about maintaining a rules-based order, freedom of navigation and the peaceful resolution of disputes in the region. “As partners in this Quad, it is more critical now than ever that we collaborate to protect our people and partners from the Chinese Communist Party’s exploitation, corruption, and coercion,” Mr. Pompeo said. “We’ve seen it in the South China Sea, in the East China Sea, the Mekong, the Himalayas, the Taiwan Straits. These are just a few examples.” Speaking at a press briefing in Beijing on Friday, the first following the week-long national holiday in China, Foreign Ministry spokesperson Hua Chunying said in response to a question on the Quad meet, “This is now the 21st century and we are living in an era of globalisation. The interests of all the countries are so intertwined that organising closed and exclusive cliques will not help to build mutual trust and cooperation, especially when we are faced with urgent tasks of fighting the pandemic and reviving the world economy.” Common interest “We hope countries will bear in mind the common interest of all countries and focus on beating the virus with collective efforts, while creating a peaceful environment and cooperation opportunities for the regional and global economic recovery,” she added. China’s state media has been particularly critical of Mr. Pompeo, and highlighted the fact that he was the only one among the four Ministers to directly mention China. “Pompeo said it was critical now for the U.S.’s regional allies in the Indo-Pacific region to counter the Communist Party of China’s exploitation, coercion and corruption in the South and East China seas, the Mekong, the Himalayas, and the Taiwan Straits. Meanwhile, other Quad members have been cautious,” said a commentary in the Party-run Global Times by Shen Yi, professor at the School of International Relations and Public Affairs at Fudan University in Shanghai. “Such a result could be argued as predictable, as each of the Quad members is calculating their own separate interests,” Mr. Shen said. “The U.S., which has signed military alliance treaties with Japan and Australia, now wants to rope India in to boost not only the alliance and to gang up on China. However, such a goal is not easy to realise. India is unlikely to take the U.S. side. It has been buttering its bread on both sides of major power games ever since the Cold War.” Mr. Shen said, “the U.S. is hoping to formalise the Quad into a NATO-like alliance”, but the other members were less enthusiastic. “If the U.S. wants to count India in its ‘Asian NATO’, it would need to persuade India to give up its Russia-made weapons and substantially invest to change the standards of Indian firearms to the standards of the U.S.,” he said. “The U.S. has been barking aloud before and during the Quad meeting. But will it bite with expected ‘unity’ from the Quad? The answer is no.”
10 October 2020||October 10 2020 00:00 IST,||What’s happening in Kyrgyzstan?||Street protests erupted in Kyrgyzstan earlier this week following Sunday’s parliamentary election. The opposition alleged that the vote was rigged as protesters captured several government buildings in the capital Bishkek, forcing the President, Sooronbay Jeenbekov, to flee the White House, the presidential palace. Disputed election Kyrgyzstan, often referred to as ‘Central Asia’s only democracy’, had seen violent anti-government protests in the past. In 2005 and 2010, sitting presidents were forced out of office in the ‘Tulip’ and the ‘Melon’ revolutions. The current protests began after early results of the October 4 parliamentary election were announced. Political parties in Kyrgyzstan should win at least 7% of the popular vote to enter Parliament. The results showed that only four parties managed to cross the threshold and of which, three were pro-government parties. The newly formed Birimdik (Unity) party emerged the biggest winner with 24.5% of the vote, while the Mekenim (My Homeland) Kyrgyzstan party got 23.88% and the Kyrgyzstan party 8.76%. The only opposition party that crossed the threshold was the nationalist Butun Kyrgyzstan, which won 7.13%. The remaining 12 parties received only around one-third of the votes. Behind the protests Even before the election, political fault lines were sharpening. The country’s main political party, the Social Democratic Party of Kyrgyzstan (SDPK), which had the most number of seats in the outgoing Parliament, stayed out of the election due to infighting between its founder and former President Almazbek Atambayev and the incumbent, Mr. Jeenbekov. Mr. Atambayev, the one-time mentor of Mr. Jeenbekov, had clashed with the President publicly quite often after they fell out. Mr. Atambayev was jailed last year and sentenced on corruption charges. The former President’s sons had split with the SDPK and formed another party, the Social Democrats of Kyrgyzstan (SDK), a few months before the election. When most parties failed to make it to Parliament in Sunday’s election, the opposition, including the SDK, came together and launched the protests, accusing the government of vote buying. The protesters raided the prison where Mr. Atambayev was kept and freed him. They formed a Coordination Council to lead the “revolution”. The country’s Election Commission annulled the results, but the protesters continued. Who is in charge? The protesters have captured key government buildings, including the Parliament house and the presidential office. President Jeenbekov’s whereabouts are unknown. In a video message from an undeclared location, he has accused the opposition of plotting a coup against his government. Prime Minister Kubatbek Boronov resigned on October 5 amid the upheaval. The Mekenchil party has nominated its leader Sadyr Japarov, who was also released from prison by the protesters, to the post of Prime Minister. President Jeenbekov assumed office in November 2017. Constitutionally, he has three more years left in office. He has offered to resign as part of a settlement with the rival parties, but has also declared state of emergency and ordered troops deployment to establish order. Strategic importance This landlocked Central Asian country that shares a long border with China has been key to the strategic plans of both Russia and China. Moscow sees the region as its backyard and plays hard politics to retain its influence. For China, the country, located at the centre of Eurasia, is a vital link in its Belt and Road Initiative. China has built road and rail networks with Kyrgyzstan and Uzbekistan. During the early stages of the Afghan war, the U.S. had used Kyrgyzstan for refuelling and other logistical purposes. The U.S. base was shut down in 2014 by Parliament. Russia’s role Kyrgyzstan is a member of the Russia-led Collective Security Treaty Organisation and hosts a Russian air base. While Russia has cultivated strong ties with all political factions in Kyrgyzstan, radical political changes could throw up opportunities for its rivals. While it is to be seen whether President Jeenbekov would be able to mobilise his authority, what’s evident is that the crisis poses an immediate foreign policy challenge to Russia’s Vladimir Putin. Belarus, another country in Russia’s backyard with a pro-Moscow President, is already witnessing political turmoil after August’s Presidential election. In the South Caucasus, the conflict between Armenia and Azerbaijan, both former Soviet Republics, over Nagorno-Karabakh, risks dragging Russia into a conflict it doesn’t want. All three combined, Moscow’s attempts to build stronger political and economic integration with the former Soviet region are suddenly facing critical challenges.
10 October 2020||COLOMBO,||Expect China-style development for Sri Lanka: Gotabaya||President Gotabaya  Rajapaksa  on Friday said he was targeting a China-style development model for Sri Lanka, even as he sought greater investment and a larger market from the Asian giant. Following his meeting with a high-level delegation from Beijing in Colombo, a statement from the President’s office said plans were afoot to recommence discussions on the Sri Lanka-China Free Trade Agreement, and to swiftly complete the China-backed Hambantota Industrial Zone and the Port City in Colombo, a flagship $1.4 billion project in China’s Belt and Road Initiative. Recalling his past visits to China — “13 times” — President Rajapaksa told the delegation: “I have seen massive development, especially in rural areas. My target is to bring about similar development, especially in rural areas in Sri Lanka, and to raise the living conditions of the people in this country, especially that of the poor. I look forward to seeing a visible progress in the Port City project over the next four years”, according to the media statement. The delegation from Beijing was led by Yang Jiechi, a top foreign policy official and a Politburo member of the Chinese Communist Party. Officials in Sri Lanka’s Foreign Relations Ministry described the visit of the “high-powered” delegation as a “goodwill gesture”, following President Xi Jinping’s invitation to President Rajapaksa to China, following the latter’s election win last year. President Rajapaksa could not undertake the visit in the wake of the global pandemic. In addition to pledging China’s continued support to Sri Lanka in international forums, including at the UN Human Rights Council, Mr. Yang said: “China’s assistance will not be just lip service but concrete action to achieve the development goals,” the statement issued by the President’s office said.  ‘Debt trap’ Further, President Rajapaksa told the delegation that he wished to disprove the prevalent “debt-trap” analysis of Sri Lanka-China relations, in connection with the Hambantota Port, and sought China’s help in his endeavour of improving the living standards of people through the project. Building the port, strategically-located in the island’s southern tip, was Sri Lanka’s idea, not China’s, he said, adding: “We were convinced that it would be a project with a vast potential for generating income and employment opportunities. China offered to fund it.” The statement made no reference to any new loans — China sanctioned a $500 million-loan in March to help Sri Lanka cope with the pandemic — or renegotiation of Sri Lanka’s existing debt of over $5 billion to China, though officials earlier indicated that Colombo might appeal to Beijing for a loan moratorium, just like it did to New Delhi. However, President Rajapaksa sought China’s help to reduce the trade deficit between the two countries, the statement said. Significantly, the two sides agreed to resume negotiation of the FTA, that Sri Lanka and China in 2013 agreed to enter. It was stalled in 2018, reportedly after Beijing turned down the former Colombo administration’s request to have the deal reviewed in 10 years.
10 October 2020||Washington,||Despite concerns, Trump wants to campaign||Donald Trump said he hopes to resume campaigning on Saturday after receiving a green light from his doctor, even as House Speaker Nancy Pelosi unveiled plans to probe the President’s capacity to govern after contracting COVID-19. With just 26 days until the November 3 election, Washington’s top Democrat took the extraordinary step of proposing a commission to investigate Mr. Trump’s fitness for the job — and whether he needs removal under the Constitution’s 25th Amendment. Ms. Pelosi introduced legislation that would create what she called a commission on presidential capacity to discharge the powers and duties of the office. The Bill would establish a 16-member bipartisan panel of medical experts and former executive branch officials. But with Republicans controlling the Senate, it is highly unlikely that the Bill will become law. The move came after Mr. Trump spent the day ranting against critics and threw the debate schedule with Democrat Joe Biden into turmoil. With tensions building over the President’s diagnosis and questions about his judgement, Mr. Trump said in a Fox News interview late Thursday that he wants to hold a campaign rally as early as Saturday. “I think I’m going to try doing a rally on Saturday night if we have enough time to put it together,” he said during an interview with Sean Hannity, adding that it would be “probably in Florida.” Earlier in the day, Mr. Trump’s doctor Sean Conley gave him the green light to resume public activities this weekend.
10 October 2020||Moscow,||Armenia-Azerbaijan talks begin in Moscow||Armenia and Azerbaijan held their first high-level talks on Friday after nearly two weeks of fierce clashes over the disputed Nagorno-Karabakh region, with hopes rising that a ceasefire could be brokered in Moscow. Azerbaijani President Ilham Aliyev, who has repeatedly vowed to use his military to retake the breakaway province, said the talks represented a historic opportunity for Armenia. “We are giving Armenia a chance to settle the conflict peacefully,” he said. “This is their last chance.” Armenia's Prime Minister Nikol Pashinyan said his country was “ready for the resumption of the peace process” led by international brokers. France, which along with Russia and the U.S. is mediating to end the conflict, said there was a chance of a breakthrough at the talks but it was far from certain.
10 October 2020||London,||London, Oct 9, 2020 (AFP) -||Boris Johnson has appointed veteran political journalist Allegra Stratton to host daily White House-style television briefings, as per reports, in a shake-up of the British PM’s media operation.AFP
10 October 2020||October 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Killing love with caste pride||On June 10, 2020, Avanthi Reddy stepped into the sunlight, ready to run away from home and be reunited with her lover. While most people feared leaving their homes in the midst of a raging pandemic, sunlight meant freedom and a new beginning for the 23-year-old. Seven months earlier, Avanthi’s family had forced her to quit her job, seized her mobile phone, and locked her up in a room in her own home. She had finally managed to escape that day. Within two hours of eloping, she and her boyfriend Chinta Yoga Hemanth Kumar, 28, got married in a Santoshimata temple in Nalagandla. But just over three months later, tragedy struck the young couple. On September 24, Hemanth was kidnapped and murdered, and his body thrown into a clump of bushes by the roadside in the neighbouring Sangareddy district of Telangana. According to Avanthi’s statement to the Cyberabad police, the murder was committed at the behest of her father, Donthireddy Laxma Reddy, and other family members. They were furious that their young daughter, who belonged to a family of nouveau riche landowners, had chosen as her husband a man from the Vysya community of traders. Unable to convince her to stay away from Hemanth, they hatched a plot to kill him. The news about Hemanth’s death broke when Amrutha Varshini, 21, was beginning her 140-km journey from Miryalaguda to Hyderabad. The discussions on TV of yet another ‘honour killing’ vividly brought to Amrutha’s mind the gruesome details of her husband’s death two years earlier at the hands of killers hired by her father. Amrutha is from the Vysya community; her husband Pranay was a Dalit. Amrutha, then five months pregnant, was walking with Pranay and her mother-in-law Premalatha towards their car parked outside a hospital gate when the assailant struck. Amrutha heard a loud thud. “I turned and I could not find Pranay for a moment. An unidentified killer who had approached us from behind hit my husband with a machete on his neck,” she recalls. The CCTV footage showed the two women screaming for help even as the killer, a tall man in a safari suit, inflicted a second blow on Pranay bringing him to the ground in a pool of blood. He died before he could be given emergency care. That fateful day was September 14, 2018. “It was shocking that some people from my community cursed me for marrying Pranay even after he was murdered. They even formed a ‘fans association’ in the name of my father, Maruthi Rao,” she says. Rallies were taken out in support of Rao, a top builder. Rao and the hired assassin were later arrested by the police. The police as counsellors Caste-related killings are not new in Telangana. Citing the incidence of such crimes in Telangana and Uttar Pradesh, even before Hemanth and Pranay were murdered, Jharna Das Baidya, a Member of Parliament of the Communist Party of India (Marxist), made an impassioned plea in Parliament in 2017 for a special law to curb such crimes. According to the National Crime Records Bureau, there were 28 ‘honour killings’ in 2014, 251 in 2015, and 77 in 2016 across India. The 242nd Law Commission Report, too, sought a new law on ‘prevention of interference with the freedom of matrimonial alliances’. Following the Supreme Court ruling on March 27, 2018 in Shakti Vahini v. Union of India laying down preventive, punitive and remedial measures to stem such crimes, the Ministry of Home Affairs issued an advisory to all the States. It ordered the States to create special cells in “every district comprising the Superintendent of Police, the District Social Welfare Officer, and District Adi-Dravidar Welfare Officer to receive petitions/complaints of harassment of and threat to couples of inter-caste marriage”. The advisory stated that these special cells should create a 24-hour helpline to aid couples in distress. In Hyderabad, the helpline is called ‘Bharosa (trust)’. However, instead of protecting young couples, the police is reportedly counselling them. Hemanth’s killing could have been averted, says Avanthi. “If the police official had not slammed the phone down when I called him up less than a month into my marriage, Hemanth would have been alive today. They refused to acknowledge the letter submitted by us about our safety (a few days after the marriage),” she says. Avanthi says the police often summoned the family for counselling. She narrates the time she was called to the Chandanagar police station along with her in-laws on June 17. “There were more than 50 people from my parents’ side. They came in batches of 10, fell at my feet, spoke about ‘honour’ and asked me to come back home. This went on for five hours. Finally, close to midnight, I spoke to the police and left the station,” she recalls. Avanthi is now at her in-laws’ place. Her parental home is just a short distance away. “It isn’t just about caste. My family spoke of differences in financial status too, but that’s also not much (between our families). They kept telling me about paruvu (Telugu for ‘pride’ or ‘honour’),” says Avanthi. About 50 km from Hyderabad is Gomaram, the ancestral village of Donthireddy Laxma Reddy. Dalits say they are not allowed to enter the temples of Shiva and Hanuman there. “We are not allowed into the temples,” says Errala Seenu who lives in the basti nearby. Reddy’s house is adjacent to the temple. It is this caste pride that Reddy brought to Hyderabad and embossed in large letters on his three-storeyed mansion. Tricked into stepping out On September 24, Avanthi was about to open the refrigerator to plan lunch for the day when she heard a loud knock on the door. Her relatives stood outside, pleading with her to go home with them. They tried to persuade her to meet her parents.  After 40 minutes of cajoling, they finally convinced Avanthi to meet her parents. But she insisted that Hemanth accompany her. Hemanth called his parents too. “My aunts and cousins were so anguished that I felt they were reaching out to us,” says Avanthi. The couple got dressed for the visit. When they were about to get into their vehicle, Avanthi’s relatives forced them to get into the vehicles they had come in. “They were rough with us,” she says showing a bruise on her forearm. Hemanth’s parents reached just in time to see the cars leaving the house. When Hemanth tried to wave to them to get their attention, Avanthi’s cousins pulled his hand into the car. But Hemanth’s parents saw him and tried to follow the vehicles. However, they were unable to tail the cars that zoomed away. Suspecting foul play, they alerted the police. Meanwhile, fear gripped Avanthi when the cars turned towards the Nehru Outer Ring Road instead of turning towards her parents’ house. She asked Hemanth to jump out of the car, and they both did. Avanthi held Hemanth’s hand and ran barefoot shouting for help. But the passers-by and commuters at the Gopanpally Tanda crossroads turned out to be mute spectators. In the chase that ensued, her maternal uncle Yugandhar Reddy grabbed Hemanth and pushed him into the car with the hired killers. The car sped away on the Outer Ring Road. Avanthi sat by the roadside wailing for help, but no one came forward. When her in-laws arrived, the family rushed to the Cyberabad Commissionerate. There they were instructed to go to the nearby Gachibowli police station since this was a case of kidnapping. Losing precious time, Avanthi rushed to the Gachibowli police station to file a complaint. In less than an hour, about 10 of her relatives were detained and brought to the police station, but it was too late to save Hemanth. His body was discovered a few hours later; he had been strangled. The police could have prevented the murder as most of the accused were in their custody in less than an hour of the kidnapping, says Avanthi. “They had enough time to save Hemanth, but they couldn’t.” A tragic love story Avanthi and Hemanth dated for eight years. She got to know him when his family moved from Guntur to Hyderabad to the same area that she lived in: Chandanagar. In 2013, when Avanthi was in Class 11, a lecturer informed Avanthi’s father about her relationship with Hemanth. Her father warned her against meeting him. When she completed her engineering degree, Donthireddy Laxma Reddy gifted his daughter an iPhone. Avanthi joined an educational firm as a marketing coordinator in June 2019. The job entailed visits to schools in Hyderabad and its neighbouring districts. “During that time, Hemanth and I used to travel together. It was the only time we got to spend together. He used to pick me up and drop me at the sites,” she says. But their happiness was short-lived. On November 27, 2019, a ‘stranger’ photographed the couple while they were together and sent it to Donthireddy Laxma Reddy. “That day, when I returned home at 8.30 p.m., I saw my whole family gathered at home. They began quizzing me about our relationship. They snatched my mobile phone to check my messages and calls, but found none. I used to delete messages and call logs after every conversation. But they stumbled upon Snapchat, where they found our photographs,” says Avanthi. That was her last day of freedom. Avanthi’s family forced her to resign and stay at home. They took away her mobile phone and confined her to a room for seven months and six days before she managed to escape and get married. “I was under house arrest. Whenever my cousins visited us, I would secretly take their phones and call Hemanth. We never spoke for more than 20 seconds,” she says. While Avanthi was confined at home, Hemanth, who owned an interior painting company, approached several astrologers with their horoscopes. The books he had read on astrology lie beside his garlanded photograph at home. In the first week of June, three months after she last spoke to him, Avanthi called Hemanth and asked him if he was interested in marrying her. She proposed three possible dates: June 5, June 6 or June 10. “As June 5 was my parents’ wedding anniversary, I did not want to ruin their day. So, I stayed at home. The next day, everyone was at home. Finally, on June 10, I left a letter at home and somehow sneaked out and called Hemanth. We rushed to the Santoshimata temple in Nalagandla and got married within an hour. We had rented a house at TNGOs Colony the previous day, so we went there,” says Avanthi. On discovering that their daughter was missing, Avanthi’s parents lodged a kidnapping case against Hemanth. His parents were called in for questioning. The police asked Hemanth’s father Murali Krishna to surrender his phone. On June 12, the newly-wed couple met Cyberabad Commissioner of Police, V.C. Sajjanar, who in turn told the Chandanagar police to close the case as both of them were consenting adults. Following this visit, the police counselled the families and sent them away. Later, Avanthi’s parents demanded that three properties which were registered under her name be transferred back to them. Avanthi thought that her parents had reconciled to the marriage. However, her parents were now plotting Hemanth’s murder with the help of her uncle Yugandhar Reddy. Assassins were allegedly hired for Rs. 10 lakh and were paid Rs. 1 lakh in advance. “As a part of their plan, they did a recce of the area for more than two weeks. On September 24, they kidnapped Hemanth and strangled him,” says Madhapur in-charge Deputy Commissioner of Police, M. Venkateshwarlu. Reconstructing the crime, Venkateshwarlu says Yugandhar Reddy and the three hired assassins kidnapped Hemanth and drove him all the way to Zaheerabad, which is more than 100 km from Hyderabad. While returning to Hyderabad, they strangled him inside the car and dumped the body in the bushes. An inconsolable Avanthi told her father later that he may have “succeeded” in taking away her husband physically from her, but he cannot take away her love for him or annul the marriage. “All your money could not buy my husband’s love for me,” she said sobbing. “You lost your daughter as well.” Awaiting trial The state is directly supporting people indulging in such heinous acts, says Lakshmaiah, convener of the All India Struggle Association for Annihilation of Caste Inequalities. To illustrate his claim, he gives the example of the murder of a young Dalit woman, K. Sushrutha, and her four-month-old son, Devarsh, by her husband M. Ramesh, who belongs to a backward community, in Ghatkesar. The incident was reported on February 9, 2019. Sushrutha and Ramesh fell in love and got married in 2015 against Ramesh’s parents’ wishes. Police records suggest that Ramesh, influenced by his family members who disapproved of his marriage with a Dalit woman, began distancing himself from his wife. The couple applied for divorce. But after giving birth to Devarsh, Sushrutha tried to reunite with her husband. In the second week of February 2019, Ramesh called his wife and said they could try and sort out their issues. Sushrutha, who was living with her mother, agreed to meet him. Her brother dropped her and her son at Uppal on the outskirts of Hyderabad. Ramesh picked them up from there and took them to a secluded place in Ghatkesar. Police say following an argument between the couple, Ramesh throttled his wife and son to death and burnt their bodies with petrol. Following the incident, Sushrutha’s family members approached the government seeking appointment of a special public prosecutor to argue the case under the provisions of the Scheduled Castes and Tribes (Prevention of Atrocities) Act, 1989. The government appointed lawyer V. Raghunath as the special public prosecutor in the case. “After examining the charge-sheet filed by the police, I found that the investigation was not done properly. I suggested to the Rachakonda Police Commissioner that a further probe be done,” Raghunath says. Interestingly, the accused moved the High Court saying Raghunath was actively associated with organisations supporting the victim and therefore cannot be their lawyer. The High Court gave an interim order suspending his appointment. Though the writ petition was pending final adjudication, the government issued an order revoking Raghunath’s appointment. “If this is not an example of the state supporting the accused in murders driven by caste hatred, what is,” asks Lakshmaiah. The state’s biased approach can also be seen in the arrest of four of Sushrutha’s family members for carrying out hunger strikes in front of Ramesh’s house, he says. After demonstrating for 150 consecutive days, the four family members were arrested and lodged in Warangal prison for a week. Sandhya, president of the Progressive Organisation of Women, who is fighting for the rights of women, feels it is inaccurate to describe killings related to inter-caste marriages as ‘honour killings’, as is the norm in India. The very term ‘honour killings’ means we are accepting the killers’ intentions and actions. “These murders are driven by class, caste and patriarchal hegemony,” she says. Charge-sheets have been filed in the murder cases of Pranay, Sushrutha and Naresh, but trials are yet to begin.
10 October 2020||October 10 2020 00:00 IST,||The U.S. election just became more uncertain||All elections are unpredictable and the American presidential elections are no exception. Yet, such is the power of incumbency that there have been only four occasions since 1900 where a sitting and elected U.S. President has been defeated by his challenger for a second term. The 2020 election was shaping up to be a cliff-hanger when President Donald Trump announced Friday last week that he and First Lady Melania Trump had tested positive for COVID-19, further darkening the clouds of uncertainty. He returned to the White House after three days of hospitalisation but question marks persist. One term presidencies In 1912, Democratic challenger Woodrow Wilson scored a decisive victory over President William Howard Taft, seeking his second term. However, the reason was a divided Republican vote. President Theodore Roosevelt, the U.S. President from 1901 to 1909, had supported Taft for his first term. Subsequently, he got disenchanted and eventually split the Republican party, running as the candidate of the newly established progressive party, and coming second in the race. Taft, already weakened with the infighting in the Republican party, emerged a distant third. The second one-term President was Herbert Hoover, defeated in a landslide victory by his Democratic challenger Franklin D. Roosevelt in 1932. This election was fought against the backdrop of the Great Depression. Roosevelt won on the promise of the New Deal and then went on to win in 1936, 1940 and 1944. By the time he began his fourth term in January 1945, he was already suffering from high blood pressure and congestive heart disease and died three months later. Till then, there was no restriction on the number of terms for President; the two-term limit was introduced with the 22nd constitutional amendment in 1951. In 1976, Democratic challenger Jimmy Carter defeated President Gerald Ford who had taken over the presidency in 1974 after President Nixon resigned when faced with the threat of impeachment. He had earlier been appointed (not elected) Vice-President in 1973 after Vice-President Spiro Agnew resigned. In U.S. history, Ford is the only one to have held both positions of Vice-President and President without having won an election to either. The 1970s was a decade marked by an energy crisis sparked by oil price hikes, high inflation, economic downturn and rising unemployment. The U.S. Embassy hostage crisis in Tehran in 1979 following the Islamic revolution in Iran became emblematic of eroding confidence among the people that made it easier for Republican challenger Ronald Reagan to trounce Democratic incumbent President Jimmy Carter in 1980. The Democratic party was already polarised as Senator Ted Kennedy had challenged President Carter in the party primaries. Both 1932 and 1980 also marked deeper power shifts; in 1932, the Democrats took back Congress continuing till the 1950s, introducing social security; the 1980s saw the return of the Republicans with promises of tax cuts and supply side economics. The last one term President in the 20th century was George H.W. Bush who had won easily in 1988 after being Reagan’s Vice-President for eight years. He lost his re-election bid to rank newcomer, Democratic challenger Bill Clinton in 1992 despite having notched up a series of foreign policy successes during the first term — Soviet withdrawal from Afghanistan followed by the unification of Germany and the break-up of the Soviet Union. “It’s the economy, stupid”, became the catchphrase of the successful Clinton campaign. Unresolved questions The handling of the COVID-19 pandemic was going to be an issue but Mr. Trump testing positive raised a bunch of fresh questions: about implications for continuity for government, and, for the election campaign leading to polling on November 3 and its follow-through till the winner takes office on January 20, 2021. Presidential succession to ensure continuity of government was addressed in the Presidential Succession Act (1947) and the 25th Constitutional Amendment (1967), triggered by the assassination of President J.F. Kennedy in 1963. In case a President dies, resigns or is otherwise incapacitated, the succession moves to the Vice-President, and then on to the Speaker of the House, the President pro tempore of the Senate and the members of the Cabinet beginning with the Secretary of the State. Campaign continuity is more uncertain. Elections are held every four years in November on the Tuesday after the first Monday of the month. Changing the date would need bipartisan consensus, hardly likely when the country is in the throes of a campaign. This year, the popular election on November 3 will be followed by the 538-member Electoral College voting on December 14. Congress will certify the Electoral College vote on January 6, 2021 officially declaring the President (and the Vice-President) who will assume office at the inauguration on January 20. During this, when exactly does the winning candidate become “President-elect” is a question on which legal experts still differ. There is no legal guidance in case a candidate dies or is unable to campaign shortly before the November polling or any time thereafter. For 2020, in any event, the ballot papers are already printed and millions of postal ballots were cast when the question surfaced. Were a vacancy to arise after November 3, the Electoral College will be guided by the two political parties since the primaries process of anointing candidates is their jealously guarded preserve. Under the circumstances they may just find it expedient to bump up the Vice-President to fill the presidential slot but how the Vice-President’s slot will then be filled remains uncertain. Tight race or landslide How will this uncertainty play out in 2020? Mr. Trump returned to the White House on October 5 and two days later was back in the Oval Office, announcing that he had recovered fully. Doctors described the cocktail of drugs administered to the President as an experimental therapeutic. Mr. Trump has refused to participate in any virtual TV debates with Joe Biden, the Democratic presidential nominee and former Vice-President, a decision announced by the bipartisan Commission on Presidential Debates after Mr. Trump tested positive. The first TV debate had been variously described as “chaotic”, “a **** show” and a “wrestling bout in a mud-pit”, none an edifying label. More than once, Mr. Trump expressed scepticism about the integrity of postal balloting, warning that the issue would have to be decided by the Supreme Court. When asked about a peaceful transition of power, he generated controversy with, “we are going to have to see what happens”. This is one reason that Mr. Trump is keen to push through the appointment of Judge Amy Coney Barrett to the Supreme Court to replace late Judge Ruth Bader Ginsburg, widely seen as a moderate and a liberal voice. Earlier, ratification of federal judicial appointments was approved not by a simple majority but a larger (filibuster proof) majority of 60. This invariably meant getting support from across party aisles. However, growing polarisation and politicisation of judicial appointments in recent decades often led to prolonged impasses and nominations had to be withdrawn. In 2013, then Democratic Senate majority leader Harry Reid worked out a deal to permit judicial appointments for Circuit and Appeal Courts to be cleared by a simple majority of 51. It boomeranged when the Republican Senate leader Mitch McConnell employed the same ‘nuclear option’ to approve the appointment of Judge Neil Gorsuch to the Supreme Court in 2017 and is threatening to use it again. Surveys and reality In all four instances of single term presidencies, the challenger won a decisive victory and in three instances, a landslide victory. Most opinion polls indicate a lead (not landslide) for Mr. Biden but polls can be notoriously misleading; even in 2016, Hillary Clinton led in the polls even winning more popular votes but losing the electoral college. It is also impossible to predict whether the pandemic will catalyse a cyclical shift seen in 1932 and 1980. Just as there are old-time Republicans who wish they had another candidate instead of Mr. Trump, many staunch Democrats wonder whether Mr. Biden will be sufficiently committed to their progressive agenda. Which party is more fractured internally remains speculative. Amid the growing uncertainty, only a decisive victory on November 3 will show that U.S. democracy has developed immunity from COVID-19. Rakesh Sood is a former diplomat and currently Distinguished Fellow at the Observer Research Foundation
10 October 2020||October 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Saving lives under the long shadow of the pandemic||The COVID-19 pandemic has ‘impacted populations around the world in multiple ways. The fear of being infected and anxiety about an uncertain present and future have impacted mental health severely. Lockdowns have led to isolation, in turn heightening anxiety and causing depression in societies, particularly in vulnerable communities’. While the novel coronavirus pandemic is ‘unprecedented in its scope and scale, previous studies suggest an elevated risk of suicide during such times’. There is some evidence that ‘deaths by suicide increased in the United States during the 1918-19 influenza pandemic, and among older people in Hong Kong during the 2003 Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) epidemic’. However, it has been noted that a rise in suicides in the wake of the pandemic is not inevitable. In fact, preliminary information from New Zealand, Japan and the United Kingdom suggest lower suicidal behaviour at least in the early phase of the pandemic. Before the pandemic, India’s progress as one of the fastest growing economies led to large paradigm shifts in the daily lives of its citizens. Major lifestyle shifts led to the rise of many lifestyle disorders in the last decade. Mental health disorders are one of the disorders of most concern, which have been swept under the carpet of stigma and discrimination. Many suicides are related to psychological disorders and distress. New normal, consequences The pandemic’s massive toll on human well-being — in a physical and mental sense — has completely changed the way people live. Necessary precautions such as social distancing, limited interactions and mask usage have become the new normal, with a huge social, physical, economic and mental consequences. Unfortunately, India has the dubious distinction of reporting the first COVID-19-related suicide in the world, on February 12, 2020. While the pandemic has affected the entire country, case incidence rates are the worst in States such as Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Uttar Pradesh. A worrying overlap reveals itself as some of these States are also major contributors to suicidal deaths per year — Maharashtra (18,916), followed by Tamil Nadu (13,493), West Bengal (12,665), Madhya Pradesh (12,457) and Karnataka (11,288). Dire socio-economic conditions arising from the pandemic — mass migration, unemployment and economic distress — make at-risk groups even more vulnerable during these times. Rising stress While progress on a COVID-19 vaccine is promising, uncertainty as a result of the pandemic is here to stay for the foreseeable future. The fear of getting infected, coupled with a lack of knowledge and the economic fallout has created a new level of stress not seen by many before. This is compounded by isolation from the community, causing high levels of mental duress and ultimately, COVID-19-related suicides for many. This situation is the worse among vulnerable populations who are susceptible to greater risks of infections, such as health-care workers, infected people, the elderly, migrant workers, those from resource-poor backgrounds, women facing domestic violence, individuals with compromised immunity, and those suffering from physical or psychological problems. A case series of newspaper reports of suicide in India during the early lockdown phase found that suicide was associated with the fear of infection, social isolation and pandemic-related economic concerns. The findings reveal that one in four of these deaths occurred among hospitalised patients, demonstrating the need for extra care and vigilance during institutional treatment for either COVID-19 or any other illness. The sudden closure of alcohol/liquor outlets resulted in an increase in alcohol-related suicides. As we continue to fight the novel coronavirus, there is a growing need to make mental health and suicide prevention a priority. At an individual level, any early signs of poor mental health such as a sudden change in behaviour, substance use, anxiety, disturbed sleep and difficulty in communication should not be ignored. While the feeling of uncertainty during this pandemic is normal, being informed and limiting ourselves to authentic sources of information and reducing exposure to distressing news is a good mechanism to help a person cope with the situation. Media’s role Suicide prevention requires a mix of a top-down and a bottom-up approach, ensuring that all interventions are rooted in empathy. India has created a task force to develop a national suicide prevention strategy. The plan incorporates the three universal strategies, including a ban or reduction in access to highly hazardous pesticides, reduction in consumption and availability of alcohol, and a non-sensationalised and responsible portrayal of suicide by the media. The media would need to follow Press Council of India’s guidelines on reportage of suicide and also create awareness about suicide prevention (https://bit.ly/36UGIpI). Seeking support is key There is an urgent need for destigmatising suicide as a phenomenon and ensure there is an increase in the number of functional and accessible helplines and training of gatekeepers. Most importantly, a system intervention can focus on identifying, supporting and referring suicidal individuals at all levels of the health-care system. It is essential that if suicide has been attempted the individual has the required intervention and regular contact support. A majority of individuals who are suicidal do not really want to die but find living difficult. Support at the right moment can change this decision. Understanding, compassion and support, at both an individual and the systemic levels, can save a life. On World Mental Health Day (October 10; https://bit.ly/34J79fq), there is the most important message for the ones who may be having suicidal thoughts: You are not alone and must reach out for support, as help is available. Dr. Lakshmi Vijayakumar is Founder, SNEHA, a suicide prevention centre. Dr. Sukriti Chauhan is a public health policy expert and Founder, ETI Foundation
10 October 2020||October 10 2020 00:00 IST,||The right balance||Long after Shaheen Bagh became a potent symbol of democratic resistance against a discriminatory law, the Supreme Court has ventured to hold that any such indefinite blockade of a public pathway is unacceptable. And that the administration ought to take action to remove “encroachments and obstructions” placed during such protests. The Court’s assertion was made even while “appreciating the existence of the right to peaceful protest against a legislation”. On the face of it, the Court’s view arises from a straightforward balancing of two contrasting rights — the right to protest and the right to free movement. However, a moot question is whether the manner and content of a protest should always conform to forms deemed acceptable by the law. Protests, by their very nature, are not always rooted in legality, but rather derive legitimacy from the rightness of the underlying cause and the extent of public support. In many cases, they are against laws and regulations perceived as unjust. A flash strike, a spontaneous road block, a call for a complete shutdown, or a campaign to fill up jails by defying prohibitory orders — each of these is not, in a strict sense, legal; but, at the same time, it is an inevitable part of the culture of protest in a democracy. In this case, the Court rightly notes that the administration neither negotiated with the protesters in Shaheen Bagh nor tried to clear the scene. Any finding that a peaceful protest had continued too long, or in a place deemed inconvenient to others, should not encourage the administration to seek early curbs on the freedom of assembly. After the pandemic led to the end of the protests, there was little left for adjudication, and the Court’s remarks might come across as a gratuitous offering to administrators looking to de-legitimise protests. Following the earlier judgment that any ‘bandh’ is illegal, courts routinely stayed sector-wide strikes. Another aspect of the present ruling is the assertion that protests should be confined to “designated places”. Such judicial certitude may end up undermining the larger democratic need for public expression of dissent in a manner and place that would be most effective. While notified demonstrations are subject to regulations regarding time and space, it may not be possible to extend the same to spontaneous, organic and leaderless protests driven by a cause. The ruling should not form the basis for suppression of such protests by the force of the state. Both principles — the need for balance between the right to protest and the right to free movement, and the rule that protests should take place at designated spots — are salutary from an administrative point of view. But these cannot become unquestionable axioms to the point of rendering any and all protests that cause inconvenience to others the target of the strong arm of the state.
10 October 2020||October 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Show of unity||By ending the rift over the Chief Ministerial candidate for the 2021 Tamil Nadu Assembly election, the leaders of the ruling AIADMK might have enthused the cadres, and also denied political rivals an opportunity to exploit the situation. But the real challenge is in winning on the plank of performance after two consecutive terms in power. In the absence of the party having a mass leader, both Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami and his deputy in government, O. Panneerselvam, appear to have clearly understood their respective political limitations and made compromises. Mr. Panneerselvam, who had held the post of Chief Minister thrice for short tenures, has agreed to let Mr. Palaniswami be the party’s face in the election, perhaps realising that the latter has consolidated his hold among people who matter in the AIADMK. On his part, the Chief Minister shed his reluctance to constitute an 11-member steering committee, a long-pending key demand of Mr. Panneerselvam, to avert any rebellion from him, irrespective of its political impact. Though shorn of strong and charismatic leaders such as M.G. Ramachandran and Jayalalithaa, the AIADMK leadership showed enough resolve to stick together. Besides, it looked as if there was no role for any outsider this time, unlike in August 2017 when the Palaniswami and Panneerselvam factions merged, as the latter claimed, on the advice of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. This seems an achievement in itself given the public spectacle of Ministers playing messengers between them on August 15 and the sharp exchange of words at a marathon meeting of the party executive on September 28. The nomination of Mr. Palaniswami, who became the Chief Minister in February 2017 under dramatic circumstances, ensures continuity; he has over the last few years acquired the image of a doer with a business-like approach. However, conflicts could still arise over the functions and powers of the steering panel, which appears to be an overarching body but with the balance seemingly tilted in favour of Mr. Palaniswami, who has six nominees, all cabinet ministers. The equations between Mr. Palaniswami and Mr. Panneerselvam could be put to the test during the distribution of the party ticket to AIADMK aspirants. Electorally, the impact of the ruling party’s latest decisions will depend upon multiple factors including a possible realignment of political forces and actor Rajinikanth launching his proposed party. Besides, a further churning within the AIADMK cannot be ruled out if V.K. Sasikala, Jayalalithaa’s aide and the party’s ousted interim general secretary, chooses a political role for herself upon her release from jail in Bengaluru. And the party will have to contend with the main opposition, the DMK, which, along with allies, made a near-sweep of the Lok Sabha election last year.
10 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Das tries tough love with bond market||With large borrowings to be facilitated for the Centre and the States in the second half of 2020-21, RBI Governor Shaktikanta Das on Friday sought market participants’ cooperation and termed ‘the orderly evolution’ of the yield curve a public good for which they shared responsibility with the central bank. Mr. Das reiterated an assurance that the additional borrowings required to meet the exigencies of the pandemic, would be completed in a ‘non-disruptive manner without compromising on price and financial stability’. Conceding that the expanded debt supply had imposed pressures on the market, he said the RBI was ready to assuage such pressures and dispel any liquidity concerns in financial markets. “Market participants, on their part, need to take a broader time perspective and display bidding behaviour that reflects a sensitivity to the signals from the RBI in the conduct of monetary policy and debt management. We look forward to cooperative solutions for the borrowing programme for the second half of the year,” Mr. Das said, in a direct message to bond markets. “Over the last few weeks, there has been some disconnect between the rationale underlying the RBI’s debt management and monetary operations on the one hand, and expectations in the market, on the other,” he said, likely alluding to some recent auctions of government debt that failed to elicit enthusiasm from investors. “It is said that it takes at least two views to make a market, but these views can be competitive without being combative,” Mr. Das remarked. The RBI, he said, had decided to double the size of its liquidity-enhancing open market operations (OMOs) to Rs. 20,000 crore based on market feedback, adding that he expected participants to ‘respond positively’ to the move. Three immediate measures were announced to ease liquidity — allowing banks to hold more SLR holdings till maturity for securities purchased in the second half of 2020-21, targeted long-term repo operations for up to Rs. 1 lakh crore with tenors of up to three years, and open market operations in State Development Loans as a ‘special case’. Mr Das said these steps ought to allay market concerns about ‘illiquidity and absorptive capacity for the total government borrowing in the current year.’ Aditi Nayar, principal economist at ICRA Ratings, said it remained to be seen if the RBI’s commitment to facilitate government borrowing, and its explicit signals aimed at softening yields, would prove adequate “to ensure that the bond market shrugs off concerns regarding the fiscal health of the Central and State governments, as well as the large supply of State bonds that is expected in Q4 of 2020-21.”
10 October 2020||MUMBAI,||‘Home loans to get cheaper’||The decision of the Reserve Bank of India to rationalise risk weightage on housing loans would play a significant role in boosting demand for the housing sector, said developers and lenders. Such loans shall attract a risk weight of 35% where the loan-to-value (LTV) ratio is less than or equal to 80%, and a risk weight of 50% where LTV is more than 80% but less than or equal to 90%, the RBI said in its policy statement. Kamal Khetan, CMD, Sunteck Realty, said tweaks to risk weight norms would “help lenders on the capital adequacy front and enable them to provide more loans.”  “RBI... should also announce steps that are crucial for the sector’s survival and then introduce measures that will aid the sector’s revival,” Satish Magar, President, Credai National. He said the extension of the moratorium and making all accounts that were SMA 1 or SMA 2 as on March 1, 2020 eligible for restructuring were among Credai’s demands to mitigate COVID-related stress on businesses and which the Centre should consider to help provide support to the distressed sector. He said the move to extend the co-lending scheme to NBFCs and housing finance companies (HFCs) may infuse additional liquidity; however, strict due diligence norms and eligibility criteria will not benefit the realty sector.  Hardayal Prasad, MD & CEO, PNB Housing Finance, said, “The extension of the co-lending model will help expand leverage capacities of HFCs and unlock value for us. The announcement on risk weights shall give much-needed impetus for the housing sector.”
10 October 2020||MUMBAI,||Khara lauds RBI’s discretionary tack||The RBI’s decision to retain an accommodative stance even as it kept policy rates unchanged on Friday was broadly welcomed by lenders and economists. “The policy statement by RBI is a perfect exposition of doing “whatever it takes” to revive growth,” said Dinesh Kumar Khara, Chairman of the country’s largest lender, State Bank of India. “With growth projections at -9.5% and inflation set to be higher at least for now, and the possibility of renewed infections in many countries, the monetary policy committee has rightly chosen to keep the policy stance accommodative and relying more on discretion based policy responses rather than being strictly rule-based. “Accordingly, the decision to go down the Open Market Operations (OMO) route for State Development Loans borrowings, increasing the limit for risk weights for the retail portfolio up to Rs. 7.5 crore and linking housing loan risk weights to loan-to-value ratio are policy innovations that will...nudge the term structure of rates lower. The policy has also targeted specific sectors that have high forward and backward linkages notably the retail and real estate sector,” Mr. Khara added. A. K. Das, MD & CEO, Bank of India said, “The measures are a potent force to support bond market, catalyse rate transmission and improve liquidity so as to be conducive to the revival prospects.” Retail and MSME segments would also benefit as a result of measures including the “enhancement of regulatory retail cap,” Mr. Das added. The RBI’s policy was as aggressively accommodative as possible, opined Abheek Barua, chief economist, HDFC Bank. ‘Simply not compatible’ “The decision to remain accommodative for an extended period and to look through “transient humps” in inflation reveals an appreciation for the basic principles of economics — that a GDP contraction of 9.5% is simply not compatible with demand side inflation pressures,” he said. “If inflation has persisted over the RBI’s target limit, it has been driven by persistent supply side problems. Persistence itself cannot transform a supply-driven problem to a demand-side concern amenable to monetary policy driven containment. Given the stance, there is a significant probability of a rate cut in February, if not in December itself, as inflation, as we expect, moderates,” he said. “The Rs. 1 lakh crore on-tap TLTRO window should enhance funding availability for companies as economic activity picks up in the second half,” said Krishnan Sitaraman, Senior Director, Crisil Ratings. “The last TLTRO scheme had enabled BBB and A rated entities to access funding through bonds, which was otherwise challenging for them.
10 October 2020||October 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Number of campus offers this year will mirror last year’s: TCS||Customers are seeking more automation given the success of efforts over the past few years, even as the pandemic-led pause spurred them to cut wasteful expenditure, said N. Ganapathy Subramaniam , COO and ED, Tata Consultancy Services. In an interview, he said the pandemic had not impacted TCS’s campus hiring plans. Excerpts:   How have client priorities changed in these past months? In wave one of the pandemic, client priorities were: their IT infrastructure and application landscape should never go down; to improve their employee experience so that there is no dilution of effort when working from anywhere remote and so that they are able to service their customers just as well; and, to improve their customers’ experience. In wave two, they realised the automation they had earlier deployed — be it artificial intelligence or robotic process automation — has helped. Now, they want to extend automation to other areas. A key factor driving this is the need to lessen their staff’s work burden. The fourth priority is cloud. Cloud has been proven beyond doubt that it is secure and scalable. Life sciences/ healthcare is the only vertical that has grown both year-on-year and quarter-on-quarter. The telecom / media segment has seen the biggest hit... In life sciences and healthcare, we have done a terrific job in the last three years. Three years ago is when we started to focus there. Within healthcare, different segments have been affected differently by the pandemic. Scheduled surgeries have been postponed due to COVID-19; other surgeries that can be deferred are getting deferred. So, medical device manufacturers are seeing muted prospects. But in the pharma segment, clinical trials, investments in new discoveries… they are all seeing significant growth. Broadcast media and entertainment have not been doing too well. Sporting events have taken a back seat. Telecom and information services are doing okay. Are deal closures taking time? For huge transformation deals, if the client wants to change existing systems completely to a new architecture, that is big-time investment; so in such instances, they would take their time. But we are looking at the pulse; if the customer is willing to take a long-term bet and invest quickly, and if investment dollars is not a constraint, then we structure it as a large deal. There are others who really want to conserve cash, because they’re a bit uncertain about their market. In such situations, we break up the deal into incremental innovations and see how we can structure it as a series of smaller deals.  We are seeing enough new deal sign-ons. In the latest quarter, we had $8.5 billion worth of new deals. If take away the single $2 billion deal, it’s still $6.5 billion, which is a broad-based collection of a lot of smaller, midsized deals across segments. It is true that execution is preferred to advice, but if you can stitch together both and say you can get this piece done in six weeks, or let’s say, in six months, then that’s valued a lot more.  Are clients now weeding out waste in their businesses? Almost everyone has taken this opportunity to step back and see what is actually working or not working for them. When they discover pieces of a business that are not adding value, they have the opportunity to shut it down or sell it off. Have TCS’ campus visits for recruitment been delayed this year? This quarter is where normally we are in the planning cycle for demand for the next year. It’s reasonable to expect that we will make offers similar to last year — ie, we made about 40,000 offers. Some of the universities have still not completed their exams. So, we are onboarding these students under condition that they will have to finish the exam whenever it is offered.  Given your Q2 numbers, are there any levers you have for cost control? We have done well in the [latest] quarter... if you exclude the provision that we made for the legal claim matter in the U.S… our EBIT margins have come to 26.2% which is more than a 250 plus basis points improvement quarter on quarter.
10 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Google Pixel 4a unveiled at Rs. 29,999||Google on Friday announced its Pixel 4a smartphone would be available in India from October 16 at a launch price of Rs. 29,999. The company also announced a launch price of Rs. 6,999 for its Nest Audio smart speaker. Both devices will be available on Flipkart as part of the e-commerce platform’s ‘Big Billion Day’ Sale. While the Pixel 4a, whose MRP is Rs. 31,999, will continue to be available on Flipkart, Nest Audio (with an MRP of Rs. 7,999) will also be available soon at retail outlets.
10 October 2020||MUMBAI,||Mahindra arm buys stake in Rocksport||Mahindra Holidays & Resorts India Ltd. (MHRIL) has announced the acquisition of a strategic minority stake (6.67%) in Great Rocksport Private Ltd., a programme for adventure activities, for an unspecified amount. “Our strategic investment in Rocksport will help enhance outdoor experience offerings at our resorts. Our members and their families will also have access to specially curated Rocksport programs in the cities,” Kavinder Singh, MD & CEO, MHRIL, said. Rocksport is engaged in providing outdoor entertainment, adventure programs, educational adventure tours and the retailing of branded adventure products in India.
10 October 2020||COIMBATORE,||Indian cotton gets ‘Kasturi’ branding, logo||Union Minister for Textiles Smriti Zubin Irani unveiled a brand and a logo for Indian cotton recently. According to an official source, the branding — Kasturi Cotton — would initially be applicable to long staple cotton that is grown in India and meets prescribed standards. The Minister added that the Cotton Corporation of India (CCI) had developed a mobile application called “Cott-Ally” to provide the latest news on weather conditions, the crop situation and best farm practices. The CCI has opened 430 procurement centres in cotton-growing States and payments are made to farmers digitally within 72 hours, she said.
10 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Banks should lend more to push demand for 2-wheelers’||Honda Motorcycle and Scooter India on Friday sought increased lending support for two-wheeler buyers from the banks to help push demand. Yadvinder Singh Guleria, director, Sales & Marketing, Honda Motorcycle & Scooter India (HMSI), told reporters it was too late for a discussion over a proposed cut in the Goods and Services Tax (GST) for two-wheelers and the focus should be on getting consumers’ confidence at the OEM level. “The confidence of our network is very high... we do hope that the upcoming festival should be a better one... based on the trends/momentum till now,” Mr. Guleria said. Replying to a query on the steps needed to boost demand for two-wheelers, he added that banking was one of the most important enablers for the industry. Along with measures by the RBI and the Centre, there were expectations of support from the banking system in terms of loans to two-wheeler buyers. However, this had not been seen till August. “So, we hope that with more money with banks and very low interest rates, considering the reverse repo rate, lending should be increased so that more and more customers come [in] and purchase at a lower rate of interest,” he said.  ‘Too late for GST cuts’ “Let’s not talk about GST, it is already too late... we know the Centre is already struggling, so let’s not talk about that and focus on what is in our hands,” Mr. Guleria said, adding that if there was a proposal and no immediate action, it would only confuse the customer. In August, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman had said two-wheelers were neither luxury nor ‘sin’ products, and that the GST Council would take up the issue for discussion.
10 October 2020||New Delhi,||GST e-invoicing from April for all B2B deals||The GST e-invoicing system will be extended to businesses with more than Rs. 100 crore turnover from January 1, 2021, for B2B business transactions, a top government official said on Friday. Finance Secretary Ajay Bhushan Pandey said the e-invoicing system can eventually dispense with the present system of filing GST returns for smaller (MSMEs. Mr. Pandey said by January 1, 2021, it will be available to taxpayers having turnover of more than Rs. 100 crore a year and for all taxpayers for B2B transactions from April 1, 2021.
10 October 2020||Mumbai,||Gold bond issue price fixed at Rs. 5,051||The issue price for sovereign gold bond has been fixed at Rs. 5,051 per gram of gold, the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) said in a statement on Friday. The Sovereign Gold Bond Scheme 2020-21-Series VII will be opened for subscription from October 12 to October 16. The RBI further said that the government, in consultation with the central bank, had decided to offer a discount of Rs. 50 per gram less than the nominal value to those investors applying online, and the payment against the application is made through digital mode.
10 October 2020||October 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Delhi Capitals ends Rajasthan Royals’ Sharjah love affair to go top||On a night when the Delhi Capitals fielders caught just about everything that came their way, with considerable style on a few occasions, Rajasthan Royals failed to put an end to its miserable run. Not even a return to its happy hunting ground — the Sharjah Cricket Stadium — helped, as RR lost by 46 runs on Friday. The target of 185 proved too much for RR, as it slid to its fourth defeat in a row; only Kings XI Punjab is placed below it, with the tournament nearing the halfway mark. DC meanwhile replaced Mumbai Indians at the top of the IPL table after posting its fifth win in six games. The night had begun promisingly for RR, with Smith winning the toss and his bowlers not allowing the rival batsmen to settle down. On a small ground, which has already witnessed the biggest chase in IPL history (by RR, in fact), things weren't looking good for Shreyas Iyer’s men. But Marcus Stoinis (39, 30b, 4x6) and Shimron Hetmyer (45, 24b, 1x4, 5x6) ensured their bowlers would have something to defend. Once again, Jofra Archer was the pick of RR’s bowlers, taking three for 24 off four overs. When Shreyas brought R. Ashwin into the attack in the third over of RR’s innings, the prospects of an interesting battle within a battle emerged. The India off-spinner won that battle against Jos Buttler, this time in a more conventional manner than last season’s run-out at the bowler’s end. The Englishman’s plan to hit the bowler over mid-wicket didn’t quite come off, Shikhar Dhawan taking a terrific diving catch at square-leg. Diving catch Then, another excellent piece of catching saw the back of Steve Smith. The RR captain’s flick off Anrich Nortje, DC’s lesser-celebrated South African seamer, was picked up by Hetmyer diving forward. There was more to come before long from the West Indian though, as he waited patiently for Sanju Samson’s miscued hit, towards long-on off Stoinis, to land safely in his hands. The wait for the Kerala dasher to return to form continues, however. Opener Yashasvi Jaiswal (34, 36b, 1x4, 2x6) and Rahul Tewatia (38, 29b, 3x4, 2x6) down the order tried hard, but it was not enough against a top side in top form.   Royals 101 for seven  Royals were 101 for seven in 15 overs, with Tewatia (9) and Shreyas Gopal (0) at the crease. Buttler (13), Smith (24), Samson (5), Lomror (1), Jaiswal (34), Tye (6) and Archer (2) were the batsmen dismissed
10 October 2020||ORLANDO,||Lakers on the threshold of glory||Los Angeles Lakers can complete the franchise’s return to the pinnacle of basketball here as it looks to seal a record-equalling 17th NBA Finals crown with a victory over Miami Heat. Lakers, which returned to the Finals this season after missing the post-season for six consecutive years, took a commanding 3-1 lead in the best-of-seven series on Tuesday, leaving Miami needing to stage a miracle to keep its hopes alive. Odds against Miami Only one team — LeBron James-led Cleveland Cavaliers in 2016 — has ever come back from a 3-1 Finals deficit to win the title. The odds, and momentum, are stacked firmly against Miami. Heat coach Erik Spoelstra struck a defiant tone on Thursday, insisting that the series remained competitive despite the improbable task facing his men. Injuries to Goran Dragic and Bam Adebayo in game one robbed Miami of two key figures for games two and three. While Adebayo returned for Tuesday’s game-four loss, Dragic remains sidelined by a foot injury and is rated as “doubtful” to feature on Friday.  Miami will look to the inspirational Jimmy Butler to lead the fightback. Butler was superb in the Heat’s sole victory of the series in game three, scoring 40 points in a virtuoso performance. “Ain’t nobody thinking about going home over here,” Butler said Thursday. “It’s not win or go home — it’s win or win. That’s how we think about it.” After being given a bloody nose in game three, the Lakers adjusted superbly in game four, neutralising the threat of Butler by deploying Anthony Davis to shadow the Miami small forward. Davis, who has formed a dominant axis alongside James since joining Lakers in 2019, is chasing a first NBA championship. Tribute to Kobe Lakers will attempt to close the deal wearing their “Black Mamba” uniforms, a tribute to franchise icon Kobe Bryant, who died in a helicopter crash in January. So far, Lakers are undefeated when they have worn the striking all-black strip. While James and Davis provide the starpower, Lakers’ revival has also owed plenty to consistent contributions from a talented supporting cast featuring the likes of Kentavious Caldwell-Pope, Danny Green, Rajon Rondo and Kyle Kuzma.
10 October 2020||PARIS,||Rafael Nadal sweeps into his 13th final||Twelve-time champion Rafael Nadal reached his 13th French Open final with a 6-3, 6-3, 7-6(0) win over Argentina’s Diego Schwartzman on Friday. For 34-year-old Nadal, it was a 99th win at Roland Garros since his 2005 debut and put him just one win away from equalling Roger Federer’s all-time record of 20 Grand Slam titles. He is also into his 28th Major final and has not dropped a set this year in Paris. Nadal fought off two break points in a marathon 14-minute opening game. The World No. 2 then broke for 2-0 but Schwartzman retrieved it immediately. It was a brief respite as the 28-year-old was broken again in the fourth game. The Argentine saved a couple of set points but dumped the third one in to the net and the opener was Nadal’s after 65 minutes on court. Nadal was comfortably the stronger player, breaking in the third and ninth games for a two sets lead. With the match and his spirit seemingly drifting away, Schwartzman dropped serve again to go 3-1 down in the third. But he rallied as Nadal slipped into passivity and by the 11th game he was back on serve although he remonstrated with himself for squandering three break points that would have left him serving for the set. That was his last chance as Nadal stormed through the tiebreaker. The Argentine was left to regret his 48 unforced errors.  Always difficult against Diego because he is one of the players who gets a lot of breaks [of serve]. Nadal    Remarkable Rafa  Nadal has lost only three sets in his 13 French Open semifinal matches (two vs. Djokovic in 2013 and one vs. Federer in 2005) Only the fifth tie-break Nadal has played in a French Open semifinal, first since 2013 Nadal has won two-thirds of all games he has played at Roland Garros (1919 to 962) Only twice before had Nadal played an opponent outside the top-8 in his 25 combined semifinal and final matches in Paris (previous: 2005 final vs. Puerta (37) and 2010 semifinal vs. Melzer (27))   Djokovic in lead Top seed Novak Djokovic took the first two sets 6-3, 6-2 against Stefanos Tsitsipas, the fifth seed, in their semifinal on Friday.
10 October 2020||New Delhi,||BCCI apex council meeting on Oct. 17||India’s home series against England will be up for discussion alongside the scheduling of the upcoming tour of Australia and the domestic season when the BCCI’s apex council holds an online meeting on October 17. Board president Sourav Ganguly had said that the BCCI will do all it can to ensure that the home series against England remains in the country and domestic tournaments kick off at some point despite the fluid COVID-19 situation. India’s COVID-19 case load is nearing 70 lakh and the death toll has surged beyond 1 lakh. England is scheduled to tour India next year between January and March for five Tests, three ODIs and three T20Is. Alternative plan In view of the rising COVID cases in India, the UAE, which is currently hosting the IPL, had emerged as an alternative for the home series against England. However, in the event India is able to host the England team, Mumbai could be the best option to create a bubble with three international venues — Wankhede Stadium, Cricket Club of India and D.Y. Patil Stadium. The state-of-the-art infrastructure at the new Motera Stadium in Ahmedabad is also an alternative.
10 October 2020||NURBURGRING,||Poor weather scuttles practice sessions||Bad weather denied Mick Schumacher his Formula One practice debut and wiped out track action at the Eifel Grand Prix on Friday, with the medical helicopter grounded by fog and cars unable to run. Pit lane exit closed Organisers had set the clock running for the 90-minute opening session at a cold and damp Nurburgring but kept the pit lane exit closed. After half-hourly updates, they announced there would be no running. The afternoon session at the German circuit was similarly timed out. Schumacher, the Formula Two championship leader and son of seven-times World champion and former Ferrari great Michael, had been due to replace Italian Antonio Giovinazzi at Alfa Romeo for the morning only. The debut had attracted global interest, with Schumacher stepping onto the Formula One stage at the circuit closest to his father’s childhood home in Kerpen and one where his father won five times.
10 October 2020||Nurburgring,||Verstappen stays optimistic despite Honda’s departure||Max Verstappen on Thursday shrugged aside the rumour and negativity surrounding Honda’s decision to leave Red Bull and Formula One next year. Despite reports suggesting he was unsettled by the news and considering his future plans, the Dutchman said he wanted to “keep on pushing” and would not be backing off. “It’s a shame,” he said during a news conference ahead of this weekend’s Eifel Grand Prix of the departure of the team’s engine suppliers. “But you have to understand their reasons — and we just keep pushing. That’s also what they said. “Of course, they’re going to pull out, but they’re not just going to back off now. We have a great relationship and it is really enjoyable to work with these guys. “So, for the rest of the year, we’re just going to keep going and it will be the same next year with the new engine. I’m looking forward to that — to bringing it all to a good end and pushing until the last race.” He said he sensed the decision was coming. “I could feel it,” he said. “But I knew a little bit before the announcement. It’s a shame, but understandable from their side.” Verstappen’s upbeat reaction came after his father Jos had made clear that he was less than impressed at how events had unfolded at Red Bull this year. Verstappen signed a new three-year contract earlier this year and has proved himself to be the fastest threat to the two Mercedes men who have dominated this season. If Red Bull struggles to find a competitive engine supplier to replace Honda, he may attract strong interest from other teams — especially if, as many paddock observers believe, his contract includes a clause requiring the team supply a competitive car and engine.
10 October 2020||Buenos Aires,||Messi penalty gives Argentina winning start||Argentina got its World Cup qualifying campaign off to the perfect start on Thursday when Lionel Messi’s early penalty gave it a 1-0 win over Ecuador in a lacklustre match in Buenos Aires. The Argentine FA piped fan noise around the empty Bombonera stadium and the chants of “Messi! Messi!” were vindicated as early as the 12th minute when he put Argentina ahead from the spot after Lucas Ocampos was fouled inside the penalty area.  Uruguay beat Chile 2-1 in their opener earlier on Thursday. Luis Suarez got Uruguay’s first from the spot with the aid of the video assistant referee (VAR). Although Alexis Sanchez equalised for Chile, substitute Maxi Gomez made it 2-1 in injury time to give Uruguay a barely deserved win.  The results: World Cup Qualifiers (South America): Paraguay 2 (Romero 66, 81) drew with Peru 2 (Carrillo 52, 85); Uruguay 2 (Suarez 39-pen, Gomez 90+3) bt Chile 1 (Sanchez 54); Argentina 1 (Messi 12-pen) bt Ecuador 0.   Euro 2020 playoff semifinals: Georgia 1 (Okriashvili 7-pen) bt Belarus 0; Iceland 2 (Sigurdsson 16, 35) bt Romania 1 (Maxim 63-pen); Scotland 0 drew with Israel 0 (Scotland won 5-3 on penalties); Macedonia 2 (Kololli 16-o.g., Velkovski 33) bt Kosovo 1 (Hadergjonaj 29); Norway 1 (Normann 88) lost to Serbia 2 (Milinkovic-Savic 82, 102) (After extra-time); Slovakia 0 drew with Ireland 0 (Slovakia won 4-2 on penalties); Bosnia-Herzegovina 1 (Krunic 14) drew with Northern Ireland 1 (McGinn 53) (Northern Ireland won 4-3 on penalties); Bulgaria 1 (Yomov 89) lost to Hungary 3 (Orban 17, Zsolt 47, Nikolic 75).
10 October 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Former cricketer Suresh passes away||Former India under-19 cricketer M. Suresh Kumar (47) was found dead at his residence in Alappuzha on Friday. The Alappuzha South police confirmed that it was death by suicide. A left-arm spinner, Suresh Kumar represented Kerala and Railways in the Ranji Trophy. In a First Class career spanning 14 years, Suresh Kumar, known as Umbri, took 196 wickets and scored 1657 runs. He represented India under-19 in 1990 under Rahul Dravid’s captaincy and played a youth Test and a one-day series against New Zealand, which had the likes of Stephen Fleming and Dion Nash in its side. His finest hour as a player came in 1994 when he took 12 for 164 (six for 96 and six for 68) against Tamil Nadu at the Victoria College Ground in Palakkad to help Kerala’s maiden qualification to the Ranji Trophy knockout rounds.
10 October 2020||Kochi,||Blasters’ push for youngsters||In a step that could give a big boost to young talent, Kerala Blasters FC has announced that seven promising players from its reserve team will join the main side during its pre-season in Goa. The seven — Muheet Shabir, Gotimayum Muktasana, Ayush Adhikari, Nongdamba Naorem, Shaiborlang Kharpan, Kenstar Kharshong and Naorem Mahesh — will also get a chance to prove themselves worthy of a spot in the first team in the coming Indian Super League. The youngsters have already shown some sparkle. Adhikari, sent on loan to Indian Arrows in the I-League, made 13 appearances in the 2019-20 season and came up with some impressive attacking performances and featured in a 1-0 win over East Bengal. Meanwhile, skilful winger Nongdamba Naorem was with the winning I-League side Mohun Bagan and had two goals and five assists. “We are determined to provide talented youngsters a platform to showcase their skills to the Indian football community. Of the six ISL seasons, the Blasters has been successful in achieving three ISL Emerging Player awards. This is proof of the commitment the club has towards the growth and development of Indian football,” said Mohammed Rafik, KBFC’s director of football.
10 October 2020||Dubai,||CSK and RCB look to get campaign back on track||CSK will take on RCB in an intriguing mid-table clash here on Saturday, with both teams battling inconsistency. The middle-order continues to be a concern for CSK with skipper M.S. Dhoni not at his best. CSK has the option of recalling Ruturaj Gaikwad or picking N. Jagadeesan, who has been warming the bench since the 2018 season. For RCB, Devdutt Padikkal has looked in good touch. If the big-hitting Aaron Finch can provide a quick start at the top, it would serve the team better. Leg-spinner Yuzvendra Chahal has been RCB’s leading bowler while off-spinner Washington Sundar has been frugal in PowerPlay. At Abu Dhabi, KXIP will have to play out of its skin to get its stuttering campaign back on track when it faces KKR. With five losses and a solitary win, KXIP is at the bottom of the table with two points, whereas Knight Riders are fourth with three wins. Shubman Gill has already created an impression as an opener and now KKR has found another option at the top in Rahul Tripathi. Sunil Narine also seems to be rediscovering his touch with both bat and ball. Eoin Morgan is a huge presence in the middle-order which also has Nitish Rana. And, then there is Andre Russell, who has not yet hit his wonted form but remains a threat.
10 October 2020||Orlando,||‘I don’t live my life thinking about legacy’||LeBron James says he is not thinking about his basketball legacy as he closes in on a fourth NBA Finals victory with the Los Angeles Lakers here on Friday. James is within touching distance of yet another championship as the Lakers head into game five in Orlando with a 3-1 lead in their best-of-seven series against the Miami Heat. May stir debate But while a fourth championship ring is certain to stir debate about James’ precise ranking in the pantheon of NBA greats, the 35-year-old superstar says he has given it little thought.  “I don't really think about it too much,” James told reporters on Thursday. “The story will be told how it's supposed to be told and be written how it's supposed to be written. But I don't live my life thinking about legacy.” James said he was more preoccupied with his legacy as a role model and social justice campaigner.  “What I do off the floor is what means more to me than what I do on the floor,” said James, who this week received a time-honoured accolade reserved for elite US athletes by appearing on the box of the Wheaties breakfast cereal. Students from James’ ‘I Promise’ School, which he started in his hometown of Akron, Ohio, also appeared on the box. “Seeing my kids on the back of a Wheaties box yesterday was one of the best moments of my life,” James said. “Seeing my mom unveil the box back in my hometown of Akron, Ohio, yesterday was some of the best news, videos and pictures that I’ve ever seen, that I could ever get. “The game of basketball will pass me by. There will be a new group of young kids and vets and rookies throughout the course of this game. So I can't worry about that as far as on the floor. “How I move, how I walk, what I preach, what I talk about, how I inspire the next generation is what matters to me the most. And if you appreciate my game, then cool. If you didn't, then that's cool, too.” James, a long-time advocate for social justice, has been one of the most prominent voices among NBA players this year during the protests against police brutality and systemic racism that followed the death of George Floyd in Minneapolis in May.
10 October 2020||October 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Rashid spins it SRH’s way||Nicholas Pooran (77, 37b, 5x4, 7x6) scored the fastest fifty of IPL 2020 but Kings XI Punjab couldn’t challenge Sunrisers Hyderabad at the Dubai International Stadium on Thursday. Chasing 202, Kings XI lost its top three — Mayank Agarwal (9), K.L. Rahul (11) and Prabhsimran Singh (11) — inside the first seven overs. Pooran’s 17-ball 50 did raise Kings XI’s hopes before he fell to Rashid Khan,. The star leg-spinner had two other scalps too.   Fastest 50s    In 2020    17 balls: Nicholas Pooran (KXIP vs. SRH), Dubai  19: Sanju Samson  (RR vs. CSK), Sharjah  20: Kieron Pollard  (MI vs. RCB), Dubai  20: Marcus Stoinis  (DC vs. KXIP), Dubai  Overall    14: K.L. Rahul (KXIP vs. Delhi Daredevils), 2018
10 October 2020||Nurburgring (Germany),||Six more Mercedes staff test positive||The Mercedes Formula One team on Friday confirmed that it has isolated six more staff, including a second person who returned a confirmed positive COVID-19 test. The team had announced on Thursday that one person from its travelling race team had tested positive ahead of this weekend’s Eifel Grand Prix. As a result, the team re-tested everyone at the Nurburgring circuit, an exercise that resulted in another positive test and one that was inconclusive.
10 October 2020||BENGALURU,||PGTI events from Nov. 4||The Tata Steel Professional Golf Tour of India (PGTI) is set to resume events with the Tata Steel PGTI Players Championship at Panchkula & Chandigarh Golf Clubs on November 4, the PGTI announced on Friday. Five events are scheduled to be held in 2020.  Events (course and prize money included): Nov. 4-7 & 9-12: Tata Steel PGTI Players Championship, Panchkula & Chandigarh Golf Clubs, Rs. 30 lakh each.   Dec 3-6: Jeev Milkha Singh Invitational, Chandigarh Golf Club, Rs. 1.5 crore; Dec. 9-12: Indian Oil Servo Masters Golf, Digboi Golf Links, Digboi, Rs. 60 lakh.   Dec. 17-20: Tata Steel Tour Championship, Golmuri Golf Club, Jamshedpur, Rs. 1.5 crore .
10 October 2020||Kolkata,||East Bengal ropes in Fowler||Shree Cement East Bengal Foundation, the new conglomerate managing the legacy club, announced the appointment of Liverpool FC legend and former England striker Robbie Fowler as the head coach for its maiden venture Hero Indian Super League. The 45-year-old last managed A-League side Brisbane Roar FC and helped it to the play-offs and fourth spot in the league.  East Bengal support staff: Head coach: Robbie Fowler, Assistant coach: Anthony Grant, Indian assistant coach: Renedy Singh .
10 October 2020||October 10 2020 00:00 IST,||The only protector||Vallalar, in his Deivamanimalai, says that he has no one to offer him protection, but Lord Muruga, said M.A. Manickavelu in a discourse. Manickavachagar cries out to Lord Siva, who resides in Perunthurai, and says that none but He can be his (Manickavachagar’s) protector. In the second verse of Abirami Andadi, Abirami Bhattar describes Goddess Abirami as the One who always protects us, and therefore, She is the One we should worship always. He addresses Her as Tripurasundari. There are inanimate objects, animals and human beings we rely on at different points of time. When we travel, we need footwear to protect our feet. We need umbrellas to ward off the heat. When we cross a river, a boat becomes a necessity. For a warrior, an army is necessary. To the potter, the wheel is indispensable. If you need to be guarded, you need a dog. If you need milk, you need a cow. In the past, a horse was needed for long distance travel. An infant can never hope for better protection than that afforded by parents. A king’s subjects look to him for sustenance and protection. The mind is superior to the body, and the atma is superior to mind. Teachers are the ones who calm us down when we are unable to think clearly, so their role is more important than that of someone who only protects the body. But he who guides the atma is the best of all. And who but God can guide us to His feet? And so, it is God who is our best and only protector. Vallalar prays to Lord Muruga for His grace. Wealth gets depleted when we take away from it. But the wealth of His mercy never reduces, no matter how much of it He gives to us. Vallalar says to Muruga that He never turns away anyone who comes to Him for help, for He is not hard-hearted.
10 October 2020||October 10 2020 08:33 IST,||Sudoku - October 10, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
10 October 2020||October 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Naadan food in Delhi||A photograph of a food-laden table — gleefully forwarded by the partaker of the meal – kept me busy for a few hours last week. The food, I was told, had come from a new Kerala delivery service called The Naadan Kitchen, based in Ghaziabad. I asked for the number (7042255534, 81530384084, 0120-4348258), called them up — and was happy with the first information report: They had various kinds of Kerala dishes, including all kinds of meat; and they were willing to deliver to my neighbourhood. I was happier still with the food — which I had over two glorious days. We asked for some Malabari parottas, pothu fry, duck curry and a vegetable thhali , which consisted of red rice, aviyal, thoran, sambar, moru curry, pickle and payasam . I paid a total of Rs. 1,300 for all this. The next day, Nadaan’s founder, a young man called Elvin Joseph, insisted that I try out a small portion of his fried pork and chicken biryani . But let me start at the beginning. The Naadan Kitchen (thenaadankitchen.com) emerged out of a conversation that two friends were having one day, a couple of months ago. One of them was a chef, who had come to Delhi before the lockdown to visit his family, and then stayed back, as his restaurant in Bengaluru shut shop. The other was a marketing executive. They talked about food, and then suddenly thought: Hey, why not start delivering food? So they created a logo — a picturesque image of a Kerala boat and a coconut tree — and then drew up the menu. They started the service on August 15. Elvin looks after marketing while Bejoi Chemparathy takes care of the kitchen. The food has the authentic flavours of Kerala cuisine, so much so that a young man we know said he was reminded of his childhood in Kerala when he had the food. Thankfully, it didn’t remind me of my childhood in Muzaffarnagar, but it gave me great joy. The pothu – buffalo meat (Rs. 500 for half a kilo) – had been fried with peppercorns, curry leaves, and a few spices and garnished with fried coconut. I enjoyed it immensely for the meat had soaked in all the flavours of the spices, but wasn’t red chilli hot. The parotta (Rs. 15 for one) was soft, warm and flaky. I enjoyed the thhali — especially the aviyal , a combination of juicy vegetables in southern spices, and the fragrant sambar , which I had with the red rice. Best of all was the payasam , the ada pradhaman , which was creamy and had been cooked with rice flakes. We shared this with friends who had come for lunch and quietly kept the duck for dinner. The duck mappas (Rs. 500 for a quarter) was divine. It had been cooked with small onions, ginger, garlic, green chillies, black pepper, coriander powder, and turmeric, and the gravy thickened with fresh coconut milk. The meat was tender and juicy, and I loved the spicy gravy. The pork dish that arrived the next day was again sumptuous. The meat, somewhat fatty, had the flavours of a host of condiments including black peppercorn, coriander powder, and garam masala. It had been cooked in coconut oil with onion, garlic, ginger, curry leaves and topped with little pieces of coconut. I got a message from the kitchen one day that they had prepared quail, but I decided to give that a miss. The menu includes fish fry, fish curry (Rs. 250), chicken curry (full, Rs. 800; half, Rs. 500), mutton stew (Rs. 1,600 for 1 kilo), mutton biryani (Rs. 450 for half a kilo), and chicken biryani (Rs. 300 for half a kilo). The Naadan Kitchen is the upside of the pandemic. It showcases the best of Kerala: its can-do spirit and its food. The writer is a seasoned food critic
10 October 2020||October 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Menswear in colour||“Across the board, Indian menswear is under-represented. Internationally, people would immediately know what a sari is, but that’s not the case with abandhgalaor abandi,“ says Arnav Malhotra. The 25-year-old business graduate (whose parents, Tina and Atul Malhotra, run the multi-designer boutique Evoluzione) has launched No Grey Area, a line of menswear that aims at modernising Indian silhouettes and making them utilitarian. Read the full story online at weekend.thehindu.com.
10 October 2020||October 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Why I gave my child a hacksaw||They gathered around me. A swarm of largely toothless creatures. All dressed like a rainbow had exploded over their clothes. Children. Annoying, noisy children, including one that belonged to me, had found my hideout. If parenting could be confined to early mornings and evenings, like a hoodie that I could change out of when I needed to be a professional, it would be easier. Especially now, when we are all working from home. Instead, what we have is a version of the Japanese Hikae, a permanent shirt, tattooed on to the skin. For a moment, I wondered if I could evade these intruders, throw my lime juice into their eyes, temporarily blinding them as I escaped with my laptop. They would find me though, even if I hid in the bathroom. Resigned to my fate, I decided to use them as experimental subjects, a focus group of tiny minds. ‘When you grow up, what do you want to be?’ I asked. Along with ‘Tall’ and ‘My papa’, one said, ‘A hero’. I persisted, ‘All right, but what is your idea of a hero?’ ‘Someone who doesn’t use plastic,’ said the girl with an orange Nerf gun in her hand. ‘Inventor of stinky fart lasers.’ Another thankfully said, ‘Gandhi ji ’ and my little one chirped in with ‘Chhote Master!’ Chhote Master is a new entrant. One that has popped up in her lexicon in the last few days after she read about him in a recent book we published about real-life Indian heroes. She claims, that like him, she too wants to teach other children. Being a parent differs from parenting. Nouns are passive. It is enough to merely exist. Parenting, a verb, denotes an action, and this one comes without instruction manuals. Raising a child seems to centre around winging it. Stuffing them with parathas and green vegetables without paying as much attention to what we are cramming inside their heads. The few tools we acquire through experience, we try and pass on to our children, hoping they come in handy someday. Books, though, are entire toolboxes with spanners, hammers, screwdrivers, borrowed from several divergent lives instead of just one. I recall a time when my little one wanted to discontinue her swimming lessons. A tan had become her nemesis. ‘I want to be the same colour as bhaiya .’ A chance remark by a foolish relative within her earshot had not gone unnoticed. ‘She is so cute but not as fair as her brother, na!’ This led to many questions within our home. Then, I gave her Frida Kahlo’s illustrated biography. Gleaming skin of a shade not unlike ours, with eyebrows that met in the centre, a formidably talented woman as a role model. A hacksaw to cut through rigid perspectives. These days she claims she doesn’t need to use as much sunblock as her brother. ‘Brown skin is stronger,’ she says. ‘White is a light colour so it gets dirty fast like my T-shirt, brown is darker, so it doesn’t,’ is her simple explanation. Each time my little one opens her books and reads about an Afroz Shah cleaning up the beach right in front of her home, her beloved Chhote Master, Frida or Malala, her universe expands. She sees ordinary people, not Superman, Harry Potter and Wonder Woman, but people like her, doing extraordinary things, and knows that she can do them too. That evening, we lay in bed, her colourful tribe disbanded and my cavernous maw of work sealed shut for the night. She was holding on to my left hand, almost asleep, when she murmured, ‘I am thinking of the D thing again.’ D is a code word for death. Unlike clowns or heights, this is a legitimate fear. I have tried combating it with both logic and humour, mixing up my reassurances between, ‘How many of your friends, the ones you know since kindergarten, are dead now? to ‘Then you can turn into a zombie and eat everyone up.’ It seems to have worked because now she is not scared of her own death, but of mine. ‘You will die before me because you are old,’ she whispered in the dark. ‘Yes, that is true.’ ‘So, after you die, will you become a soul, who can see and hear?’ ‘Maybe,’ I said. ‘Good, because then you can watch me as I become big.’ I imagine being a disembodied fragment, floating around corridors, keeping an eye on her as she grows. I hope like the people in the books she reads, this little girl, who is starting to believe she can achieve anything, uses her borrowed tools to craft and transform a multitude of possibilities into probabilities. Then even if I can’t, the world will watch her for me.  Published by Juggernaut   for Khanna’s Tweak   India , When I Grow Up I Want To Be... is available on amazon.in for Rs. 299.
10 October 2020||October 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Meet the real power players||‘What a show off!’ I smirked, as I watched the US presidential debate, ‘Just because he’s in power!’ Of the current president or the ex-VP? Nah, of the man who wagged his finger at both. The moderator, Chris Wallace, treated the potential leaders of the country like tantrum-throwing kindergartners, doling out their two minutes, snipping them off mid-sentence, rapping their knuckles for interrupting. People in power! You’ve met enough who’ve made you squirm. Often literally. If you’ve shared a bathroom with someone who reads a 600-page novel in there, or at times you suspect is writing one, you’ll know what I mean. You’ve twisted your legs together, held your breath and bladder, whined and wheedled, but it falls on deaf ears of he who squats on the throne within. High on the list of mega manipulators is the doctor’s assistant. Not the one who holds a needle to your arm (he’s scary enough), but the one who sits outside, yawning, yakking on the phone, and sending everyone, but you, in. ‘But I got here before them,’ you will have pleaded at least thrice in an hour. ‘Sorry, earlier appointment,’ the assistant smiles at you or ‘Babies first’ or ‘Serious emergency’ while waving in an old man who’d fallen asleep, exhibiting neither baby nor emergency. The next time, you book the earliest appointment, haul in your cousin-in-law’s protesting baby and claim breathless agony. ‘Sorry, doctor had to leave,’ says this person in power, ‘personal engagement.’ What of the guy who checks your papers? For the driving licence, application, visa, loan, claim. You know he’s always going to reject you for something you’ve forgotten. And, of course, you can’t send it by mail; you need to bring it in person and spend another four hours in the queue to reach the counter just as the ‘Out for Lunch’ sign goes up. Plumbers whom you’d pay an arm and a leg to because your toilet keeps regurgitating. Tailors who have no time to finish the sari blouse before the wedding. Auto drivers who refuse to go anywhere on the rainiest day of the week. Power players, all. This power game starts early. When you’re a toddler, you’re tossed into it. The lower the class, the higher the power its teacher wields. ‘If you don’t, I will tell your mother,’ she frowns while your mother resorts to ‘If you don’t, I will tell your teacher.’ Either way, you’re toast, you realise young enough. And so, since college admissions are around the corner, here’s a list of power-careers for your child who deserves the best: Man Friday. Gate-man. Paper-pusher. Eyebrow-plucker. And that unassailable power puff who answers the door to say, ‘Madam’s not at home’. ‘Please, please, just five minutes,’ you beg, ‘I just saw her, let me only...’ ‘Sorry, what is your name again?’ Power puff shrugs. ‘Yes, Madam said to tell you she’spukkanot at home.’ Where Jane De Suza, author ofFlyaway Boy,pokes her nose into our perfect lives.
10 October 2020||October 10 2020 00:00 IST,||‘It started with||She is no stranger to the ardent TV viewer (we’ll get to that later). But there has been an incredible rise in ‘Ritu Arya origin’ Google searches since she emerged asThe Umbrella AcademySeason 2 standout back in August. “It’s been crazy. I’m just overwhelmed with how many women have reached out and said how inspired and proud and empowered they feel to see a South Asian woman play a role like that,” begins Arya. A wild card on the Netflix show about a dysfunctional family of adopted children who possess superpowers, her Lila Pitts sure shook things up: right from her introductory scene in a psychiatric ward, where she is seen sticking cigarettes up her nose, to overpowering every one of the superhero siblings in the final episode and vanishing with her time-travelling briefcase. In the interviews that followed, the British-Indian actor has said a lot about Lila, her feisty, rather “unhinged” character, and not enough about life before and after Lila. So Arya takes some time off the sets in Atlanta, where her big-budget action-comedy, Red Notice, is being filmed, to get on a call. And flesh out what we already know: she grew up in London, speaks Hindi and Punjabi, graduated in Astrophysics, went to drama school, and is part of an alt-pop band with a recent single titled ‘L.O.V.E’.  Weird is good  “I think growing up I thought there seemed to be quite an inequality between men and women, especially in my community,” says Arya, choosing her words carefully. “I have two brothers and I wanted to keep pushing the boundaries of my expression and freedom. Which often meant that my parents thought I was a bit weird.” They were supportive, though, about her interest in Astrophysics, playing drums as a teen, acting, everything. In retrospect, she notes, she was very strong-minded and would have gone straight to acting, if that was what she wanted. “I think it all started from watching Bollywood films: Shah Rukh Khan, who is still my idol, and Kajol, from Darr and Baazigar to DDL J… all those films I grew up loving and thought, maybe I should be that because I don’t see these people on TV that I’m watching in the UK.” Fans (and there are many; her Instagram followers this year have reached 4,58,000) tracking Arya will find her in several sci-fi shorts and TV appearances from 2013 onwards. There’s Humans and the BBC soap, Doctors , Sherlock, Doctor Who, Feel Good and 2019’s festive rom-com, Last Christmas. Lady Parts , a 2018 sitcom about an all-female Muslim punk band, checks her favourite boxes: comedy and diversity. There are many more like it on this actor’s list, for good reason.  Looking racism in the eye  When I ask her if she ever had to struggle with gender and cultural stereotypes, her response is that in a world of systemic racism, she has been affected both directly and indirectly. “From a young age, I would see the women in the kitchen serving the men who would drink and party. I was bullied at my predominantly white school, called all sorts of names. Only last year someone spat on me on the bus, telling me to ‘go back home’… I could go on and on but to be honest, I use this to empower myself to create change,” she says, adding, “It drives me to push boundaries for women and people of colour, to gain further equality by taking up space and having a voice. I try not to complain, rather lead by example. And always, always leading from love and compassion.” It is easy to see why Ritu Arya has us in her corner. And when Red Notice , Dwayne Johnson’s action-comedy starring Ryan Reynolds and Gal Gadot, releases next year, we hope she will give us more reason to cheer.
10 October 2020||October 10 2020 00:00 IST,||A tale of two deaths||Mumbai, Maharashtra. June 14, 2020: an actor, 34, is found dead in his apartment, his body hanging from the ceiling fan. Hathras, Uttar Pradesh. September 14, 2020: a Dalit woman, 19, is brutally assaulted in abajrafield. She later dies. Three months between the two tragedies but an ocean of difference in the state’s response to each. And in the response of the media and that all-pervasive, hydra-headed creature called social media. In the former case, despite everything pointing overwhelmingly to suicide, there was a concerted media campaign that successively dragged in drugs, money laundering and murder with wild abandon. With each new allegation, the voices on TV got louder and the theories more bizarre, even as actual proof got thinner and thinner. Unfazed by this, the government saw fit to assign an alphabet soup of central agencies to investigate — CBI, NCB, ED. From drugs to dirty money to murder, each theory has been slowly eliminated, but the shouting continues. In the Hathras case, meanwhile, the young woman was found, naked and semi-paralyzed, by her mother. Rushed to hospital, she named her assailants — privileged caste men from her village — and said she had been assaulted. She used the word zabardasti , a Hindi euphemism for ‘rape’. She subsequently died. In stark contrast to the death of a star in Mumbai, when every wacky conspiracy theory was taken at its word and diligently followed up by the government, in Hathras even the most obvious allegations — that of rape and caste atrocity — are being shrugged off. Unlimited time and personnel were devoted to the actor’s death, with everyone and their aunt becoming narcotics and forensic experts overnight. In Hathras, however, demands for justice are being labelled “nefarious plots”. Dozens of FIRs have since been issued — not only in connection with the murder, but for “violating Sec. 144”, for “sedition”, “instigation” and “criminal conspiracy”. Clearly, protesting crime is as unlawful as crime itself. According to basic police procedure, if an injured woman is brought in, she should be immediately checked for signs of sexual assault. Yet this woman’s vaginal swab was taken 10 days later, when semen and other signs would be long gone. Nor are the police revealing whether the woman’s clothes were preserved, or samples taken from her fingernails and skin for DNA testing. When a sensitive case is under investigation, conscientious police procedure would ideally keep the victim’s body in the morgue to facilitate further examination. Yet this woman’s body was cremated by the police with unholy haste. The law says that even if there is an allegation of sexual violence, the victim’s name cannot be revealed, yet this woman’s name was revealed in public by Amit Malviya, the chief of BJP’s IT cell. The law states that a dying declaration is admissible in evidence and can form the basis of conviction, yet this woman’s statement is being side-stepped. One is compelled to ask: what happened to the sharp detective instincts we used when it was an actor’s death? Did three months of continuous use blunt the government’s and certain TV anchors’ investigative knives? Or did they get dulled by the balmy air of Uttar Pradesh? It is facile to keep pointing to politicians and television anchors and WhatsApp forwards and talk of how insidiously they corrupt agendas and muddy the waters. They would not be able to do this quite so well if large sections of the great middle and upper classes, the avid consumers and engine drivers of this neo-liberal economy, did not so willingly swallow everything they are told. There comes a point when we need to stop and ask if we will only listen to TV hosts and slick propaganda posts or if we will also listen to our conscience. A point when we ask why an actor’s death outranks a Dalit teenager’s murder in our outrage meter. A point when we question why we are suddenly so comfortable with electioneering becoming unconscionable. That point is now. Where the writer tries to make sense of society with seven hundred words and a bit of snark.
10 October 2020||October 10 2020 00:00 IST,||saritahanda.com||With their shop-in-shop and independent stores in Mumbai, Delhi and Chennai being closed during the lockdown, this eight-year-old home linen brand launched their online store last month. This comes as a relief to patrons who earlier had to trawl through various websites to find the exact Sarita Handa product they wanted. The brand’s signature floral and nature-inspired designs on decorative cushions, bedspreads and fabrics now also include lifestyle products such as handbags, pouches and robe sets. The quick-view option helps when you’re checking out multiple options; perhaps a grid view with two or three products per row would be useful to navigate faster on the mobile site. The current collection, called The Mix — for its use ofikat,suzaniand Palampore fabrics along with rug patterns and pick-stitch embroidery — is being promoted prominently. Framed botanical wall art is also available, and the sale section has everything at half price. The lifestyle products are online-only. Unisex robe sets come with matching quilted slippers in cotton jacquards and matelassé; the totes are embroidered and can be machine-washed; and the pouches are upcycled from the brand’s fabric waste.     Up next: More decor categories and gifting options to be added in the coming months.
10 October 2020||October 10 2020 00:00 IST,||obeetee.com||The pandemic has been a great leveller, with brands, big and small, heading online for visibility. The 100-year-old Delhi-based brand, Obeetee, is no different, as hand-knotted, hand-tufted carpets reach the masses via a new e-commerce store. Shop by design — traditional, contemporary, abstract or geometric — and by collection on the site that features an animated home page and large, expressive fonts. That being said, customers would greatly benefit from a quick view option or, at the very least, the choice to view each product in a different tab. While you can add to the wishlist, you need to create an account to do so. Collaborative collections with Indian designers Tarun Tahiliani, Abraham & Thakore and Raghavendra Rathore — that “create an indigenous design language for carpets otherwise dominated by Persian and Chinese motifs”— is one of the brand’s USPs, says a spokesperson. The overall range starts from Rs. 6,300 (for 5x3 ft polyester dhurries ) going all the way up to Rs. 16.42 lakh for a 18x12 ft wool and cotton hand-knotted piece that took three artisans 422 days to make. Silk carpets go from Rs. 52,000 to Rs. 10.8 lakh. There is a monthly edit: October’s is inspired by the red oxide floors of traditional homes and the Pantone shade Island Hazelnut. Perhaps the most impressive option is customisation. Compared to others who offer similar services — such as Hands Carpets, Jaipur Rugs and The Weaver — it gives more choice to the customer. Pick the pattern, specify dimensions and see how it looks in different pre-set templates (living, dining or bedroom). When it comes to colourways, choose from an extended palette, Obeetee’s signature colours or, if you want it ASAP, from a Quickship set that has over two dozen options.  Up next: Zanzibar, a jute handknotted collection inspired by the elaborately carved doors of the African nation, and a sustainable line of flat weaves using natural dyes.
10 October 2020||October 10 2020 00:00 IST,||shopnilajaipur.com||Nila House may have gone online a year ago (nilajaipur.com), with a white and indigo colour scheme that echoed the physical space in Jaipur, but, as Alexis Barrell, creative director at the not-for-profit organisation, says, it took the pandemic to “pivot towards a more focussed digital communication platform”. Their new website, launched over a week ago, centres on e-commerce and engagement. Shop for Nila’s range of homeware — Kerala tea towels tokanthacushions — and fashion. On the site now is Nila Studio’s collab with UK-based designer Anna Valentine. Think sculptural culottes, coats and tees in indigo. The lack of quick view and wishlist options, though, is inconvenient. And be warned, you might encounter a few 404 error messages too (which the team promises to iron out soon). What we love, however, are the DIY kits. Want to learn handspinning? Buy a spindle, 10 gms ofkalacotton and a booklet for Rs. 620, and sign up for a virtual workshop with artisans from Govindgarh in Madhya Pradesh. Want to be more adventurous? Set up an indigo vat in your kitchen — choose a kit with indigo powder, lime powder, pH paper and other ingredients for Rs. 1,190. “We are working on creating more educational kits, for everything fromleheriyaandbandinitodabu,” says Barrell. “We are also making natural watercolour bases that people can purchase along with handmade sketchbooks.”  Up next:Look out for comprehensive, step-by-step video workshops that will “introduce people to crafts like miniature painting, with a master miniaturist who works with natural pigments”. Nila will also soon retail frame looms and yarns.
10 October 2020||October 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Pandemic project: the family cookbook||For someone who cooked only on birthdays or Diwali, spending lockdown Sundays recreating family favourites — from daadi ’s jimmikand (yam) and raw banana koftas to masi ’s layered biryani — was a departure from the usual. Put it down to those weekly Zoom calls with the extended family, where menus were often the topic of discussion. Anyway, a few months ago, with my recipe counter clocking over a 100 family recipes, I began seriously contemplating creating my own heirloom family binder. Then I heard about Pallavi Gurtoo and her nostalgia project, Do Chammach.  Return to the hearth Founded two years ago by the former financial consultant, Gurtoo’s culinary initiative involves her actively cooking with families to document recipes. “My family lived in Africa for 12 years before relocating to Noida when I was three. I am Kashmiri but my people moved to Delhi 400 years ago, so we don’t speak the language. One of the few cultural markers we have is our food,” says the Mumbai-based artist, recalling how 2014, when she moved into her first apartment and began cooking obsessively, was a turning point. Gurtoo spent her initial months researching and taking up food-related projects: she assisted on a shoot for Zomato, was a pizza taster for a UK-based oven manufacturer, and worked in an experimental kitchen for Mumbai restaurant, The Lovefools, as a sous chef. Articles — on a young woman reconstructing her late grandmother’s pickles from scratch, or of chefs talking about cooking lessons from their grannies — gave her direction. “This prompted me to delve deeper into food documentation,” she says, as she learnt that a lot of culinary merit resides in our home kitchens. “There needs to be more acknowledgement of the labour it takes to feed a family. My mother is an incredible cook. From crepes to Kashmiri delicacies, she used to make it all. But I never questioned who taught her,” says the 31-year-old. The cookbook alternative One of the few positives of our pandemic times is the revival of the family cookbook. Many, including established chefs, are turning to these yellowing pages for comfort food and sharing their finds on social media. Thomas Zacharias shared his grandmother’s pazham peechi (banana fritters) and other memories, while Amninder Sandhu of Iktara posted how she decoded the ‘legendary chicken butter masala’ from a hotel her dad’s friend owned in Jorhat, Assam. Meanwhile, Food Forward India, a not-for-profit initiative created by Michelin star chef Garima Arora in 2019, went online this lockdown as Virtual Escapes. It explores and promotes the varied culture of India’s traditional food, such as jowar (sorghum) rotis prepared by the women of Pedamadduru, Telangana. “Nostalgia is always a great comforter,” says Goa-based food writer Vikram Doctor. “People are realising how their family recipes were put together, without access to gadgets like grinders, or packaged ingredients.” Unlike commercial cookbooks, these home collections are one of a kind — teaching you how to cook frugally and use leftovers such as rice and rotis . “They feature everyday dishes. Many teach you how to use locally-foraged keerai and other ordinary ingredients,” he says.  Quickest way home “As people get more homesick, it seems like they are using food as a way to go home,” says Aysha Tanya, editor and co-founder of Goyal Journal . The first few months of the pandemic saw many trying out recipes that required time and patience. Also, context is key. Earlier this month, in the publication’s Blood Fry & Other Dalit Recipes from My Childhood , Vinay Kumar, a writer who teaches English at Bengaluru’s Azim Premji University, looked at how food from his community featured in the country’s culinary landscape. “Mapping food has been a priority at Goya from its inception,” says Tanya, who authored and photographed for her family’s 2019 cookbook, The Family Table (with 47 heirloom recipes). “We’ve always set out to document recipes in the context of the communities they belong to. But over the last few months, we’ve seen how delicate our food systems and supply chains are, and these are the stories that are particularly relevant today.” Tracking down recipes Gurtoo recalls the month spent documenting recipes with a woman from Jaipur’s Meena community, known for rich mutton dishes like lal maas and curries cooked on woodfire. “If you asked her to make a curry or a dal , she’d say, ‘But I can make this five ways, which one do you want?’. We started out wanting to record 50-60 recipes and ended up with 150!” But the hardest to archive is your mother’s cooking, she adds. “Mothers listen to everyone but their own children. While it has been a struggle, I have documented most of my mother’s Kashmiri recipes like kaburgha and kofte , though I have tweaked [and daresay improved] her recipe for Dum Raan [roast leg of lamb],” says the curator. Having worked on three books till date and smaller documentation projects, Gurtoo, a self-taught photographer, says she shoots “real food made by real people that is then consumed, so I have limited time to style and shoot”. It can be challenging. “It helps me view my photographic body of work differently — working with nostalgia [using a client’s wedding crockery, for instance] instead of beautiful props. I like to reflect on the very real aspects of cooking and eating, like half empty plates and glasses with fingerprints on them.” Time to record is now A personal food project like Do Chammach requires one to be constantly updated. Gurtoo reads extensively about communities and their histories to get context. Her biggest task is convincing people that documentation should be done sooner rather than later. “People often say ‘I wish I had heard of you when my grandmother/mother was still around’. Many realise they’ve lost access to their food [memories] when it is too late,” she explains, adding how younger generations are finding that these books make for a thoughtful keepsake on landmark birthdays. “The Jaipur project happened when I was looking for freelance art designers. I was referred to a lady who designs art curricula for schools and, when she learnt about Do Chammach, she wanted to make a book for her mother’s 70th birthday later that year.” Among requests received during lockdown is one from a family in Kazakhstan and another from a Baniya-Parsi couple from Canada. “Since the former will have significant travel costs, they are trying to [loop in] another family for me to cover, to split expenses,” she says. The latter is a large compilation, including the extended family, and will involve working across cities.  Do Chammach projects take between one and four months to complete. Rs. 50,000 for 15 recipes (excluding printing and travel). Details: dochammach.com   “Internationally, there have been several popular TV shows [hosted by the likes of Nigella Lawson and Jamile Oliver] with cookbooks linked to them. These are almost like art books, with outstanding design, photography and production value. In India, however, we haven’t seen a rise in cookbook sales. What we have is a lot of popular blogs, apps and YouTube channels. It is recipe-led but doesn’t translate into sales. In this context, privately published family cookbooks, in limited numbers, make sense. It is a blog taken to the next level.” — Chiki Sarkar, co-founder, Juggernaut   “Regardless of the publishing route, there is a lot of effort that goes into the presentation of these family recipes — whether it is through the sharing of the stories behind each recipe, recreating the recipe for photography, or even contextualising what is relevant about them today. The intent is to provide a shared experience of recipes that have stood the test of time, for a wider audience of food lovers. I’m a huge fan of Archana Pidathala’s self-published Five Morsels of Love and Dining with the Maharajas: A Thousand Years of Culinary Tradition by Neha Prasada.” — Sonal Nerurkar, Senior Commissioning Editor, HarperCollins India
10 October 2020||October 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Instapick||#DreamingOfTravel: South African travel blogger Sharon Waugh is confined to her flat, but that has not stopped her from dreaming of her next trip. She has spent the last few weeks recreating tourist attractions (a Taj Mahal out of toilet paper rolls and a wine bottle standing in for the Eiffel Tower) as well as cliche poses like the ‘Follow Me’ and heart hands. @thesharonicles on Instagram.
10 October 2020||October 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Music and art for Mumbai||Ministry of Mumbai’s Magic has curated a digital festival — Biodiversity By The Bay — featuring a lineup of musicians, artists and stand-up comics. The collective aims at raising awareness around Mumbai’s pressing climate issues. Artists Shilo Shiv Suleman and Pia Alize have created art around Aarey forest, while Shweta Malhotra is producing work celebrating the state’s Lesser Flamingos. Comics include Kunal Rao, Daniel Fernandes and Anu Menon. The free event is on till October 25. Details: ministryofmumbaismagic.com
10 October 2020||October 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Tamil stories on air||Following the first regional language version ofComicstaanand a new web series,Time Enna Boss, Amazon Prime Video now brings an Original Movie:Putham Pudhu Kaalai. The anthology is set and filmed during the lockdown, and the five Tamil short films have been directed by Sudha Kongara, Gautham Menon, Suhasini Mani Ratnam, Rajiv Menon and Karthik Subbaraj. The first Indian anthology by the streaming service will be available across 200 countries and territories from October 16.
10 October 2020||October 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Slow food calling||The international celebration of slow food, Terra Madre Salon Del Gusto, which began earlier this week, will continue its journey for six months. In its digital avatar, the lineup features new digital content and numerous physical events across oceans and time zones. These will culminate in April 2021 with the Slow Food International Congress in Turin. Visit an apiary, learn about agro-mafias, take a cooking class on tagliatelle, and find out how growing flowers can save the world. Event details on terramadresalonedelgusto.com
10 October 2020||October 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Talking point||World Mental Health Day: This year, mental health has been in the limelight due to the ongoing pandemic and high-profile cases of death by suicide, including actor Sushant Singh Rajput and ex-CBI chief Ashwani Kumar. With this in mind, the World Health Organization’s aim is to get governments and employers to invest in mental health. Join politician Milind Deora on our Instagram Live today (@the_hindu) at 5.30 pm, where he talks about his experience with depression.
10 October 2020||October 10 2020 00:00 IST,||A whole new Loubi World||French shoe designer Christian Louboutin has created a virtual universe on South Korean gaming platform, Zepeto. The app allows users to create avatars and, for a limited period, try on the Spring-Summer 2021 men’s and women’s collections showcased digitally at the recently-concluded Paris Fashion Week. Your avatars can visit a digital version of the new Paris boutique on Rue St Honoré, take a selfie with the designer, and explore a techno version of the city, called Loubi World.
10 October 2020||October 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Digital FanFest||Like most other large-scale events, YouTube’s annual FanFest also goes virtual this Sunday. While there are over 150 creators from the Asia-Pacific region, catch Indian stars like comic duo Jordindian, music director Anirudh Ravichander, former Miss India Niharicka Singh, vlogger Madan Gowri and others. This will be a far cry, though, from the packed Mumbai venues of years past, where adoring fans gathered to meet their favourite creators. On October 11 from 2.30 pm IST on the FanFest YouTube channel.
10 October 2020||October 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Clay court champs||This year’s French Open is all about making history. Iga Świątek and Nadia Podoroska played the first semifinal (since 1983) with two unseeded players. Novak Djokovic is dealing with an injury as he attempts to become the first man in the Open Era to win each Grand Slam at least twice. Defending champion Rafael Nadal aims at equalling Roger Federer's record of 20 Grand Slam singles. The women’s finals today and men’s finals tomorrow will decide who comes out tops.
10 October 2020||October 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Menswear in colour||“Across the board, Indian menswear is under-represented. Internationally, people would immediately know what a sari is, but that’s not the case with abandhgalaor abandi,“ says Arnav Malhotra. The 25-year-old business graduate (whose parents, Tina and Atul Malhotra, run the multi-designer boutique Evoluzione) has launched No Grey Area, a line of menswear that aims at modernising Indian silhouettes and making them utilitarian. Read the full story online at weekend.thehindu.com.
10 October 2020||October 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Home sales to gain momentum||The real estate industry is passing through its toughest phase. Market observers say the importance institutional investors hold in the market is now being felt strongly for the sustenance of the sector. “The COVID-19 crisis notwithstanding, there exists good potential for productive deals. Going forward, most of the capital will be infused into emerging asset classes such as warehousing and logistics and affordable housing. Their growth will gradually bring back traction to the market,” says Shrinivas Rao, founding member of Vestian Global Workplace Services. Rao, who leads his real estate market research team based out of Bengaluru, says the pandemic came as a dampener to Karnataka’s market which was already lagging significantly on the affordable housing front. “It was expected to pick up pace, both on the developer and the buyer front.” Speaking on a range of issues that have bogged the market in the Garden City — including the liquidity crunch and GST rates — Rao is hopeful that the housing segment will gradually pick up pace in the next six months. “The upcoming festive season is expected to witness a fair quantum of activity in the market as well,” he adds. Excerpts from an interview: How will extended project timelines impact residential sales?  Constructionactivities have been constrained severely on account of the lockdowns, labour unavailability and social distancing norms. If the crisis continues and construction activity remains restricted, this may have an impact on future available supply. Residential projects that had been planned for delivery during the period between 2020 and 2022 might be delayed. Buyer demand for ready properties may pick up faster than under-construction projects with extended completion timelines. When do you see revival signs kicking in?  With government initiatives such as the SWAMIH stressed asset fund [focusing on last mile funding of developers with stalled projects], reduced interest rates by the RBI, targeted long-term repo operations to ease liquidity, moratorium on loans, and RERA timeline extensions, the residential market will witness a boost in the coming months. The upcoming festive season is expected to ramp up sales as well, particularly in affordable and mid-income housing, with developers offering a variety of offers to revive sales. Do you anticipate a price cut for stalled projects?  According to government estimates, there are 4.58 lakh stalled housing units in 1,509 residential projects across the country. While the Union Minister of Commerce and Industry, Piyush Goyal, has said that developers need to sell residential projects at reduced prices to lower high-priced unsold stock, there is, however, limited scope to cut prices. With most home buyers fence-sitting and sources of liquidity drying up, the residential sector was already undergoing a tough phase. The situation has been exacerbated by the COVID-19 crisis which has caused labour shortage and impeded supply of construction materials imported from China. So, with developers seeking alternative sources to meet their building requirements, and with increasing material costs, the chances of prices of under-construction projects coming down substantially are rather slim. On the other hand, prices of ready properties held by stressed developers have reduced, particularly in markets with high levels of unsold inventory. While Bengaluru has not witnessed much of a price decline, housing prices in cities such as Mumbai have corrected by at least 10-15%. What percentage of a price hike would make sense for a buyer now? There are rumours of builders offering discounts to speed up sales.  With an increase in funding rate and construction material, the cost of construction increases too. However, it is totally up to the developer to decide on the percentage of the price hike in view of market conditions and saleability. Regarding the rumours, several builders are actually providing discounts and other offers in order to try selling their inventory sooner rather than later. According to a cement sector report, prices have declined. Demand from south Kerala, some parts of Karnataka, Andhra and Telangana has been affected by the monsoon, and pan-India cement production has declined by 13.5% as of July 2020. What bearing will this have on residential prices?   Softeningof cement prices would decrease construction costs but would be offset by an increase in additional costs such as labour and construction materials. This will lead to an overall increase in construction cost. How are home loan disbursals faring?   Home loandisbursements came to a standstill amid the lockdowns as in a housing loan, unless the property is seen and a physical verification is done, the loan cannot be disbursed. The moratorium allowed to customers [regarding loans] prevented banks and HFCs from collecting repayments. Consequently, the blow from the pandemic was largely on the individual loan book growth. As per HDFC Ltd., retail loans grew by 11% in the June quarter, down from 14% in the previous quarter. The share of individual loans in incremental disbursals dropped sharply to 17% from the average 80-90% in the previous quarters. With the lockdown being lifted gradually, home loan disbursements are expected to improve, though the road to normalcy is likely to be a long one. It is anticipated that disbursements may come back to near normalcy by early next year.  There are 4.58 lakh stalled housing units in 1,509 residential projects across the country
10 October 2020||October 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Banking on data centres||India is fast becoming a digital economy with an exponential growth in data generation. The Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI) highlights that India currently has 1.2 billion  people with a unique digital identity, 637 million total Internet subscribers, with 9.1 GB data consumed per subscriber per month and 350 million smart phone devices. This, combined with the increased adoption of cloud computing, has created an unparalleled demand for Data Centres (DCs) in the country. Various digitisation initiatives by the Indian government, such as Smart Cities and Digital India, have further led to a data explosion in India. This got a further boost by the rapid digital transformation of various industries such as e-commerce, telecom, financial services, online food delivery apps, and even the manufacturing sector. Currently in India, the total Internet hits have surged between 50% and 70%, whereas streaming has jumped by at least 12%. The absorption rate of online gaming transactions has increased to a staggering 97%. Given these numbers, India holds enormous potential to become the ‘next destination’ for these centres. With the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, this projection will be realised sooner than later. Amidst the current downturn, DCs are among one of the best protected sectors. All the applications we are using to function effectively during the current crisis are ultimately powered by DCs, and therefore their role today is critical for all aspects of life. Technology and automation provide a significant opportunity to make steep changes in terms of how DC operations evolve as we move forward in the next 3-5 years. CBRE insights highlight that their capacity is expected to grow two-fold by FY-25 from the current 500-520 MW. Major Indian cities such as Mumbai, Chennai, Bangalore, Kolkata, Hyderabad, Pune and NCR are expected to witness supply addition of upto 40% in 2020. With 41% data center capacity, Mumbai leads the data center requirements, followed by Bangalore (17%) and Delhi (16%). Current trends The demand for outsourced DCs has increased in India and occupiers would require flexible, scalable DC solutions that are both operationally and financially optimal. Understanding the demand of the market, CBRE has launched Data Centre Advisory Services that enables leaders to transform their businesses with more relevant information with the least amount of effort. Our detailed analysis aids customers to leverage Data Centre & IT strategy by suggesting workload movements to the best DC/Cloud platform (depending on the application design landscape). The analysis also gives insights to systems and applications which continue to be maintained in house. The below trends are being witnessed across the industry:  Fund deployment to rise: CBRE expects that global players will continue to take interest in investing in the country, with a focus on backing leading operators or funding prominent developers to foray into the DC segment in 2020. Further, against the backdrop of the COVID-19 situation in India, corporates would be inclined towards investing in the cloud segment as businesses are moving online and both employees and employers prefer the work-from-home option.    Transition from captive to co-location and cloud DCs: Occupiers’ demand for co-location space over captive DCs is further likely to get a boost due to the categorisation of third-party DCs as ‘Essential Services’ ensuring uninterrupted and uneventful operations even during a pandemic situation like today. With regulatory requirements for data storage expected to be implemented in the coming quarters, corporates are now expected to re-evaluate their DC portfolios in the country.  Edge computing to become a part of DC portfolios: On the back of their ability to service precise geographic zones, cities such as Kolkata, Pune, Gurgaon, Kochi and Jaipur, particularly, are likely to be amongst the first ones to witness edge DCs in the next few years.  Sustained policy impetus to spur DC demand: The passage of policies such as the National E-commerce Policy and Personal Data Protection Bill will mandate Indian consumers’ data to reside within the country, thereby boosting the demand for DCs. Further, large-scale, nationwide initiatives such as ‘Make in India ‘, ‘Digital India’ and Smart City Mission in particular would further augment DC demand.   The expanding e-commerce segment in India will also amplify the sector’s demand as the segment increasingly needs help in managing its growing database. Along with National E-commerce Policy other measures such as the Personal Data Protection Bill, proposed policy on Data Centre Parks and digital initiatives by the government will accelerate demand.  The writer is Chairman and CEO - India, South East Asia, Middle East & Africa, CBRE   Continued on page 5
10 October 2020||October 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Lessons from a pandemic||Our need for space, natural light, ventilation and access to greenery has never been felt this strongly. Especially for those living in cramped and dense urban settings, forced to stay indoors for the last six months. Humans are very much a part of nature and access to sunlight and fresh air is not only rejuvenating, both mentally and physically, but also promotes healing. During the 1918 influenza pandemic, it was found that severely ill flu patients, who were nursed outdoors, recovered better than those who were treated indoors. A combination of natural light and greenery resulted in faster recoveries. Considering this, it is imperative that our built environment provides us with opportunities to remain close to nature for our own health and wellbeing. However, we have been destroying that very nature to create our cities and live in enclosed, man-made spaces. Biophilia, according to biologist E.O.Wilson, is ‘an innate and genetically determined affinity of human beings with the natural world’. This connection is essential not only for our health and wellbeing but also for our planet’s sustenance. The big question, though, is whether this realisation will continue to stay within us even after this crisis is over. Only if it does will the future of urban design result in eco-friendly buildings that exist in harmony with our surroundings. However, looking at the past, it would not be wrong to assume that it won’t be long before people go back to their fast-paced, frenzied design and construction practices. These systems, unfortunately, do not focus on users but on total built up area and cost. If we were to ensure our building practices stay healthy, here’s what needs to be done: Our building codes and regulations should focus on user health and wellbeing and not only on FSI / FAR, setbacks and building heights. Codes will have to mandate minimum requirements for natural light, ventilation and access to green spaces. Natural and healthy building materials should be promoted. These, along with clean energy, rain water harvesting, waste water management and solid waste management will ensure our cities will last longer. In other words, all new buildings should comply with green building standards. The building plan approval process should also mandate the owner to tend to his/her surrounding neighbourhood. Streetwise zoning codes should be initiated and enforced prior to awarding plan approvals, wherein each of us are also held responsible for our surrounding environment. For example, regulations should insist plot owners plant trees along their plot. The study of environmentally-sensitive design practices should be brought in, and, in a much more vigorous manner in architecture colleges. Students need to understand the importance of designing built spaces in harmony with nature. Most importantly we, as building professionals should continue to educate the public on the importance and need for eco-sensitive building design and construction, their benefits to human welfare and the planet’s health. This ongoing education should be mandatory, lest we forget today’s crisis and remember our lessons when the next crisis hits us.  The author is the founder of Green Evolution, a sustainable architecture firm   Biophilia is an innate and genetically determined affinity of human beings with the natural world
10 October 2020||October 10 2020 00:00 IST,||The applicability of OSR||We are demolishing our old apartment complex and constructing a new one by way of a joint development. Some of the flat owners within the complex are of the opinion that since the existing layout is more than 30 years old, open space reservation (OSR) is not required. Will an elimination of 10% OSR amount to a violation of building laws? If OSR is mandatory, is it necessary to deduct 10% of land while working out the built-up area proposed for a new building’s construction? Please advise. Jayanthi B Chennai OSR will not be applicable if the extent of site is below 3,000 sq.m. If the land is more than the exempted limit, at the time of processing your building plan approvals, the authorities will determine the OSR requirements based on the size of the plot. The final approval will be issued only after transfer of OSR land, if the same is applicable. I have been residing in a residential community at Siruseri for over six years. I am planning to renovate my unit (owned) and looking at getting my team of workers for the project. The apartment association is not allowing me to bring in the team and let them stay inside my flat. Please advise. Asokan T Chennai The bye-laws of your association governing these aspects have to be looked into to answer your query. If the association is concerned about the safety of the other occupants in the building, you may have to come to a mutually acceptable solution in the interest of all concerned.
10 October 2020||October 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Marble Italia brings Marazzi to India||Marble Italia of Tile Italia Group — that deals with natural stone — has introduced Marazzi, an international brand of porcelain slabs and tiles, in India. Founded in 1980 by Shashidhar Patil and Asha Patil, Marble Italia has been following global standards in thickness and Italian technology to process these stones, creating a legacy with architects and projects as they are environment-friendly. The categories vary from a ‘marble look’, ‘wood look’ to a ‘rustic look’ for both, interiors and exteriors. While they require zero maintenance, they are scratch-resistant and acid-proof as well. The slabs have been used around the world in various spaces, from residential buildings to commercial spaces and star hotels. “By maintaining a high testing parameter, the block selections have always been only 2-3% of the quarry deposits from 21 countries,” says the team, adding that they started trade with natural marble and went on to introduce onyx, semi-precious stones and engineered quartz-technistone.
10 October 2020||October 10 2020 00:00 IST,||CSE report on mass housing||A new assessment by New Delhi-based Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) highlights the dangers of ignoring the need for thermal comfort in mass housing and neglecting linking fiscal strategy to improve thermal comfort performance. These are actors that must be a part of the new post-pandemic green recovery agenda, say experts. Releasing the assessment late last month, Anumita Roychowdhury, CSE’s executive director-research and advocacy, said, “According to real estate industry estimates, about 1-1.2 million dwelling units are likely to get added to the formal housing stock over the next few years. Not linking the current fiscal support strategy with mandated improvement in thermal comfort in buildings can delay thermal comfort measures and lock in enormous energy inefficiency during the operational phase of buildings.”
10 October 2020||October 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Project at Sholinganallur||City-based developer Casagrand has launched a new project at Sholinganallur. Titled FirstCity, the development is spread across 15 acres and houses over 1,700 apartments. Available in 2, 3 and 4BHK configurations, the units are priced at Rs. 3,799 per sq.ft. Designed with influences from classic Roman architecture, FirstCity is home to a grand Romanian arch at the entrance. Other amenities include a clubhouse, private party halls in each tower, etc. Details: casagrand.co.in
10 October 2020||October 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Banking on data centres||India is fast becoming a digital economy with an exponential growth in data generation. The Telecom Regulatory Authority of India (TRAI) highlights that India currently has 1.2 billion  people with a unique digital identity, 637 million total Internet subscribers, with 9.1 GB data consumed per subscriber per month and 350 million smart phone devices. This, combined with the increased adoption of cloud computing, has created an unparalleled demand for Data Centres (DCs) in the country. Various digitisation initiatives by the Indian government, such as Smart Cities and Digital India, have further led to a data explosion in India. This got a further boost by the rapid digital transformation of various industries such as e-commerce, telecom, financial services, online food delivery apps, and even the manufacturing sector. Currently in India, the total Internet hits have surged between 50% and 70%, whereas streaming has jumped by at least 12%. The absorption rate of online gaming transactions has increased to a staggering 97%. Given these numbers, India holds enormous potential to become the ‘next destination’ for these centres. With the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, this projection will be realised sooner than later. Amidst the current downturn, DCs are among one of the best protected sectors. All the applications we are using to function effectively during the current crisis are ultimately powered by DCs, and therefore their role today is critical for all aspects of life. Technology and automation provide a significant opportunity to make steep changes in terms of how DC operations evolve as we move forward in the next 3-5 years. CBRE insights highlight that their capacity is expected to grow two-fold by FY-25 from the current 500-520 MW. Major Indian cities such as Mumbai, Chennai, Bangalore, Kolkata, Hyderabad, Pune and NCR are expected to witness supply addition of upto 40% in 2020. With 41% data center capacity, Mumbai leads the data center requirements, followed by Bangalore (17%) and Delhi (16%). Current trends The demand for outsourced DCs has increased in India and occupiers would require flexible, scalable DC solutions that are both operationally and financially optimal. Understanding the demand of the market, CBRE has launched Data Centre Advisory Services that enables leaders to transform their businesses with more relevant information with the least amount of effort. Our detailed analysis aids customers to leverage Data Centre & IT strategy by suggesting workload movements to the best DC/Cloud platform (depending on the application design landscape). The analysis also gives insights to systems and applications which continue to be maintained in house. The below trends are being witnessed across the industry:  Fund deployment to rise: CBRE expects that global players will continue to take interest in investing in the country, with a focus on backing leading operators or funding prominent developers to foray into the DC segment in 2020. Further, against the backdrop of the COVID-19 situation in India, corporates would be inclined towards investing in the cloud segment as businesses are moving online and both employees and employers prefer the work-from-home option.    Transition from captive to co-location and cloud DCs: Occupiers’ demand for co-location space over captive DCs is further likely to get a boost due to the categorisation of third-party DCs as ‘Essential Services’ ensuring uninterrupted and uneventful operations even during a pandemic situation like today. With regulatory requirements for data storage expected to be implemented in the coming quarters, corporates are now expected to re-evaluate their DC portfolios in the country.  Edge computing to become a part of DC portfolios: On the back of their ability to service precise geographic zones, cities such as Kolkata, Pune, Gurgaon, Kochi and Jaipur, particularly, are likely to be amongst the first ones to witness edge DCs in the next few years.  Sustained policy impetus to spur DC demand: The passage of policies such as the National E-commerce Policy and Personal Data Protection Bill will mandate Indian consumers’ data to reside within the country, thereby boosting the demand for DCs. Further, large-scale, nationwide initiatives such as ‘Make in India ‘, ‘Digital India’ and Smart City Mission in particular would further augment DC demand.   The expanding e-commerce segment in India will also amplify the sector’s demand as the segment increasingly needs help in managing its growing database. Along with National E-commerce Policy other measures such as the Personal Data Protection Bill, proposed policy on Data Centre Parks and digital initiatives by the government will accelerate demand.  The writer is Chairman and CEO - India, South East Asia, Middle East & Africa, CBRE   Continued on page 5
10 October 2020||October 10 2020 00:00 IST,||If home is ready, buyer is ready||The real estate industry is passing through its toughest phase. Market observers say the importance of institutional investors is now being felt for the sustenance of the sector. “The COVID-19 crisis notwithstanding, there exists good potential for productive deals. Going forward, most of the capital will be infused into emerging assets classes such as warehousing and logistics and affordable housing. Their growth will gradually bring back traction to the market,” says Shrinivas Rao, founding member of Vestian Global Workplace Services. Rao, who leads his real estate market research team based out of Bengaluru, says the pandemic came as a dampener to Karnataka’s market which was already lagging significantly on the affordable housing front. “It was expecting to pick up pace, both on the developer and the buyer front.” Speaking on a range of issues that have bogged the market in the Garden City — including the liquidity crunch and GST rates — Rao is hopeful that the housing segment will gradually pick up pace in the next six months. “The upcoming festive season is expected to witness a fair quantum of traction in the market as well,” he adds. Excerpts from an interview: How will extended project timelines impact residential sales?  Constructionactivities have been constrained severely on account of the lockdowns, labour unavailability and social distancing norms. If the crisis continues and construction activity continues to be restricted, this may have an impact on future available supply. Residential projects that had been planned for delivery during the period 2020-2022 might be delayed. Buyer demand for ready properties may pick up faster than under-construction projects with extended completion timelines. When do you see revival signs kicking in?  With government initiatives such as the SWAMIH stressed asset fund focusing on last mile funding of developers with stalled projects, reduced interest rates by the RBI and targeted long-term repo operations to ease liquidity, moratorium on loans, and RERA timeline extensions, the residential market will witness a boost in the coming months. The upcoming festive season is expected to witness a fair quantum of traction in the sector as well, particularly in affordable and mid-income housing, with developers offering a variety of offers to revive sales. Do you anticipate a price cut for stalled projects?  According to government estimates, there are 4.58 lakh stalled housing units in 1,509 residential projects across the country. While the Union Minister of Commerce and Industry, Piyush Goyal, has said that developers need to sell residential projects at reduced prices to lower high-priced unsold stock, there is, however, limited scope to cut prices. With most home buyers fence-sitting and sources of liquidity drying up, the residential sector was already undergoing a tough phase. The situation has been exacerbated by the COVID-19 crisis which has caused labour shortage and impeded supply of construction materials imported from China. So, with developers seeking alternative sources to meet their building requirements, and with increasing material costs, the chances of prices of under-construction projects coming down substantially are rather slim. On the other hand, prices of ready properties held by stressed developers have reduced, particularly in markets with high levels of unsold inventory. While Bengaluru has not witnessed much of a price decline, housing prices in cities such as Mumbai have corrected by at least 10-15%. What percentage of a price hike would make sense for a buyer now? There are rumours of builders offering discounts to speed up sales.  With increase in funding rate and construction material, the cost of construction increases too. However, it is totally up to the developer to decide upon the percentage of price hike in view of market conditions and saleability. Regarding the rumours, several builders are actually providing discounts and other offers in order to try selling their inventory sooner rather than later. According to a cement sector report, prices have declined. Demand from south Kerala, some parts of Karnataka, Andhra and Telangana is affected by the monsoon, and pan-India cement production has declined by 13.5% as of July 2020. What bearing will this have on residential prices?  Softeningof cement prices would decrease construction costs but would be offset by an increase in additional costs such as labour and construction materials. This will lead to an overall increase in construction cost. How are home loan disbursals faring?  Home loandisbursements came to a standstill amid the lockdowns as in a housing loan, unless the property is seen and a physical verification is done, the loan cannot be disbursed. The moratorium allowed to customers [regarding loans] prevented banks and HFCs from collecting repayments. Consequently, the blow from the pandemic was largely on the individual loan book growth. As per HDFC Ltd., retail loans grew by 11% in the June quarter, down from 14% in the previous quarter. The share of individual loans in incremental disbursals dropped sharply to 17% from the average 80-90% in the previous quarters. With the lockdown being lifted gradually, home loan disbursements are expected to improve, though the road to normalcy is likely to be a long one. It is anticipated that disbursements may come back to near normalcy by early next year.  Going forward, most of the capital will be infused into emerging assets classes such as warehousing and logistics and affordable housing.
10 October 2020||October 10 2020 00:00 IST,||With coal-fired power plants, we are mining for trouble||I was diagnosed with asthma around five years ago. This was after two years of dealing with chronic cough and respiratory issues that a bunch of doctors failed to link to a cause. Several tests later, the reason circled back to my former organisation’s basement office: dingy, with unclean AC ducts and filters, and zero natural ventilation. The city’s rising pollution levels didn’t help either. Thanks to a health issue brought on by the surrounding built environment, like many others I too am at higher risk of contracting Covid-19 today. While I had the privilege of paying for the many doctor appointments and tests for my diagnosis, those belonging to vulnerable communities don’t have this easy access. So who comes to their rescue when pollution levels continue to rise across the country amidst a raging virus that attacks the respiratory system? As the lockdown eases across the country, air pollution levels are bound to go back to pre-Covid levels. We’re already seeing a spike in New Delhi and Gurugram and it’s only a matter of time before numbers from other cities are analysed. Vehicular emissions continue to be overlooked, polluting materials like coal are prioritised with tax exemptions and subsidies, industrial projects are approved without necessary environmental clearances… our environment is being ravaged in countless ways. The one grabbing eyeballs over the last few weeks is coal power, industries, and their disastrous impact on our surroundings. A recent report by non-profit Climate Risk Horizon highlights how coal-fired power plants play a significant role in India’s air pollution crisis and the unfolding climate emergency. It states: ‘The financial costs from air pollution in India are now well-documented — an estimated 5.4% of GDP. It is inevitable that all coal power plants will have to install pollution control technologies, or face growing litigation and political pressure in the coming years’. In addition, coal and non-coal mineral prospecting and solar photovoltaic projects do not need prior environmental clearance or permission in the Environment Impact Assessment Notification 2020 drafted by the Ministry of Environment and Forests (MoEF). After a lot of pressure from activists and courts, the ambitious National Clean Air Programme (NCAP) was launched last year. It proposed a 20-30% reduction in air pollution by 2024. Initially criticised for its legal loopholes and selection of ‘non-attainment’ cities, NCAP has now failed to show any reduction in pollution levels in the one year since its launch. Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman went on to allocate Rs. 4,400 crore for the NCAP in this year’s budget but apart from a show of numbers and jargon, nothing much is happening on-ground. Late last month, the National Green Tribunal slammed the MoEF over its NCAP report. A recent story in this newspaper mentions that under the NCAP, the target was to achieve norms in 10 years and reduce load to the extent of 35% in the first three years with further reductions later. The NGT pointed out that ‘pollution would remain unaddressed for 10 years which was too long a period of tolerating violations when clean air was Right to Life. Further, it was not clear what type of pollutants or all pollutants would be reduced’. The tribunal said the violation of air pollution levels resulting in a large number of deaths and diseases needed to be addressed expeditiously. What we need is strict implementation of policies and for officials to take the issue seriously. Industries must switch to natural gas from coal, but coal is cheaper as it has been placed under GST and under open general license to enable easy import. On the contrary, natural gas is heavily taxed. A report by the Centre for Science and Environment says: “Bring natural gas under GST to reduce the tax burden and to incentivise clean fuel over its dirty counterparts. Remove coal from OGL so that imports can be regulated and its use monitored.” Prime Minister Narendra Modi, who launched an auction for 41 coal blocks for commercial mining this year, has been criticised by the UN for subsidising fossil fuels and promoting coal auctions. Environmental impact aside, it doesn’t bode well for India’s energy footprint. UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres recently said, “Clean energy and closing the energy access gap... are the ticket to growth and prosperity. Yet, here in India, subsidies for fossil fuels are still some seven times more than subsidies for clean energy. The coal business is going up in smoke. The advantages of India’s renewable energy resources are plain to see. They are low cost, protected from volatile commodities markets, and offer three times the job potential of fossil fuel power plants.” Need I say more?
10 October 2020||October 10 2020 00:00 IST,||A home for all?||Apart from impacting the progress and sales of various verticals of the real estate sector, the pandemic has also highlighted the urgent need for affordable housing — to rent or purchase — across the country’s top cities where most migrant workers come to seek a living. The incumbent government’s ‘Housing for All by 2022’ initiative is inching closer to reality. Migrant woes Getting the Cabinet’s nod recently, Affordable Rental Housing Complexes (ARHCs) under Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana (Urban)[PMAY (U)] is clearly an attempt to bridge the shortfall of affordable homes across Indian cities. A unique initiative, this scheme aims to give the urban poor access to proper affordable rental housing close to their workplaces and reduce dependence on slums, informal settlements and remote peri-urban areas. The ARHC scheme is to be implemented via two models: by utilising existing government-funded vacant homes by converting them into ARHCs under Public-Private Partnership and construction, operation and maintenance of ARHCs by private/ public entities on their own vacant land. To begin with, the government plans to use about one lakh unused housing units built under the JNNURM and the Rajiv Awas Yojana (RAY) — the previous government’s urban upgrade and housing programmes — to provide rental housing. The monthly rentals for homes under ARHCs are likely to be fixed between Rs. 1,000 and Rs. 3,000. To attract private participation, the government has also rolled out special incentives such as use permission, 50% additional FAR/FSI, concessional loans at priority sector lending rates and tax reliefs at par with affordable housing to develop ARHCs on their own available vacant land for 25 years. However, low yields may be a major deterrent for private participation. While funding for such projects would be at concessional rates, many developers who have bought land at steep prices in the cities earlier on may find the proposition unattractive. Will the government unleash further incentives? Five years after implementation, PMAY (U) has made steady progress across states. As on date, a total of 1.06 crore homes have already been sanctioned in the country, of which 33% or approx. 35.18 lakh homes are completed while another 66.23 lakh units have been grounded for construction. A sharp 180% rise of project completions was seen between December 2018 and early August 2020 — from 12.58 lakh homes completed back in December 2018 to over 35.18 lakh homes as of August 2020.  The writer is   Chairman, Anarock Property Consultants
10 October 2020||October 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Why I gave my child a hacksaw||They gathered around me. A swarm of largely toothless creatures. All dressed like a rainbow had exploded over their clothes. Children. Annoying, noisy children, including one that belonged to me, had found my hideout. If parenting could be confined to early mornings and evenings, like a hoodie that I could change out of when I needed to be a professional, it would be easier. Especially now, when we are all working from home. Instead, what we have is a version of the Japanese Hikae, a permanent shirt, tattooed on to the skin. For a moment, I wondered if I could evade these intruders, throw my lime juice into their eyes, temporarily blinding them as I escaped with my laptop. They would find me though, even if I hid in the bathroom. Resigned to my fate, I decided to use them as experimental subjects, a focus group of tiny minds. ‘When you grow up, what do you want to be?’ I asked. Along with ‘Tall’ and ‘My papa’, one said, ‘A hero’. I persisted, ‘All right, but what is your idea of a hero?’ ‘Someone who doesn’t use plastic,’ said the girl with an orange Nerf gun in her hand. ‘Inventor of stinky fart lasers.’ Another thankfully said, ‘Gandhi ji ’ and my little one chirped in with ‘Chhote Master!’ Chhote Master is a new entrant. One that has popped up in her lexicon in the last few days after she read about him in a recent book we published about real-life Indian heroes. She claims, that like him, she too wants to teach other children. Being a parent differs from parenting. Nouns are passive. It is enough to merely exist. Parenting, a verb, denotes an action, and this one comes without instruction manuals. Raising a child seems to centre around winging it. Stuffing them with parathas and green vegetables without paying as much attention to what we are cramming inside their heads. The few tools we acquire through experience, we try and pass on to our children, hoping they come in handy someday. Books, though, are entire toolboxes with spanners, hammers, screwdrivers, borrowed from several divergent lives instead of just one. I recall a time when my little one wanted to discontinue her swimming lessons. A tan had become her nemesis. ‘I want to be the same colour as bhaiya .’ A chance remark by a foolish relative within her earshot had not gone unnoticed. ‘She is so cute but not as fair as her brother, na!’ This led to many questions within our home. Then, I gave her Frida Kahlo’s illustrated biography. Gleaming skin of a shade not unlike ours, with eyebrows that met in the centre, a formidably talented woman as a role model. A hacksaw to cut through rigid perspectives. These days she claims she doesn’t need to use as much sunblock as her brother. ‘Brown skin is stronger,’ she says. ‘White is a light colour so it gets dirty fast like my T-shirt, brown is darker, so it doesn’t,’ is her simple explanation. Each time my little one opens her books and reads about an Afroz Shah cleaning up the beach right in front of her home, her beloved Chhote Master, Frida or Malala, her universe expands. She sees ordinary people, not Superman, Harry Potter and Wonder Woman, but people like her, doing extraordinary things, and knows that she can do them too. That evening, we lay in bed, her colourful tribe disbanded and my cavernous maw of work sealed shut for the night. She was holding on to my left hand, almost asleep, when she murmured, ‘I am thinking of the D thing again.’ D is a code word for death. Unlike clowns or heights, this is a legitimate fear. I have tried combating it with both logic and humour, mixing up my reassurances between, ‘How many of your friends, the ones you know since kindergarten, are dead now? to ‘Then you can turn into a zombie and eat everyone up.’ It seems to have worked because now she is not scared of her own death, but of mine. ‘You will die before me because you are old,’ she whispered in the dark. ‘Yes, that is true.’ ‘So, after you die, will you become a soul, who can see and hear?’ ‘Maybe,’ I said. ‘Good, because then you can watch me as I become big.’ I imagine being a disembodied fragment, floating around corridors, keeping an eye on her as she grows. I hope like the people in the books she reads, this little girl, who is starting to believe she can achieve anything, uses her borrowed tools to craft and transform a multitude of possibilities into probabilities. Then even if I can’t, the world will watch her for me.  Published by Juggernaut   for Khanna’s Tweak   India , When I Grow Up I Want To Be... is available on amazon.in for Rs. 299.
10 October 2020||October 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Meet the real power players||‘What a show off!’ I smirked, as I watched the US presidential debate, ‘Just because he’s in power!’ Of the current president or the ex-VP? Nah, of the man who wagged his finger at both. The moderator, Chris Wallace, treated the potential leaders of the country like tantrum-throwing kindergartners, doling out their two minutes, snipping them off mid-sentence, rapping their knuckles for interrupting. People in power! You’ve met enough who’ve made you squirm. Often literally. If you’ve shared a bathroom with someone who reads a 600-page novel in there, or at times you suspect is writing one, you’ll know what I mean. You’ve twisted your legs together, held your breath and bladder, whined and wheedled, but it falls on deaf ears of he who squats on the throne within. High on the list of mega manipulators is the doctor’s assistant. Not the one who holds a needle to your arm (he’s scary enough), but the one who sits outside, yawning, yakking on the phone, and sending everyone, but you, in. ‘But I got here before them,’ you will have pleaded at least thrice in an hour. ‘Sorry, earlier appointment,’ the assistant smiles at you or ‘Babies first’ or ‘Serious emergency’ while waving in an old man who’d fallen asleep, exhibiting neither baby nor emergency. The next time, you book the earliest appointment, haul in your cousin-in-law’s protesting baby and claim breathless agony. ‘Sorry, doctor had to leave,’ says this person in power, ‘personal engagement.’ What of the guy who checks your papers? For the driving licence, application, visa, loan, claim. You know he’s always going to reject you for something you’ve forgotten. And, of course, you can’t send it by mail; you need to bring it in person and spend another four hours in the queue to reach the counter just as the ‘Out for Lunch’ sign goes up. Plumbers whom you’d pay an arm and a leg to because your toilet keeps regurgitating. Tailors who have no time to finish the sari blouse before the wedding. Auto drivers who refuse to go anywhere on the rainiest day of the week. Power players, all. This power game starts early. When you’re a toddler, you’re tossed into it. The lower the class, the higher the power its teacher wields. ‘If you don’t, I will tell your mother,’ she frowns while your mother resorts to ‘If you don’t, I will tell your teacher.’ Either way, you’re toast, you realise young enough. And so, since college admissions are around the corner, here’s a list of power-careers for your child who deserves the best: Man Friday. Gate-man. Paper-pusher. Eyebrow-plucker. And that unassailable power puff who answers the door to say, ‘Madam’s not at home’. ‘Please, please, just five minutes,’ you beg, ‘I just saw her, let me only...’ ‘Sorry, what is your name again?’ Power puff shrugs. ‘Yes, Madam said to tell you she’spukkanot at home.’ Where Jane De Suza, author ofFlyaway Boy,pokes her nose into our perfect lives.
10 October 2020||October 10 2020 00:00 IST,||‘It started with Bollywood||She is no stranger to the ardent TV viewer (we’ll get to that later). But there has been an incredible rise in ‘Ritu Arya origin’ Google searches since she emerged asThe Umbrella AcademySeason 2 standout back in August. “It’s been crazy. I’m just overwhelmed with how many women have reached out and said how inspired and proud and empowered they feel to see a South Asian woman play a role like that,” begins Arya. A wild card on the Netflix show about a dysfunctional family of adopted children who possess superpowers, her Lila Pitts sure shook things up: right from her introductory scene in a psychiatric ward, where she is seen sticking cigarettes up her nose, to overpowering every one of the superhero siblings in the final episode and vanishing with her time-travelling briefcase. In the interviews that followed, the British-Indian actor has said a lot about Lila, her feisty, rather “unhinged” character, and not enough about life before and after Lila. So Arya takes some time off the sets in Atlanta, where her big-budget action-comedy, Red Notice, is being filmed, to get on a call. And flesh out what we already know: she grew up in London, speaks Hindi and Punjabi, graduated in Astrophysics, went to drama school, and is part of an alt-pop band with a recent single titled ‘L.O.V.E’.  Weird is good  “I think growing up I thought there seemed to be quite an inequality between men and women, especially in my community,” says Arya, choosing her words carefully. “I have two brothers and I wanted to keep pushing the boundaries of my expression and freedom. Which often meant that my parents thought I was a bit weird.” They were supportive, though, about her interest in Astrophysics, playing drums as a teen, acting, everything. In retrospect, she notes, she was very strong-minded and would have gone straight to acting, if that was what she wanted. “I think it all started from watching Bollywood films: Shah Rukh Khan, who is still my idol, and Kajol, from Darr and Baazigar to DDL J… all those films I grew up loving and thought, maybe I should be that because I don’t see these people on TV that I’m watching in the UK.” Fans (and there are many; her Instagram followers this year have reached 4,58,000) tracking Arya will find her in several sci-fi shorts and TV appearances from 2013 onwards. There’s Humans and the BBC soap, Doctors , Sherlock, Doctor Who, Feel Good and 2019’s festive rom-com, Last Christmas. Lady Parts , a 2018 sitcom about an all-female Muslim punk band, checks her favourite boxes: comedy and diversity. There are many more like it on this actor’s list, for good reason.  Looking racism in the eye  When I ask her if she ever had to struggle with gender and cultural stereotypes, her response is that in a world of systemic racism, she has been affected both directly and indirectly. “From a young age, I would see the women in the kitchen serving the men who would drink and party. I was bullied at my predominantly white school, called all sorts of names. Only last year someone spat on me on the bus, telling me to ‘go back home’… I could go on and on but to be honest, I use this to empower myself to create change,” she says, adding, “It drives me to push boundaries for women and people of colour, to gain further equality by taking up space and having a voice. I try not to complain, rather lead by example. And always, always leading from love and compassion.” It is easy to see why Ritu Arya has us in her corner. And when Red Notice , Dwayne Johnson’s action-comedy starring Ryan Reynolds and Gal Gadot, releases next year, we hope she will give us more reason to cheer.
10 October 2020||October 10 2020 00:00 IST,||A tale of two deaths||Mumbai, Maharashtra. June 14, 2020: an actor, 34, is found dead in his apartment. Hathras, Uttar Pradesh. September 14, 2020: a Dalit woman, 19, is brutally assaulted in abajrafield. She later dies. Three months between the two tragedies but an ocean of difference in the state’s response to each. And in the response of the media and that all-pervasive, hydra-headed creature called social media. In the former case, despite everything pointing overwhelmingly to suicide, there was a concerted media campaign that successively dragged in drugs, money laundering and murder with wild abandon. With each new allegation, the voices on TV got louder and the theories more bizarre, even as actual proof got thinner and thinner. Unfazed by this, the government saw fit to assign an alphabet soup of Central agencies to investigate: CBI, NCB, ED. From drugs to dirty money to murder, each theory has been slowly eliminated, but the shouting continues. In the Hathras case, meanwhile, the young woman was found, naked and semi-paralyzed, by her mother. Rushed to hospital, she named her assailants — privileged caste men from her village — and said she had been assaulted. She used the word zabardasti , a Hindi euphemism for ‘rape’. She subsequently succumbed to her injuries.. In stark contrast to the death of a star in Mumbai, when every wacky conspiracy theory was taken at its word and diligently followed up by the government, in Hathras even the most obvious allegations — that of rape and caste atrocity — are being shrugged off. Unlimited time and personnel were devoted to the actor’s death, with everyone and their aunt becoming narcotics and forensic experts overnight. In Hathras, however, demands for justice are being labelled “nefarious plots”. Dozens of FIRs have since been issued — not only in connection with the murder, but for “violating Sec. 144”, for “sedition”, “instigation” and “criminal conspiracy”. Clearly, protesting crime is as unlawful as crime itself. According to basic police procedure, if an injured woman is brought in, she should be immediately checked for signs of sexual assault. Yet this woman’s vaginal swab was taken 10 days later, when semen and other signs would be long gone. Nor are the police revealing whether the woman’s clothes were preserved, or samples taken from her fingernails and skin for DNA testing. When a sensitive case is under investigation, conscientious police procedure would ideally keep the victim’s body in the morgue to facilitate further examination. Yet this woman’s body was cremated by the police with unholy haste. The law says that even if there is an allegation of sexual violence, the victim’s name cannot be revealed, yet this woman’s name was revealed in public by Amit Malviya, the chief of BJP’s IT cell. The law states that a dying declaration is admissible in evidence and can form the basis of conviction, yet this woman’s statement is being side-stepped. One is compelled to ask: what happened to the sharp detective instincts we used when it was an actor’s death? Did three months of continuous use blunt the government’s and certain TV anchors’ investigative knives? Or did they get dulled by the balmy air of Uttar Pradesh? It is facile to keep pointing to politicians and television anchors and WhatsApp forwards and talk of how insidiously they corrupt agendas and muddy the waters. They would not be able to do this quite so well if large sections of the great middle and upper classes, the avid consumers and engine drivers of this neo-liberal economy, did not so willingly swallow everything they are told. There comes a point when we need to stop and ask if we will only listen to TV hosts and slick propaganda posts or if we will also listen to our conscience. A point when we ask why an actor’s death outranks a Dalit teenager’s murder in our outrage meter. A point when we question why we are suddenly so comfortable with electioneering becoming unconscionable. That point is now. Where the writer tries to make sense of society with seven hundred words and a bit of snark.
10 October 2020||October 10 2020 00:00 IST,||This is Coenesque||As the fourth season of Fargo , starring comedian Chris Rock in a new avatar, bows this week, I couldn’t help but think back on the influence the film in general and the Coen brothers in particular had on some of the recent films I had watched. I wondered idly why, unlike Tarantinoesque, the term Coenesque doesn’t exist. A cursory Google disabused me of that notion in microseconds. “Reminiscent of the films of Joel and Ethan Coen, known for their dark humour, genre-bending, mannered dialogue, and vivid sense of time and place,” is how that emporium of knowledge, Wiktionary, describes it. Now we have that out of the way, let us proceed to filmmaker Dominik Moll, who first came to global attention in 2000 with Harry, He’s Here To Help , that was variously described as Hitchcockesque or Chabrolesque, after the French master of suspense. Working again with frequent writing collaborator Gilles Marchand, Moll created Only The Animals (2019), that is now available to digitally buy or rent in all the major global outlets. Apart from a beginning that looks parachuted in from another film, the movie can be described as Coenesque. There are vast snowy expanses, a la Fargo , and there is that now-popular-from-Nordic-noir trope of a missing woman outside a small village. The film is also divided into chapters with each one told from the point of view of a different character. Just when you think that all this looks depressingly familiar, Moll and Marchand take off the gloves and you’re in the middle of a thrillingly original ride. That beginning suddenly makes sense as later on in the film it expands to a stunning segment that is far removed from the bleak Coenesque landscape. And please watch it till the end of the end. There is a terrific twist in store. The film was nominated at France’s Cesars, Antalya and Venice and won a brace of awards at Tokyo. Also Coenesque, if you will, is Korean filmmaker Kim Yong-hoon’s début feature, Beasts Clutching At Straws , that premièred at Rotterdam and won the special jury award. Based on a novel by Japanese writer Keisuke Kone, Yong-hoon adapted it to a Korean milieu. Having worked with leading Korean studio CJ E&M, he had access to and signed top stars Jeon Do-yeon, Jung Woo-sung and Youn Yuh-jeong. The focal point of the film is a bag full of cash and the lengths that a disparate range of characters with different needs go to obtain it. The trope is old, but the treatment is new. And this being modern Korean cinema, it revels in gore. Again, wait till the end of the end for a twist. Meanwhile, after three decades of working together as a team, Joel Coen is making Macbeth on his own, without any involvement from Ethan Coen. Apparently Ethan just didn’t want to do it. Let’s hope that it is a temporary separation. Meanwhile, Macbeth , with a cast of Denzel Washington, Frances McDormand and Brendan Gleeson is a prospect in 2021 that we should not wash our hands off.
10 October 2020||New Delhi,||Strict measures in place to reduce pollution as AQI remains ‘poor’||The air quality of Delhi continued to be in the “poor” category on Friday and is expected to improve to “moderate” category on Sunday, according to SAFAR (System of Air Quality and Weather Forecasting and Research), a government-run monitoring agency. Also, Environment Minister Gopal Rai visited construction and demolition works at Pragati Maidan and Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce & Industry (FICCI) and said that the latter has not installed an anti-smog gun and work will be allowed to restart only after installing one. All large construction sites need to install anti-smog gun to control air pollution as per rules. “The Delhi government has identified 39 sites with more than 20,000 sq meter areas. Out of these, 33 sites have installed anti-smog guns but six sites have not. No relaxation will be permitted to anyone if found to spread pollution, the government’s guidelines have to be strictly followed,” Mr. Rai said. The AQI (Air quality Index) of the city was 202 on Friday, slightly down from 208 a day ago, as per Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) data. On Wednesday, the air quality of the city had turned poor after more than three months of better air and has remained in the same levels since then. “AQI is forecast to stay at the higher end of moderate to the poor category for Saturday, further AQI is forecast to improve by October 11, but in the moderate category,” SAFAR said in a statement. Positive influence The agency further said that a shift in surface wind direction is predicted in Delhi from north-westerly to south-easterly by October 12 and this could have a positive influence on air quality in the next week. Stubble burning fires were observed on Thursday too in Punjab, Haryana, and neighboring border regions of Delhi.
10 October 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Amarinder accuses Badal of trying to hijack farmers’ stir||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Friday asked Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) president Sukhbir Singh Badal to answer three key questions surrounding the agriculture laws, accusing him of trying to hijack the farmers’ agitation to push his own party’s agenda. The Chief Minister said that Mr. Badal should refrain from commenting on the farm laws till he gives satisfactory answers to the three questions, the answers to which every single farmer of Punjab wanted to know. “Why did Harsimrat Kaur Badal not oppose the farm ordinances when they were first approved by the Union Cabinet, of which she was then a member? Why did Sukhbir not support the State government at the all-party meeting he (Captain Amarinder) had convened to evolve a consensus against the anti-farmer legislations? And why did the Akalis boycott the Vidhan Sabha session in which the other parties (barring BJP) had voted in favour of the resolution on the agricultural laws?” Captain Amarinder said he had been posing these questions to the Badals for the past several weeks but the Akali leaders had been persistently ignoring them. Reacting to Mr. Badal’s so-called request to the Prime Minister to talk to farmer organisations and to listen to the voice of the people, the Chief Minister asked why he did not remind the PM of his responsibility towards farmers all those years he was with the BJP.  Direct talks Earlier Mr. Badal had said Prime Minister Narendra Modi should address the grievances of the farmers by holding direct talks with farmer organisations to come out with a solution which was acceptable to all. Mr. Badal announced that the SAD would initiate formation of a national pro-farmer front by coordinating with other like mind regional parties surrounding the issue of farm laws and take it to a logical conclusion.
10 October 2020||New Delhi,||Family members of girl kill 18-year-old youth||An 18-year-old youth was allegedly beaten to death by a girl’s family members, including her brother, who objected to their friendship, the police said on Friday. The incident took place on Wednesday evening in north-west Delhi’s Adarsh Nagar, they said. 2 arrested, 3 apprehened The girl’s brother and her relative have been arrested while three juveniles have been apprehended in connection with the incident. The victim — Rahul Rajput — was pursuing his second-year BA from Delhi University’s School of Open Learning. He also tutored school students. The girl’s family was against her friendship with Rahul as they belonged to different faiths, the police said. On Wednesday evening, the victim got a call from an unknown person, asking to meet him at Nanda road to discuss his tuition classes. But, when he reached the spot, a group of five men, including her brother, physically assaulted him, a senior officer said. They slapped and kicked him following which he sustained severe injuries. He was then rushed to a hospital where he died during treatment, the officer said. “On Wednesday, we received a call at 11.59 p.m.  from BJRM Hospital about a patient admitted in an unconscious condition. Rahul did not have any visible injuries. After the post-mortem, the doctor said rupturing of spleen led to his death,” said Deputy Commissioner of Police (North-West) Vijayanta Arya. Based on Rahul’s uncle’s statement, a case was registered under Sections 302 (Murder) and 34 (Acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention) of the Indian Penal Code, she added. In his complaint, he said his nephew and the girl knew each other for two years. They lived in the same locality but the girl’s parents, especially her brothers, were against their friendship. “On Wednesday at 7 p.m., I got a call from my friend who informed us that four-five boys were beating up my nephew. When I reached the spot, I found that my nephew was being beaten brutally by the girl’s brothers and their accomplices... they slapped, punched and kicked him,” he wrote in his complaint. At the crime spot, the accused told him that they do not like his nephew talking to their sister. The accused told him that they would kill Rahul if he does not stop meeting their sister. After a lot of pleading, the group let Rahul go, his uncle said. Next, he rushed his nephew to a local clinic. Later, Rahul was shifted to BJRM hospital for further treatment. Officers deployed in area The case is under investigation, the police said, adding that personnel has been deployed in the locality to avoid any tension between the families.
10 October 2020||New Delhi,||Court says witnesses’ silence cast doubt, grants bail to riots accused||A Delhi court has granted bail to an accused in a case related to north-east Delhi riots in February, saying silence of the witnesses about the incident for two weeks casts “serious doubt” on their credibility. The court noted that witnesses recorded their statements about incident with the police two weeks later. It further said though two constables were eyewitnesses and had identified the accused resorting to rioting in the case, they did not make any complaint on the date of the incident or reported it to their seniors. Additional Sessions Judge Vinod Yadav granted bail to Irshad Ahmed on furnishing a bail bond of Rs. 20,000 with one surety of like amount in the case wherein a shop was looted and vandalised by the riotous mob on February 25 in Dayalpur due to which complainant Zeeshan incurred a loss of about Rs. 20 lakh. The court said in its order passed on September 8, Ahmed has also not been named in the FIR and there were no specific allegations against him in the case. “In the present matter, as per the statements of Constable Vikrant and Constable Pawan [both are eye witnesses and were present at the scene of crime on the date of incident], they had identified the applicant [Ahmed] and other co-accused persons resorting to rioting. However, they neither made any complaint on the date of incident, that is February 25, 2020 nor reported about the same to senior officers. “Till the recording of their statements under section 161 [examination by police] CrPC [Code of Criminal Procedure] by the IO [investigating officer] they remained completely silent about the incident and blew the lids only on March 6, 2020 when their statements were recorded by the IO. It casts a serious doubt on the credibility of witnesses,” it said in its order. ‘Not captured in CCTV’ It further noted that Ahmed has not been captured in any CCTV footage/viral video of the incident. Communal clashes had broken out in north-east Delhi on February 24.
10 October 2020||New Delhi,||DU likely to announce first cut-off list today; 70K seats up for grabs||The Delhi University is likely to release its first cut-off list on Saturday for admission to nearly 70,000 seats up for grabs. The university officials warned students against visiting colleges for the admission process, saying no one will be allowed to enter the premises. The admission process this year will be entirely online due to the pandemic. Admission son Oct. 12 “Students will be able to apply for admission on October 12 from 10 a.m. onwards but the entire process will be online. They should not visit colleges or departments since they won’t be allowed entry,” an official said. DU received over 3.54 lakh applications this year, the highest till now, and officials have said the cut-offs are likely to be higher than the last year as more students have scored over 90% in CBSE Class 12 examinations and the majority of the applicants are from the board. Last year, Hindu College had pegged the highest score of 99% for political science honours. Lady Shri Ram (LSR) College came a close second with a cut-off of 98.75% for BA programme and psychology honours. At 98.3%, Hindu College also had the highest cut-off for physics honours. The college principals said they are in the process of finalising cut-offs. Last month, St. Stephen’s College released its first cut-off list for undergraduate courses, with the highest cut-off being announced at 99.25% for BA (Hons) economics. Since classrooms will be able to accommodate a select number of students due to social distancing norms, the cut-offs will have to be higher, the principal said. According to a principal, DU has asked all the principals to finalise and upload cut-offs by 1 p.m. on Saturday. New session The new session is scheduled to commence on November 18.
10 October 2020||Guwahati,||OIL resumes Andaman offshore operations||Battling blowout at a natural gas well near its “home” in eastern Assam, Oil India Limited (OIL) has resumed its operations off the Andaman Islands after almost three decades. OIL, headquartered in Dibrugarh district’s Duliajan, last handled any exploration and production activity off the islands in the Bay of Bengal in the 1980s. The public sector ‘Navaratna’ company resumed its seismic survey in its Andaman offshore blocks on October 8. Seismic survey usually precedes all oil and gas exploration activity. Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Limited, India’s largest exploration company, had drilled six wells off the Andaman shores during the 2013-14 fiscal without commercial success or production. “After 2014, we are the only company to venture into the Andaman waters for exploration activities. But while ONGC were in deep waters, we are getting into shallow waters with a sophisticated multipurpose data acquisition vessel,” an OIL spokesperson said. The Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas had awarded 32 blocks under the Open Acreage Licensing Policy through two rounds of bidding in January and February, 2019. OIL won bids for 12 blocks, including two covering an area of 9,616.7 sq km in shallow waters off the shores of Andaman Islands.
10 October 2020||GURUGRAM,||Woman tries to end life at police chief’s office||A 28-year-old woman tried to end her life at Police Commissioner’s office here on Thursday over a matrimonial dispute. She was booked under Section 309 (attempt to suicide) and 190 (threat of injury to induce person to refrain from applying for protection to public servant) of the Indian Penal Code and arrested. Assistant Commissioner of Police, Headquarters, Usha Kundu, said the woman had tried to end her life on two more occasions earlier and also got rape cases registered against her husband and a doctor in different police stations in Gurugram. A rape case was registered against her husband at Sector 51 Women Police Station on October 3. Her complaint came two days after her husband approached New Colony Police Station saying that the woman had married him without being legally divorced from her previous husband. He also accused her of “mentally” and “physically” harassing him and alleged that she had been demanding Rs. 10 lakh from him. Both the matters are under investigation. The woman had come in contact with her present husband online during the lockdown. The two got married at a temple on September 2. Her divorce case with her previous husband has been pending in Allahabad HC since 2017, said Gurugram Police spokesperson Subhash Boken.  Suicide prevention helpline: Sanjivini, Society for Mental Health, 011-4076 9002, Monday-Saturday (10 a.m.-7.30 p.m.)
10 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Driver and his helper die after truck rams into wall||A truck driver and his helper were killed when the vehicle carrying iron rods rammed into a wall in south-east Delhi’s Pul Prahladpur on Friday morning. Deputy Commissioner of Police (South East) R.P. Meena said the deceased have been identified as truck driver Arif Ali and his helper Mumtaz Ali, both residents of Hapur. Rammed into tempo Prima facie it appears that the truck was speeding and lost control after which it first rammed in a tempo, which was being loaded and then went through the boundary wall of a godown. The police said the incident took place at 5 a.m. when the truck — carrying iron rods — left from the premises in Okhla Industrial area for a godown in Haryana’s Palwal. Eyewitnesses told police that the impact of the collision was such that the trailer broke into parts and the driver and the helper died on the spot. The locals informed the police after which the bodies were pulled out. The bodies have been sent for post-mortem and the families informed. The CCTV footage is being checked from the area to ascertain the sequence of events and to check if another vehicle or person was involved, the police said. No one else was injured when the truck hit a small tempo that was parked nearby. The guard, who used to stay at the godown, escaped unhurt. A case under sections of rash and negligent driving and death due to negligence has been registered and further investigation is under way. In another incident on Wednesday morning, two men were killed after a truck carrying a container toppled over their car in Lajpat Nagar.
10 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||DDA and residents discuss civic issues in online meet||The Delhi Development Authority (DDA) on Friday conducted an online meeting with residents of urban and rural villages here to discuss issues like water scarcity, unplanned construction and encroachment due to the lack of regulations. Preparing for MPD-2041 The meeting was held as a part of a series of consultations that the urban body is holding pertaining to the preparation of the Master Plan for Delhi (MPD)– 2041. “Many villages do not even have defined road networks either in the revenue records or in the master plan, making it difficult to attain building permissions from civic bodies. Participants also suggested that integrated village development plans should be prepared for the Lal Dora areas or villages as local bodies have not prepared these plans,” the DDA said. DDA officials added, “Issues were raised for improved connectivity, access to small shops, social amenities for local community and up-gradation of physical infrastructure.” Participants also raised issues pertaining to water scarcity, the urban body said. “They emphasised on the need to create water retention ponds within existing and new developments, increase unpaved areas and create rainwater storage pits along stormwater drains, which will help in improving the water table. Participants also raised concerns over the lack of parking and building safety that is emerging out of unplanned development and rapid densification of areas,” the statement read.
10 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||Two held for shooting at man during robbery bid||Two persons have been arrested for allegedly shooting at a man when he resisted a robbery attempt in Hazrat Nizamuddin, the police said on Friday. Deputy Commissioner of Police (South East) R.P. Meena said the accused —Shoaib alias Mangla and Faizal — were nabbed from Jangupura Extension following a tip-off. On October 1, the police received a PCR call that stated that two persons came on a bike, shot at a man and fled the spot. On reaching the spot, the police were told that the injured, Brijesh Kumar, had been taken to hospital. Kumar alias Bholu is a daily wage financier at the railway station and gives money to the needy. At 8 p.m., he was near gate number 1 when two persons came and tried to rob him of his bag containing cash. When he resisted, they shot him in his leg and chest and ran away. During interrogation, the accused said they commit crimes to live a lavish lifestyle with their girlfriends. “They disclosed that it was known to them that two-three persons used to finance money on daily wages at Hazrat Nizamuddin railway station. They said such persons are soft targets as they always have huge cash with them,” Mr. Meena said, adding that both of them hold previous criminal records.
10 October 2020||October 10 2020 00:00 IST,||shopnilajaipur.com||Nila House may have gone online a year ago (nilajaipur.com), with a white and indigo colour scheme that echoed the physical space in Jaipur, but, as Alexis Barrell, creative director at the not-for-profit organisation, says, it took the pandemic to “pivot towards a more focussed digital communication platform”. Their new website, launched over a week ago, centres on e-commerce and engagement. Shop for Nila’s range of homeware — Kerala tea towels tokanthacushions — and fashion. On the site now is Nila Studio’s collab with UK-based designer Anna Valentine. Think sculptural culottes, coats and tees in indigo. The lack of quick view and wishlist options, though, is inconvenient. And be warned, you might encounter a few 404 error messages too (which the team promises to iron out soon). What we love, however, are the DIY kits. Want to learn handspinning? Buy a spindle, 10 gms ofkalacotton and a booklet for Rs. 620, and sign up for a virtual workshop with artisans from Govindgarh in Madhya Pradesh. Want to be more adventurous? Set up an indigo vat in your kitchen — choose a kit with indigo powder, lime powder, pH paper and other ingredients for Rs. 1,190. “We are working on creating more educational kits, for everything fromleheriyaandbandinitodabu,” says Barrell. “We are also making natural watercolour bases that people can purchase along with handmade sketchbooks.”  Up next:Look out for comprehensive, step-by-step video workshops that will “introduce people to crafts like miniature painting, with a master miniaturist who works with natural pigments”. Nila will also soon retail frame looms and yarns.
10 October 2020||NEW DELHI,||DDA suggests changes to MPD-2021||The Delhi Development Authority (DDA) on Friday recommended changes to the Master Plan for Delhi (MPD) – 2021 to include stockists and wholesale dealers of medicines and drugs in mixed use regulations. The proposal to notify the amendment to the existing master plan was made in a meeting chaired by L-G Anil Baijal, who is also the DDA Chairman. The urban body in a statement said: “Various representations from the Drugs Control Department as well as chemist and distribution authorities were received regarding grant or renewal of drug sale licenses in residential plots or flats. Accordingly, the authority recommended the inclusion of stockists and dealers of medicines and drugs in mixed use regulations in MPD 2021.” This will now be sent to the Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs for issuance of notifications. In a bid to promote greenery in the Capital, the land-owning agency also approved a proposal by which public sector undertaking, authorities or boards constituted under the government and RWAs can adopt parks of any size instead of the minimum 3 acre parks, which was the norm earlier.  Land for temple The authority also approved allotment of 400 square metres of land for Guru Ravidas Temple in Jahapanah city forest for further process.
10 October 2020||October 10 2020 00:00 IST,||obeetee.com||The pandemic has been a great leveller, with brands, big and small, heading online for visibility. The 100-year-old Delhi-based brand, Obeetee, is no different, as hand-knotted, hand-tufted carpets reach the masses via a new e-commerce store. Shop by design — traditional, contemporary, abstract or geometric — and by collection on the site that features an animated home page and large, expressive fonts. That being said, customers would greatly benefit from a quick view option or, at the very least, the choice to view each product in a different tab. While you can add to the wishlist, you need to create an account to do so. Collaborative collections with Indian designers Tarun Tahiliani, Abraham & Thakore and Raghavendra Rathore — that “create an indigenous design language for carpets otherwise dominated by Persian and Chinese motifs”— is one of the brand’s USPs, says a spokesperson. The overall range starts from Rs. 6,300 (for 5x3 ft polyester dhurries ) going all the way up to Rs. 16.42 lakh for a 18x12 ft wool and cotton hand-knotted piece that took three artisans 422 days to make. Silk carpets go from Rs. 52,000 to Rs. 10.8 lakh. There is a monthly edit: October’s is inspired by the red oxide floors of traditional homes and the Pantone shade Island Hazelnut. Perhaps the most impressive option is customisation. Compared to others who offer similar services — such as Hands Carpets, Jaipur Rugs and The Weaver — it gives more choice to the customer. Pick the pattern, specify dimensions and see how it looks in different pre-set templates (living, dining or bedroom). When it comes to colourways, choose from an extended palette, Obeetee’s signature colours or, if you want it ASAP, from a Quickship set that has over two dozen options.  Up next: Zanzibar, a jute handknotted collection inspired by the elaborately carved doors of the African nation, and a sustainable line of flat weaves using natural dyes.
10 October 2020||October 10 2020 00:00 IST,||saritahanda.com||With their shop-in-shop and independent stores in Mumbai, Delhi and Chennai being closed during the lockdown, this eight-year-old home linen brand launched their online store last month. This comes as a relief to patrons who earlier had to trawl through various websites to find the exact Sarita Handa product they wanted. The brand’s signature floral and nature-inspired designs on decorative cushions, bedspreads and fabrics now also include lifestyle products such as handbags, pouches and robe sets. The quick-view option helps when you’re checking out multiple options; perhaps a grid view with two or three products per row would be useful to navigate faster on the mobile site. The current collection, called The Mix — for its use ofikat,suzaniand Palampore fabrics along with rug patterns and pick-stitch embroidery — is being promoted prominently. Framed botanical wall art is also available, and the sale section has everything at half price. The lifestyle products are online-only. Unisex robe sets come with matching quilted slippers in cotton jacquards and matelassé; the totes are embroidered and can be machine-washed; and the pouches are upcycled from the brand’s fabric waste.     Up next: More decor categories and gifting options to be added in the coming months.
10 October 2020||October 10 2020 00:00 IST,||In the muck||
10 October 2020||New Delhi,||Three held for swindling Rs. 10 cr. funds||Three men were arrested for allegedly misappropriating funds of a company to the tune of Rs. 10 crore, police said on Friday. The accused — Pramod Goel, Krishan Chand Bansal and Anil Gupta — were directors of M/S Indirapuram Habitat Centre Pvt. Ltd. They have been arrested and sent to judicial custody, police said. A case was registered against them under Sections 406 (criminal breach of trust), 420 (cheating and dishonestly inducing delivery of property) and 120 B (criminal conspiracy) of the IPC on a complaint by a private company. It alleged that in 2016, the accused company had availed term loans of Rs. 10 crore from them for a period of two years for the completion of its project but failed to repay it and defrauded them, the police said.
10 October 2020||October 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Digital FanFest||Like most other large-scale events, YouTube’s annual FanFest also goes virtual this Sunday. While there are over 150 creators from the Asia-Pacific region, catch Indian stars like comic duo Jordindian, music director Anirudh Ravichander, former Miss India Niharicka Singh, vlogger Madan Gowri and others. This will be a far cry, though, from the packed Mumbai venues of years past, where adoring fans gathered to meet their favourite creators. On October 11 from 2.30 pm IST on the FanFest YouTube channel.
10 October 2020||October 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Tamil stories on air||Following the first regional language version ofComicstaanand a new web series,Time Enna Boss, Amazon Prime Video now brings an Original Movie:Putham Pudhu Kaalai. The anthology is set and filmed during the lockdown, and the five Tamil short films have been directed by Sudha Kongara, Gautham Menon, Suhasini Mani Ratnam, Rajiv Menon and Karthik Subbaraj. The first Indian anthology by the streaming service will be available across 200 countries and territories from October 16.
10 October 2020||October 10 2020 00:00 IST,||A whole new Loubi World||French shoe designer Christian Louboutin has created a virtual universe on South Korean gaming platform, Zepeto. The app allows users to create avatars and, for a limited period, try on the Spring-Summer 2021 men’s and women’s collections showcased digitally at the recently-concluded Paris Fashion Week. Your avatars can visit a digital version of the new Paris boutique on Rue St Honoré, take a selfie with the designer, and explore a techno version of the city, called Loubi World.
10 October 2020||October 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Music and art for Mumbai||Ministry of Mumbai’s Magic has curated a digital festival — Biodiversity By The Bay — featuring a lineup of musicians, artists and stand-up comics. The collective aims at raising awareness around Mumbai’s pressing climate issues. Artists Shilo Shiv Suleman and Pia Alize have created art around Aarey forest, while Shweta Malhotra is producing work celebrating the state’s Lesser Flamingos. Comics include Kunal Rao, Daniel Fernandes and Anu Menon. The free event is on till October 25. Details: ministryofmumbaismagic.com
10 October 2020||October 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Talking point||World Mental Health Day: This year, mental health has been in the limelight due to the ongoing pandemic and high-profile cases of death by suicide, including actor Sushant Singh Rajput and ex-CBI chief Ashwani Kumar. With this in mind, the World Health Organization’s aim is to get governments and employers to invest in mental health. Join politician Milind Deora on our Instagram Live today (@the_hindu) at 5.30 pm, where he talks about his experience with depression.
10 October 2020||October 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Instapick||#DreamingOfTravel: South African travel blogger Sharon Waugh is confined to her flat, but that has not stopped her from dreaming of her next trip. She has spent the last few weeks recreating tourist attractions (a Taj Mahal out of toilet paper rolls and a wine bottle standing in for the Eiffel Tower) as well as cliche poses like the ‘Follow Me’ and heart hands. @thesharonicles on Instagram.
10 October 2020||October 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Clay court champs||This year’s French Open is all about making history. Iga Świątek and Nadia Podoroska played the first semifinal (since 1983) with two unseeded players. Novak Djokovic is dealing with an injury as he attempts to become the first man in the Open Era to win each Grand Slam at least twice. Defending champion Rafael Nadal aims at equalling Roger Federer's record of 20 Grand Slam singles. The women’s finals today and men’s finals tomorrow will decide who comes out tops.
10 October 2020||October 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Slow food calling||The international celebration of slow food, Terra Madre Salon Del Gusto, which began earlier this week, will continue its journey for six months. In its digital avatar, the lineup features new digital content and numerous physical events across oceans and time zones. These will culminate in April 2021 with the Slow Food International Congress in Turin. Visit an apiary, learn about agro-mafias, take a cooking class on tagliatelle, and find out how growing flowers can save the world. Event details on terramadresalonedelgusto.com
