10 November 2020||MANGALURU,||Traffic chaos in city triggers emergency meeting||With the ongoing road development and underground drainage pipeline projects in the central business district area leading to traffic issues in the city on Monday, Mangaluru City South MLA D. Vedavyasa Kamath held an emergency meeting with officials to address the issues. Addressing the meeting, the MLA said that there is a need to connect K.S. Rao Road with Mulky Sundar Ram Shetty Road (Light House Hill Road) via the old service bus stand. Traffic from PVS Junction to K.S. Rao Road should be allowed, he added. The MLA said that vehicles should be allowed to reach the Clock Tower from K.S. Rao Road via Sharavu Temple Road and GHS Road. Vehicles coming from K.S. Rao Road should also be allowed to go on to V.T. Road. Vehicles from State Bank of India bus terminus to Amebdkar (Jyoti) Circle will be allowed to operate either through K.S. Rao Road, Navbharat Circle or, they will be allowed to take a deviation near the old service bus stand to reach the Light House Hill Road. He said that he has instructed officials to allow traffic on Sharada Vidyalaya Road. The officials have been instructed to take up works in the Bunder area during the night and allow traffic movement there during the day. Police, officials from the Mangaluru City Corporation, Mangaluru Smart City Ltd., Karnataka Urban Infrastructure Development and Finance Corporation, representatives of bus owners association participated in the meeting. Earlier, civil society members chided the government authorities on social media for the traffic chaos in the central business district area.
10 November 2020||New York,||COVID-19 vaccine could be 90% effective, claims Pfizer||Pharma major Pfizer said on Monday that an early peek at the data on its coronavirus vaccine suggests the shots may be a robust 90% effective at preventing COVID-19. The finding puts the company on track to apply later this month for emergency-use approval from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. The announcement, less than a week after a presidential election that was seen as a referendum on President Donald Trump’s handling of the crisis, was a rare and major piece of encouraging news lately in the battle against COVID-19 that has killed more than 1.2 million people worldwide, including almost a quarter-million in the U.S. alone. Pharmaceutical companies and various countries are in a global race to develop a vaccine against the virus. Interim analysis “We’re in a position potentially to be able to offer some hope,” Dr. Bill Gruber, Pfizer’s senior vice-president of clinical development, said. “We’re very encouraged.” Monday’s announcement doesn’t mean a vaccine is imminent. This interim analysis, from an independent data monitoring board, looked at 94 infections recorded so far in a study that has enrolled nearly 44,000 people in the U.S. and five other countries. Some participants got the vaccine, while others got dummy shots. Pfizer Inc. did not provide any more details about those infections and cautioned that the initial protection rate might change by the time the study ends. Even revealing such early data is highly unusual. Authorities have stressed it’s unlikely any vaccine will arrive much before the end of the year, and initial supplies will be rationed. “We need to see the data, but this is extremely promising,” said Dr. Jesse Goodman of Georgetown University, former chief of the FDA’s vaccine division. He ticked off many questions still to be answered, including how long the vaccine’s effects last and whether it protects older people as well as younger ones. If Pfizer’s vaccine ultimately pans out, “it’s going to be a while before this has a major impact at the population level,” Dr. Goodman said. Marylyn Addo, head of the tropical medicine unit at UKE hospital in Hamburg, Germany, said the interim results were “an interesting first signal,” but questions remain. Global markets, already buoyed by the victory of President-elect Joe Biden, exploded on the news from Pfizer. Major markets in Europe, where infections have soared, were up 5%.
10 November 2020||Belagavi,||Closure of OPD services puts poor patients to great difficulty||The poor are greatly inconvenienced by the closure of the out-patient department in the District Civil Hospital that has been converted into a dedicated COVID-19 hospital. The civil hospital in Belagavi is among the biggest in the State that treats over 3,500 out-patients every day and can accommodate over 750 in-patients at a time. It has almost all departments of primary secondary and tertiary care. Its potential to treat patients has deepened and widened after it was attached to the Belagavi Institute of Medical Sciences. Teachers with post-graduate and higher degrees, post-graduate students, tutors and internees were added to the pool of doctors who were already serving in the hospital. Also included were a hi-tech pathological laboratory and an upgraded drug store. Sometime in July, the government decided to close down the out-patient department after some doctors and staff in the department contracted the coronavirus infection. Since then, the OPD wing of the hospital has shut its door, leaving the poor who frequented the hospital helpless. Since the whole hospital has been converted into a COVID treatment centre, it does not admit non-COVID patients. This has forced the poor to go to private hospitals or to other districts or to Maharashtra or Goa for surgeries and treatment that require admission or overnight stay. Interestingly, a majority of the beds in the COVID hospital are empty. On Friday, only 80 of the 750 beds set apart for COVID-19 patients were occupied. This is because the government allowed positive persons to choose between government and private hospitals and COVID Care Centres. Non-serious patients were also advised home isolation. Private hospitals, on the other hand, face allegations of charging hefty fees. Not a single private hospital is following the government mandated fee structure for COVID-19 patients. Private hospitals are charging between Rs. 1 lakh and Rs. 3 lakh for four days, billed between Rs. 20,000 and Rs. 60,000 per night. A 10-day stay in a private hospital costs between Rs. 4 and Rs. 9 lakh per person, says Sujit Mulgund, anti-corruption activist. “Sadly, the government is not enforcing its advisory. Several of my complaints against private hospitals have been ignored,” he said. On Saturday, a pregnant woman had to wait in front of the District Civil Hospital for hours, before her family realised that the hospital did not admit non-COVID-19 patients. Social workers helped her by informing doctors at the Navjeevan Hospital who agreed to help her. The poor woman from Gotagali village near Khanapur came to the hospital at midnight and waited for hours. Social workers Santosh Darekar and Ganesh Rokade, who heard of this, got in touch with Satish Chougliar, a doctor at Navjeevan Hospital who agreed to help. The patient was shifted and went into labour soon. The woman was delivered of a baby boy in the normal process. Deputy Commissioner M.G. Hiremath said that he would seek directions from the Department of Health and Family Welfare and Medical Education about restarting OPD services in the civil hospital. District in-charge Minister Ramesh Jarkiholi said that he would discuss the issue with the Chief Minister.  Sometime in July, the government decided to close down the out-patient department after some doctors and staff in the department contracted the coronavirus infection Since then, the OPD wing of the hospital has shut its door, leaving the poor who frequented the hospital helpless
10 November 2020||Mumbai,||BMC bans crackers ahead of Deepavali||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Monday announced a ban on the use of firecrackers and fireworks in areas within its jurisdiction, ahead of Deepavali. The civic body, however, permitted the use of ’mild firecrackers’ such as sparklers ( phuljhadi ) and flowerpots ( anaar ) on private premises on Laxmi Pujan, which falls on November 14. In a circular, the BMC said firecrackers cannot be burst on the premises of hotels, clubs, gymkhanas, organisations, and commercial campuses. Events to display fireworks cannot be organised by such establishments. “However, on the evening of Lakshmi Pujan, only in private premises such as the courtyard of the house, small firecrackers such as sparklers and flowerpots are allowed to be lit in a controlled manner,” it said. The circular said COVID-19 patients face respiratory issues and are more likely to have low oxygen levels. “Since smoke emitted by crackers can cause inconvenience to the patients, the ban will come to effect now. No firecrackers can be lit in public places like Marine Drive, beaches, public gardens, playgrounds or private premises,” it said. The BMC appealed to citizens to celebrate the festival of lights with due precaution and by following COVID-19 protocol. “Citizens need to take necessary precautions regarding COVID-19 — these include the use of masks, physical distancing and washing of hands with soap,” the BMC said. The police and officers of all 24 civic wards in Mumbai have been directed to take strict action under the Epidemic Diseases Act, 1897, the Disaster Management Act, 2005, against violators. BMC Commissioner Iqbal Singh Chahal held a meeting with civic officials following the rise in crowds at market places and malls ahead of Deepavali. “Lockdown has been lifted, but we cannot afford negligence. Safety precautions have to be taken. Many parts in the world are witnessing a second wave of the COVID-19 pandemic. Avoiding a second wave in Mumbai is as much a responsibility of citizens as of the administration,” he said.
10 November 2020||Bengaluru,||NGT order names Bengaluru among ‘non-attainment’ cities||Bengaluru, Kalaburagi, Davangere, and Hubballi-Dharwad are cities and towns in the State that have been deemed as “non-attainment cities” by the National Green Tribunal (NGT). Such cities are defined as ones where the air quality, as per the records maintained by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), is polluted beyond the prescribed National Ambient Air Quality Standards. The NGT, which put out an order on Monday directing cities and towns where the average ambient air quality in November fell under ‘moderate’ or below category to allow only green firecrackers, has also said that the tribunal might have to consider issuing directions to prohibit the use of firecrackers during the period if the air quality is beyond the threshold. The order mentions that bursting green crackers may be allowed for two hours during Deepavali. The NGT has specified that data from November 2019 should be considered to ascertain the average ambient air quality. The order also states that if the States do not specify the timings for use of green crackers, the timings would be from 8 p.m. to 10 p.m. on Deepavali. The Karnataka government, in an order dated November 6, had issued guidelines for the sale and bursting of only green crackers during Deepavali. However, the government had not specified any timings. Though the Chief Secretary and the Forest and Environment Minister were unavailable for comment, officials in Karnataka State Pollution Control Board (KSPCB) said that various parts of the city generally record ‘moderate’ air quality and ascertaining the average for the whole city would be difficult as monitoring stations were set up across Bengaluru. Areas in the city, including City Railway Station, Silk Board, and Hebbal, generally record “moderate ambient air quality”, an official said. “However, generally we can say that the city is between satisfactory and moderate and has probably never gone beyond the moderate category,” the official said, adding that as the State government had already allowed only green crackers, only the direction on timings needed to be clarified. The Air Quality Index (AQI) is identified through graded measures in six ranges and categories: 0-50 is good; 51-100 is satisfactory; 101-200 is moderate; 201-300 is poor; 301-400 is very poor; and above 401 is severe. According to data from Manual Ambient Air Quality Monitoring Stations in Bengaluru for November 2019, obtained from 13 stations, five reported ‘moderate’ ambient air quality (AMCO Batteries, Mysuru Road; Arvind Motors Pvt. Ltd., Peenya Industrial Area; TERI premise, Domlur; Banaswadi police station, Banaswadi; and SKR Building, K.R. Circle). However, though Central Silk Board and ITPL fell under ‘satisfactory’, their index values were 100 and 99, respectively. An expert working in the field of air quality said there were two methods of measuring AQI. “One is through the Manual Ambient Air Quality Monitoring Stations, where data is obtained frequently, and the other is through the Continuous Ambient Air Quality Monitoring Stations, where data is obtained on real-time basis. Hence, the measures might not be the same in both.”
10 November 2020||Hyderabad,||Four killed as car rams lorry in Jagtial||A five-month-old infant was among four members of a family who were killed when their car rammed a stationary tipper near Korutla town in Jagtial district on Sunday night. The victims were identified as Gudikandula Ramadevi, 28, her two children - Serisha, 2, and five-month-old son Charan from Korutla, and her sister-in-law Lalitha, 35, from Mallapur. Three others of the family, including driver Gudikandula Srinivas, his son Srujan, 18, and daughter Shruthi, 16, suffered severe injuries. Srujan’s condition is said to be critical. District Superintendent of Police Sindhu Sarma said that the accident took place around 9.50 p.m. when the victims were returning from Jagtial bus stand after sending off Ramadevi’s husband Chandramohan to Hyderabad. A migrant worker, Chandramohan was scheduled to take a flight to the UAE from the Rajiv Gandhi International Airport on Monday. When the ill-fated car reached Gumlapur village, Srinivas failed to notice the tipper, which broke down due to tyre burst, and rammed it from behind, Ms. Sarma told The Hindu . The impact of the crash was such that Srinivas’s wife Lalitha died on the spot, while Ramadevi and her daughter Serisha succumbed in Government Hospital, Jagtial. Her newborn son died while he was being taken to Karimanagar for treatment, the SP said. “As the tipper broke down on the main road, the driver turned on the parking lights and indicators to caution other vehicles moving in the same direction, while he and the cleaner were changing the tyre,” Ms. Sarma said. Soon after he came to know about the crash, Mr. Chandramohan rushed to Jagtial hospital. Police suspect that Srinivas was under the influence of alcohol as they found alcohol bottles in the car. “His blood samples were drawn for testing,” police said.
10 November 2020||November 10 2020 00:00 IST,||SOP for colleges out; students, staff to produce COVID-19 negative report to attend classes||College students who wish to attend physical classes from November 17 will have to mandatorily submit a COVID-19 negative report. The State government on Monday issued a Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) that will have to be followed by degree colleges and universities. The SOP states that both students and staff will have to undergo RT-PCR test three days prior to attending the classes. Students will be allowed only if they submit a negative report. Colleges have been told to map the closest primary health centres so that the students and staff can get tested for free. Only 50% of the students will be allowed to attend classes per shift. Educational institutions have also been told that they can extend the teaching hours if required. While this has been slammed by student organisations who want the colleges to conduct only limited classes, department officials said that this extension was allowed if colleges wanted to conduct classes in shifts. A representative should be chosen from each class who should be vested with the responsibility of monitoring the symptoms of all students, the SOP says. Canteens, libraries shut Colleges and universities have been told that the library and canteens should remain closed and students will have to bring food and drinking water from home. The SOP says those attending offline classes will have to get consent from their parents and wear mask. In case of online classes, institutions should provide contact classes to clear doubts. Lecturers have also been asked to provide syllabus to students a month in advance via Telegram, WhatsApp, or email. All students exclusively of postgraduate and final year who attend online or offline classes can stay in hostels located on campus or off campus. “We have started online classes from September 1, and till now have finished around 60% of the syllabus and the remaining has to get over in the remaining time. We have to concentrate on practical labs. Even if students come to campus, we can manage. We don’t have any issues to conduct classes by following all SOPs,” said Nataraj A.G., principal, AMC College of Engineering. Sadashive Gowda, principal, Vidyavardhaka College of Engineering, Mysuru, added: “The SOP is quite clear and is implementable. It gives importance to final year students for offline classes besides continuation of online classes for them. However, for lower years, provision for contact classes is made along with online classes. If all the hostel residents turn up for the offline classes it would create a serious problem to implement SOP in hostels. Another challenge I foresee is maintaining social distance by students within the campus but outside classrooms.”
10 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Polavaram project will be completed by 2022 kharif season, says Jagan||Asserting that his government knew the importance of water in doing economic justice to all regions, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy said it was targeted to complete Polavaram project by 2022 kharif season, and six other priority projects — Vamsadhara-Phase 2, Vamsadhara-Nagavali link, Owk tunnel-2, Velugonda-Phase 1 and Nellore and Sangam barrages — in 2020-21. Due emphasis has been laid on Rayalaseema drought mitigation project that would benefit Anantapur, Chittoor, Kadapa, Kurnool, Prakasam and Nellore districts at an estimated of cost Rs. 40,000 crore, he said. Laying foundation stone for Somasila high-level canal Phase-2 works in Nellore district, virtually from his camp office at Tadepalli on Monday, Mr. Jagan said the project would provide irrigation facility for about 46,453 acres in Atmakur (10,103) and Udayagiri (36,350 acres) constituencies in Nellore district. The project cost was brought down from Rs. 527.53 crore to Rs. 459 crore through reverse tendering, he said and stated that the Nellore and Sangam barrages would be dedicated to the people in January 2021. Somasila-Kandaleru and Somasila-Rallapadu widening works would begin soon. These projects together cost approximately Rs. 1,550 crore. Mr. Jagan said tenders would be called at the earliest for Uttarandhra Sujala Sravanthi project and two barrages downstream of Krishna river and one upstream were planned to be constructed. “Irrigation is the government’s top priority. Like the three capitals, projects are being taken up across the regions to ensure balanced development. There will be no compromise in protecting the State's interests in sharing river waters,” he observed.
10 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Rs. 25 lakh ex gratia announced in family ‘suicide’ case||Home Minister Mekathoti Sucharita has said the government has announced Rs. 25 lakh ex gratia to the next of kin of Abdul Salam’s family, who allegedly committed suicide in Kurnool district recently. The government acted swiftly in the case and arrested Kurnool One Town circle inspector Somasekhar Reddy and a head constable who were facing allegations, she said. Police registered a case against auto driver Salam (42) in a theft. Unable to bear the ‘harassment’, he, his wife Noorjahan (38), daughter Salma (13) and son Khalandar (10) took a selfie video and ‘ended lives’ by jumping before a running train at Kavuluru on November 3. Addressing media persons here on Monday, Ms. Sucharita said Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had enquired about the alleged suicide pact and announced the ex-gratia to Salma’s mother Mabunnissa, who was left in the family. She said that the government acted swiftly in Chirala, Srikakulam, Kurnool and Seetanagaram incidents and took action against the police. Director General of Police (DGP) D. Gautam Sawang said a thorough probe had been ordered into the suicide pact of the auto driver. “A toll-free number has been arranged in the Superintendent of Police (SP) office in each district and victims may complain to the SP if there is any police excess or harassment in any case,” the DGP said. Probe team arrives Special Correspondent adds from Kurnool: APSP Inspector General Sankhabrata Bagchi and Guntur Additional SP Areef Hafeez reached Kurnool on Monday to begin investigation into the case. Deputy Chief Minister S.B. Amzad Basha went to Nandyal and met Abdul Salam’s mother-in-law and other family members and assured them of justice and all possible help. Nandyal MP Pocha Brahmananda Reddy, Nandyal MLA Shilpa Ravi Chandra Kishore Reddy, Kurnool MLA Hafeez Khan and Sub-Collector Kalpana Kumari accompanied the Deputy Chief Minister.  Protests Meanwhile, several people’s organisations and minorities’ welfare associations have been holding an agitation at Gandhi Chowk seeking justice for Salam and framing of criminal charges against the real culprits by obtaining the CCTV footage of the gold shop when the theft took place. They also alleged that Salam was falsely implicated in the case.
10 November 2020||Washington,||Trump plans rallies to protest election||U.S. President Donald Trump, who hasn’t conceded defeat to Joe Biden in the presidential election, is planning to hold rallies to build support for his challenge to the election results, campaign spokesman Tim Murtaugh has said. Mr. Trump has no public events scheduled for Monday, and has not spoken in public since last Thursday. He has launched an array of lawsuits to press claims of election fraud, for which he has produced no evidence. State officials said they were not aware of any significant irregularities. “The Biden selection by the Crooked Media is based on unlawful votes in PA, Mich, GA, Wisc, Nevada et al. We will prove it all,” Rudy Giuliani, Trump’s personal lawyer and a former New York City Mayor, said on Twitter early on Monday. The President will seek to back his accusations of voting fraud by highlighting obituaries of dead people that the campaign said had voted in the election, Mr. Murtaugh said. Mr. Trump also announced teams to pursue recounts in several States. Although the States have yet to officially certify final election results, in keeping with normal practice, presidential candidates traditionally have recognised the independent analysis of major U.S. media and companies such as Edison Research, which called the election for the Democratic nominee, Mr. Biden, on Saturday.
10 November 2020||Pune,||Maharashtra adds 3,277 new COVID-19 cases||While Maharashtra reported 3,277 recoveries on Monday, State health authorities said information regarding recoveries and fatalities in districts (except Mumbai city) was not forthcoming owing to technical problems with the Central COVID-19 portal. As per the daily medical bulletin issued by the State Health Department, the temporary closure of the portal —https://covid19.nhp.gov.in/— resulted in the non-availability of information regarding recoveries and fatalities. 599 cases in Mumbai While the total case tally in the State stands at 17,23,135, Mumbai reported 599 cases to take its tally to 2,64,144. With 20 more fatalities, the city’s toll rose to 10,465. Authorities said 65 deaths from an earlier period were reconciled and the State’s death toll stands at 45,325. “Of the 94,82,940 laboratory samples tested so far, 17,23,135 (18.17%) have returned positive with 42,000 samples across the State being tested in the last 24 hours. Due to technical issues, daily deaths have been reported for only Mumbai city and have been taken manually,” said State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate, adding that the State’s case fatality rate currently stands at 2.63%. As per figures given by the Pune district administration, the district reported more than 500 new cases as its tally exceeded 3.39 lakh. The district’s recovery rate is now 94.28%, with its active cases dropping to 10,792. Dr. Awate informed that currently a total of 10,38,500 people across the State are in home quarantine and 7,586 are in institutional quarantine facilities.
10 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||State incurred Rs. 6,386 cr. loss due to floods, Central team told||Chief Secretary Nilam Sawhney on Monday informed the Inter-Ministerial Central Team (IMCT), which is on a two-day visit to assess the extent of damage caused by the recent floods, that the State suffered an overall loss of approximately Rs. 6,386 crore. At a meeting at the Secretariat, Ms. Sawhney told Saurav Ray, Joint Secretary of the Ministry of Home Affairs, who led the seven-member inter-ministerial team, that heavy rains and floods ravaged the State in August, September and October and the agriculture sector bore the brunt of the calamity. However, the State government could mitigate loss to other properties and prevented a major loss of lives by taking prompt damage-control measures. She sought a recommendation to be made to the Central government to relax the fair average quality norms to facilitate the procurement of discoloured paddy and damaged groundnut crop. Paddy was destroyed in about 2.12 lakh hectares. The loss amounted to nearly Rs. 903 crore. Horticulture crops in 24,516 hectares were damaged causing a loss of Rs. 483 crore, Ms. Sawhney said. The Roads & Buildings Department incurred a loss of Rs. 2,976 crore on account of 5,583 kilometres of roads damaged. The Water Resources and Panchayat Raj Departments incurred a loss of Rs. 1,074 crore and Rs. 780 crore, the Chief Secretary stated. 387 mandals affected Principal Secretary (disaster management) V. Usha Rani said 3,310 villages in 387 mandals were badly affected by the torrential rains. A total of 17.74 lakh people were impacted by the calamity, which claimed 45 lives.
10 November 2020||Bengaluru,||Temple issue: HC disapproves of petitioner’s contention||The Karnataka High Court on Monday disallowed a petitioner from continuing a Public Interest Litigation petition after he filed an affidavit asserting that he would continue to visit a temple even while fighting a legal battle against the alleged mismanagement of the temple, illegal construction of the temple and buildings associated with it by encroaching upon government and the forest lands by the temple management. Now, the court has decided to treat the petition, filed by A. Velumurugan, as a petition initiated suo motu by the court itself on the issues of illegalities associated with Shiva Subramanya temple at Bhadragiri in Tarikere taluk of Chikkamagaluru district. ‘Make a choice’ During the hearing in September, the court asked the petitioner, who claims to be a pro bono litigant, “to make a choice and tell the court whether he still wants to continue his visits to the said temple as he is claiming that he is a devotee of the said temple”. On Monday, the petitioner filed an affidavit stating, “I submit that my family members during the lifetime of my father and and after his death have been visiting the temple since we are the devotees and have religious faith in the said temple. I stand by the fact that I have religious faith and continue to be a devotee of the temple and visit the temple and my visiting the said temple will not come in the way of my ventilating the grievances in respect of mismanagement of the temple, encroaching of government lands, particularly forest land and construction of unauthorised structures and usurping the income of the temple by the trustees”. However a Division Bench, comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice S. Vishwajith Shetty, disapproved the contention of the petitioner that he, being a pro bono litigant, could pursue the legal fight despite being associated with the temple.
10 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Chennithala seeks probe into school modernisation project||Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala on Monday demanded that the government inquire into the allegation that gold smugglers had used the State’s high-tech and IT@School school modernisation programmes as a cover for their operations. In a letter to Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan, Mr. Chennithala said media reports suggested the government had contracted a UAE gold smuggling case accused to distribute the digital devices to modernise school education. Mr. Chennithala said the main accused in the case, K.T. Rameez, had mobilised funds for bankrolling the smuggling operation from the government contract. Mr. Rameez, according to Customs court filings, was one of the lynchpins of the racket. He was allegedly responsible for using hawala networks to transfer funds to Dubai for purchase of gold. The accused was also allegedly responsible for the sale of the gold smuggled into Kerala in air freight addressed to individual officials at the UAE consulate in Thiruvananthapuram. Government criticised Mr. Chennithala said the LDF government had repeatedly used significant projects as an avenue of corruption. LIFE Mission was one. Sprinklr deal was another. The government owed the public an explanation. It should release the records regarding the purchase of digital devices for the Education Department’s school modernisation programme immediately to clear the air.  Main accused has mobilised funds for bankrolling smuggling operation from government contract
10 November 2020||Kolkata,||TMC supporters forcibly ate our food, alleges BJP||Food has emerged as a hotly debated issue in the West Bengal politics over the past few days with Union Home Minister Amit Shah lunching at a tribal’s house in Bankura and at a Matua family in North 24 Parganas during his recent visit. The Trinamool Congress (TMC) was quick to call these events a “photo opportunity” and “lunch tourism” by the BJP to win over the support of the most backward communities in the State. Now, this fight over food has gone a a little too far in Haldia town of Purba Medinipur district. BJP workers in ward number 15 have alleged that Trinamool supporters attacked the house of a party supporter on Sunday where food for hundreds of party functionaries was being prepared and ate most of the food before they could arrive. The food was made for those who were supposed to attend BJP State president Dilip Ghosh’s rally and other political events scheduled in the coastal town on Sunday. Mr. Ghosh expressed surprise over the developments. “We had decided that more than 100 people would have lunch at the house of Indrajit Rana, one of our key party functionaries. But suddenly a group of TMC goons barged into the house, beat up our supporters, and ate most of the food,” Nabarun Naik, president of the BJP’s Tamluk organization district, told The Hindu over phone. Mr. Naik further said that three of the party supporters were also abducted by the Trinamool workers and released earlier on Monday. The TMC had attacked with all the planning to spoil their feast, he alleged. The BJP supporters have approached the police, alleging that Azizul Rahaman, Trinamool Congress councillor of ward number 15 of Haldia, was behind the attack. Mr. Rahaman, however, denied all charges, and said that the TMC had no role in the attack. In a related incident on Sunday, there was chaos over distribution of food at a TMC meeting at Nanoor in Birbhum district where hundreds of party supporters were seen jostling and pushing each other for food packets.
10 November 2020||CHENNAI,||Commercial crime wing merged with the EOW||In a major reform in the Tamil Nadu police, the State government has issued orders to merge the Commercial Crime Investigation Wing (CCIW) Criminal Investigation Department with the Economic Offences Wing-II (Financial Institutions) into a single composite Economic Offences Wing. While the CCIW was formed in 1971 to exclusively deal with investigations relating to frauds, falsification of records and misappropriation of funds of co-operative societies, the EOW-II was formed in 1999 as a special wing to deal with cases relating to default in repayment of deposits after maturity by non-banking financial companies and unincorporated financial institutions. In his proposal recommending the merger of the two units, Director-General of Police J.K. Tripathy said the CCIW had establishments in 29 districts and three cities whereas the EOW-II had units in 15 districts and the city. Effective investigations He said the merger would pave the way for a single composite EOW with more manpower and infrastructure. This would help in more effective handling of investigation/prosecution of cases and go a long way in improving the functional efficiency of the EOW. In the present scenario, the nature and substance of cases being reported at the EOW was totally different from the traditional cases of frauds and misappropriation, and hence the agency needed total “re-engineering and restructuring”. Besides the fact that the investigators had to interact with other State and Central agencies, the number of investigations had increased manifold in the era of e-commerce and market economy, facilitated through various digital platforms.  Mr. Tripathy said premier investigation agencies like the CBI had separate wings for economic offences. “Similarly, a strengthened, composite EOW will be efficient in dealing with cases involving complicated financial transactions... A tech-savvy EOW with professionally trained investigators will not only route to the depositors but act as a deterrent for fraudsters,” he said. The DGP said the composite EOW would investigate cases relating to co-operative society frauds, all cases against financial institutions/chit funds/cheating in violation of the Prize Chits & Money Circulation Schemes (Banning) Act 1978, offences (other than civil in nature) relating to traders and involving fraud/cheating of value more than Rs. 1 crore and above (other then Chennai City Police) etc. The new composite wing will be headed by the Additional Director-General of Police, EOW, Chennai. In the existing set-up, the EOW has two units EOW-I and EOW-II, headed by ADGP Abash Kumar. With the merger of the CCIW with the EOW-II, it would become a composite unit and would be referred to as the Economic Offences Wing.
10 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Finance panel submits report with separate section on States’ finances||The 15th Finance Commission said it had taken the unique requirements of each State on board and come up with State-specific considerations in its report, which was submitted to President Ram Nath Kovind on Monday. Apart from its main recommendation on devolution of funds between the Centre and the States for the period 2021-22 to 2025-26, the Commission addressed all its unique terms of reference, such as considering a new non-lapsable fund for financing national security and defence spending and offering performance incentives to the States that deliver on reforms. Apart from the main report, uniquely titled Finance Commission in Covid Times, which depicts a set of scales on its cover to denote the balance between the Union and the States, the 15th Finance Commission presented two volumes as part of its submissions. The first one focuses on the state of the Centre’s finances, with an in-depth scrutiny of the key departments, the medium-term challenges facing the Centre and a road map for the future. The other volume is dedicated to the States, with the finances of each analysed in great depth. The panel has come up with State-specific considerations to address the key challenges that individual States face, as per a statement issued by the Commission after a meeting with the President. Commission chairman N.K. Singh was accompanied by members Ajay Narayan Jha, Anoop Singh, Ashok Lahiri and Ramesh Chand for the report’s submission to the President.
10 November 2020||Kolkata,||Rising prices: Mamata seeks PM’s intervention||West Bengal Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee has urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to step in to control hoarding, increase supply, and bring down the rising prices of essential commodities. In a letter to the PM on Monday, Ms. Banerjee also sought that the powers of the State governments be restored “for exercising control over the production, supply, distribution, and sale of agricultural commodities”. The recent enactments relating to farmers and essential commodities were “seriously encouraging hoarding and profiteering in essential items like potato and onion in West Bengal”, she said. “It may be mentioned that as per the amendments to the Essential Commodities Act, the cereals, pulses oilseeds, edible oils, onions, and potato are removed from the list of essential commodities. The amendments are seriously encouraging hoarding and profiteering,” the letter said. In the four-page letter, Ms. Banerjee said the State government now devoid of all powers could not be expected to remain a silent spectator to the suffering of the common people. She said that she had raised “serious concerns that these enactments were hurriedly made without adequate thought process or discussion and consultation with the States”. “The adverse impact of these new Central Acts upon the farmers and consumers in terms of availability and prices of essential agricultural commodities is already visible now, as they are against the interest of the farmers and the consumers,” she said. The Chief Minister was referring to the three legislations that were recently passed by Parliament. The political parties in the Opposition, particularly the Left and the Congress, said the rise in the prices of potato and onions was more to do with the State government’s failure to control hoarding.
10 November 2020||Kolkata,||WB adds 3,907 cases as it gears up for major openings||West Bengal on Monday reported 3,907 new COVID-19 cases taking the total infections in the State to 4,09,221 as it braces up for resumption of local train services and reopening of major museums in the next few days. The State recorded 56 deaths pushing its toll to 7,350. The active cases have dropped to 34,021 while the discharge rate has gone up to 89.89%. Four museums in the city, including Victoria Memorial and Indian Museum, all of whom are administered by the Union Ministry of Culture, will reopen on November 10 after a gap of eight months. Jayanta Sengupta, secretary and curator of Victoria Memorial, said that 200 people would be allowed in the galleries and 500 in the lawns at a given time. The other museums that will be opened on Tuesday are Science City and Birla Industrial and Technological Museum. The State is also planning to resume suburban trains from Wednesday and major arrangements are under way. To start with, 696 trains will be running along the Howrah, Sealdah and Kharagpur divisions of the Eastern and the South Eastern Railway. Sealdah division will have 413 trains running daily, Howrah 202 trains, and Kharagpur will have 81 trains beginning November 11.
10 November 2020||MANGALURU,||Two arrested in Kavoor murder case in city||The Kavoor Police on Monday arrested two persons said to be involved in the murder of Surendran (60), distributor of Jyothy Laboratories, in his house here on November 3. The police gave the names of the arrested persons as Santosh (43) of Ashok Nagar and Siddappa (36) of Baikampady and a native of Gadag district. The police said that Santosh had carried out fabrication work in the house of Surendran and the latter had not paid the amount. On November 3, Santosh went to Surendran’s house along with Siddappa to seek payment. The two admitted to murdering Surendran and taking away some amount from the house, the police said in a press note. The Kavoor Police traced the accused with the assistance of sleuths from the Central Crime Branch and personnel from the city police’s technical wing. Surendran, a native of Kerala, was hacked to death in his house at around noon on November 3.
10 November 2020||MANGALURU,||City corporation to come out with SOP for pet care||A Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) for pet care, which includes mandatory pet licensing, vaccination and birth control measures, will be brought out by the Manglauru City Corporation in another 10 days, Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra said here on Monday During the meeting of the Society for Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, Dakshina Kannada, Dr. Rajendra said that not just the city corporation but also Ullal and 11 other urban local bodies in the district should carry out survey of pets in their wards and ensure steps are taken by owners on administration of anti-rabies vaccine. “If no steps are taken then, the official concerned will be held responsible for any case of rabies caused by dog bite,” he said. Corporation Commissioner Akshy Sridhar said that an increase in the number of pets in the city was a matter of concern. Suma R. Nayak from Animal Care Trust said that in many a case, pets are not given anti-rabies vaccine. Many animal breeders in the city were operating without licence, she said. Assistant Director of Veterinary Hospital, Sullia, Nithin Prabhu said that the rabies vaccination drive need to be held not just in cities but also in rural areas of the district. Vinay L. Shetty, member of the State Animal Welfare Board, said that many pets shops in the city keep pets in small enclosures. Ms. Nayak said that pets shops do not have proper ventilation and they do not comply with all the norms pertaining to animal care. Dr. Rajendra said that trade licence of such pets shops should be placed under suspension. About illegal transport of meat to stalls in the city, Dr. Rajendra directed corporation officials to regularly inspect the stock coming to meat stalls. High definition surveillance cameras are being placed at specific locations to help police and district administration keep constant vigil on illegal sand and meat transportation. Action was being taken on illegal slaughterhouses, he added.
10 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||State reports another low in COVID cases||As it happens every Monday, with testing dipping to a low during the weekend, new COVID-19 cases reported in Kerala on the day were one of the lowest in recent months, with 3,593 persons testing positive when 32,489 samples were tested in 24 hours. Though the new case numbers were low, the test positivity rate remained more or less the same as previous days, at 11.05%, indicating that disease transmission levels have only stabilised, not diminished. The State also reported 5,983 recoveries on the day. The cumulative case burden of the State climbed to 4,89,702. However, the active case pool is going down steadily and now stands at 79,410. So far, 4,08,460 persons who contracted the infection have recovered in the State. The cumulative COVID toll touched 1,714 on Monday, with the State Health Department adding 22 more deaths to the official COVID death list. 815 in ICUs At present, according to official figures, 815 patients are critically ill and being treated in ICUs Of the new cases reported on Monday, all except 61 cases are locally acquired infections, with 409 cases remaining untraced to a known source of infection. The number of health-care workers who contracted the infection is 53. Among districts, Malappuram reported 548 cases, Kozhikode 479, Ernakulam 433, Thrissur 430, Alapupzha 353, Thiruvananthapuram 324, Kollam 236, Palakkad 225, Kottayam 203, Kannur 152, Kasaragod 75, Wayanad 50, Pathanamthitta 43 and Idukki 42 cases. The active case pools in districts show that cases have been coming down, especially Ernakulam and Malappuram, which have had a high active caseload all of last month. Ernakulam, though still has the largest pool of active cases, has managed to bring down the numbers to 10,802, Thrissur 9,549, Kozhikode 8,916, Alappuzha 8,226, Thiruvananthapuram 7,487, and Malappuram 6,590
10 November 2020||HYDERABAD,||HC allows payment to AgriGold depositors||Telangana High Court on Monday allowed Andhra Pradesh government’s application seeking permission to disburse money to persons who deposited up to Rs. 20,000 with Agri-Gold company. A bench of Justices M.S. Ramachandra Rao and T. Amarnath Goud of the HC directed the AP government to complete the process of identification of persons who deposited up to Rs. 20,000 and disbursement of money to them by March 31, 2021. The bench dismissed an application filed by Agri-Gold depositors from Karnataka State seeking a direction to AP government to disburse money to them as well. The bench said the AP government was paying its own money to Agri-Gold depositors from the State. Those funds cannot be allotted to depositors of neighbouring States. A few days ago, AP Advocate General Sriram requested a bench headed by Telangana HC Chief Justice Raghavendra Singh Chauhan to permit AP government to permit its proposed money disbursal to Agri-Gold depositors. Appearing before the bench of Justices Ramachandra Rao and Amarnath Goud on Monday, the AP AG said the State government earlier paid money to persons of AP who deposited Rs. 10,000 or less to Agri-Gold company. This was done through the Legal Services Authority.
10 November 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab revokes general consent given to CBI||The Punjab government has withdrawn general consent given to the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) for investigating cases in the State. A senior government official confirmed to The Hindu on Monday that an order in this regard has been issued. With this, the CBI would have to seek prior permission from the State government for conducting any investigation. The order issued by the State government states that it was revoking the general consent for investigating cases by “members of the Delhi Special Police Establishment”, said the official. The CBI derives its legal powers from the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act, 1946. The order adds that in any future investigation of any offence in the State, prior consent of the government of Punjab would be required on a case-to-case basis.
10 November 2020||Hyderabad,||Chiranjeevi tests positive for COVID, quarantines self||Megastar Chiranjeevi announced on social media that he has tested positive for COVID-19. The 65-year-old actor underwent testing as part of safety protocol before joining the sets of his upcoming movie, Acharya , he added in his post. “Unfortunately tested positive. I am asymptomatic currently and quarantining myself at home,” he wrote, requesting all those who met him in the past five days to also undergo COVID test.
10 November 2020||November 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Banking on tradition||
10 November 2020||November 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Brisk sales||
10 November 2020||Navi Mumbai,||‘Suspend police officer’||In a letter dated November 6, Konkan Inspector General Sanjay Mohite has said that police inspector Suresh Varade, who was investigating the 2018 Anvay Naik suicide case, should be suspended. The letter said discrepancies were found in his investigation and a departmental inquiry has been initiated against him. Republic TV chief Arnab Goswami and two others are accused of abetment to suicide in the case. Mr. Varade was posted with the Raigad police from 2015 to 2020.
10 November 2020||November 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Keeping the craft alive||
10 November 2020||November 10 2020 00:00 IST,||COVID tests, cases halve on Sunday in TS||Telangana recorded 857 COVID-19 cases and four deaths on Sunday. Less than a thousand cases were detected as only 23,806 people were examined on that day. For the past three weeks, around 40,000 to 45,000 samples are being tested in a day.Page 2
10 November 2020||November 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Will his Deepavali be bright?||
10 November 2020||November 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Festive ready||
10 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||15th finance panel submits report to President||The 15th Finance Commission said it had taken the unique requirements of each State on board and come up with State-specific considerations in its report, which was submitted to President Ram Nath Kovind on Monday. Apart from its main recommendation of devolution of funds between the Centre and the States for the period 2021-22 to 2025-26, the Commission addressed all its unique terms of reference, such as considering a new non-lapsable fund for financing national security and defence spending and offering performance incentives to the States that deliver on reforms. Apart from the main report, uniquely titled Finance Commission in Covid Times, the Commission presented two volumes as part of its submissions.
10 November 2020||CHENNAI,||Consultations held on reopening of T.N. schools||Government, aided and private schools across the State held consultations with parents on Monday to obtain their feedback on whether schools should reopen for Classes 9 to 12 on November 16, in the midst of the COVID-19 pandemic. The State government is expected to take a final decision based on the feedback. While a section of parents expressed apprehensions about reopening schools in the midst of a global pandemic, others complained that children were unable to comprehend online lessons. Ahead of the meetings, the School Education Department sent a standard format to all schools, using which they were expected to collate the feedback from parents for submission. The parents shared their feedback in person as well as online in several private schools. Director of School Education S. Kanappan said that based on the responses received from each school in their jurisdiction, the Chief Educational Officers would submit their report to the School Education Department. “A report based on this will then be submitted to the State government,” he added. The government is expected to make an announcement before Deepavali. At the Everwin group of schools in Chennai, parents, who were divided into batches, participated in the meeting in large numbers. “Parents were largely divided — while some had safety concerns, others said children were starting to feel cooped up inside their house,” said B. Purushothaman, senior principal and correspondent. Many of the parents who took part in consultations in Tiruchi district expressed apprehensions about sending their children to school until a clear picture emerged on the spread of COVID-19, citing safety concerns. “Just eight parents in relation to 40 students of Class 10 in the matriculation stream have expressed their willingness to send their wards to school. Most parents are not in favour of reopening schools now,” said C. Sundara Raman, secretary, Cauvery Schools, Tiruchi. There was a mixed response from parents at meetings held in schools across Madurai district. R. Murugeswari, headmistress of Kasturiba Gandhi Corporation Girls’ Higher Secondary School, said most of the parents wanted the schools to reopen as they had raised concerns about online classes. “The parents said students are unable to understand the lessons through online classes. In the event of the reopening of schools, they insisted that safety precautions should be strictly followed at schools,” she added. The heads of schools in Tirunelveli, Thoothukudi and Tenkasi also said they had received varying responses from parents. Those who were for the reopening of schools cited accessibility and connectivity issues. “We live in a village near Sankarankovil and have mobile phone connectivity issues. Our children were previously staying in hostels, but we are now forced to leave them alone at home while we go to work,” said a few parents from Sankarankovil and surrounding villages who had come to a girls’ higher secondary school near Palayamkottai bus-stand to give their suggestions. The consultations held in Coimbatore, Tiruppur and the Nilgiris districts also saw a mixed response from parents. While some wanted students of Classes 10 and 12 to attend physical sessions to prepare better for the board examinations, others expressed apprehensions about students travelling to the campuses every day by bus. A parent in Udhagamandalam said schools should not reopen immediately after Deepavali, as some children would have travelled or had visitors for the festival. In Salem and Namakkal too, parents were invited to the schools amidst strict safety norms to share their feedback. Parents across the State who were for the reopening of schools for Classes 9 to 12 attributed their decision, among other things, to the fact that students taking the board exams needed some form of face-to-face interaction with their teachers. Even in the form handed out by the School Education Department, schools had been directed to ask parents of children in Classes 10 and 12 separately if they were in favour of schools reopening.
10 November 2020||November 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Celebrate with caution, says Harsh Vardhan||COVID-19 appropriate behaviour is still the best bet against infection and it is no rocket science, said Union Health Minister Dr. Harsh Vardhan on Monday in an interaction with State Health Ministers to review the situation and preparedness.Page 10
10 November 2020||November 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Chiranjeevi tests positive for COVID-19||Telugu superstar Chiranjeevi Konidela announced on social media that he has tested positive for COVID-19. The 65-year-old Stalin actor underwent testing as part of safety protocols before joining the sets of his upcoming movie, Acharya .Page 10
10 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Assembly poll: draft voters’ list on Nov. 16||The draft voters’ list for the Assembly elections in 2021 will be published by the Election Commission of India on November 16. Chief Electoral Officer (CEO) Teeka Ram Meena said the decision to publish the draft voters’ list was taken on the basis of a meeting held by the commission on Monday with representatives of registered political parties. On website All those who have attained the age of 18 on January 1, 2021 or before will figure on the draft list to be published by the Election Commission. The draft voters’ list will be available on the website nvsp.in. People can rectify mistakes and register complaints till December 15.  Directive to Collectors The Election Commission had already issued directives to District Collectors and other officials about the revision of voters’ list. The term of the 14th Assembly ends in May 2021 and the election to the 15th Assembly is to be held by April 2021.
10 November 2020||November 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Banking on tradition||
10 November 2020||November 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Will his Deepavali be bright?||
10 November 2020||New Delhi,||NGT links cracker sales to air quality||The National Green Tribunal (NGT) on Monday directed that there would be a total ban on sale or use of all kinds of firecrackers between November 10 and 30 in all cities and towns across the country, where the average ambient air quality in November fell under the ‘poor’ and above category. A Bench, headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel, also directed that in places where ambient air quality fell under the ‘moderate’ or below category, only green crackers would be permitted for sale and timings for bursting them would be restricted to two hours.  The panel specified that data from November 2019 would be used to ascertain the average ambient air quality for both the instances. The Tribunal, in its order, noted that several States, such as Odisha, Rajasthan, Sikkim, Delhi and Chandigarh, and many others had prohibited the sale anduse of firecrackers to protect vulnerable groups. These groups include the elderly, children, and persons with co-morbidities, among others. Pointing to submissions from several States requesting that green crackers be allowed, it said, “The request is justifiedwhere air quality is moderate and below but not where air quality is poor and above which may result in deaths anddiseases which has to be avoided even if there is financial loss.”
10 November 2020||PATNA,||All quiet at party offices in Bihar ahead of results||A day before the declaration of the Assembly election results, it was all quiet at the offices of the political parties on Beerchand Patel Marg in Patna. Most leaders remained confined to their homes on Monday. RJD leader and the UPA’s chief ministerial face Tejashwi Yadav celebrated his 31st birthday in a low-key affair at the residence of his mother, Rabri Devi.
10 November 2020||LUCKNOW,||Editors Guild asks Yogi to free jailed journalists||The Editors Guild of India on Monday urged Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath to free the journalists who were jailed, withdraw cases that are under review and ensure safety of all working journalists in the State. The EGI also said that it was keen to send a delegation of national editors to Lucknow to meet Mr. Adityanath.
10 November 2020||Bengaluru,||DKS demands judicial probe into prof.’s death||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president D.K. Shivakumar has demanded a judicial probe by a retired Karnataka High Court judge into the death of retired Bangalore University professor Dr. N.S. Ashok Kumar. He claimed there was information that the professor was a victim of corruption.
10 November 2020||Srinagar,||J&K party approaches SC for early hearing of pleas||The Peoples Conference, headed by Sajad Lone, on Monday submitted a plea before the Supreme Court for an early hearing of the petitions pending before it that contested the measures taken by the Centre since August 5 last year in J&K.
10 November 2020||MANGALURU,||SKDRDP launches Jnana Tana||In a boost to the morale of Kannada-medium students in rural areas in the State, Shree Kshetra Dharmasthala Rural Development Project (SKDRDP), a non-governmental organisation, will distribute 20,000 tabs and 10,000 laptops at an estimated cost of Rs. 81 crore in the current academic year. These tabs and laptops will come with pre-loaded Kannada-medium curriculum of English, Science and Mathematics subjects for students from Class 5 to Class 10.
10 November 2020||BELAGAVI,||Anganwadi workers take out protest rally||Members of the Karnataka Anganwadi Workers Union took out a protest rally in Belagavi on Monday, opposing the government plans to link anganwadis wotj public schools and start pre-schools in government schools. They also demanded regularisation of services, wage hike and time-bound promotions. They walked to the Deputy Commissioner’s office in large numbers and sat there for hours.
10 November 2020||HUBBALLI,||Counting in West Graduates today||All arrangements have been made at University of Agricultural Sciences (UAS), Dharwad, where counting of votes in the elections to Karnataka West Graduates Constituency of the Legislative Council will be taken up on Tuesday.
10 November 2020||Mumbai,||Transport employees to get pending salaries||In a big relief for employees of the Maharashtra State Road Transport Corporation (MSRTC), the State government on Monday decided to disburse their pending salaries for two months before Deepavali, beginning later this week. Employees of the MSRTC, which is one of the biggest road transport undertakings in the country, have not received their salaries for the last three months due to the closure of services in the COVID-19 lockdown. State Transport Minister Anil Parab said salaries for a period of one month along with the advance will be disbursed on Monday itself.PTI
10 November 2020||Bengaluru,||Bypolls: Counting of votes today||The votes polled in the byelections to Sira and Rajarajeshwarinagar Assembly constituencies will be counted on Tuesday and the results should be known by noon.
10 November 2020||Bengaluru,||Govt. says celebrities, leaders have been fined||After being questioned about the non-imposition of fines on celebrities and political leaders for not wearing mask in public places, the State government on Monday told the High Court of Karnataka that the police had, on November 7, collected fines of Rs. 250 each from several of those who had violated the COVID-19 norms during rallies and election campaigning.
10 November 2020||Bengaluru,||DPI mulls over reopening high school classes||With a dip in the number of COVID-19 cases reported across the State over the past few weeks, the Department of Public Instruction (DPI) is mulling over reopening high school classes in December.
10 November 2020||Kochi,||Customs dept. questions Jaleel in Koran case||The preventive wing of the Cochin Customs interrogated Kerala Wakf Minister K.T. Jaleel for nearly nine hours in Kochi on Monday. The interrogation that began in the morning ended by around 7 p.m. The questioning was in connection with the import of the Koran from the United Arab Emirates by its consulate as diplomatic baggage and its distribution in some parts of the State. Mr. Jaleel asserted on his social media page that his hands were clean and no agencies could ever produce even an iota of evidence to link him to any shady deal. “No one will be able to implicate me in a gold smuggling case or financial fraud, wealth amassment, fraudulent business deals or taking bribe. Truth alone will prevail,” noted Mr. Jaleel. The Minister said he went to the Customs office officially as the Customs notice for appearance was publicised in the media. The factual position regarding the case was communicated to Customs officials. Taking a dig at his detractors, Mr. Jaleel said those who wished to tighten the noose around his neck would either become tired of the act or the noose would snap and he would emerge unscathed. The consignment weighing 4,479 kg was brought from the UAE by officials of the UAE consulate. The port of loading the consignment was shown as Dubai in the Bill of Entry and it was loaded on March 4, 2020. There were 250 packets of the Koran in the consignment. The contents of the packets were mentioned as ‘Holy Quran (Diplomatic Cargo)’ in the description part of the consignment in the Bill of Entry. Customs officials cleared the cargo and no customs charges were levied on the consignment as it was brought to Kerala as diplomatic cargo. Mr. Jaleel’s initiative for distributing the Koran in some parts of northern Kerala had kicked up a political storm as allegations of violation of protocol were raised against the Minister. Some packets were taken for distribution in official vehicles of some departments under his administrative control. Defending his action, Mr. Jaleel had earlier stated that the distribution of the holy book need to be viewed only as a cultural activity.
10 November 2020||PATNA,||All quiet at party offices in Bihar||A day before the declaration of the Assembly election results, it was all quiet at the offices of the political parties on Beerchand Patel Marg in Patna. Leaders remained mostly confined to their homes on Monday and refused to comment on the results. Rashtriya Janata Dal leader and the UPA’s chief ministerial face Tejashwi Yadav celebrated his 31st birthday in a low-key affair at the residence of his mother, Rabri Devi. At the party headquarters of the ruling Janata Dal (United), a few office-bearers sat discussing the exit poll results that have predicted a dismal show by the party. “Why should we believe these exit polls? You must remember the 2015 exit poll that went completely wrong…We’re coming to power again, our leader Nitish Kumar is going to be the CM for the fourth consecutive term,” said one of them requesting anonymity.   A few yards away at the Opposition RJD office, a small group was seen sporting broad smiles. “After a long time, smile has returned to the party office,” said party leader and spokesperson Mrityunjay Tiwari. “And why not? Haven’t you seen the exit poll projections? But we knew even before, that people of Bihar have voted for a change this time, for a young leader like Tejashwi Yadav. Now it’s matter of a few hours and we will all know what is in fact a foregone conclusion,” he said.   At the BJP and Rashtriya Lok Samata Party offices too, there were very few people moving about. Big hoardings displaying Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s image have been occupying the space outside the BJP office. The Lok Janshakti Party office, near the Patna airport, wore a deserted look. “Come tomorrow and you’ll see the rush here,” said an office-bearer before quickly retreating inside.
10 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Celebrate with caution: Vardhan||COVID-19 appropriate behaviour is still the best bet against infection and it is no rocket science. This was stated by Union Health Minister Dr. Harsh Vardhan on Monday in an interaction with State Health Ministers and senior officials of Andhra Pradesh, Assam, West Bengal, Rajasthan, Himachal Pradesh, Telangana, Punjab, Haryana and Kerala to review COVID-19 situation and preparedness. Of the total active cases in the country, 0.44% patients were on ventilator support, 2.47% in ICU and 4.13% occupied oxygen-supported beds. India had the highest recovery rate and one of the lowest fatality rate globally, he said. The Health Ministry said that some districts in the States invited for the meeting had been reporting a rise in the number of cases, high average daily cases on a seven-day average, decline in testing, high rate of mortality within the first 24/48/72 hours of hospitalisation, high doubling rate and higher death among the vulnerable population groups. Winter caution Dr. Vardhan said, “The country had stepped into the 11th month of the pandemic and now we all need to be more vigilant for the entire festive season that started with Dasara and would continue onto Deepavali, Chhat Puja, Christmas and then onto Makar Sankranti in the next year. Respiratory virus also spreads rapidly in the winter months.” Briefing the audience about his recent interaction with State Health Ministers and senior health officials of Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Delhi, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Chhattisgarh, he said that the “trajectory of the disease is being monitored personally by the Prime Minister”. At the meeting, Union Health Secretary Rajesh Bhushan requested all the States to focus on 10 key areas to contain COVID-19 and gain an upper hand over its trajectory. This included increased testing, targeted testing at markets, workplaces and religious congregations that could have the potential to become super spreaders, increased use of RT-PCR in testing and compulsory testing of symptomatic RAT negatives. Delhi still on top Meanwhile, as per data released by the Health Ministry, new cases reported in the last 24 hours did not cross the 50,000 mark. “45,903 persons have tested positive for COVID-19 in the last 24 hours. Delhi has reported the highest daily new cases, also its highest tally so far, with 7,745 new cases.It is followed by Maharashtra with 5,585 cases and Kerala with 5,585 cases,’’ said the Ministry. It added that 79% of the new recovered cases were observed to be concentrated in 10 States/Union Territories. Maharashtra has reported the maximum number of single day recoveries with 8,232. In Kerala, 6,853 people recovered and it was followed by 6,069 in Maharashtra. The Ministry said, “490 case fatalities have been reported in the past 24 hours. Fatalities have continued to decrease with less than 500 reported in the last 24 hours. Maharashtra, Delhi and West Bengal are leading the fatalities tally’’.
10 November 2020||November 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Next round of talks likely this week||At the Corps Commander talks last week, India and China made broad proposals for disengagement in eastern Ladakh and another round of talks is likely to take place later this week to discuss them further, an official source said on Monday. “Broad proposals have been made by both sides and they will be discussed in another round of senior commander talks likely later this week,” the source said. Discussions were on to finalise the dates for the next round of talks. The proposals are being discussed at the highest levels in the government, including the apex group on China policy, the China Study Group. China has deployed around 50,000 troops along with tanks, armoured vehicles and air defences along the disputed boundary since the stand-off began in early May and this has been matched by India. Another official said there was an effort to pull back some of the vehicles and armoured components. “The Chinese had suggested mutual withdrawal to certain distance behind, but that is not acceptable to us as it would put us in a disadvantage,” a third source said. Stocking up for winter With several rounds of military and diplomatic talks remaining inconclusive, both sides have built habitats and stocked up essentials to house the thousands of troops through the harsh winter. With passes still open, vehicle movement was still on and winter stocking was almost complete, but once the passes close, sustenance for forward areas would be only through air, the third source noted. As the Indian Army had occupied several dominating features that were lying vacant on the south bank of Pangong Tso (lake) in August, China has been pressing for discussing south bank first and other friction areas later. However, this has been rejected by India. A joint statement stated that both sides agreed to “earnestly implement” the consensus reached by leaders of the two countries, ensure their “front-line troops to exercise restraint and avoid misunderstanding and miscalculation”.
10 November 2020||LUCKNOW,||Ex-lawmakers leave BSP, Cong. for SP||Three former MPs and five former MLAs joined the Samajwadi Party on Monday, as the party continues to attract key leaders from its opponents ahead of the 2022 Uttar Pradesh Assembly election. These leaders are from the BSP and the Congress. Former MPs — Kailash Nath Singh Yadav (Chandauli), Bal Kumar Patel (Mirzapur) and Kaishar Jahan (Sitapur) — joined the SP in the presence of party president Akhilesh Yadav. Mr. Patel, a Kurmi, is the brother of slain dacoit, Dadua, and was elected as an MP from Mirzapur in 2009 on an SP ticket. In 2019, on being denied a ticket he joined the Congress and contested from Banda only to finish a distant third with 75,000 votes. However, he is said to enjoy substantial clout in his community in the Chitrakoot-Banda region. Ms. Jahan, who had won from Sitapur in 2009, also joined the Congress in 2019 and contested the Lok Sabha election. However, she too fared poorly with just 96,000 votes. Mr. Kailash Nath Singh Yadav is a two-time former MP (1989 and 2004). Former MLAs Ram Singh Patel, who is Mr. Bal Kumar's son; Sunil Kumar Yadav (Sonvhadra); Ganesh Rahi (Sitapur); Dhirendra Prasad (Shahjahanpur) and Jasmir Ansari, who is Ms. Jahan’s husband also joined the ranks of the SP. So did Ashfaq Khan, the BSP candidate from Sitapur seat in 2017. Speaking at the press conference on four years of demonetisation, SP president Akhilesh Yadav said that the sole purpose of the decision by the BJP was to win U.P. in 2017 at any cost. “The BJP benefited from demonetisation and won Uttar Pradesh,” the former CM said.
10 November 2020||Mumbai,||HC refuses interim bail to Arnab||The Bombay High Court on Monday rejected an interim bail plea filed by journalist Arnab Goswami in the 2018 case of abetment to suicide of Anvay and his mother Kumud Naik in Alibag. After hearing the matter for three days, a Division Bench of Justices S.S. Shinde and M.S. Karnik reserved the order on Saturday. Mr. Goswami sought interim protection/bail on the grounds that he was illegally arrested and wrongfully detained, and also urged for quashing of the FIR. Senior advocate Harish Salve, representing Mr. Goswami, had vehemently argued that the allegations in the First Information Report (Section 306, abetment of suicide and Section 34, acts done by several persons in furtherance of common intention of the Indian Penal Code), read in its entirety, do not disclose the alleged offence against the petitioner (Mr. Goswami). The submission deserves no consideration at this stage when the investigation is on and the alleged suicide note mentions the name of the petitioner. The court noted, “Since the petition is posted for hearing for consideration of prayer of the petitioners for quashing of the First Information Report, we refrain ourselves from expressing opinion on merits at this stage. In the facts of the present case, no case is made out for release of the applicant — petitioner under extraordinary writ jurisdiction.” The Bench said, “The applicant has an alternative and efficacious remedy under Section 439 (special powers of high court or court of session regarding bail) of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC) to apply for regular bail. At the time of concluding the hearing of applications, we had made it clear that if the petitioner, if so advised, to apply for regular bail under section 439 of CrPC before the concerned court, then, in that case, we have directed the concerned court to decide the said application within four days from filing of the same.”
10 November 2020||November 10 2020 00:00 IST,||New Parliament building will be bigger in size and have more amenities||The design of the new Parliament is complete, detailed and construction-ready. Located next to the existing one, it is almost one-and-a-half times larger in size and capacity. The purpose of the new building, at one level, is to offer upgraded and expanded facilities for the functioning of Parliament. At another, when completed in 2022, it will serve as a landmark to commemorate the 75th year of Indian Independence. Here are the details of the design. In October 2019, the government selected HCP Design, Planning and Management, an Ahmedabad-based architecture firm, to design the new Parliament and redevelop the area around the Central Vista. The architects chose the triangular plot next to the existing Parliament to build a new one. As a result, the proposed structure is triangularly shaped in contrast to the existing circular one. The proposal tries hard to limit the contrast to shape. Through materials and façade design, the new Parliament wants to appear as carefully restrained, and look as old and similar to the existing one. However, in terms of amenities and finish, it is sumptuous. Constitutional hall At the core of the proposed Parliament are three spaces: Lok Sabha hall, Rajya Sabha hall and the central lounge built around an open courtyard. Interlinking them is the constitutional hall. This grand space, located in the centre of the complex, will exhibit the original copy of the Constitution and icons of national leaders. The total built-up area of the proposed Parliament, spread over four floors, is about 64,500 sq.m that is 17,000 sq.m more than the existing one. The proposed Lok Sabha hall, located on the ground floor, anticipates an increase in the number of people representatives in the years to come. It plans to accommodate 888 members, 336 more than the current maximum strength. Similarly, the Rajya Sabha hall will accommodate 384 in place of the current capacity of 245. There is no drastic change in the seating arrangement that may have led to alternative forms of debate. It continues to be fan-shaped. The difference being that every member will have a desk in front, which is currently available only for the front rows. Enough space behind the seat for free movement, and digital system and touch screen for each member are some of the new features. The assembly halls will have an intuitive multilingual graphical user interface, dual authentication-based biometrics and RFID, and digital Ink based nameplates with automatic naming. Office spaces Besides the Parliament halls on the ground floor, there are offices for the Prime Minister, Speaker and Ministers. In the above two floors are more rooms for Ministers, a dining hall, and the expanded media gallery. Infrastructure facilities and office rooms are located on the lower ground floor. When it comes to the existing Parliament, Bimal Patel, director, HCP Design, said “both buildings, the existing and new Parliaments, will work in conjunction. Some functions will move to the new, while some will remain in retrofitted and refurbished existing buidings”. The proposed Parliament will be under total surveillance with separate access for MPs, Speaker, Prime Minister and the public. While the car parking within the building is limited to about 110 vehicles, the proposal makes space for 1,100 cars within the entire Parliament complex, including the existing Parliament, library and annexe. No overt symbolism Surprisingly, except for a tall Ashoka lion head on the top like a finial, the new Parliament appears to eschew any overt symbolism. The design has come a long way from its earlier version which had a tall sloping spire over the central space. In contrast, it suffuses the interior with symbolism and decor rooted in traditional motifs and elements. Abstracted peacock feathers for panels, lotus motifs for roofs, floral inlay patterns on floors and intricate wooden jalis abound. “We have tried to harmonise the architecture of new with the old Parliament. They will be closely related in many ways and will function as one,” Dr. Patel said. In terms of construction and materials, it seeks to use high-grade stainless steel and self-compacting concrete. There are plans to obtain a five-star GRIHA rating for its sustainable building practices and waste management systems. The new Parliament project is currently held up because of appeals against its construction in the Supreme Court. However, the government, on its part looks like it is getting construction-ready. In the event of a favourable judgment, it would possibly commence quickly and try to catch up with its 2022 deadline.  (The author is a Professor   at CEPT University)
10 November 2020||New Delhi,||HC notice to media houses on Bollywood groups’ plea||The Delhi High Court on Monday issued notice to various media houses on a plea by four Bollywood associations and 34 leading producers to restrain Republic TV, Times Now and other social media platforms from publishing irresponsible and defamatory remarks against Bollywood as a whole. Justice Rajiv Shakdher asked the news channels to follow the Programme Code provided under the Cable Television Networks Rules while posting the suit for further hearing on December 14. He noted that courts hesitated in restraining media reports as it was a constitutional right. “But, we expect fair reportage... sadly, it is happening all over the world, not just in India”. It sought replies from Republic TV, its editor-in-chief Arnab Goswami and reporter Pradeep Bhandari, Times Now editor-in-chief Rahul Shivshankar and group editor Navika Kumar, and social media platforms such as Google, Facebook and Twitter on the suit. Doordarshan broadcasts Recollecting the “lovely broadcasters in Doordarshan” in its heydays, the judge pointed to the “kind of language” TV news channels were using these days. “Now I am hearing that participants in TV debates are using cuss words because they get so excited. If you keep egging them on, that is what happens.”. The judge asked counsel for Republic TV and Times Now, “What is your answer to what is stated and what is being shown as content? There are orders of the standards authority which is a programme code. It seems that news channels are not following that.” The court said, “If you do not follow self-regulation, then what is to be done in a matter like this? You are not following your undertaking to the court. It’s a little disheartening and demoralises everyone.” Justice Shakhder clarified that media could “surely investigate. But it has to be fair reportage”. “Please see what happened when media chased someone like Princess Diana. You can’t just go on like this.”   “If you do not follow self-regulation, then what is to be done in a matter like this? It is disheartening Delhi High Court
10 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Journalist’s wife seeks Kerala Chief Minister’s intervention||Delhi-based Keralite journalist Sidhique Kappan's wife Raihanath said on Monday that she has not been allowed to meet or speak to her husband who has been in U.P. police custody for over a month now. Talking to reporters here on Monday, Ms. Raihanath sought Kerala Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan’s urgent intervention to get her husband released. Mr. Kappan has neither been allowed to meet his family nor interact with his lawyer, she alleged. “I have a right to know where my husband is. Our children have a right to know where he is,” a distraught Ms. Raihanath said. She said she was concerned about her husband’s health condition. The Supreme Court has listed the case for hearing on November 16, she said. After the Kerala Union of Working Journalists (KUWJ) moved the Supreme Court, Mr. Kappan was allowed to speak to his aged mother, who lived with his brother, over phone on November 2, Ms. Raihanath said. “I was told that he spoke to her for about five minutes and that he said he was fine. But I have not been given an opportunity to see him or speak to him,” she said. Mr. Kappan, who works for the news portal azhimukham.com, was arrested along with three others on October 5 while he was on his way to cover the Hathras rape incident. According to his wife, Mr. Kappan had merely boarded a vehicle that was immediately available for travelling to Hathras.
10 November 2020||bengaluru,||Online drug racket: former Karnataka Minister’s son held||The son of a former Minister was among three persons arrested by the Central Crime Branch (CCB) for their alleged involvement in a drug peddling racket via the darknet. Darshan Lamani, son of former Minister Rudrappa Lamani, was taken into custody on Monday. Accused Hemanth and Suneesh were on the run after the CCB busted an online drug racket on November 5 and arrested one Sujay red-handed while he was receiving a consignment of 500 gm of hydro ganja from a foreign country. The accused Sujay, along with Hemanth, had come to claim the parcel. Customs officials along with the CCB and post office staff opened the parcel to find 500 grams of hydro ganja concealed in a coffee powder container. Taken into custody While Sujay was taken into custody, Hemanth managed to escape before he was tracked down by the CCB in a resort in Goa along with Lamani. The CCB tracked them down and arrested them along with Darshan. The former Minister’s son had provided shelter to the accused, Joint Commissioner of Police Sandeep Patil said. The CCB is trying to ascertain Darshan’s role in the racket and also how drugs were procured through the darknet. Online purchase Police suspect that Darshan purchased drugs online and supplied them to party organisers in the city and in Goa. They said that the accused had been in the business for the past three years. The accused had paid the money using bitcoins. The police are probing further into the links of the accused in others States, including Goa.
10 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Kerala’s weekend dip doesn’t lower positivity||Only 3,593 people tested positive for COVID-19 in Kerala on Monday, when 32,489 samples were tested. The case numbers were low, but test positivity rate remained almost the same as previous days, at 11.05%. The COVID toll touched 1,714, with the Health Department adding 22 deaths to the list. Thiruvananthapuram accounted for eight deaths, Alappuzha four, Ernakulam and Kollam three each, Wayanad two, while Malappuram and Kannur reported one death each. Telangana recorded 857 cases and four deaths on Sunday. Only 23,806 tests were conducted, as against around 45,000 normally. The new cases included 250 from Greater Hyderabad. Andhra Pradesh reported 1,392 infections and 11 deaths on Monday. It was the lowest single-day tally in four months, and positivity rate for 61,050 samples was 2.28%. Seven districts reported no new deaths, while Krishna district reported five. Kadapa reported two and East Godavari, Guntur, Visakhapatnam and West Godavari one each. In Bengaluru, 978 cases were reported on Monday, while for Karnataka as whole, it was 1,963 cases. Tests conducted on Sunday dipped to 84,965 and the positivity rate stood at 2.31%. Also, 19 deaths were reported on Sunday, taking the total to 11,410. After 150 days, the number of deaths reported due to COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu every day came below the 20 mark on Monday. A total of 18 deaths were reported, taking the total toll to 11,362. A total of 2,257 new cases were reported on Monday, taking the total number of COVID-19 cases in the State to 7,46,079.  (With inputs from Hyderabad, Vijayawada, Bengaluru and Chennai bureaus)
10 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Academic credit banks, degree with entry and exit option soon||The first National Agricultural Education Policy is set to bring academic credit banks and degree programmes with multiple entry and exit options to the 74 universities focussed on crop sciences, fisheries, veterinary and dairy training and research. A six-member committee of Vice-Chancellors has been asked to submit a draft policy document to the Agriculture Ministry next month, according to R.C. Agarwal, Deputy Director General for Education, at the Indian Council of Agricultural Research. More than 45,000 students are admitted into agricultural universities every year, and the new policy is set to usher in some changes to their academic life. “The process started about two months ago, after the release of the National Education Policy. In many ways, agricultural education is ahead of its time, and already aligned with the NEP. The NEP wants a shift to four-year undergraduate degrees, and all our agricultural degrees are already four-year programmes. Similarly, the NEP mentions experiential education, and we have already mandated that since 2016,” said Dr. Agarwal, who is in-charge of the committee drafting the new policy. Six-month internship The Student READY (Rural Entrepreneurship Awareness Development Yojana) programme requires all students to undertake a six-month internship, usually in their fourth year, to gain hands-on training, rural awareness, industry experience, research expertise and entrepreneurship skills, he told The Hindu . “One major challenge is how to ensure that this experiential learning is made available to all students if we implement the multiple entry-exit system. Even if a student leaves after two or three years, even with a diploma, he should not miss out on it,” said Dr. Agarwal. The Deans Committee, responsible for creating consensus on changes in the undergraduate curriculum about once in 10 years, is likely to be called to meet in three to four months to ensure that such adaptations are possible. Another major challenge for agricultural universities could be the push for multi-disciplinarity. “Our universities have been modelled on the land grant pattern, with a focus on research and extension, and deep community connections, driven by the philosophy that farmers need holistic solutions to their problems. However, in recent years, several domain specific universities in horticulture, veterinary science and fisheries sciences have come up. How to incorporate humanities and social sciences into these settings, that could be a big challenge,” said Dr. Agarwal
10 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Minister’s doctoral thesis under scanner||The doctoral thesis submitted by Higher Education Minister K.T. Jaleel to the University of Kerala in May 2005 came under scrutiny on Monday after Governor Arif Mohammed Khan took cognizance of a complaint that raised allegations of irregularities in the award of doctoral degree. Considering a petition by Save University Campaign Committee, a collective of education activists and academics, which demanded a revaluation of Dr. Jaleel’s thesis on ‘Kunhahammed Haji and Ali Musliar — Their Role in the Malabar Rebellion,’ the Governor directed the Vice Chancellor to consider the plaint and furnish a response on the issue. Raising serious allegations against the university, the petition also portrayed the thesis in bad light by flagging “the poor literary ability, lack of comprehending capacity and a meagre logical thought process” of Dr. Jaleel, who was then a senior- scale lecturer at the PSMO College, Tirurangady. Pointing out several errors that crept into the research thesis, the Save University Campaign Committee also accused the researcher of approaching the topic with bias by purportedly failing to highlight the “unfortunate fallout of the Mappila Rebellion.” “The registration with a vague and irrelevant academic objective would have got cancelled had it not been revived for other reasons by the then Vice Chancellor (sic),” it read. The committee called for revaluation of the thesis by a team of expert academics.
10 November 2020||Bengaluru,||Leaders, celebrities fined: Karnataka govt.||After being questioned about the non-imposition of fines on celebrities and political leaders for not wearing mask in public places, the State government on Monday told the High Court that the police had, on November 7, collected fines of Rs. 250 each from several of those who had violated the COVID-19 norms during rallies and election campaigning. A statement in this regard was submitted before a Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice S. Vishwajith Shetty during the hearing of a PIL petition filed by Letzkit Foundation, Bengaluru. Fines were imposed on Lok Sabha member Tejasvi Surya, Congress leaders Siddaramaiah, D.K. Shivakumar, actor Darshan and others. While Mr. Surya and several other BJP party workers had to pay fines of Rs. 250 each for violating the norms during a rally held on September 30, the Congress leaders and Mr. Darshan had to pay up for violations while campaigning for the R.R. Nagar byelection recently. The government also told the court that complaints were lodged against these leaders for violating the norms. The Bench said there were legal issues in the laws related to enforcing norms such as wearing of mask and maintaining social distancing. It pointed out that those violating these norms could technically be booked under provisions of the Karnataka Epidemic Diseases Act and the Disaster Management Act, and could be charge-sheeted. The government counsel said that registering FIRs against all those not wearing mask and failing to maintain social distancing would be impractical, given that between 6,000 and 7,000 people have been fined for not wearing mask in Bengaluru city alone. The Bench adjourned further hearing on the matter till November 12.
10 November 2020||HYDERABAD,||UoH ranked among top 10 in country||The University of Hyderabad has been ranked 363 among the 829 world’s leading higher educational institutions. The UoH is ranked 72 in terms of teaching and seventh in the country. The UoH is the only university to be ranked after the IISc, the IITs and IISER-Pune in the top seven in the country. According to a press release, UoH is ranked 292 in natural sciences, 424 in technical sciences, 251 in life sciences and 436 in medical sciences. The ranking figured in the RUR 2020 Life Sciences World University Ranking. RUR Ranking Agency in partnership with Clarivate Analytics had announced the performance of the higher education institutions studying 20 indicators grouped under Teaching, Research, International Diversity and Financial Sustainability. UoH Vice-Chancellor Appa Rao Podile said it was gratifying that the university was recognized in the top 365 institutions of the world. It was even more satisfying to see the university among the top 75 institutions in terms of teaching. “Our faculty have been producing excellent research and providing the right impetus for the younger faculty to follow,” he said.
10 November 2020||MYSURU,||Pre-wedding shoot turns tragic for couple||A pre-wedding shoot turned tragic for a couple in Mysuru who drowned in the Cauvery at Talkad, near here, on Monday when the coracle in which they were posing capsized. Chandru, 28, and Shashikala, 20, were to tie the nuptial knot on November 22. They were part of a group of relatives from Kyathmaranhalli in Mysuru visiting Talkad. The group first approached a resort near Talkad and asked for a boat ride. When the operators said the facility was only for guests of the resort, the group engaged a coracle for a ride across the river. “After the group crossed the river and alighted from the coracle, the couple went for a short ride in the coracle. They had barely gone about 10 to 15 metres away from the bank when the groom-to-be stood up, causing the coracle to capsize. They did not know how to swim and drowned while the 52-year-old paddler managed to swim to safety,” the police said.
10 November 2020||November 10 2020 00:00 IST,||NGT links firecracker sales to air quality||Pointing to submissions from several States requesting that green crackers be allowed, it said, “The request is justified where air quality is moderate and below but not where air quality is poor and above which may result in deaths and diseases which has to be avoided even if there is financial loss.” “We are also of the view that since we have taken the view that pollution aggravates COVID-19, not only crackers are to be banned or restricted depending upon air quality, all State pollution control boards and committees must take special initiative to contain air pollution by regulating all other sources of pollution,” it added. If timings were not specified by respective States, then use of firecrackers would be permitted between 8 p.m. and 10 p.m. on Diwali and Gurupurb, 6 a.m. to 8 a.m. on Chhat and 11:55 p.m. to 12:30 a.m. for Christmas and New Year eve (if the ban continues till then), it stated. The Tribunal also directed the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB) and the State pollution control boards and committees to regularly monitor the air quality during this period and upload the data on their respective websites.
10 November 2020||November 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Finance panel submits report to President||The 15th Finance Commission said it had taken the unique requirements of each State on board and come up with State-specific considerations in its report, which was submitted to President Ram Nath Kovind on Monday. Apart from its main recommendation of devolution of funds between the Centre and the States for the period 2021-22 to 2025-26, the Commission addressed all its unique terms of reference, such as considering a new non-lapsable fund for financing national security and defence spending and offering performance incentives to the States that deliver on reforms. Apart from the main report, uniquely titled Finance Commission in Covid Times, which depicts a set of scales on its cover to denote the balance between the Union and the States, the Commission presented two volumes as part of its submissions.  The first one focuses on the state of the Centre’s finances, with an in-depth scrutiny of the key departments, the medium-term challenges facing the Centre and a road map for the future. The other volume is entirely dedicated to the States, with the finances of each analysed in great depth. The panel has come up with State-specific considerations to address the key challenges that individual States face, as per a statement issued by the Commission after a meeting with the President. Commission chairman N.K. Singh was accompanied by members Ajay Narayan Jha, Anoop Singh, Ashok Lahiri and Ramesh Chand for the report’s submission to the President. The report is expected to be presented to Prime Minister Narendra Modi soon, and will be available in the public domain once it is tabled in Parliament along with an action taken report on its recommendations. “The Commission was asked to give its recommendations on many unique and wide-ranging issues in its terms of reference. Apart from the vertical and horizontal tax devolution, local government grants, disaster management grant, the Commission was also asked to examine whether a separate mechanism for funding of defence and internal security ought to be set up and if so how such a mechanism could be operationalised,” said the statement, adding that the panel ‘sought to address all its’ terms of reference. Though its original remit was to make recommendations for the period 2020-21 to 2024-2025, the Commission has submitted an interim report for 2020-21 last year, stressing that it was difficult to make projections for five years when the economy is slowing down after structural reforms like the GST and the insolvency code. The interim report had reduced the States’ share in the divisible pool of taxes from 42% to 41% for the current year, after the dissolution of Jammu and Kashmir as a State.
10 November 2020||November 10 2020 00:00 IST,||COVID-19 vaccine could be 90% effective: Pfizer||Some participants got the vaccine, while others got dummy shots. Pfizer Inc. did not provide any more details about those infections and cautioned that the initial protection rate might change by the time the study ends. Even revealing such early data is highly unusual. Authorities have stressed it’s unlikely any vaccine will arrive much before the end of the year, and initial supplies will be rationed. “We need to see the data, but this is extremely promising,” said Dr. Jesse Goodman of Georgetown University, former chief of the FDA’s vaccine division. He ticked off many questions still to be answered, including how long the vaccine’s effects last and whether it protects older people as well as younger ones. Rollout impact If Pfizer’s vaccine ultimately pans out, “it’s going to be a while before this has a major impact at the population level,” Dr. Goodman said. Marylyn Addo, head of the tropical medicine unit at UKE hospital in Hamburg, Germany, said the interim results were “an interesting first signal,” but questions remain. Global markets, already buoyed by the victory of President-elect Joe Biden, exploded on the news from Pfizer. Major markets in Europe, where infections have soared, were up 5%. In the U.S., Dow futures also rose 5%. President Trump, who had suggested during the presidential campaign that a vaccine could be ready by Election Day, tweeted on Monday- “STOCK MARKET UP BIG, VACCINE COMING SOON. REPORT 90% EFFECTIVE. SUCH GREAT NEWS!” Pfizer Chairman and CEO Albert Bourla said on CNBC that the election was always an artificial deadline and that the data was going to be ready when it was ready. The independent data monitors met on Sunday, analysing the COVID-19 test results so far and notifying Pfizer. “I am very happy,” Mr. Bourla said, “but at the same time, sometimes I have tears in my eyes when I realize that this is the end of nine months, day-and-night work of so many people and how many people, billions, invested hopes on this.” He added- “I never thought it would be 90%.” Like flu shots? Earlier this year, Dr. Anthony Fauci, the government’s top infectious-disease expert, said he would be happy with a COVID-19 vaccine that was 60% effective. Scientists have warned for months that any COVID-19 shot may be only as good as flu vaccines, which are about 50% effective and require yearly shots. Late-stage testing The coronavirus shots, made by Pfizer and its German partner BioNTech, are among 10 possible vaccine candidates in late-stage testing around the world — four of them so far in huge studies in the U.S. Volunteers in the final-stage studies, and the researchers, don’t know who received the real vaccine or a dummy shot. But a week after their second required dose, Pfizer’s study began counting the number who developed COVID-19 symptoms and were confirmed to have the coronavirus. Because the study hasn’t ended, Dr. Gruber couldn’t say how many in each group had infections. But the math suggests that almost all the infections counted so far had to have occurred in people who got the dummy shots. Pfizer doesn’t plan to stop its study until it records 164 infections among all the volunteers, a number that the FDA has agreed is enough to tell how well the vaccine is working. The agency has made clear that any vaccine must be at least 50% effective. No participant so far has become severely ill, Dr. Gruber said. Nor could he provide a breakdown of how many of the infections had occurred in older people, who are at highest risk from COVID-19. Participants were tested only if they developed symptoms, leaving unanswered whether vaccinated people could get infected but show no symptoms and spread the virus. FDA has told companies they must track half their participants for side effects for at least two months.
10 November 2020||Jammu,||Militancy went up under BJP: Mehbooba||Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) president and former Chief Minister Mehbooba Mufti on Monday said the graph of militancy witnessed a sharp rise during the BJP rule in Jammu and Kashmir and pledged to fight for the return of all “rights snatched from people of J&K”. “The government is following an iron fist policy. Whoever speaks against them is being pushed to jail. Its high-handedness is forcing the youth in Kashmir to prefer guns to going to jail forcibly. In fact, militancy witnessed a rise during the BJP rule,” Ms. Mufti said at a press conference in Jammu. Describing J&K’s special status as “an essential to all people, irrespective of their religious background”, she said, “Article 370 and other provisions of special status were meant not just for Muslims of Kashmir but for the entire Jammu and Kashmir too. They were indeed brought by the Maharaja regime to save the Dogra culture.” The BJP would have to return “everything snatched from us on August 5, 2019”, she stated. In an oblique reference to the flag controversy raked up by her remarks, Ms. Mufti said, “The late Mufti [Mohammad Sayeed] upheld the national flag in J&K at a time when he was socially boycotted. We are the people, especially in the Kashmir Valley, who upheld the tricolour high over the years at the cost of thousands of our workers who were martyred”.
10 November 2020||Srinagar,||J&K party approaches SC for early hearing of pleas||The Peoples Conference (PC), headed by Sajad Lone, on Monday submitted a plea before the Supreme Court for an early hearing of the petitions pending before it that contested the measures taken by the Union government since August 5 last year in Jammu and Kashmir, including the abrogation of provisions of Article 370. “(I appeal to) Allow the present application on behalf of the petitioner for an early hearing of the present petition and the other petitions and fix an early date for hearing,” reads party spokesman Adnan Ashraf Mir’s plea. He said the petitions “ought to be heard and disposed of urgently as significant changes to the rights of the residents of the erstwhile State of Jammu and Kashmir have already been brought about by the Centre”. “The petitioners have made out a very strong prima facie case and the issues raised are being considered by a Constitution Bench of the court.” The PC plea said, “Notwithstanding the foregoing, pending the final hearing of these petitions challenging the abrogation of the special status of the erstwhile State of Jammu and Kashmir and the abrogation of the Constitution of Jammu and Kashmir, and notwithstanding the prevailing pandemic conditions, sweeping changes are being brought about by the Centre that impact the rights of a large number of people, including dilution of the safeguards earlier available to the permanent residents”.
10 November 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab revokes general consent given to CBI||The Punjab government has withdrawn the general consent given to the Central Bureau of Investigation for investigating cases in the State. A senior government official confirmed to The Hindu on Monday that an order in this regard had been issued, following which, the CBI would have to seek prior permission from the State for conducting any investigation in Punjab. The order revoked the general consent for investigating cases by members of Delhi Special Police Establishment, said the official. The CBI derives its legal powers to investigate crime under the Delhi Special Police Establishment Act, 1946. The order adds that in any future investigation in the State, prior consent of the Government of Punjab would be required on a case-to-case basis.
10 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Indefinite blacklisting is death knell for firms: SC||Indefinite blacklisting will “spell the death knell” for commercial organisations and institutions, the Supreme Court has said in a judgment. A Bench of Justices Rohinton F. Nariman, Navin Sinha and Krishna Murari described the blacklisting of a business entity as its “civil death”. The court was hearing an appeal filed by VetIndia Pharmaceuticals Limited against an indefinite order of blacklisting issued against it by the Uttar Pradesh government on the ground of supplying substandard quality products. The first blacklisting order was in September 8, 2009. The Allahabad High Court had later refused to lift the blacklisting order, saying the company came 10 years too late to the court for relief. The Bench found that the show-cause notice issued to the company by the State did not caution the company that they would blacklist the company, thus, giving no opportunity for the latter to make a suitable response. The top court referred to its own past judgments which held that “an order of blacklisting beyond three years or maximum of five was disproportionate.” “We hold that the order of blacklisting dated 08.09.2009 stands vitiated on more than one ground and merits interference.”
10 November 2020||HYDERABAD,||24x7 police helpdesk for women set up at RGIA||Cyberabad Commissioner of Police V.C. Sajjanar on Monday inaugurated a women help desk at the Rajiv Gandhi International Airport (RGIA) to reach out to women for help in case of any emergency. The help desk will be monitored round-the-clock by woman police constables attached to the RGIA police station. The initiative has been taken considering the fact that women constitute up to 35% of passengers or about 9,500 out of the 62,000 passengers using the country’s fourth busiest airport for both arrivals and departures every day, the Cyberabad Police Commissioner said.  Help at hand Women who are being harassed by eve-teasers, facing problems like stalking or any other atrocity can also approach the ‘SHE’ teams by sending WhatsApp messages to mobile No.9490617444 or DIAL:100. Mr. Sajjanar said the ‘SHE Safe App’ launched this year had information on women safety, including availability of ‘Margadarshak’ and ‘Sanghamithra’ and verification of safety of hostels for working women in the IT industry and other works, Mr. Sajjjanar said. Shuttle buses for free transportation to women in IT corridor was also taken up, the Cyberabad Police Commissioner added. About 10 SHE teams are working in Cyberabad to cater the needs of women and children and 1,528 complaints were received so far this year from women victims through WhatsApp, email, Hawkeye and direct walk-in, among others. Senior police and airport officials were present.
10 November 2020||Mumbai,||NCB searches Arjun Rampal’s house; Nadiadwala questioned||The Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on Monday carried out a search at the residence of actor Arjun Rampal here as part of its probe into alleged drug use in Bollywood and also asked him to appear before it on November 11. Bollywood producer Firoz Nadiadwala, whose wife was arrested on Sunday for alleged drug possession, appeared before the NCB on Monday to record his statement, an official said. The NCB has so far arrested five persons in its latest crackdown on drug peddlers and their clients.
10 November 2020||SIDDIPET,||All set for Dubbak vote counting||All arrangements were put in place for the counting of votes in Dubbak assembly constituency by-election on Tuesday, polling for which was held on November 3. Three main political parties- Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS), Congress and BJP - are testing their luck. S. Sujatha from the TRS, Ch. Srinivas Reddy from the Congress and M. Raghunandan Rao from the BJP contested elections in the nerve-racking campaign which saw participation by top leaders of both national parties while it was only Finance Minister T. Harish Rao who steered TRS in election, all alone. A total of 23 candidates are in the fray. District Election Officer and Collector Bharathi Hollikeri, Commissioner of Police D. Joyal Davis visited the counting centre at Indur Engineer College and reviewed the arrangements. Returning Officer B. Chennaiah said counting will start with postal ballots at 8 a.m. Counting will be held in 23 rounds at 23 tables. Mr. Davis said that City Police Act was promulgated and any violation will be treated seriously. All political parties were directed not to exhibit party flags or symbols within 1- km. distance of the counting station.
10 November 2020||Mumbai,||Governor voices safety concerns||Maharashtra Governor Bhagat Singh Koshyari on Monday spoke to State’s Home Minister Anil Deshmukh and conveyed his concern over the security and health of news anchor and editor-in-chief of Republic Media Network Arnab Goswami. The Governor also asked the Home Minister to allow Mr. Goswami’s family to see and to speak to him. The Governor had earlier conveyed his concern over the manner Mr. Goswami’s arrest to the State Home Minister. Mr. Koshyari's actions come a day after Mr. Goswami and his channel claimed that the police beat him up and that his life was in danger. Earlier in the day, Bharatiya Janata Party leader and former chief minister Devendra Fadnavis tweeted, “While deciding on the matter today, it is our humble request to the Hon High Court to take suo moto cognizance of the way MVA State Government in Maharashtra has treated Arnab Goswami during the entire process of arrest to handling under custody, as alleged by him.” Senior Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) leader and Cabinet Minister Chhagan Bhujbal said the Maharashtra government is taking care of Mr. Goswami very well and Mr. Koshyari should not worry about it. NCP spokesperson and another State Minister Nawab Malik said that while Governor is concerned about safety of Mr. Goswami, he should also be sympathetic towards the family of Anvay Naik, who had died by suicide in 2018, and blamed Mr. Goswami for taking the extreme step in a suicide note.
10 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Focus to be on non-motorised transport: Puri||After the COVID-19 pandemic led to a reassessment of public transport systems, the focus of government interventions going forward would be on non-motorised transport, Union Housing and Urban Affairs Minister Hardeep Singh Puri said on Monday. Mr. Puri was speaking during the inaugural session of the Urban Mobility Conference held virtually this time due to the pandemic. “Public transport systems around the world have seen ridership and revenue plummet, owing to the lockdowns and have been forced to cut services…In the aftermath of the ongoing pandemic, India is likely to experience a behavioural change in urban mobility. This crisis also presents an opportunity to guide the recovery of urban transport towards long-term development goals,” Mr. Puri said.  “Considering this as an opportunity, elevating the priority of these modes gives travellers another private vehicle alternative, which is clean, safe, secured particularly if it is integrated with other modes and affordable for all. Non-motorised transport will occupy the prime, non-negotiable, position in every form of urban mobility discourse and intervention,” he said.
10 November 2020||Srinagar,||Isn’t J&K an integral part, govt. asks Bar||The J&K administration on Monday sought a clarification from the Kashmir High Court Bar Association (KHCBA) “if it considers J&K an integral part of Indian or a disputed territory”, as it was preparing to hold the Bar elections, which were deferred earlier, from November 10. According to the Association’s constitution, the objective of the body “is to find ways and means, take steps for resolving the issues concerning the public at large, including the larger issue of peaceful settlement of Kashmir dispute”. In the past, the Bar has advocated a trilateral dialogue between India, Pakistan and people of J&K. The District Magistrate, Srinagar, has sought an explanation from the Bar on its constitution, saying “its (the stand) not in consonance with the Constitution of India, whereby J&K is an integral part of the country and not a dispute”.
10 November 2020||Mumbai,||Police can question for 3 hours: court||The magistrate court at Alibag on Monday granted the Raigad police permission to question journalist Arnab Goswami at the Taloja Central Jail for three hours in the 2018 abetment of suicide case.
10 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Bengal govt. using violence against BJP workers: Surya||The BJP on Monday accused the Mamata Banerjee-led government in West Bengal of using violence against its party workers during a rally last month in the State. Bharatiya Janata Yuva Morcha chief and MP Tejaswi Surya has issued a privilege notice against the top brass of the State administration, including the police commissioners of Kolkata and Howrah. At a press conference at the national headquarters of the BJP in New Delhi, Mr. Surya cited the violence during the BJP’s “Chalo Nabanna” rally on October 8 as a manifestation of the “fascist” nature of the State government.
10 November 2020||Chandigarh,||Floods: Community volunteers in Punjab to be equipped with life-saving skills||To equip community volunteers of Punjab’s Moga district with flood rescue skills, the Mahatma Gandhi State Institute of Public Administration in collaboration with the National Disaster Management Authority on Monday started a 12-day training programme here. Under “Aapda Mitra”, a Centrally-sponsored scheme, 200 volunteers would be trained.
10 November 2020||November 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Election of DCI chief invalid: Ministry||The Union Health Ministry said in an order issued on Monday that the election of president, Dental Council of India (DCI), held on December 15 last year is illegal and invalid. “Consequently Dr. Dibyendu Mazumder ceases to be the president of the Council with immediate effect,’’ said the order. As per the DCI Regulation 1956, vice-president of the council will be given charge, it said.
10 November 2020||New Delhi,||Massive haul of narcotics in Mizoram||In a major recovery of narcotics along the Myanmar border, Assam Rifles has recovered 1.3 lakh Methamphetamine tablets worth over Rs. 6.5 crore in the international market in Champhai district of Mizoram, a defence source said. “In a major successful operation by an Assam Rifles battalion located at Serchhip, Mizoram, a large quantity of methamphetamine tablets was recovered last Wednesday,” the source said. It was a well coordinated operation and the battalion was following up a specific input of likely smuggling of drugs along the Indo-Myanmar border in Champhai district which also led to the apprehension of two individuals, the source stated. The battalions deployed under the headquarters Mizoram range have carried out several successful operations in the recent past leading to recovery of drugs and contraband worth crore of rupees, the source said. There have been significant recoveries of drugs and contraband in large volumes in recent times by Assam Rifles in the northeast along the Myanmar border, the source added. Narcotics smuggling has also significantly increased on the western border along the Line of Control with Pakistan.
10 November 2020||AHMEDABAD,||FIR against Ahmedabad journalist quashed||The Gujarat High Court has quashed a sedition case lodged against a journalist by the Ahmedabad police for writing a speculative story on change of guard in Gujarat in May last. Justice R.P. Dholaria quashed the FIR against Dhaval Patel, editor and owner of an online portal, following his unconditional apology for the article. It cautioned him against writing any speculative articles without verifying the facts.
10 November 2020||Bhopal,||On eve of mayoral poll, Rajasthan BJP moves Kota corporators to Madhya Pradesh||The Rajasthan BJP has moved 36 of its corporators who recently won in the Kota South Municipal Corporation polls to hotels at a hill station in Madhya Pradesh ahead of the mayoral election on Tuesday. The ruling Congress in Rajasthan and the BJP bagged 36 wards each in the civic body. Independents won eight. Sources said a few independent corporators may have gone with the BJP team.
10 November 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Amarinder calls railways’ decision illogical||Punjab Chief Minister Capt. Amarinder Singh on Monday termed the Railways’ decision to link the movement of goods trains in the State with passenger trains irrational. Train services had been suspended following rail blockade in protest against the new farm laws. The Railways declined to restart goods trains, saying it would either operate both freight and passenger trains or none.
10 November 2020||B. Tilak Chandar,TAMIL NADU||Not many fireworks units following safety norms: HC||In the wake of the recent fire accident at a cracker unit in Madurai district that left seven workers dead, the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Monday sought responses from the Central and the State governments on providing alternative jobs to those engaged in cracker units. A Division Bench of Justices N. Kirubakaran and B. Pugalendhi observed that many cracker manufacturing units in the State were not following safety norms and this had resulted in serious injuries and deaths of workers. The court was hearing a public interest litigation petition filed by J. Vasudevan from Tirumangalam in Madurai district. The petitioner sought a direction to the State to ensure safety and security at the cracker units. Considering the plight of the workers, the court sought a status report from the State government on year and district-wise data on number of cracker units in the State and the workers engaged there. The court sought details on the number of injuries and deaths that occurred as a result of fire accidents at the cracker units and action taken in this regard. The court asked the Centre and the State whether there were any plans to set up industries in the southern districts, particularly in the areas where there were a good number of cracker manufacturing units. The governments had to come up with a plan so that the workers had an alternative option for employment, as the industry was facing a difficult situation and its fortunes were declining, the court said. It sought a response from the Central and the State governments and adjourned the hearing till December 4.
10 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||50% super speciality course seats for in-service candidates||The Health Department has issued orders with regard to the admission process for super-speciality courses and postgraduate courses in the State. While 50% reservation for in-service candidates in super-speciality courses will be implemented from the current academic year, allocation for in-service candidates in PG courses will be implemented from the next academic year. After 50% seats in DM/M. Ch courses in government medical colleges are allocated to in-service candidates, the rest will be surrendered to the Director General of Health Services. The seats will be filled with candidates who have cleared NEET-SS. The selection committee of the Directorate of Medical Education will prepare the merit list and conduct counselling. Selected candidates will be required to submit a bond to the DME that they will serve the State till their retirement. A government order issued on Monday further said that the candidates will be posted in hospitals under the purview of the Director of Medical Education, Medical and Rural Health Services and the Public Health and Preventive Medicine. The State government has also decided that from the next academic year, 50% of the State quota seats would be allocated to in-service candidates in postgraduate programmes, such as M.D., M.S. and M.D.S. The remaining 50% will be in the open category and in-service candidates will also be allowed to compete for those seats. The seats will be filled based on marks obtained in NEET-PG and the incentive marks included for serving in remote, difficult or hilly areas. The existing norm of 50% seat allocation to the DGHS for counselling will, however, continue. In-service PG aspirants must give a bond that they will serve the State after completion of their course in a government medical college till their superannuation. Such candidates may be transferred as per the directorates’ requirement from time to time as well, the order said.  The State has also decided that from the next academic year, 50% of the State quota seats would be allocated to in-service candidates in PG courses
10 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||After 8 months, theatres will raise curtains today||After nearly eights months, the curtains will go up in most theatres and multiplexes in Tamil Nadu, on Tuesday. They will be screening films released before covid and old movies that are of interest to the audience. In pockets such as Madurai, Coimbatore, Salem and Tiruchi, most theatres have decided to open only on November 12 or 13 after clarity on films likely to be released during the festival week. A few theatre owners pointed out that it was not auspicious to resume business on a Tuesday, adding that they would start work from Wednesday. Most standalone theatres said bookings were quite low, while the bigger ones said they had managed to get 20% bookings in the 50% seats that can be alloted to the audience. Theatre owners have positively indicated that more moviegoers will come in before the show commences. To lure customers in, many theatres have also slashed prices of food and beverages. “We will be opening our theatre on Wednesday, as Tuesday is not an auspicious day. But we have opened bookings and the response has not been good. We have received only 3% bookings, but we will run the show,” said a city-based theatre owner who has been in the business for over two decades. Udeep B., managing director of Mayajaal, said, “We are opening theatres with films that were running in March — Kannum Kannum Kollaiyadithaal , starring Dulquer Salmaan, Dharala Prabhu and Oh My Kadavule . We will get clarity on Deepavali releases [new movies] in another day or two, and based on that, we will chalk out Deepavali plans.” Sathyam Cinemas will open its doors for patrons on Tuesday. All screens under PVR Cinemas will go live and bookings have already begun. According to a note issued by PVR Cinemas, the brand has reopened with a strategic focus on building customer confidence as its primary objective. For this, innovative schemes and promotions have been introduced on pricing as well as content. Popular releases Currently, PVR Cinemas is releasing Break the silence , in addition to some popular releases from the past, like Dharala Prabhu , Oh My Kadavule , Hit and Bheeshma, along with award-winning Hollywood blockbusters like My Spy , 1917 and Joker , among others. Archana Kalpathi, CEO, AGS Cinemas, said, “We are finally opening with actor Vijay’s Bigil . We have introduced a lot of technology to monitor patrons and ensure that they adhere to physical distancing norms.” She added that parking charges would be waved off. GK Cinema’s Ruban Mathivanan said they would be commencing operations by Wednesday, with Dhanush’s Pudhupettai . Meanwhile, Qube Cinema has condemned the Tamil Film Active Producers’ Association’s (TFAPA) boycott of new releases, as theatres are struggling to regain a foothold, after the lockdown. The State government’s decision to allow theatres to reopen has been met with a challenge from TFAPA, which has refused to offer new releases, unless the virtual print fees (VPF), paid to the theatres, is abolished altogether. Qube Cinema said both the Central and State governments had supported the view that the tradition of new releases for Deepavali should continue this year, which is why the boycott by TFAPA was not just unethical towards theatres and digital cinema providers, but also unfair to the audience.
10 November 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Occupancy of beds under 10% now: Minister||Following the sharp decline in COVID-19 cases, the bed occupancy in Tamil Nadu has dropped to under 10%, Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar told The Hindu on Monday. However, he warned against complacency. Excerpts from an interview:  What contributed to this decline in COVID-19 cases and fatalities? Expertise in the medical fraternity in treating COVID-19 patients has improved significantly. Besides strengthening medical infrastructure by establishing more oxygenated beds and COVID-19 care centres, we lost no time in administering antiviral drugs and plasma therapy to patients. While sustained awareness campaigns helped in early intervention, doctors became more experienced in the intricacies of the infection. They are now equipped to handle all types of cases. The recovery rate went up. We were able to treat senior citizens with multiple co-morbidities. The occupancy of COVID-19 beds is less than 10% now. But how did the cases come down after the relaxation of lockdown? We adopted a comprehensive healthcare strategy. While sustaining aggressive testing, we encouraged people to turn up in hospitals even if they had mild symptoms. Early intervention in commencing treatment protocol is the key to speedy recovery. It also breaks the chain of spread. People adhered to safety protocols, except in some rural areas. There are allegations that some private hospitals are fleecing patients or refusing to admit them… Firm action was taken against hospitals that violated the government order on treatment cost. Many private hospitals that were earlier reluctant are now seeking approval to treat COVID-19 patients. What about repeat infection of COVID-19 patients? Repeat infection is a very rare occurrence. The numbers are so low that we have not recorded such instances. Has herd immunity been achieved in some places? What have the effects of kabasura kudineer , Arsenic Album, etc., been? It may be assumed that herd immunity has been achieved when more than 60% of the localised community is infected. In the seroprevalence study, positivity rates varied from 17% to 48%. Herd immunity might have been achieved in a few localised places, but it can’t be generalised to the whole State. WHO has not indicated the development of any type of herd immunity anywhere. With regards to kabasura kudineer , Arsenic Album, etc., they are all immunity boosters…studies are on to ascertain their effects on the virus. Is there a threat of a second wave? How is the State prepared? There is evidence from other countries and places like Delhi, suggesting the possibility of a second or third wave. There has been a spike in cases after a lull. What worries us now is the crowding during the festival season, over-confidence among the people and the monsoon. There was a sharp increase in cases in some States after major festivals. There should be no relaxation in safety protocols. People should voluntarily celebrate Deepavali with some self-imposed restrictions. We are inching towards zero-fatality, which will be possible only with the people’s co-operation.  What worries us now is the crowding during the festival season, over-confidence among the people and the monsoon
10 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Automatic rain gauges to be set up in four places in the city||As a step to expand its weather observation network in the city, the Meteorological Department has identified four places to install more automatic rain gauges (ARG). The department has identified sites in Sairam Engineering College, West Tambaram; Tamil Nadu Dr. MGR Medical University, Guindy; Young Men’s Christian Association, Nandanam; and a school in Villivakkam. Officials said the project to install ARGs in the chosen sites was under process. More sites were being identified to develop a denser network for accurate predictions and flood forecasting in the city. These would facilitate monitoring of temperature levels and rainfall patterns, which vary in different areas. At present, there are 40 automatic weather stations and 73 ARGs across the State. The department recently installed high speed wind recorders in four places across the State. These weather instruments with sensors to record wind speed and pressure would help get data in cyclone-prone areas and disseminate information to specific sectors, such as fisheries. Besides Cuddalore, the instruments were set up in Kanniyakumari, Pamban and Adiramapattinam. Second weather radar S. Balachandran, Deputy Director General of Meteorology, Chennai, said civil work had almost been completed for a second weather radar at the National Institute of Ocean Technology, Pallikaranai. The instrument would help in gathering information on various aspe-cts, including rainfall intensity and also detect cyclones approaching the region. On the weather forecast for the next few days, he said the State would experience largely dry weather, except for isolated light to moderate rainfall till November 11. An increase in rainfall was likely later this week owing to the presence of a trough over the Bay of Bengal. The city may experience warm weather with the day temperature expected to be around 32 degree Celsius till Wednesday. On Monday, the weather stations in Nungambakkam and Meenambakkam registered a maximum temperature of 31.4 degree Celsius and 31.2 degree Celsius respectively, which is nearly 2 degree Celsius above normal for the day. The city has a chance of light rain in some areas on Wednesday, according to the Meteorological department.
10 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||No ban on Tasmac but BJP rally not allowed, says L. Murugan||BJP Tamil Nadu president L. Murugan and other leaders of the State unit were on Monday detained for the third time in four days for trying to take out the ‘Vetrivel Yatra’ in Chengalpattu, despite the police not giving them permission. They were earlier arrested on Friday in Tiruttani and on Sunday in north Chennai. In both north Chennai and Chengalpattu, the party had erected a stage from which Mr. Murugan delivered his speech, at the end of which he was detained. On Monday, he questioned why the State government was not allowing ‘Vetrivel Yatra’ when the COVID-19 lockdown had almost been completely lifted. “Theatres have opened, parks have opened, they are saying schools are going to be opened. More than this, Tasmac liquor shops have been opened. They are saying COVID-19, which is not spreading in these places, will spread because of our Yatra. They didn’t ban Stalin [DMK president] from going to the Raj Bhavan. They weren’t stopped. But they are stopping us. This obstacle will be demolished,” he said.  Case filed The Royapuram police booked a case against BJP functionaries for allegedly creating a ruckus and preventing police personnel from discharging their duties. On Sunday, BJP leaders including Mr. Murugan had gone to Tiruvottiyur to undertake the party’s ‘Vetrivel Yatra’ to Thiruporur. They were detained by police. The police said BJP district unit president Vijay Anand’s car almost hit the police personnel on duty. Other cadres “deliberately honked” and caused nuisance. Based on a complaint lodged by Manikandan, grade-I constable, the Royapuram police registered a first information report.
10 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||With festival season, the return of the consumer||The Hindu Group will host a webinar to on “Are consumers back with a vengeance”, as part of its online campaign, on November 10 at 11 a.m. The webinar is being held as part of Conversations, a series of webinars being organised as part of the campaign ‘Tamil Nadu Smiling’, which began on Sunday. It aims to bring together various stakeholders, including traders, retail organisations and government authorities, to find ways to emerge from the impact of the pandemic. The webinars, being hosted in various formats panning across industries, will bring together people to raise awareness among consumers and traders. The second conversation in the series will focus on how the pandemic has badly hit the Indian economy. As the lockdown was eased gradually, consumers have been returning, and the early numbers suggest that they are returning with a vengeance. The webinar will address pertinent questions such as “Will the strong revival in consumption be sustained?” and “Will this festive season set the pace for an economic recovery?” Jeyasree Ravi, founder, Palam Silks; Suhail Sattar, co-founder and director, Hasbro Clothing Private Limited, and chairman, Chennai chapter, Retailers’ Association of India; and Charath Narasimhan, managing director of Indian Terrain, will discuss the topic, along with Raja Simhan, senior assistant editor, The Hindu BusinessLine . For free registrations, scan the QR code or send “Conversations”, on WhatsApp, to 89392 83283.
10 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||After 150 days, daily COVID-19 deaths drop below 20||After 150 days, the number of daily deaths due to COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu, on Monday, dropped under 20. A total of 18 deaths were reported, taking the toll to 11,362. The last time the count went below 20 was on June 12, when a similar number of deaths were reported. Closer to 2,000 cases were getting reported, daily, in that period. The deaths increased from then, and touched a maximum of 127 on August 5. A total of 2,257 new cases were reported on Monday, taking the State’s tally to 7,46,079. Another 2,308 persons were discharged after treatment. The total number of patients discharged stood at 7,15,892 — 96% of all cases. Active cases stood at 18,825. The maximum number of new cases came from Chennai (585), followed by Coimbatore (189), Tiruvallur (125), Chengalpattu (113), Tiruppur (112), and Salem (105). Apart from these six districts that reported more than 100 cases, five others reported over 50 cases. Tenkasi, Perambalur and Ramanathapuram reported cases in single digits. Of the 18 deaths reported on Monday, ten took place in Chennai, while eight other districts reported one death each. Apart from a 55-year-old man from Tiruppur who died on Saturday, the other deceased had co-morbidities according to a bulletin released by the Health and Family Welfare Department. Of the deceased, 16 were aged over 60. Six of them were octogenarians. The oldest was an 87-year-old woman from Kanniyakumari district with systolic hypertension. She was admitted to a private hospital on Sunday afternoon with complaints of cough and fever for about ten days. She died on Monday morning. The youngest among those who were reported dead on Monday was a 30-year-old woman with diabetes. A total of 74,508 persons were tested on Monday.
10 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Varsity staff shortage shocks HC||The Madras High Court was on Monday shocked to know that Anna University, a premier institution with 13 constituent colleges and three regional campuses, is functioning with just 556 regular teaching staff. Justice N. Anand Venkatesh was taken aback to learn that the university had been recruiting faculty only on a temporary basis since 2011, and as many as 310 faculty were serving the institution on consolidated pay. While disposing of a batch of cases filed by temporary employees, the judge said information obtained under the RTI Act showed that 25,680 students were admitted in various departments of the university, its constituent colleges and regional campuses in 2018-19. AICTE regulations require engineering colleges to maintain a faculty-student ratio of 1:15 for undergraduate courses and 1:20 for postgraduate courses. Anna University ought to have had 1,284 faculty members for undergraduate courses and 120 for postgraduate courses. Though the 111th Finance Committee had sanctioned 981 posts, only 556 posts had been filled with regular staff. “It is surprising that students who come out of this university are faring well despite the non-availability of sufficient faculty,” the judge said, adding, “The fact remains that the university will have to take immediate steps to fill the vacancies through regular appointments.”
10 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||TV reporter hacked to death near Somangalam; four held||A reporter of Tamilan TV was hacked to death by a few persons near his house on the outskirts of the city. He reportedly questioned them over encroachment of government poromboke lands. The victim, G. Moses, 26, was residing in Nallur village, near Somangalam, in Kundrathur taluk. He was covering Sriperumbudur and Kundrathur areas for Tamilan TV. His father Gnanaraj Yesudasan is a reporter with Malai Tamizhagam, a daily. At 10.30 p.m. on Sunday, Moses stepped out after someone called him. His father was under the impression that he was going to meet his friends. The police said Moses was made to walk up to the lake bed, a few yards away from his house. The suspects then attacked him using knives. Moses tried to escape, and ran towards his house. But the gang attacked him, again, and fled the spot, by the time his father and neighbour came out, hearing his cries. Moses was taken to the Government Chromepet Hospital where doctors declared him brought dead. Kancheepuram district Superintendent of Police Shanmugapriya and other police officers visited the spot. The police arrested Attai alias Venkatesan, 18; Navamani, 26; Vignesh, 19, and a 17-year-old boy, who was part of the gang. Further investigation revealed that Moses had reportedly tipped off the police about Mr. Venkatesan and his friends using ganja. Police sources said a few anti-social elements had encroached poromboke lands in the lake and had attempted to sell them fraudulently. Residents reportedly demolished the structure on the layout and reported he illegal activities to the police. The encroachers held the father and son responsible for police action. The father-son duo had a long-pending dispute with Mr. Navamani over encroachment of poromboke lands. Mr. Navamani hatched a plan to settle scores with Moses and hence hired three others to attack him on Sunday night, said the sources, adding that the murder was committed due to personal reasons and was not a fallout of whistleblowing.
10 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Mixed response to young officers entering politics||Instances of young officers of the all-India civil services entering politics have drawn both appreciation and criticism. While some say the development will encourage youngsters to evince greater interest in politics, others feel the system governing political parties is so deeply entrenched that new recruits won’t be able to make a difference. K. Annamalai, a 2011-batch IPS officer, quit the service and joined the BJP in August. Sasikanth Senthil, a 2009-batch IAS officer who resigned last year, joined the Congress on Monday. Both belonged to the Karnataka cadre. AIADMK legislator and former DGP R. Nataraj, who had spent over 35 years in the IPS, views the actions of the two youngsters as fulfilling the “demand of society” that more and more “qualified, educated and enlightened” individuals should join politics. “When such persons become members of political parties, the youth get drawn to issues concerning public affairs,” he says. Anusuya Daisy Ernest, former Additional Superintendent of Police and a survivor of the 1991 bomb blast in Sriperumbudur that killed former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi and 15 others, joined the Congress a few months ago. She stresses that political parties are in need of people who have a “long, unblemished track record” in public service. But P. Sivakami, founder of Samuga Samuthuva Padai and a former IAS officer of the 1980 batch, says, “I don’t think they [new recruits] can effect much change, as the established parties have already set their activities and policies in motion.” Perhaps their experience as IAS or IPS officers would fetch them party tickets to contest the polls. Beyond this, there won’t be any big role for them, she feels. While welcoming the entry of young officers into politics, M.G. Devasahayam, a 1964-batch IAS officer of the Haryana cadre who chose voluntary retirement, cautions that they will face challenges while dealing with the rank and file of the party. Given the structure of the parties, they may become like a “cog in the wheel”. Yet, they have a chance of climbing the ladder as age is on their side, he adds.
10 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Fishermen want better lighting at Kasimedu||Fishermen have been complaining that the entry/exit point to the Kasimedu Fishing Harbour from the sea has remained unlit for nearly a month. Two signal lights placed atop rooms at the end of the breakwaters have not been functioning, making it difficult for fishermen to enter or leave the harbour, especially at night. “Most boats leave late at night and return before noon. At night, when there is not enough light, the risk of collisions which could result in damage to the boats and even a loss of lives is high,” said M.D. Dayalan of the Indian Fishermen Association, who has submitted petitions to the Fisheries Department to fix the lights. Nanjil Ravi of the Akhila Indiya Meenavar Sangam said boats that returned after long trips sometimes mistake the entry of the Chennai Port and go there. “If these boats cross paths with the ships they could be damaged badly. Luckily, no mishaps have happened so far. At times, if boats miss this entry point and if the winds are heavy, the current could just strand them at sea,” he said. Krishnaraj, a boat owner, said apart from this entry/exit point, the harbour was ill-lit or even pitch dark on many stretches. “The usual point of entry from the Ennore Expressway at the N4 side has been boarded up, which has led us to enter via Nagoorar Thottam. That route is very dark. There have been instances of people being robbed at knife point,” he said, adding that the Fisheries Department must take steps to improve lighting in and around the harbour.
10 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||MLA appears before CCB||DMK MLA and former Transport Minister V. Senthil Balaji on Monday appeared before Central Crime Branch (CCB) officers for an inquiry into a criminal case booked against him for allegedly cheating job aspirants. During his tenure as Transport Minister from 2011 to 2015, Mr. Balaji and his associates had allegedly taken money from people, promising to get them government jobs, but failed to do so.
10 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||No point in praising caste, religion: Stalin||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Monday said what was important was not praising a caste or religion but rendering help and securing rights to those belonging to those groups. Addressing the Madurai district unit of the party, he said the DMK was formed to uplift Tamil society, comprising all castes and religion. “But the AIADMK government has not done anything for the people. Neither did it use the BJP government at the Centre to do anything for the welfare of the people,” he said. It was nothing but a government of a 30-member group. “I do not expect Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswam to fight for the State’s autonomy, fight against the imposition of Hindi and the New Education Policy. I would like to know whether he can ensure the setting up of the AIIMS in Madurai.” The DMK chief alleged that even two years after the foundation stone was laid for the AIIMS in Madurai, there had been no progress. “There is no trace of the foundation stone. Now they have published a notification in the gazette since the Assembly elections are approaching,” he said. Mr. Stalin said though there were no details on the funds allocated for the AIIMS in Madurai, the Centre had appointed an administrative committee without any representation from Madurai. According to him, the AIADMK government was daydreaming that it could capture power using money.
10 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Korean Consulate to host seminar tomorrow||The Consulate General of the Republic of Korea will host a seminar on “Current Economic Issues in South India” on November 11, which shall cover a comprehensive range of frequently enquired topics by Korean businessmen, including Corporate Social Responsibility and Customs (Administration of Rules of Origin under Trade Agreements) Rules 2020 (CAROTAR 2020). The seminar will be held at The Leela Palace, Chennai, and in Korean language. It will highlight the CEPA Support Centre in Chennai and its impact on Korean investments in south India. Over 20 major Korean companies, including Hyundai Motors India Ltd, Samsung India Electronics Pvt Ltd, POSCO, Lotte, Doosan Bobcat, GS Global, KEB Hana Bank, Shinhan Bank, and Woori Bank will participate, according to a statement. The Consulate’s research on government investment incentive policies of Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh incorporated in a booklet would be distributed to at least 400 Korean companies and the regional governments, it added. Economic recovery Hong-yup Lee, Deputy Consul General, said most Korean companies, such as Hyundai Motors, Kia and Samsung, had recovered from the pandemic challenges, making unprecedented historical revenue and profits. Such success of Korean companies would bring more investments from Korea to south India to boost the local economy, he added.  Most Korean companies had recovered , making historical profits Hong-yup Lee  Deputy Consul General, Republic of Korea
10 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Retired judge to head trust||The Tamil Nadu government has named retired High Court judge A. Kulasekaran as the chairperson of the P.T. Lee Chengalvaraya Naicker Trust. The government has also named eight other members for the trust, in line with an order of the Madras High Court.  Members The other members of the trust are: L. Arul, V. Sugendran, C. Veni, K. Ramalingam, G. Sundaramurthi, N. Veerappan, D. Gubendrangunabalan and M. Rajendran. The chairperson and members of the trust would be its trustees for a period of three years.
10 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Lawyer withdraws case against Thirumavalavan||A lawyer on Monday withdrew a public interest litigation petition filed by him in the Madras High Court seeking initiation of disqualification proceedings against Chidambaram Member of Parliament Thol. Thirumavalavan for having “misinterpreted” ancient scriptureManusmritiin a webinar and claiming that it denigrated women. Petitioner’s counsel chose to withdraw the case after a Division Bench of Justices M. Sathyanarayanan and R. Hemalatha pointed out that the petitioner, S. Kasiramalingam, had not cited any constitutional or statutory provisions for seeking a direction to disqualify the MP and initiate other actions against him for alleged violation of code of conduct. Permission denied Though petitioner’s counsel R.C. Paul Kanagaraj sought two days to come back with relevant provisions of law, the senior judge on the Bench refused to grant such permission. Stating that an experienced lawyer had filed the present case, the judges said the least they expected from such a litigant was to undertake basic research before filing a case. To file a fresh case Immediately, Mr. Kanagaraj urged the court to permit him to withdraw the PIL petition with liberty to file a fresh case citing all relevant provisions of law and the judges accepted his request. Earlier, counsel contended the MP’s speech onManusmriti, a scripture penned 2,200 years ago, had created widespread unrest and defamed all Hindus in general. Stating that the country now follows only the Constitution and notManusmriti, counsel said if the MP was allowed to go scot free despite having made such a derogatory speech, it would send a wrong signal to society. He also said that Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi, the party led by Mr. Thirumavalavan, had organised agitations across the State to banManusmriti. ‘Settling scores’ On this, Justice Sathyanarayanan said the law and order machinery would take care of protests conducted without permission. Stating that the court was not interested in entertaining such litigations, the judge said it was unfortunate that the courts were being used by political parties to settle scores.
10 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Save boats of Tamil fishermen, Duraimurugan urges Modi||DMK general secretary Duraimurugan on Monday urged Prime Minister Narendra Modi to take steps to prevent the reported move to destroy 121 boats seized from Indian fishermen by Sri Lankan Navy. Expressing shock over what he termed an order of Sri Lankan courts for destroying the boats, Mr. Duraimurugan said it would deprive the fishermen of their livelihood.  In Colombo, responding to Sri Lanka police’s note seeking the Attorney General’s opinion on possibly destroying the seized trawlers, the latter recently said Sri Lankan laws did not permit that. The vessels could only be disinfected, in the wake of COVID-19, the prosecutor said, according to an official statement. Many trawlers had already corroded. (With inputs from Meera Srinivasan in Colombo)
10 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Think through problems: NAAC chief tells graduates||Graduands should know their responsibility and step into the world with confidence and faith. As trained graduates, they should value ethics and think through problems critically, said Virander Singh Chauhan, executive chairman of the National Assessment and Accreditation Council. Mr. Chauhan, who delivered the 10th convocation address at Vels Institute of Science, Technology and Advanced Studies (VISTAS) on Monday, said access to higher education brought with it a moral responsibility to improve society. “Nobody is forced to produce a fraud, plagiarised paper. Education is training the mind to ask questions; a tool to think through problems. Systems can nudge people but not force them to do their job,” he said. COVID-19 would go away but it was time to be humble and live with nature in harmony. Since the 1960s, the world had been subjected to bouts of epidemics regularly, he said. The HIV scare shook the world for several decades. “Then you had H1N1, H5N7, SARS1, Ebola, Zika, MERS, all from animal sources jumping to humans. This ties up with environmental degradation, eating of animal space; human greed and accentuation of power,” Mr. Chauhan said. India was indispensable for vaccine production. The country was involved in every discussion in the world bodies or international funding agencies involving vaccines, he said. India was the largest producer of vaccines in the world. It was a major supplier to African countries, he pointed out. Ishari K. Ganesh, Chancellor of VISTAS, presided over the convocation in which nearly 2,800 students were awarded degrees virtually. Senior university officials and former vice- chairman of University Grants Commission H. Devraj participated.  Nobody is forced to produce a fraud, plagiarised paper. Education is training the mind to ask questions. Virander Singh Chauhan NAAC executive chairman
10 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Ex-IAS officer joins Congress||The BJP has started its model of hate politics in Tamil Nadu and it should not be given even an inch of space in the State, said former IAS officer Sasikanth Senthil, who joined the Congress on Monday. “The BJP’s ideology and politics is one of hate,” he said. “Now they have taken their model of hate politics across India and have started one of similar kind in Tamil Nadu as well,” Mr. Senthil said. AICC in-charge for Tamil Nadu, Dinesh Gundu Rao, said the Constitution of India guarantees equality, fraternity and brotherhood. “Today, that is being destroyed,” he said. TNCC president K.S. Alagiri said the party must make use of Mr. Senthil’s services.
10 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Kidnapped infant traced at Ambattur||A three-month-old baby girl, who was stolen from her parents at the Koyambedu fruit market on Monday morning, was traced at night. The police said the parents of the child from Nondiyampakkam village, Villupuram district, were working as labourers at the market. They used to sleep in front of the shop at night. On Sunday, the couple went to sleep at 11 p.m. in their usual place. At 3.30 a.m. on Monday, they found their daughter Sanjana missing. Ramesh, the child’s father, lodged a complaint with the Koyambedu police. Police personnel, led by Koyambedu inspector Chidambara Murugesan, launched an investigation. On the scrutiny of CCTV camera footage, the police saw three men taking the child away. Meanwhile, the Ambattur patrol police, based on information that a child was found abandoned on the road, rushed to the spot. It was confirmed that the child was Sanjana. She was rescued around 10 p.m. Police suspect that the kidnappers must have abandoned the child after knowing that the police were closing in on them.
10 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Govt. issues guidelines for museums||If you are planning to visit government museums in Chennai, especially in large groups, you have to book online, according to the COVID-19 Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) issued by the State government on Monday. The museum must send SMS to the visitors about the permitted time of visit. For individual visitors without online booking, to avoid human interface, QR scanning and mobile-based ticketing must be arranged, Chief Secretary K. Shanmugam said in the order. Persons aged above 65, persons with co-morbidities, pregnant women and children below the age of 10 have been advised to stay at home. Only persons with masks will be let in. Not more than 20 persons would be allowed in an area of 100 sq. m or 1,075 sq. ft. The government museum in Chennai has been advised to form a COVID-19 Safety Committee.
10 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||IIT-M develops new sensor for industrial ovens||Researchers at the Indian Institute of Technology Madras (IIT-M) have developed a sensor technology to increase the efficiency of industrial ovens in fertiliser, petrochemical, chemical and manufacturing sectors. The multipoint temperature measurement sensor, TMapS, could do away with the expensive forced shutdown and early retirement of components. At present, it is difficult to control high-temperature processes, which are critical to oil and gas, chemical, power generation and manufacturing industries.  Accurate data The ultrasonic waves-based temperature measurement sensors that the researchers have developed can measure accurately temperatures in the range of -100o C to 1,400o C. The researchers have patented their technology in India and the U.S.
10 November 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||NEET online classes begin||The School Education Department on Monday started free online coaching classes for National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) 2021 aspirants, from government and aided schools in the State. Around 14,000 students have registered for the online classes. Dept.’s announcement Earlier, in October, the Department had said that it would be starting the online coaching sessions. Amphisoft Technologies will be conducting the sessions through the e-box platform. Similar sessions were held online for students who took up NEET in September, during the COVID-19 lockdown.
10 November 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Forest Department cites multiple reasons behind elephant deaths||Elephants in Coimbatore Forest Division died of multiple reasons such as gastrointestinal problems, fight among elephants, accidental fall from slopes and ageing, the Forest Department said in reply to a petition sent by a Coimbatore-based nature enthusiast to the Chief Minister’s Special Cell. The reply from District Forest Officer D. Venkatesh also mentions that female elephants died of abuse by male elephants during pregnancy. However, the Department has not included shooting, as in the case of an elephant killed near Mettupalayam this year, and mouth injuries suffered by some elephants, purportedly due to the explosion of country made bombs, among the causes of deaths, alleged petitioner Umesh Marudhachalam. “The causes listed by the Department do not mention human interventions that lead to conflict and deaths. The Department should also take efforts to find root causes of diseases due to which elephants die. Samples of water from places including Sirumugai, where several elephants died this year, should be tested in appropriate laboratories,” he said. So far, 20 elephants died of various reasons in the forest division this year. The DFO’s reply said there was no officially or legally declared elephant corridor in Coimbatore Forest Division, but two corridors namely Anaikatti north-Anaikatti south corridor and Jaccanaire Slope - Hulikal Durgam were identified in the book Right of Passage released by the Government of India. The Department said there was no regulation or restriction on cattle grazing inside reserve forests in Coimbatore Forest Division as it was not a protected area with core and buffer zones. Apart from the forest squad, the vigilance wing monitored wildlife offences in the division, said the Department. Apex committee Mr. Marudhachalam wanted the Department to form an apex committee with the participation of local people for the conservation activities.
10 November 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Mixed reaction from parents on reopening of schools in Coimbatore||The consultation meetings held in schools across Coimbatore district on Monday regarding reopening of schools on November 16 amid the COVID-19 pandemic elicited mixed response from parents, those familiar to the proceedings said. Meetings were held in around 540 high and higher secondary schools comprising government, aided and private schools in the district. According to an official in the Department of School Education, more than half of the parents in many government and aided schools were not in favour of reopening of schools. Many expressed apprehensions regarding possible spike in COVID-19 cases after Deepavali. “The parents said the children may not adhere to the physical distancing norms in the school as they will meet their friends after so many months,” the official said. However, the rest of the parents were in favour of reopening of government and aided schools. Parents of students studying in Classes X and XII were particularly concerned about the lack of physical classes ahead of public examinations, according to the official. A headmistress of a government school here said the parents were concerned whether travelling in buses every day to the school would be safe for the children. R. Visalakshi, president of Tamil Nadu Private Schools Association and correspondent of a private school in Periyanaickenpalayam, said “around 60 % to 65 %” of the parents were not in favour of reopening, according to the meeting in her school. She suggested that the State government consider a phased reopening of schools, with initially allowing only the students of Class X and Class XII to visit the schools on a voluntary basis. Coimbatore Chief Education Officer P. Usha said there were no issues reported during the consultation meetings from any schools on Monday. The responses of the parents from all the schools would be consolidated and sent to the Department of School Education. The Coimbatore Corporation, as per the State government instruction, also conducted meetings with parents of students of its high and higher secondary schools. Corporation Education Officer A. Valliammal, told The Hindu that heads of 12 high and 16 higher secondary schools conducted the meeting on their campus. The meeting went on from 9.30 a.m. to 1 p.m. After the meeting, the school heads sent their reports directly to the Chief Education Officer. Around 7,300 students are studying in the 28 schools.  Tiruppur In Tiruppur district, the consultation meetings were held in 401 schools. Many government schools in Tiruppur saw 50 % of the parents being in favour of reopening and the other half being against it.  Udhagamandalam According to officials in the School Education Department in the Nilgiris, there were a total of 217 high schools, higher secondary schools, CBSE, matriculation and government-aided schools and many parents said that they were apprehensive about schools reopening. S. Ranjini, parent of a Class 10 student studying at a government school near Udhagamandalam, said she did not want the schools to open so close to the Deepavali holidays, as many children may have travelled outside the district or could have had visitors to their home.  (With inputs Karthik Madhavan in Coimbatore and Rohan Premkumar in Udhagamandalam)
10 November 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Corporation to dump debris in abandoned quarries||Coimbatore Corporation, it appears, has reversed its decision to set up a debris management plant. The Corporation is looking for abandoned quarries to dump the debris, Commissioner P. Kumaravel Pandian said. The civic body had discussed with the district administration in this regard and had sought the latter’s help in identifying such quarries in the district. And, as the district administration had identified a few quarries, the Corporation was looking at those to choose the number of quarries it wanted. Within a week or 10 days, the civic body should be able to decide on the number quarries it wanted, he added. Sources familiar with the development said the move marked the end of the Coimbatore Corporation’s efforts to set up a debris management plant. It had since 2012-13 trying to set up such a plant to handle at least 100 tonnes debris a day. The Corporation had identified land in Ukkadam for establishing the plant, engaged people in construction industry and had also floated tender. The company that won the bid could not import in time the machines required and thereafter it got wriggled in financial problems, which delayed the Corporation’s plans. The Corporation had earmarked Rs. 12 crore for the project. The sources said if the Corporation were to revive the project, it would have to float a fresh tender.
10 November 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Two arrested for phone theft||The Rathinapuri police on Monday arrested two men on charges of stealing mobile phones from houses. Vanniyaraj and his acquaintance Karthi allegedly broke into houses and stole four phones, the police said. The phones were recovered and the accused were remanded in judicial custody.  20 persons held The Bazaar Street police on Monday picked up 20 persons on charges of standing outside shops and inviting customers for Deepavali shopping. The police said these men were calling the customers to shop at the various commercial establishments on Big Bazaar Street, Oppanakara Street and Vysial Street and causing inconvenience to the public. The 20 persons were booked under sections of Tamil Nadu City Police Act and were released in the evening. These streets would be monitored till Deepavali, the police said.  Autorickshaw gutted An autorickshaw parked outside the office of a Dalit organisation in Avinashi was found gutted on Monday. The police said the auto was parked outside Dalit Viduthalai Katchi office on Sunday night. The fire had damaged a portion of the building, but no one was injured, according to the police. Avinashi police registered a case and are ascertaining the cause of the fire.
10 November 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Expo by women entrepreneurs begins||The Indian Women Network of Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), Coimbatore, inaugurated here on Saturday the second edition of DIYA – Women Entrepreneurs Expo 2020. The 90-day virtual exhibition has the participation of 100 women exhibitors and women-led or women-related organisations. They have displayed products and services of their members. About 7,500 business and trade visitors are expected to visit the online event. Support Vanathi Srinivasan, National president of Bharatiya Janata Party’s Mahila Morcha, said at the inaugural that the Central government is supporting women through several development programmes. Digitalisation has reached rural women too. She urged women to come forward and venture into businesses. They need to focus on branding and marketing. Self Help Groups play a key role in development of women and the nation, she said.  Significance J. Ganesh Kumar, chairman of CII Coimbatore highlighted the significance of the virtual expo. Diya Expo 2020 is chaired by S. Malarvizhi, Chairperson and Managing Trustee of Sri Krishna Institutions, Coimbatore.
10 November 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore Corporation to identify shopkeepers eligible for rent waiver||Even as the Coimbatore Corporation is trying to increase the collection of property tax, water and other dues, it is engaged in waiving rent to shopkeepers who had hired its shops. According to sources, the Corporation, as per Government Order 298 of September 2, had decided to waive off rent for April and May 2020 for those shopkeepers who had hired its premises and did business during the period. After placing the Order before the Council, the Corporation had asked assistant commissioners in the five zones to constitute teams to identify such shopkeepers and the assistant commissioners had, in turn, constituted zonal teams comprising assistant revenue officers to complete the work. After the zonal teams completed the work, they would send the list to the Council, which would then approve of the shopkeepers. The waiver was available only for those who had kept their premises open for business in the said period and the assistant revenue officers would ensure that only genuine claimants got the waiver by checking the power consumption. The exercise was on and soon the Council would have the list from the five zones, the sources said and added that there were 3,050 shops that the Corporation had rented out in the city and earned Rs. 17 crore. Likewise, the Corporation had leased out 18 assets for Rs. 6 crore. On the property tax front, the sources said the Corporation had, as of October 31, collected Rs. 74 crore or 43% of the total demand. Last year, as of October 31, it had collected Rs. 59 crore. But the then demand was around Rs. 300 crore because of the revision in property tax. Consequent upon the government reversing the revision, the Corporation had scaled down its property tax demand to Rs. 187 crore.
10 November 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||AUT unit formed||Anna University, Regional Campus - Coimbatore, unit of Association of University Teachers was established here a few days ago. A release said senior office-bearers of the Association of University Teachers participated in the unit’s first general body meeting. The meeting also saw the unit office-bearers take charge – Prof. Venkatesh assumed office as chairman, Prof. Vijayabhasker secretary, Prof. Newlin Rajkumar joint secretary, and Baskaran treasurer, the release added.
10 November 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Power shutdown||There will be no power supply on November 10 from 9 a.m. to 1 p.m. in the following areas under Perianaiken palayam sub-station: Bhuvaneshwari Nagar, Annamalai Nagar, Balaji Garden, Gas Company, Maharaj Nagar, Pudhu palayam, Vettrivel Nagar, Rajendra Nagar, MK Nagar, RR Nagar, Sengalipalayam.
10 November 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Temporary bus terminus||The Coimbatore Division of Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation (TNSTC) has set up a temporary bus terminus at CODISSIA Trade Fair Complex for special buses on Deepavali. TNSTC said in a release on Monday that 200 buses would be operated from the temporary terminus to Salem and Tiruchi from November 12 to 14. Arrangements such as drinking water and toilets had been made at the terminus, the release said.   The Apparel Export Promotion Council has launched a virtual platform for garment exporters to display the products all through the year. International brands and buyers can visit the portal and place orders. A release said exhibitors would have real-time options to change the products on display and the platforms were for free flow of communication between the sellers and buyers. There would be country-specific monthly or fortnightly events on a sub-platform or sub-group. The AEPC would write to Indian embassies to contact the local chambers of commerce and industry and create awareness about the portal.    The Federation of Coimbatore Industrial Associations has welcomed the reduction in Stamp Duty for registration of title deeds by MSMEs. Representatives of the Federation met Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami during his visit to Coimbatore recently and thanked him for the decision, a release said.     The South India Hosiery Manufacturers Association has appealed to the Chief Minister to expedite works so that the ESI Hospital coming up in Tiruppur can be opened soon. The Association also sought uniform industry tariff for electricity consumed by garment and allied industries in Tiruppur.
10 November 2020||CUDDALORE,TAMIL NADU||Undertrial’s death: case sought against police||The Federation for People’s Rights has demanded that a murder case be registered against Neyveli township police in connection with thedeath of an undertrial, Selvamurugan, on November 4. In a statement, federation secretary G. Sugumaran said when the victim’s wife Prema met him at the police station and the sub-jail, his condition was bad. The government should provide a compensation of Rs. 1 crore to the kin of the victim, Mr. Sugumaran said.
10 November 2020||Dharmapuri,TAMIL NADU||CM orders release of water from Echambadi dam||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Monday ordered release of water through left and right canals of Echambadi dam for irrigation. In a release, Mr. Palaniswami said that he has ordered release of water from November 13 considering request of farmers. According to a release, 6,250 acres in Dharmapuri and Krishnagiri districts would benefit through this. He requested farmers to practise water management and achieve high yield.
10 November 2020||DINDIGUL,TAMIL NADU||Athur MLA wants solar fencing in tribal villages||Making a strong appeal to the State government to install solar fencing for the fields in hillocks as it would prevent animals from trespassing and also save human lives, Athur Assembly Constituency MLA and senior DMK leader I. Periasami said that it was the duty of the government to protect welfare of the tribal people. In a memorandum to the Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami, he said that in the last one year alone, eight lives were claimed by the elephant menace in the region. The hill stations, including Adalur, Panrimalai, Solaikadu, Perumbarai, Palani western ghats, Pannaikadu, K C Patti, Kuppamalpatti, Kamanur, Batlagundu and Poomalai - Adivasis hamlet, were easy targets for the wild animals. In the upper hills, the farmers grew plantain, lemon, pepper, coffee, orange, jackfruit, chow-chow among others. In the plains, coconut, maize and paddy varieties were also raised. The rising number of conflicts showed that more wild animals, particularly, Indian Gaur and elephants, were giving nightmarish experience to the farmers. During day time, they were busy setting right the drinking water lines and in the night time, they had to chase the wild animals. Most of them, who, Mr. Periasami said, had submitted petitions to him, claiming that eight people had died in the last 12 months after the elephants stamped them to death. The only solution seemed to be installation of solar fencing and the government should not wait for more people to be attacked by the animals, the DMK MLA said in the memorandum, which was released to the media on Monday.
10 November 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Parents from villages, hill areas want schools reopened||A consultation with parents of students and representatives of parent- teachers’ association regarding reopening of schools for Classes 9 to 12 was held in 416 schools across the district here on Monday. Arrangements were made in government, government-aided, private schools, Government Tribal Residential Schools for the conduct of the meeting. The parents were instructed to wear masks and sanitise before entering the premises. In most of the schools, parents were present at 10 a.m. and the school head explained the safety measures that will be in place when classes resumed. Parents’ concern over the safety of their wards was also answered during the meetings and parents were given a slip and asked to give their opinion over reopening of schools. Sources in the education department said that parents in most of the schools located in villages and hill areas wanted the schools to be reopened as they cannot leave their wards at home and go for work. They stressed that their livelihood is affected and they were forced to take their wards with them to work. Likewise, parents in hilly areas of Bargur and Kadambur, wanted schools to be opened as there are no active cases in the hilly areas. Chief Educational Officer R. Balamurali told The Hindu that over 55% of parents have expressed their opinion either in-person or through letters. He said that only after consolidation of the opinions from all the schools, the exact numbers could be known.  Salem Staff Reporter adds :   In Salem, Chief Education Officer T.Ganesh Moorthy said that the meetings were held in 600 schools, including 292 government schools and the responses were collected from parents of 1,74,918 students studying between class 9 and 12. He said that the responses were collected in person and over the phone. In Namakkal, the meetings were held at around 360 schools. Chief Education Officer P.Ayyanan said that a resolution was passed in all government schools thanking the State government for providing 7.5% quota in medical studies for government school students. According to officials, among the parents, about 60% opposed reopening schools while about 65% parents opined in favour of reopening schools for class 10 and 12 students here. In Dharmapuri, District Collector S.P. Karthika took part in the session held at Avvaiyar Government Girls Higher Secondary School and heard opinions of parents along with Chief Education Officer Geetha. Ms.Karthika said that their opinions would be taken to notice of the government and appealed to parents to extend cooperation for whatever decision the government takes regarding reopening the schools. In Krishnagiri, the meeting was held at 460 schools.
10 November 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Development works at Kodiveri anicut to boost tourism||Development works at Kodiveri anicut being carried out at Rs. 2.69 crore is expected to boost tourism as the public expect the works to be completed soon. The anicut, located 15 km. away from Gobichettipalayam, was constructed across River Bhavani and is one of the popular tourist destinations in the district. Arakankottai and Thadapalli canals take off from the anicut that helps to irrigate 24,504 acre. The anicut has water throughout the year as on an average 10,000 people visit during holidays. On July 29, 2020, School Education Minister K.A. Sengottaiyan laid the foundation stone for various development works at the anicut that focus on improving the amenities for the tourist and also ensuring their safety. Works include concrete flooring at the bathing area and providing safety railings, laying approach roads to the anicut, providing protected drinking water facility, additional toilets and dress changing rooms, all at a total cost of Rs. 2,69,98,000. Also, bushes in the parks and in the water flow area will be removed. Officials said that concrete flooring and providing safety railing works were completed while other works will be completed in a few weeks. They also added that three rooms to accommodate tourists are planned at Rs. 1.50 crore and the Public Works Department had submitted a proposal for the same. Due to COVID-19, the anicut was closed for visitors in March and the public were demanding for reopening. However, completion of works is expected to take a few more weeks after which a decision on reopening it for tourists will be taken.
10 November 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Conservancy workers want revised wages distributed||Members of the Erode District Local Body Workers’ Association, affiliated to AITUC, have urged the Corporation to provide the minimum wages to daily wagers as fixed by the district administration. In a petition to the senior officials here, members said that a committee led by District Collector C. Kathiravan every year fixes minimum wages for daily wagers and part-time workers working in government offices and local bodies in the district. Mr. Kathiravan had for the year 2020-21, fixed minimum wages for workers for the period from April 1, 2020 to March 31, 2021 which was published in the District Gazette also. As per the order, minimum wage fixed for a worker for a day was Rs. 676 for temporary conservancy worker, Rs. 714 for driver, Rs. 753 for data entry operator, Rs. 791 for computer operator and Rs. 676 for watchman, office assistant and gardener. Workers were expecting the increased wage from October. However, conservancy workers continue to receive the old wage of Rs. 490 a day. Hence, the corporation should ensure that new wage is given to the workers and the arrears from April to October are given before Deepavali.
10 November 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Two-way traffic resumes on Mettur Road||With a two-way traffic system reintroduced on Mettur Road, the district police have said that four-wheeler parking is not allowed on the road and warned that violating vehicles will be impounded. The stretch from GH Roundabout to Swastik Corner is one of the busiest roads in the city as a large number of commercial establishments, hospitals, bus stand and shops were present. Since these establishments failed to allot space for parking on their premises, two-wheelers and four-wheelers were haphazardly parked on the road leading to frequent congestion. The police had during the COVID-19 lockdown in May introduced one-way traffic as vehicles from GH Roundabout to Swastik Corner are allowed while vehicles from Swastik Corner to GH Roundabout are diverted through Nachiappa Road. While one-way stretch of Mettur Road is not used, the entire stretch of Nachiappa Street witnessed heavy vehicle movement. Traders complained that their business was affected and demanded reintroduction of two-way traffic on Mettur Road. Collector C. Kathiravan, Superintendent of Police P. Thangadurai and Corporation Commissioner M. Elangovan inspected the stretch on October 12. However, no decision was taken as traders pressed for their demand during Deepavali. At 5 p.m. on November 7, barricades were removed and two-wheelers were allowed to use the stretch from Swastik Corner to GH Roundabout while four-wheelers were not allowed. Town DSP Raju said that instructions were issued to commercial establishments not to allow four-wheeler parking outside their shops. Also, lines were drawn outside the shops for two-wheeler parking. “Four-wheelers will be impounded and two-wheelers if parked outside the allotted parking space will be impounded”, he added.
10 November 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Farmers want petroleum pipelines to be laid along road||Farmers affected by Irugur (Coimbatore) – Devangonthi (Karnataka) Petroleum and Petroleum Product Pipeline (IDPL) project wanted pipelines for the project to be laid along road and urged political parties to announce it as a policy decision in their election manifesto for the 2021 Assembly polls. A resolution was passed during the conference, organised by the Federation of Farmers’ Affected by the IDPL project, at Modakurichi here on Monday, in which MPs, MLAs, farmers from Tiruppur, Erode, Namakkal, Salem, Dharmapuri and Krishnagiri, took part. The resolution said that Bharat Petroleum Corporation Limited (BPCL) has proposed to lay the pipelines with a capacity to carry 3.50 million tonne per annum petroleum products from Irugur to Devangonthi for which pipelines will be laid for 249 km in six districts. Farmers said that development works cannot be carried out if the pipelines are laid through farm lands. Vehicles with over five tonnes cannot pass through the land and the project will affect the livelihood of the farmers. The Petroleum and Minerals Pipeline (Acquisition of Right of User in Land), Act, 1962 says that the land owner is responsible for any damage caused to the pipeline which makes them as guards for the pipelines. The then Chief Minister Jayalalitha had in 2013 ordered that GAIL pipelines should be laid along the road only and not through farm lands. Hence, the conference wanted the same idea to be followed for the IDPL project too, a resolution said. Another resolution said that without hearing the affected farmers’ grievance in Nallampalli and Palacode taluks in Dharmapuri districts, their land was acquired and published in the Central government gazette.
10 November 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Time slots for bursting crackers will not be extended: Minister||During Deepavali, people in the State will be allowed to burst crackers only between 6 a.m. and 7 a.m. and between 7 p.m. and 8 p.m. These time slots will not be extended, Minister for Environment K.C. Karuppannan said at Bhavani on Monday. The Minister told media persons that the Supreme Court had set the duration for bursting crackers and the State government fixed two slots - for morning and evening. “People should adhere to this and burst crackers that were permitted by the government,” he said. The Minister also said that a textile processing unit in Erode that dumped untreated industrial effluents in public places was sealed permanently. Warned of action He warned that action would be taken against violators across the State. “Besides, a case will also be registered against the violators,” he said. Asked about Karnataka dumping effluents in River Thenpennai, he said Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami was holding discussions with the Karnataka government for a permanent solution.
10 November 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||power shutdown||Due to pipeline laying works by the Tamil Nadu Water Supply and Drainage Board in the Erode substation – South Railway line, power supply will be disrupted from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. on November 10 at Marapalam, Municipal Chatiram, Agraharam Street, Periyar Street, Valayakarar Street, Cutchery Street, Mandapam Street, VVCR Nagar, Balu Subbarayalu Street, Annamalai Street, Kallukadaimedu and Jeevanandam Street.
10 November 2020||Karur,TAMIL NADU||Karur bags award for reviving Ponnaiyaru||The department of Rural Development has been given an award from the Ministry of Jal Shakti for their work in reviving the Ponnaiyaru, a river flowing through the district. The district secured the second position in the National Water Awards 2020 in the revival of river category in the South Zone. The rainfed river was rejuvenated over a period of 1.5 years, with the help of workers of the National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme. “We chose to revive the river as part of the natural resource management in the district”, said S. Kavitha, Additional Director, District Rural Development Agency. “An additional advantage is that the river, a tributary of Cauvery originates in Kavavur, within the district, so the entire course could be revived,” she said. First, a feasibility report, a study of the water stream and geomorphological structure was taken up by the department. As part of the works in the 25-km long stream, in the upper course, correction of streams, along with tree plantation and construction of 72 gabion structures were created while in the middle course, 20 boulder check dams were created. A total of 15 recharge pits were also constructed while in areas where there were habitations, soak pits to arrest the flow of greywater into the stream were also made. Meanwhile, in the mature course of the river, cement-concrete check dams were constructed. A total of 12 ponds which flow from the river were desilted too in the district by the department. The work by the NREGS workers began early in 2019 and took 1.5 years to complete. “The residents of Kadavur and people living along the stream helped in the work wholeheartedly. This is entirely a people’s initiative,” Ms. Kavitha said while Assistant Engineer, DRDA, R. Thiyagarajan spearheaded the works.
10 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||CCTV cameras to help police detect people not wearing mask||People who ignore the Health Department’s advice on wearing masks in view of the COVID-19 pandemic threat and roam around in the city, beware. For, Madurai City Police have introduced a new video analytic software for its closed-circuit television camera network that will detect people walking on road without wearing mask. With the new technology, the CCTV cameras installed under Thilagar Thidal and Vilakkuthoon police station limits will also detect those who have not worn the mask in the proper fashion. “The software will automatically click the images of such violators and send an alert with their photographs to the mobile phones of the police personnel deployed in the bazaar through an android mobile application,” Commissioner of Police Prem Anand Sinha said. With each of the cameras in the two police station limits mapped in the system, the police personnel will know the exact location from where the images were taken and apprehend the violator and book cases for violation of mask rule. “With upgradation of the existing CCTV network with the new software, we intend to monitor mask compliance and book cases based on photographic evidence,” Mr. Sinha said. The City police have so far booked 46,467 persons and collected Rs. 88.77 lakh as fine. The Commissioner added that the new initiative was being implemented on a trial basis with 20 cameras each in the two police station limits and it would be expanded to other parts of the city, especially the crowded areas. Fine money Interestingly, the city police have bought the software, developed by Bengaluru-based ADEO Distinctions and Dimensions, using funds mobilised through imposing fine on mask rule violators. Mr. Sinha said there was also a plan to upgrade the video analytic software to detect and monitor movement of criminals.
10 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Sellur roundabout work inspected||Cooperation Minister Sellur K. Raju, along with Corporation Commissioner S.Visakan, inspected the progress of renovation work undertaken at Sellur roundabout on Monday. Sculptures of kabaddi players are to be installed in the centre of the roundabout. The roundabout, which is being given a facelift at an estimated cost of Rs. 66 lakh, is among the four roundabouts in the city that are being given a new look under Swachh Iconic Places initiative of the Corporation. The other three roundabouts are in Fatima College junction, Palanganatham and Tirupparankundram. Apart from these four roundabouts, the civic body has also renovated the Arapalayam roundabout by using its general fund. The Minister said iconic landmarks and culture of Madurai would be depicted at these roundabouts. The sculptures of kabaddi players were being installed at Sellur roundabout in recognition of the players and the popular rural sport of Tamil Nadu, said Mr. Raju. He also congratulated the efforts of Corporation officials towards water conservation as the civic body had recently won the second place in the ‘best local body’ category, presented by the Department of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation. Out of the 33 ooranis (ponds) within the purview of Madurai Corporation, renovation work had been completed at 11 ponds and work is under progress at 16 others. Rejuvenation of the remaining ponds wouldl also be taken up, he added.
10 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Government-sponsored online NEET classes begin||Many students of government and government-aided schools from Madurai district attended the government-sponsored online NEET classes which started for this academic year on Monday. S. Vennila Devi, district Coordinator for government-sponsored NEET training, said this year around 570 students from government and government-aided schools in the district had registered for online NEET classes. This is nearly double the number, compared to last year. According to a School Education department official, timetable for the online classes have been issued. Currently, recorded video classes and practice tests had been uploaded on the portal. Ms. Devi said a NEET coordinator had been appointed in every school to guide students and clarify their doubts. “We are planning to start a WhatsApp group of students attending the online classes,” she said. Study material  The study material was distributed to all the government schools last year. “Since there is a surge in the number of students attending the online classes this year, we will have to place orders for more number of books,” she added. S. Damodaran, a government-aided school student who attended the online NEET classes on Monday, said though online classes were a boon, the issue of not being able to clarify doubts was a major concern.
10 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Mixed opinion on reopening of schools||There was a mixed response from parents regarding reopening of schools for Classes 9,10,11 and 12, during the consultation meetings held at schools across Madurai district on Monday, say school heads. Officials from the School Education department said questionnaires were issued to parents asking if they were willing to send their children to schools and the whole discussion that the parents had with school authorities were also video recorded. “All these documents obtained from schools have been sent to the headquarters,” said an official. A teacher from the Government Boys Higher Secondary School in Sholavandan said while some parents wanted the schools to continue with online classes, most of the parents did not want the schools to be reopened. “The parents who oppose the reopening of schools question how well can COVID-19 safety precautions be followed by the students at schools and while commuting to schools,” he said. M. Senthilnathan, president of Private Schools Correspondents Confederation, Madurai, said though many parents wanted schools to reopen, they were divided in their opinion on when to reopen them. “While some parents wanted the schools to reopen after Deepavali, many wanted schools to reopen only in January,” he said.
10 November 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||No option to study Tamil at CBSE schools in Oman, says MP||Su. Venkatesan, Madurai MP, has appealed to the Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE) to allow students of CBSE schools in Oman to opt for Tamil as their second language. Parents in Oman have complained that their children were denied the right to choose Tamil as their second language. Mr. Venkatesan said 22 schools run by the Embassy of India in Oman were refusing to allow the children to learn Tamil right from primary classes. “It is surprising as similar schools in other Gulf countries offer Tamil as one of their language subjects. Why are the Indian schools in Oman alone are refusing to respect the right of the child to learn his/her mother tongue as declared by United Nations and in the Constitution of India,” he said. Tamil is the mother tongue for around 10% of the 46,000 Indian students studying in Oman. Representatives of the parents of children there have taken several measures to convince the school managements to offer Tamil as one of the language subjects in Classes 1 to 10. But all their attempts failed to yield any positive response from the school managements. Job uncertainty The Member of Parliament said that since the Indian community in Oman was facing job uncertainty due to the pandemic situation, the parents feel that if the students got an opportunity to learn Tamil in Oman, it would be easier for them to adapt when they return home.
10 November 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Provide data on govt.-aided school students||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Monday directed a petitioner to submit data on the number of government-aided school students who secured medical admission in the State in the past three years. The petitioner had sought a direction to the State to extend 7.5 % horizontal reservation to the students of aided schools too. Hearing a petition filed by V. Preethi, a medical aspirant from Tirunelveli, a Division Bench of Justices N. Kirubakaran and B. Pugalendhi observed that the 7.5% horizontal reservation was implemented in view of the plight of government school students who had cleared National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test for medical admissions. The numbers of such students getting admission to medical courses were in single digits, the court said. In order to ascertain the case of the students of the aided schools, the court needed to look at data, the judges said, and sought data in this regard. The hearing was adjourned till November 20. The petitioner said most of the students from aided schools were also from humble backgrounds.
10 November 2020||MADURAI/TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Madurai records 46 new positive cases||Madurai recorded 46 new COVID-19 positive cases on Monday, which took the total number of cases in the district to 19,095. Twenty-nine people were discharged from hospitals in the district, which has 411 active cases. There were no COVID-19-related deaths in Madurai. Kanniyakumari, which added 35 cases, recorded an overall infection tally of 15,257 with 248 active cases, even as 21 people were discharged from hospitals. With one more fatality, the district’s death toll moved up to 248. Reporting 31 fresh cases, Thoothukudi saw its infection tally rise to 15,361. A total of 373 people are undergoing treatment at hospitals after 43 persons were discharged. Tirunelveli’s total case count rose to 14,452 with the addition of 27 cases. With 21 people having been discharged, the district has 252 active cases. One more fatality recorded in the district took its death toll to 209. 23 cases in Theni A total of 23 people tested positive in Theni, which has now reported a tally of 16,369. There were eight discharges. 18 more in Sivaganga Sivaganga’s total case count went up to 6,054 with the addition of 18 cases on Monday. Hospitals in the district discharged 33 people. Dindigul recorded 13 fresh cases, with which the district’s tally rose to 9,946. There were three discharges marked at hospitals in the district. Virudhunagar’s tally reached 15,581 with the addition of 12 cases. After 22 people were discharged, the number of active cases stands at 78 in the district, which has so far lost 222 lives. Seven in Tenkasi Tenkasi registered seven new cases to have a case count of 7,895. Five people were discharged from hospitals, leaving 69 others under treatment. Ramanathapuram reported five cases with which its tally moved up to 6,089. Hospitals had discharged four patients after treatment.
10 November 2020||Namakkal,TAMIL NADU||National Legal Services Day observed||The National Legal Services Day was observed at Paramathi here on Monday. As part of the event, a webinar for school students was held . S. Asseen Banu, Sub-Judge, Paramathy, took part.
10 November 2020||NAMAKKAL,TAMIL NADU||Jewellery shop burgled in Thiruchengode||Forty sovereigns of gold jewellery and 10 kg of silver were stolen from jewellery shop near Amman temple in Thiruchengode. According to police, during the early hours of Monday, passersby found the shop’s shutter open and found miscreants inside the shop. Immediately, the owner of the shop Muthusamy was alerted. However, the burglars managed to escape from with the jewellery. Thiruchengode police rushed to the spot. Police have collected CCTV footages and fingerprint samples from the shop. Police have registered a case and are investigating
10 November 2020||Perambalur,TAMIL NADU||Onions hoarded in poultry farms seized||Officials of the Civil Supplies -CID, Perambalur unit on Monday seized 483 tonnes of onions which were allegedly hoarded in four poultry farms which were not in use at present. Acting on information, the CS-CID team went to a couple of poultry farms at Irur village besides Chathiramanai and Mangoon villages and found onions allegedly hoarded inside. A senior officer of the CS-CID said the onions were seized and a case registered under the Essential Commodities Act. The owners of the poultry farms were being inquired in this connection.
10 November 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Health Ministry officials call on L-G and CM||A team of officers from Ministry of Health and Family Welfare and National Health Authority on Monday held discussions with Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi and Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy separately regarding the Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana. A press note from the Lt. Governor’s Office said the Prime Minister was very keen to see the health scheme for the poor being implemented fully “as achieved elsewhere.” The team came to help remove any administrative hindrances which might have come in the way. “They informed Raj Nivas that their meeting with the Chief Minister and the Chief Secretary, has helped clarify matters. It’s been decided to utilise the Government of India funds available to resume providing medical treatment support to one lakh families of socially economically backward sections of society,” the press note also added. The scheme would be implemented through State Health Authority chaired by Chief Secretary. Central funds The accredited hospitals would be paid directly by the Union Territory using Central funds. The Ministry has asked the administration to speed up proposal to provide health coverage to additional 2.5 lakh families, including workers and pensioners. They also directed to expedite the digitisation of health records, the press note said.
10 November 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||L-G approves payment of salary arrears to teachers||The office of the Lt. Governor has accorded approval for funds towards payment of salary/pension arrears to aided school teachers and greenlighted the proposal for a waiver of road tax for private passenger and goods carriers. The decision comes as relief for aggrieved aided school teachers and private travel operators, who had been agitating pressing for their demands. According to a press note from the Raj Nivas, the Education Department was in the process of verifying the accounts of private-run grant-in-aid schools which are collecting fees from students as per the rate fixed by the Statutory Fee Committee. Since verification takes time, as an interim measure, the L-G’s office today approved release of grant-in-aid to a tune of Rs. 845 lakh to 35 schools as recommended by the Finance Department to pay salary to teachers. The Lt. Governor’s office has also ordered the constitution of a committee to relook into the GIA (grant-in-aid) Rules which will be chaired by Development Commissioner/ Secretary (Education) as Chairman and Finance and Law Secretaries as members. Approval was also accorded to the request to waive the road tax due for two months for goods carriers and for two quarters or six months for passenger carriers to offset the losses related to COVID-19 lockdown restrictions. The government will incur a loss of Rs. 21 crore due to this waiver which will be off-set by other additional resources, the Raj Nivas said.  The decision comes as relief for aggrieved aided school teachers and private travel operators who had been on protest
10 November 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||U.T. records lowest single day tally of new cases||The Union Territory recorded one COVID-19 death while new cases fell to 63, the lowest on a single day in several months. The death of a 74-year-old woman at the IGMCRI took the overall toll to 602. The new cases were detected from 2,530 tests with Puducherry accounting for 56 cases followed by Mahe (six) and one in Yanam. No new cases were reported in Karaikal. Of the 1,086 active cases, 399 were in hospital and 687 in home isolation across the four regions. The test positivity rate was 2.49%, case fatality rate 1.68% and recovery rate 95.30%. The overall tally in the Union Territory stood at 3,59,000 after the transfer of one case to Tamil Nadu while the number of patients recovered aggregated at 3,42,212. The number of tests carried out by the Health Department to date crossed 3.40 lakh. Of the 3,41,534 tests, 3,00,426 returned negative. Meanwhile, Lieutenant Governor Kiran Bedi said after a review meeting that joint mobile enforcement teams drawn from police, revenue and municipality would be constituted to carry out inspections at shopping malls and other high-footfall spots. Market crowd Another team would monitor the Sunday market crowds and issue advisories over public address system to ensure spacing. The COVID war room has been tasked with an audit of information system and data management in consultation with ICMR for pre-emptive action on a possible second wave of coronavirus. Performing art instructors and students of music-dance schools have been roped in to give renditions at Beach Road as part of IEC activity, Ms. Bedi said.
10 November 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||BJP Mahila Morcha takes out rally||BJP Mahila Morcha members on Monday took out a rally to highlight the failure of the Congress government in implementing schemes. They took out the rally from Raja Theatre junction to Legislative Assembly. After raising slogans for a while against the government, the members dispersed. In a release Mahila Morcha president Jayalakshmi alleged the government had failed to provide rice to the needy. The amount meant for rice was credited to the accounts of beneficiaries. The government has failed to fulfil the election promises, the statement said.
10 November 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK seeks CBI probe into irregularities in Jipmer admissions||The All India Anna Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam on Monday sought a CBI probe into the first year medical admissions at Jawaharlal Institute of Postgraduate Medical Education and Research. In a memorandum to Lt. Governor Kiran Bedi, AIADMK leader in the Assembly A. Anbalagan alleged there had been irregularities in admitting students under Puducherry quota. Of the total 250 seats, 64 seats have been set aside for students of Puducherry. Other States The institute had included 31 students from other States such as Andhra Pradesh and Telangana under the Union Territory quota. These students are children of Central government employees but the candidates have never lived or studied in the Union Territory, the memorandum said. “This is happening every year, but this year, large scale violations have happened,” Mr. Anbalagan also said. The territorial administration had failed to formulate a well-defined norm to ensure that seats reserved for students of the Union Territory reach the deserving candidates. A thorough inquiry must be ordered to find out where the students did their schooling, especially in the last three years. The scope of inquiry should also be to ascertain how the students were able to manipulate the admission process. He urged the Lt. Governor to order a CBI probe.  The institute had included 31 students from other States such as Andhra Pradesh and Telangana
10 November 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Case registered against six under POCSO Act||The police have registered a case against six persons under Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act on charges of sexually abusing five minor girls and using them as bonded labourers. According to Senior Superintendent of Police (Law and Order) Pratiksha Godara, the accused kept the girls as bonded labourers for rearing ducks. The Child Welfare Committee rescued the children last month and provided them shelter at Vuthavum Karangal Child Care Centre. The children were offered psychological counselling and later admitted to Rajiv Gandhi Women and Children’s Hospital for medical examination and treatment. Bonded labourers The statements of children revealed that they were sexually abused and used as bonded labourers, she said. The Mangalam police have registered a case and secured the accused persons — Kanniappan, Rajkumar, Pasupathi, Iyyanar, Siva and Moorthy. The six were made to undergo COVID-19 screening and the results of Kanniappan returned negative. The police arrested him on Monday. The department had deputed D. Divya, IPS on probation, to carry out further investigation into the case, the SSP said.  The children were giv enpsychological counselling and admitted to Rajiv Gandhi Women and Children’s Hospital for medical examination
10 November 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Jipmer reiterates norm for admissions||Jipmer on Monday stipulated that only those candidates who have a valid and latest residence/employment certificate as proof of Puducherry domicile will be considered for admission to MBBS course in Jipmer under the Puducherry Domicile category. Jipmer Dean (Academic) said in a press note that it may be noted that the ‘Jipmer Internal (JEI) category’ mentioned in the MBBS counselling process of the Medical Counselling Committee (MCC) refers to Puducherry domicile category. Candidates are advised to choose this category during the counselling process only if they qualify under this category, as detailed in the Jipmer MBBS 2020 prospectus. The admission process in Jipmer will continue to be the same as has been followed in the previous years, and as has already been notified by Jipmer in its website and Jipmer MBBS 2020 prospectus.
10 November 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Minimum balance in accounts||The Department of Posts has advised all savings account holders to maintain a minimum balance of Rs. 500 in their accounts on or before December 11 to keep them active.
10 November 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||‘Verify genuineness of selected students’||Special Officer, Department of Revenue and Disaster Management, A. Sureshraj, on Monday requested the Dean of Jipmer to verify the genuineness of the provisionally selected students as many of them have declared their origin state other than Puducherry. In a letter to the Dean, the Special Officer said several allegations were received about other State students figuring in the merit list pertaining to the Union Territory quota. He urged the Dean to verify the genuineness of the certificates submitted/produced by all the provisionally selected candidates under Puducherry quota. Dual residence claim was doubted against a few candidates based on their declaration of native State. To verify the authenticity, the department has asked Jipmer to furnish a copy of the residence certificates of students.
10 November 2020||Pudukottai,TAMIL NADU||Sub-Registrar held on bribery charge||Officials of the Directorate of Vigilance and Anti Corruption (DVAC) arrested a Sub-Registrar (incharge) and a document writer on Monday here on bribery charge. The action was taken on a complaint that the Sub-Registrar (incharge) D. Saravanan (38) serving in the Joint Sub-Registrar Office -(II) at Pudukottai had demanded Rs. 12,000 as bribe for registration of document. DVAC sources said they received a complaint from one Subramanian stating that the Sub-Registrar (in-charge) had demanded bribe for registration of a document for his friend Selvam. An advance of Rs. 5,000 was allegedly paid as bribe to Saravanan who registered the document and was awaiting the remaining amount to hand over the document. A trap was laid and the DVAC team arrested them when the bribe amount was allegedly received by the document writer on the instruction of Saravanan.
10 November 2020||Ramanathapuram,TAMIL NADU||Injured deer rescued by forest officials||A four-year-old spotted deer, which had sustained severe injuries following a dog attack, was rescued by the officials of the Forest department at Pallamorkulam village in Tiruppulani block of Ramanathapuram district on Monday. Ramanathapuram Forest Range Officer S. Sathish said that the local residents informed the forest officials about the injured deer. The deer was treated at the veterinary hospital at Keelakarai. "Since the deer was severely injured, it is currently accommodated at the forest office at Keelakarai," said Mr. Sathish.
10 November 2020||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Train stranded as pontoon hits Pamban rail bridge||A crane mounted on a pontoon involved in new Pamban rail bridge construction work that hit the old bridge led to detention of Chennai-bound Sethu Express near Pamban on Monday night. The pontoon drifted due to heavy winds and hit the centre span of the bridge. It remained stuck close to the track. Consequently, Sethu Express that came to Pamban at 8.40 p.m. was stopped before it could touch the bridge. Railway officials were trying to salvage the pontoon. A senior railway official said only after ascertaining that the accident had not caused any damage to the bridge structure could the train be operated on the bridge. Earlier, Madurai Railway Division had issued a statement that the new Pamban rail bridge construction work had been suspended following inclement weather.
10 November 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Salem Collector distributes tricycles to differently-abled persons||District Collector S.A. Raman on Monday distribute tricycles to differently-abled persons using funds under the District Collector’s discretionary funds. According to a release, the tricycles would be distributed to 19 differently-abled persons at a cost of Rs. 1.42 lakh. Mr. Raman also handed over a cheque for Rs. 25,000, funded by Salem Roundtable 28 to cricketer G. Mannivanan who would be taking part in the Divyang Cricket Premier League to be held in Dubai. Mr. Mannivanan requested for the funds to meet his travel and other expenses. Mr. Raman also inaugurated the model career centre set up on the premises of district employment and skill development centre.
10 November 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||HR&CE department conducts survey of temples||Officials from the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments department are surveying temples to assess the structure and conduct necessary repair works. According to official sources, a portal is being readied under the department in which photographs of temples would be uploaded and during the survey, if any of the temples need repairs, necessary steps would be taken. Salem, Namakkal, Krishnagiri and Dharmapuri falls under the Salem zone of the department and over 4,000 temples in the region are being assessed. According to official sources, the temples would also be classified into heritage and non-heritage categories and temples constructed above 100 years would be considered as heritage temples. The survey is expected to be completed in a week,
10 November 2020||Salem,TAMIL NADU||Weavers demand reopening of co-operative spinning mill||Weavers, who were working at Salem co-operative spinning mill here, staged a protest in front of the Collectorate here on Monday demanding authorities to take necessary measures to reopen and operate the facility. The protesters charged that the spinning mill was shutdown without following procedures and officials then deliberately showed losses for permanent closure of the plant. The protesters said that 1,600 benefited directly and 10,000 indirectly benefited through the mill. They alleged that authorities then sold the movable assets of the mill. The employees demanded authorities concerned to take necessary measures to provide compensation for persons affected due to the closure.
10 November 2020||Sivaganga,TAMIL NADU||Dalit woman decides to quit panchayat chief post||“I was elected unopposed as president of Kalpiravu panchayat near Manamadurai in Sivaganga district in the elections held last year. However, since my first day in office, I have not been able to take any decision or meet people or convene meetings”, said Rajeswari Pandi here on Monday. Speaking to The Hindu , she regretted that she was born in the Scheduled Caste. “Until the previous term, the seat was in the "general" category. Now, on rotation basis, the panchayat had been allocated to the "reserved" category. Hence, I filed my nomination and was elected unopposed to the panchayat as it's president.” When the Panchayat Raj laws had been conveniently neglected both by the officials and other elected representatives including the vice-president in the panchayat, she said, there was no point in sitting here without discharging duties as framed in the panchayat. Instead of fighting with the vice-president, who, she alleged, could be the reason behind preventing her from discharging her duties, Ms. Rajeswari said that it would be unfair to remain idle in a post. "I have decided to resign. I will send the paper to the authority concerned," she confirmed. The woman panchayat president claimed that she was unable to convene meeting, the bank accounts were not accessible to her, she was not in a position to finalise the terms and conditions of letting a coconut grove in public auction, the keys of the motor room and other files could not be accessed by her. When contacted, Manamadurai BDO Alagu Meenal said that they will inquire into the charges and take action.
10 November 2020||Sivakasi,TAMIL NADU||Fireworks industry sees positive signal from NGT order||Fireworks industry hopes for some relief from States that had totally banned bursting of crackers following the directive of National Green Tribunal (NGT) banning crackers only in places where ambient air quality was ‘poor’. NGT on Monday issued prohibitory order on bursting crackers between November 10 and 30 in all cities and towns across the country where the average ambient air quality was ‘poor’. Heaving a sigh of relief that the NGT had not issued a blanket ban on fireworks across the country, Tamil Nadu Fireworks and Amorces Manufacturers’ Association (TANFAMA) president, Ganesan Panjurajan, said that the ban order will be mostly confined to National Capital Area where complaints of poor air quality was reported. Besides this, a few State governments have also issued blanket ban order on bursting of crackers during Deepavali. “All put together, the NCR and the States where ban order is in vogue account for consumption of at least 55% of the total fireworks produced this year,” he added. However, he said that the NGT order has given a new hope as all the States that have issued a blanket ban could reconsider their decision, on the lines of the Karnataka government, which has allowed Green crackers. “We will make representations to Chief Ministers of all those States to confine the ban order in places where the pollution level was beyond control and allow people to enjoy the festival with bursting of crackers in other places,” he said. The Indian Fireworks Manufacturers’ Association (TIFMA), general secretary, T. Kannan, said that the average ambient air quality that was around 75 to 150 during September under the lockdown had suddenly increased to 430-500 in November only because of industrial pollution and stubble burning. “These were the days when no crackers were burst,” he said. He said that the fireworks industry had become a soft target and ‘vested interests’ were targeting fireworks that were primarily used only during Deepavali.
10 November 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Women seek work under MGNREGS for 100 days||Appealing to Collector Sandeep Nanduri to ensure their hiring under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme for 100 days, a group of women from four villages submitted petition on Monday. The petitioner women from Thulukkankulam, Sankaranarayanapuram, Sriramapuram and Kalloorani said the MGNREGS labourers from these villages, who were suffering a lot without revenue during lockdown, were being hired under this scheme for just 15 days even as the neighbouring Kulaththur panchayat was giving employment for 100 days to the labourers. ‘Remove electric poles’ Farmers from Thennampatti under Kayathar taluk, led by president of Thamizh Vivasaayigal Sangam O.A. Narayanasamy, submitted a petition against the installation of electric poles in the village irrigation tank and the cultivable lands without the land owners’ permission. The farmers said the authorities of the solar power and the wind power stations in Thennampatti had installed the electric poles inside the Thennampatti irrigation tank and also cultivable lands without obtaining any permission from the land owners. “When the aggrieved farmers objected to the installation of electric poles inside their lands, the solar power and the wind energy firm authorities are threatening us,” the petitioners said. ‘Hike assistance’ A group of differently-abled people submitted a petition seeking hike in their monthly assistance from Rs. 1,000 to to Rs. 3,000 and 5% reservation for them in employment in private sector also. Petition submitted Thamizhaga Makkal Jananaayaga Katchi cadre submitted a petition seeking dropping of cases registered against the anti-CAA and anti-NPR protestors. ‘Remove copper waste’ Anti-Sterlite protesters in Thoothukudi submitted a petition urging the Collector to remove the copper waste allegedly dumped by the copper manufacturing unit at 12 places around the plant. Moreover, the district administration should declare these spots and ‘danger zone’ and prevent the public and the cattle from entering these areas, said the anti-Sterlite protesters.
10 November 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Most parents in city are not for reopening of schools||To seek the views and opinions of parents, parent-teacher associations and other stakeholders, the School Education Department conducted consultation meetings at the campuses of various schools in different parts of the district on Monday. Majority of parents, who participated in the consultation meetings in Tiruchi district on Monday, were reported to have expressed their apprehension on safety of children if the schools were opened when the COVID-19 virus was yet to be brought under control. . According to sources in the Chief Educational Office, consultation meetings were conducted in 538 schools including government, aided, matriculation and CBSE affiliated schools in Tiruchi district. Similar meetings were held in 436 schools in Thanjavur district. Besides the officials of the School Education Department and principals and headmasters, a section of teachers were called in for duty to conduct the meetings. Though elaborate arrangements were made to ensure social distancing norms, only 15 % to 20% of parents actually turned up to the meetings, apparently due to the fear of contracting the virus. While the government and government aided schools collected the filled up forms from the parents, private schools sought the views of parents through online. Many were divided on reopening schools at this juncture. “We are ready to reopen the schools as per the directions and guidelines of the Government. But, several parents are still apprehensive on the safety of their children at this juncture,” says C. Sundara Raman, secretary, Cauvery Global Senior Secondary School in Tiruchi. A senior official of the School Education Department told The Hindu that opinion was clearly divided among parents and teachers. While a section of parents were in favour of reopening, others were apprehensive that the safety of their children would be at the risk of contracting the virus particularly during rainy and winter seasons. Several parents and a section of school managements were reported to have expressed their concern on the practical difficulties in enforcing physical distancing norms in the school campuses as well as transporting them to the schools from their homes. A section of parents of male students had expressed their opinion in favour of school reopening. However, parents of female students where not in favour of it, another official said.
10 November 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Tiruchi division looks to increase freight business||The Tiruchi Railway Division has embarked on the task of capturing new traffic in the freight sector in an effort to further increase its business. The Business Development Unit constituted at the divisional level on the direction of the Railway Board, New Delhi, has been entrusted with the task of diversifying the existing freight basket and attract new traffic by holding interactions with trade and industry falling within the Tiruchi division’s limit. The marketing efforts so far had yielded positive results for the Business Development Unit in capturing new traffic for the Tiruchi division for which the conventional traffic has been coal, food grains and fertilizers all along. A senior railway official told The Hindu on Monday that interactions with the industry resulted in the transportation of clinker used for the manufacture of cement and lime stones in bulk by rail recently. About 57 wagons of clinker was loaded from India Cements - one of the leading producers- from its Icchangadu plant near Ariyalur to its another plant at Thalaiyuthu near Tirunelveli. This is for the first time that clinker had been loaded in Tiruchi division with the railways offering concessions to the cement unit in respect of rates for attracting this type of freight which was hitherto being moved by road, the official said. Limestone also loaded Limestone was another new commodity to be loaded in the division with its transportation taking place from Karaikal Port to Malabar cement plant at Walayar. The movement of both these new traffic yielded revenue of about Rs. 47 lakh, the official further said. Ever since the Business Development Unit was formed in July when the lockdown was in place, it has been mandated with specific roles to scout for new traffic. The Senior Divisional Operating Manager of Tiruchi Division is the convener of the unit, while the Senior Divisional Commercial Manager, Senior Divisional Mechanical Engineer and Senior Divisional Finance Manager are the members. Railway Board had directed the formation of Business Development Unit at the divisional and zonal levels in an effort to double the freight volume being carried by the railways by 2024. Ever since its formation, the unit had periodic interactions with officials of various private cement companies functioning in Ariyalur district, officials of Karaikal Port and Cuddalore Port besides with onion traders of Perambalur, rice mill owners, salt merchants at Vedaranyam, officials of Aavin, sand importers at Puducherry and those dealing with harvester machines. Tiruchi division was expecting more movement of clinker in the near future from the India Cements plant at Icchangadu, the official said The conventional traffic on the route was coal that was being loaded in bulk from the Karaikal Port to different destinations; foodgrains from the delta areas of Thanjavur, Tiruvarur, Needamangalam, Kumbakonam, Sirkazhi and Nagapattinam to destinations within the State and fertilisers from Karaikal Port. A new goods shed had been constructed at Mannargudi.
10 November 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Central districts see marginal drop in daily cases||The central districts on Monday recorded a further drop in COVID-19 cases with 213 patients testing positive for the viral infection. Meanwhile, one death, in Nagapattinam district was reported. An 80-year-old man with a history of hypertension, who had been admitted to the District Headquarters Hospital in Nagapattinam died of the viral infection. Meanwhile, a total of 42 patients tested positive in Thanjavur among which were primary contacts, local index cases and asymptomatic patients identified through fever camps. In Tiruchi, 43 patients tested positive, indicating a spike in cases, while Karur reported a slight rise with 36 cases. Patients in both districts were primary contacts and patients with a history of respiratory illnesses. A total of six patients who were undergoing treatment at the Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital were discharged after recovering from the viral infection on Monday. Meanwhile, in Karur residents from Vengamedu,Ther Veedhi and from the Police Quarters in the district tested positive. A total of 32 fresh COVID-19 cases were reported in Tiruvarur. Patients who tested positive in the district were primary contacts and patients with a history of respiratory illnesses. In Nagapattinam, 23 patients tested positive while in Pudukottai, 20 fresh cases were reported. Patients in both districts were primary contacts and local index cases with no history of travel or contacts. A total of 11 patients tested positive in Ariyalur district while in Perambalur, six patients tested positive. Of the six, two each hailed from Veppanthattai and Alathur blocks while one each hailed hailed from Perambalur and Veppur blocks. Meanwhile, 605 fresh throat swabs were lifted and sent for testing.
10 November 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Transport workers stage protest, seek hike in bonus||Transport workers affiliated with the All India Trade Union Congress (AITUC), Centre of Indian Trade Unions, Tamil Nadu Transport Staff Federation (TTSF) and other Transport Trade unions organised a protest outside the Tiruchi Collectorate demanding a hike in Deepavali bonus. The workers said that while they had received a bonus of 20% of their salaries over many years, the State government had announced a bonus of only 10% this year, they rued. “Though the bonus applies for the period before the month of March, the government was using COVID-19 as an excuse to pay us reduced bonus”, said R. Sampath, zonal president, Karur, Tiruchi, Jayankondam and Ariyalur districts Centre of Indian Trade Unions. According to norms, the State government must discuss the reduction or any changes in bonus with the trade unions before announcing them. However, no such discussion was held, he said. “Though, we have temporarily suspended the protests hoping for a response, we will resume if necessary,” he said.
10 November 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Firefighters conduct awareness campaign||Firefighters of Tiruchi station conducted awareness campaigns at Palakarai and Gandhi Market areas here on Monday driving home to the public safe ways to celebrate the forthcoming Deepavali festival. A team carried out the campaign explaining the ways to celebrate the festival in a safe manner and urging the public to desist from bursting crackers nearing hospitals and old age homes. The public were also asked not to fire rockets at places where there were thatched roof houses and have a bucket of water nearby while bursting crackers. Pamphlets containing do’s and don’ts to be followed while bursting crackers were circulated by the firefighters to the general public. Similar campaigns were being organised all over the district. The campaign would continue till the eve of the festival.
10 November 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||‘We got no allowance as frontline workers’||Members of the Tamil Nadu Village Health Nurses Welfare Association and the Tamil Nadu Government VHN, SHN, CHN Federation on Monday staged a protest outside the Collectorate here demanding promotions, benefits other pending needs. A total of 354 nurses, all of them posted across the district have not received allowances for working as frontline workers during the pandemic, they said. While they were conducting door-to-door checks, ensuring COVID-19 patients were taken to hospitals and regular follow-up was done, the credit was being taken by others, they claimed. “We want the government to hand out promotions despite gender discrimination. While a male health worker is regularly promoted, the women are being denied it,” said M. Gayathri Devi, District President, Tamil Nadu Village Health Nurses Welfare Association. The village health nurses were also forced to train other staff nurses, posted in mini clinics, especially on performing deliveries. “While we perform the deliveries, the records show that they have performed it. After a few years, they receive a promotion while we receive no incentives,” K. Gomathi, Secretary, Tamil Nadu Village Health Nurses Welfare Association said.
10 November 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Mettur level||The water level in Mettur dam was 95.41 on Monday. The inflow was 10,866 and discharge was 12,000 cusecs.
10 November 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||‘Drop cases filed against anti-CAA, anti-NPR protesters’||Condemning the registration of cases against those who protest against Citizenship Amendment Act and National Population Register, cadre of Thamizhaga Makkal Jananayaga Katchi staged a demonstration in front of the Collectorate on Monday along with a few smaller outfits. They said the cases registered under certain sections of Indian Penal Code required the protesters to execute a bond in the court of Revenue Divisional Officer promising to abstain from all political activities for one year from the date of execution of the bond. “This coercive measure should be given up, said T. Abdul Jafar, district secretary of TMJK. G. Kalaikannan of Aathi Thamizhar Paeravai, Thamizharasu of Thamizh Puligal Katchi, Abdul Azeez of Tamil Nadu Muslim League and Peter of Tamils’ Confederation Against Genocide also participated in the demonstration. Action sought Seeking action against the Sub-Registrar of Radhapuram, members of Kamarajar Samooha Nala Peravai submitted a petition for allegedly allowing the registration of lands without prior documents. The petitioners said the Tamil Nadu Government had mandated the submission of prior documents while registration of lands. However, the Sub-Registrar, Radhapuram had allowed the registration of lands in Seelaathikulam near Kumbikulam without prior documents, which would lead to illegal registration of lands. Hence, action should be taken against the Sub-Registrar concerned, they said. The petitioners, led by Nattramizhan alias Dhakshinamurthy, also appealed to the Collector that the people living in the ‘naththam poramboke’ lands in Nanguneri taluk should be given ‘patta’ based on the application they had submitted during the Chief Minister’s Special Grievance Redressal Meet organised in the taluks.
10 November 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||‘EPS is CM candidate’||Even as BJP State president L. Murugan is reiterating repeatedly that the person to be handpicked by the Centre after the next Assembly polls would be the Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu, Minister for Information Kadambur C. Raju has categorically made it clear that Edappadi K. Palaniswami was AIADMK’s candidate for the coveted post. “There is no second thought about it. We don’t want to take his (Mr Murugan) remarks so seriously and hold a debate on it,” he said. Speaking to reporters at Kovilpatti on Monday, Mr. Raju said it was the people who would decide on their choice of the Chief Minister and vote accordingly to elect their MLAs, who, in turn, would elect the Chief Minister. Since the AIADMK had already selected Mr. Palaniswami as its CM candidate much ahead of the polls, there was no second thought about it. “Mr. Murugan, in a bid to encourage the BJP cadre and encourage them to work during the ensuing election, might have told that the person to be identified by the BJP alone would be the Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu.” On the reopening of cinema halls across the State, the Minister said the producers should cooperate with the cinema theatre owners for screening the movies as the theatres would come alive on Tuesday after a long gap. The producers and the theatre owners should arrive at a mutual agreement on screening the movies, especially on the release of new movies. Mr. Raju said the Chief Minister, who would be visiting Thoothukudi on Wednesday after his review meeting at Nagercoil, would be given a rousing reception by the party cadre at Vallanadu on entering the district and also at Kurukkusalai, Ettaiyapuram and Kovilpatti even as he was going to Virudhunagar district for a meeting in the afternoon.
10 November 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Youth killed in Tirunelveli||A youth was killed in a road accident near here on Monday after he lost control of the bike which he was riding. Police said V. Salvius, 26, who was riding his new bike along the Tirunelveli – Nagercoil 4-lane national highway, lost control allegedly due to speeding. After being thrown in the air, Salvius landed on the roadside to sustain grievous injuries. He died on the spot. The traffic investigation wing of Tirunelveli city registered a case.
10 November 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Tourist numbers rise in the Nilgiris||Since the beginning of November when the e-pass system requiring prior permission from the district administration to enter the Nilgiris was scrapped, the number of tourists has steadily increased here, especially over the last 10 days, officials said. Based on the tourist numbers visiting government parks and gardens since the beginning of November, the average numbers have more than doubled. In the last two weeks, more than 5,000 people have visited the parks and gardens in the district during the weekends. Since the e-pass system was scrapped, e-registration has become mandatory for visitors entering the district. Joint Director of Horticulture (Nilgiris district) Sivasubramaniam Samraj said prior to the relaxations, around 300-400 people were visiting the Government Botanical Garden on average in a day. However, the number has increased to around 600 during the weekdays, he said. Expecting an increase in the number of tourists during the course of the Deepavali weekend, street vendors, who had closed their makeshift shops since March, have started reopening them. Despite more tourists visiting Udhagamandalam and Coonoor, the hospitality sector still seems to be showing very few signs of recovery, said N. Chandrashekar, honorary secretary of the Nilgiris Hotels and Restaurants Association. “Most budget and mid-range hotels are still empty. This could be due to tourists who spend only the day in the district,” he said.
10 November 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||More tourists visiting the Nilgiris||Since the start of November, when the e-pass system requiring prior permission from the district administration to enter the Nilgiris was scrapped, the number of tourists has steadily increased, especially over the last ten days, officials said. Based on the tourist numbers visiting government parks and gardens since the beginning of November, the average number of tourists has more than doubled. During the weekends, more than 5000 visitors visited all the parks and gardens in the district for the last two weeks. Since the e-pass system was scrapped, e-registration has become mandatory for visitors to the district. Joint Director of Horticulture (Nilgiris district), Sivasubramaniam Samraj, said that prior to the relaxations, around 300-400 people were visiting the Government Botanical Garden on an average each day. However, he said the number increased to around 600 during weekdays. Expecting an increase in the number of tourists during the course of the Deepavali weekend, many street-vendors who had closed their makeshift shops since March have started re-opening. One street hawker who sells toys along the Garden Road in Udhagamandalam said she planned to open her shop this week to take advantage of the increasing number of tourists. Despite more tourists being seen in Udhagamandalam and Coonoor, the hospitality sector still seems to be showing very few signs of recovery, said N. Chandrashekar, honorary secretary of the Nilgiris Hotels and Restaurants Association (NHRA). “Most budget and mid-range hotels are still completely empty. This could be due to tourists comprising mostly people who spend only a day in the district, and leave by evening,” he said. Around 20 % of hotels and restaurants in the Nilgiris face the prospect of permanent closure unless there is a swift upturn in fortunes. “We would like to appeal to visitors to stay in the Nilgiris and patronise local businesses, because as things stand, most hotel and restaurant owners are even struggling to cover the cost of maintenance of their properties,” he said.
10 November 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Forest Dept. reworks strategies to prevent human-elephant conflicts||Following the recent deaths of two persons due to accidental encounters with elephants in Gudalur, the Forest Department has revamped and redoubled its “human-elephant conflict mitigation” strategies. A man and a woman were killed within a span of 48 hours in separate incidents after crossing paths with wild elephants in Gudalur and O-Valley forest ranges over the last week. Prior to the incidents, the number of human-elephant conflicts had seen a steady decline over the last few years. However, the recent incidents have forced the department to revamp their conflict-mitigation strategies and prevent such encounters from taking place. Forest Department staff said both recent incidents could have been prevented if residents had followed a few precautions. They said they were now individually visiting each village that had been identified as being prone to human-elephant encounters to brief the residents about the measures need to be followed to ensure their safety. Such sensitisation campaigns were also being carried out in tea estates where estate workers reported for work during the early hours of the morning when elephants moved between forest patches. District Forest Officer (Gudalur division), Sumesh Soman, said that following the recent deaths, a special push was being given towards anti-depredation activities and awareness creation in the Gudalur division. Forest guards, who were in the field throughout the day and for a few hours at night, were told to interact with at least five villagers daily and sensitise them to the movement of elephants, and the precautions they need to follow. Moreover, Forest Range Officers had been told to be present in the field from 5 a.m. to 7 a.m and also after dusk, when elephant movement was high. The division was also to begin profiling the elephants that inhabited the region, their movement patterns and other behavioural patterns.
10 November 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Welfare assistance distributed||Welfare assistance was handed over to over 90 differently-abled persons by the Nilgiris District Collector, J. Innocent Divya on Monday. The Collector said 28 beneficiaries were given battery-operated wheel-chairs each costing Rs. 99,999. Seven beneficiaries and their families received Rs. 17,000 financial assistance and two others received financial assistance to continue their education. Other beneficiaries received sewing machines. In total, more than 90 beneficiaries received financial assistance worth Rs. 31.41 lakh.
10 November 2020||VELLORE,TAMIL NADU||Transport trade unions organise protest in Vellore||Several transport trade unions led by the Labour Progressive Front (LPF) organised a massive protest putting forth various demands at the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation headquarters located in Vellore on Monday. A large number of members of the LPF, which is a labour wing of the DMK, along with transport workers of other trade unions, including the CITU, AITUC, HMF, MLF and AALLF, participated in the protest. The protesters holding placards raised slogans against the State government and the Transport Department. LPF trade union leader Balakrishnan said the Federation of State Transport Unions has been requesting the State government to initiate talks for wage revision from September 2019 since the wage agreement period had expired over 15 months ago. However the State Transport Department has failed to take any steps for conducting wage revision talks. The members of the transport unions stressing the failure of the Transport Department to hold talks have been organising several protests but to no avail. The protesters said while all these years the State government had been giving 20% bonus, this year without hearing the views of the transport trade unions, it has taken a decision and announced a bonus of 10% only. The protesting workers also put forth other demands to be fulfilled by the Transport Department, including taking back the bonus announcement of 10% and paying full 20% bonus immediately. Also, the protesters wanted the festival advance amount of Rs. 10,000 to be paid and steps to be taken for initiating talks for signing the 14th wage agreement. The protest was organised by the Federation of Transport trade unions.
10 November 2020||November 10 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Daily cases drop below 200-mark in Coimbatore||Salem district on Monday reported 105 cases of which 86 were indigenous and 19 patients returned from Namakkal, Dharmapuri, Erode and Krishnagiri. The district reported the death of a 60-year-old man. In Namakkal, 27 persons tested positive of whom five returned from Erode, Salem and Coimbatore and one from Andhra Pradesh. Erode district reported 98 new cases, taking the district’s tally to 11,177. While 96 persons were discharged, 794 persons continue to be under treatment. Krishnagiri reported 20 indigenous cases and Dharmapuri 19. Out of 13,794 cases, 1,047 were active cases. A total of 125 patients from the district were discharged upon recovery from COVID-19 on Monday. Coimbatore district continued to witness a decline in the number of COVID-19 cases as the daily caseload fell below the 200-mark on Monday with the reporting of 189 cases. No deaths were reported from the district, according to the media bulletin. The total number of cases stood at 45,287, of which 43,711 recovered and 1,000 were active cases. As many as 179 patients from the district were discharged on Monday. Tiruppur district reported 112 cases, taking the tally to 13,794. A 55-year-old man died of the disease, the bulletin said. In the Nilgiris, 36 persons tested positive and the total number of confirmed cases in the Nilgiris stood at 6,975, with 287 persons undergoing treatment. The toll in the district so far was 40.
10 November 2020||November 10 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Consultations held on reopening of schools in State||The parents shared their feedback in person as well as online in several private schools. Director of School Education S. Kanappan said that based on the responses received from each school in their jurisdiction, the Chief Educational Officers would submit their report to the School Education Department. “A report based on this will then be submitted to the State government,” he added. The government is expected to make an announcement before Deepavali. At the Everwin group of schools in Chennai, parents participated in the meeting in large numbers. “While some had safety concerns, others said children were starting to feel cooped up inside their house,” said B. Purushothaman, senior principal and correspondent. Many of the parents who took part in consultations in Tiruchi district expressed apprehensions about sending children to school until a clear picture emerged on the spread of COVID-19. “ There was a mixed response from parents at meetings held in schools across Madurai district. R. Murugeswari, headmistress of the Kasturiba Gandhi Corporation Girls’ Higher Secondary School, said most parents wanted the schools to reopen as they had concerns over online classes.  The heads of schools in Tirunelveli, Thoothukudi and Tenkasi also said they had received varying responses from parents. Those who were for reopening of schools cited accessibility and connectivity issues. The consultations held in Coimbatore, Tiruppur and the Nilgiris districts also saw a mixed response from parents. While some wanted students of Classes 10 and 12 to attend physical sessions to prepare better for the board examinations, others expressed apprehensions about students travelling to the campuses every day by bus. In Salem and Namakkal, too, parents were invited to the schools amidst strict safety norms to share their feedback. Parents across the State, who were for the reopening of schools for Classes 9 to 12, attributed their decision, among others, to the fact that students taking the board exams needed some form of face-to-face interaction with teachers.
10 November 2020||November 10 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||No curbs||
10 November 2020||November 10 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Will oppose move to stall 10% quota: CM||Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy on Monday said the government will oppose the move to stall the Cabinet decision to provide 10% reservation to government school students in medical admissions in private medical colleges. Speaking to reporters after convening an all party meeting to discuss the issue on late Monday evening, the Chief Minister said the Lt. Governor had referred the Cabinet decision to the Centre without consulting the elected government. The government will oppose the move by Lt. Governor to refer the Cabinet decision without having any consultation with the government.
10 November 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Weavers seek direct purchase of saris||Members of various weavers organisations took out a rally in Belagavi on Monday urging the State government to procure saris directly from weavers to help them tide over the reduced demand and lower market price for their product. They walked to the Deputy Commissioner’s office shouting slogans and holding banners. District Weavers Association leader Ravi Patil said that the State government had a moral duty to save weavers from starvation. The State government should buy saris just as it buys crops grown by farmers by announcing minimum support price and by market intervention to stop fall in prices. A weaver from the old city Maharudrappa Ganappa said that weavers were suffering at the hands of middlemen. The sahukars or moneylenders, who are providing cloth to weavers based on a buy-back agreement, were harassing weavers by buying low and selling high, he said. He recalled that in 2008, the State government bought saris which helped several weavers earn remunerative prices. Zilla Nekara Vedike president Pandurang Dhotre said that the government should buy at least 15 lakh saris from weavers directly. He asked the government to avoid middlemen. He accused officers of the Department of Textiles of providing false information to the State government that led to the government cancelling plans to buy saris. He urged Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa to buy saris directly from weavers. Community leader Parashuram Dhage said that the State government had to drop plans for privatisation of power supply. He said that the State government wanted to privatise power supply only to help its corporate friends and not weavers.
10 November 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Anganwadi workers take out rally||Members of the Karnataka Anganwadi Workers Union took out a protest rally in Belagavi on Monday, opposing the State government plans to link anganwadis wotj public schools and start pre-schools in government schools. They also demanded regularisation of services, wage hike and time-bound promotions. They walked to the Deputy Commissioner’s office in large numbers and sat there for hours. They listened to speeches by their leaders, submitted a memorandum to the government and dispersed. Union leader Sarsawati Bai Kanakekar said that the State government was planning to link anganwadis with public schools and allow government schools to open kindergarten classes. This would destroy the anganwadi system. She said that successive governments in the State had betrayed them with false promises of regularising their services. “We have been working for over 25 years with minimum wages and limited facilities. Several anganwadi workers have retired without any benefits,” she said. Union leader Sandhya Kulkarni complained that the Union and State governments were following anti-labour, anti-farmer policies. She urged the governments to drop such policies and enact policies and introduce schemes that were farmer-friendly and labour-friendly. This, she said, would lead to a direct positive impact on the economy of the country.
10 November 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Subbanna Ambesangi passes away||Writer Subbanna Ambesangi (70) died in Eklaspur in Bidar district on Monday. He retired as a college lecturer. Apart from creative works, he produced scholarly thesis on the problems of Kannada-speaking population in the border districts. His poetry collections have won awards.
10 November 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Painter dies after touching live wire||A painter was electrocuted in Gandigawad village near Khanapur on Monday. Raju Kammar (42) came in contact with a live wire on the roof of a building where he was painting. He collapsed and died on the spot. Personnel from the Nandagad Police Station took the body for post-mortem. They handed it over to Kammar’s relatives later. A case of unnatural death has been registered.
10 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Counting of votes for 2 Assembly, 4 Council seats today||The votes polled in the byelections to Sira and Rajarajeshwarinagar Assembly constituencies will be counted on Tuesday and the results should be known by noon. The counting of votes for the biennial elections held in two graduates’ constituencies — South East and Karnataka West — and two teachers’ constituencies — North East and Bengaluru — will also be taken up on Tuesday. Though trends will be evident from 9 a.m. or 10 a.m., a clear picture of the votes polled should emerge by noon. While the byelections to the Assembly constituencies were held on November 3, polling for the Council seats was held on October 28. While Sira recorded nearly 85% polling, the voter turnout in R.R. Nagar was 45%. Polling of about 71% took place in the elections to the Council seats. Counting in all the constituencies will commence at 8 a.m. on Tuesday. The bypoll results are of great importance to the ruling BJP, though the party enjoys a comfortable position in the Assembly. Victory in both constituencies will boost the morale of the party cadre and strengthen the hands of Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, who is seeking the party high command’s nod for expanding his Cabinet. The results will also be a test of the popularity of Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president D.K. Shivakumar, who led the party for the first time in an election after becoming the State unit chief. Victories in both constituencies will help him consolidate his position in the party and emerge as the Chief Minister candidate in the next Assembly elections. For the JD(S), positive results will help to retain its hold, particularly in Sira, where it had won in 2018. The poll results will also set the tone for the upcoming elections to rural and urban local bodies and the byelections to Belagavi Lok Sabha seat and Basavakalyan and Maski Assembly seats. In Sira constituency, T.B. Jayachandra (Congress), Ammajamma, wife of the late MLA B. Sathyanarayana (JD-S), and Rajesh Gowda (BJP) are the candidates. Leaders of all three major parties campaigned here. The R.R. Nagar constituency is touted to witness a straight contest between the Congress and the BJP. The “DK brothers”, particularly Mr. Shivakumar, led the campaign here. Two-time MLA Munirathna (BJP) and electoral newcomers Kusuma H. (Congress) and V. Krishnamurthy (JD-S) are engaged in electoral battle here. In all, there are 15 and 16 candidates in the fray in Sira and R.R. Nagar, respectively. Council polls The results of the Council elections are crucial for the ruling BJP as it lacks majority in the Upper House to pass important Bills. In the last session, the BJP was not able to pass the major land reforms and labour reforms Bills in the Legislative Council. In the 75-member Council, the Congress has 28 members, the BJP 27, and the JD(S) 14. There is also one Independent member, besides the Chairman. The biennial elections were held for four vacant seats.
10 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||DPI mulls over reopening high school classes in December||With a dip in the number of COVID-19 cases reported across the State over the past few weeks, the Department of Public Instruction (DPI) is mulling over reopening high school classes in December. Classes for second pre-university and class 10 students are likely to be conducted in the first week of December if the number of COVID-19 cases reported every day continue to remain low over the next two weeks. The department has already drafted SOPs that need to be followed once schools and PU colleges reopen. The department has convened meetings with several stakeholders, including School Development and Monitoring Committee members, private school managements, teachers’ associations among others over the last week. Commissioner for Public Instruction V. Anbu Kumar submitted a report to the government late on Monday evening. However, senior officials in the department said they were keen on starting classes for high school students as several States had reopened schools. “We are carefully monitoring the situation in States where schools have reopened. We want to learn lessons from them and ensure that we take appropriate measures to ensure the safety of children,” a senior official said. H.K. Manjunath, president of the Karnataka State High School Associate Masters’ Association, said that they had told the department that if they would reopen schools, they should start only with one grade. “We have told them to start class 10 on a trial basis for a fortnight and later take a call on whether classes 8 and 9 should be conducted as well,” he said. D. Shashi Kumar, General Secretary of Associated Managements of Primary and Secondary Schools in Karnataka, said that they had informed the government that they can take a call on when schools would reopen and they would abide by it. “We have told the government that they will have to conduct free testing for the students and staff from time to time and also ensure that students and staff are given free medical treatment if they test positive,” he said. He said that besides releasing the SOP, they also wanted the government to provide clarity on what the protocol should be if a student or staff is tested positive. In addition to that, he said that the association has told the government that the choice of whether classes should be held in shifts or on alternate days should be left to the prerogative of the school managements. The Ministry of Education too last week wrote to all States and Union Territories that opening of schools was inevitable and had suggested that a rigorous protocol be followed.
10 November 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Three-day Krishi Mela to begin on November 11||The University of Agricultural Sciences-Bangalore (UAS-B) will hold a three-day Krishi mela from November 11 to 13. This year, in view of the COVID-19 pandemic, the mela will be a low-key affair. It will be held both physically on the GKVK campus and will be digitally available on website, YouTube, Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, WhatsApp, and Zoom. Only 200 farmers will be allowed at a time and face mask as well as social distancing is a must for those visiting the mela. Similarly, only those in the age group of 18 to 60 will be allowed. Speaking to presspersons here on Monday, UAS-B Vice-Chancellor S. Rajendra Prasad said three new varieties of crops – groundnut GKVK-27, cowpea KC-8, and forage cowpea MFC 09 03 (MFC-3) – will be released, and there will be a demonstration on the recently released 17 new agricultural technologies. Farmers can get solutions to their agricultural problems physically and through zoom meetings from 2 p.m. to 4 p.m. live telecast on demonstration plots and stalls from 10 a.m. to 11 a.m. through social media. The UAS-B has set up 25 stalls for agriculture exhibition while the Indian Institute of Horticultural Research will put up one stall. This time, there will be no private agricultural stalls, Dr. Prasad said. The UAS-B will present six State-level awards and 17 district-level awards to innovative farmers, and awards will also be given to young farmers (94 men and women) at the taluk level. Dr. Prasad said A.K. Singh, Deputy Director General (Extension) Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR), New Delhi, will inaugurate the event at 11 a.m. on November 11. The State-level awards will be presented on November 13. Union Minister for Chemicals and Fertilizers D.V. Sadananda Gowda will be chief guest at the valedictory programme. For details, visitwww.krishmila2020uasb.com.
10 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||State road transport corporations seek Rs. 634 crore to pay salaries till December||Citing poor response for their services, the four State road transport corporations (SRTCs) have again approached the government seeking funds to pay salaries. Over 1.25 lakh employees of the SRTCs are yet to receive salaries for October. In their request to the government, the corporations have expressed inability to pay salaries till December and sought financial help of around Rs. 634 crore. The KSRTC has sought Rs. 202 crore, BMTC needs Rs. 181 crore, NWKRTC Rs. 130 crore and NEKRTC Rs. 120 crore. They have also informed the government about pending bills amounting to Rs. 2,234 crore towards fuel cost, store purchase, retired employees’ benefits and PF. There is pending loan payment of Rs. 1,569 crore towards banks and financial institutions, and borrowing a fresh loan has become a hurdle, they have said. The State government had sanctioned Rs. 1,499 crore for payment of salaries from April to September. Inadequate revenue The SRTCs have said that it will take more time to see revenue return to pre-COVID-19 levels. “The number of commuters remains low. Due to various factors, such as closure of schools and colleges, restrictions on public gatherings and work from home, ridership has not yet picked up. We have been making all efforts to convince people that public transport is safe, but it appears that people are still hesitant to travel,” an official said. In addition to payment of salaries, a drop in revenue generation has also impacted their ability to meet the operational expenses that include fuel cost and spare parts. The corporations have claimed that, due to drop in revenue generation, they anticipate a loss of Rs. 861.31 crore between October and December. Reducing expenses The State government had directed the SRTCs to cut down expenses and not to go for procurement of new buses. They are being forced to defer scrapping of old buses to augment resources. “We have got enough buses to meet the existing demand. There is absolutely no demand for AC buses, and a majority of them continue to remain off the road. Not inducting new buses is unlikely to pose a problem till March,” said an official.  We have got enough buses to meet the existing demand. There is absolutely no demand for AC buses, and a majority of them continue to remain off the road. Not inducting new buses is unlikely to pose a problem till March An official
10 November 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||DKS demands judicial probe into prof.’s death||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee (KPCC) president D.K. Shivakumar has demanded a judicial probe by a retired Karnataka High Court judge into the death of retired Bangalore University professor Dr. N.S. Ashok Kumar. “We have information that he has been a victim of corruption in the selection of vice chancellors to universities, pushing him to take the extreme step. Only an impartial inquiry will help reveal the real culprits in this case,” he said. Dr. Ashok Kumar, who was Registrar, Garden City University, was aspiring to become vice chancellor of one of the four universities for which the State government made appointments on Saturday. Dr. Kumar did not make it to the list and was found dead in his study room hours later, sources said. ‘Rampant corruption’ “There is rampant corruption in the appointment of vice chancellors, and it is openly discussed as well. We have information that Prof. Ashok Kumar was forced to raise a loan at a high rate of interest and pay some individuals to be appointed as vice chancellor. “However, neither did his name figure in the final list of appointees nor did he get back his money, pushing him to the brink. This is very sad,” Mr. Shivakumar alleged. “Prof. Ashok Kumar may have left behind a note saying no one is responsible for his death, but the circumstances clearly point to how he was victimised and trapped by corruption. “There has to be an impartial probe to uncover those involved in this corruption scandal, including the middlemen and those part of the government who have taken money from this professor. It may uncover a larger corruption scandal,” he said.
10 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||BET seeks policy for maintenance of lakes||The Bangalore Environment Trust (BET) has urged the State government and the Monitoring Committee, appointed by the National Green Tribunal (NGT) to oversee the rejuvenation and protection of Bellandur, Varthur and Agara lakes, to come up with lake specific maintenance policy at the earliest by clearly documenting the execution of maintenance activities along with adequate resources, including the budget. “The interim direction by the Honourable High Court clearly states that the State government is required to set aside resources for the rehabilitation and maintenance of lakes as part of its budgetary exercise. The monitoring committee must ensure compliance of that order and get the necessary funds and resources for maintenance of Bellandur , Varthur and Agara lakes for the next 10 years at least,” a document by the Trust stated. The document, with 31 points and titled ‘Citizen’s Agenda for Bellandur/Varthur Catchment’, by the BET has also been submitted to Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), Bangalore Development Authority (BDA), Karnataka State Pollution Control Board (KSPCB) and the Urban Development Department (UDD). According to the BET, one of the many reasons why the lakes were in a state of neglect and pollution was because of the conspicuous absence of maintenance activities. “The one-time rejuvenated lakes are falling into a state of neglect due to lack of maintenance. Agara lake (in the Bellandur lake catchment) was rejuvenated by BDA in 2004, but fell into a state of neglect and severe pollution, following which it was rejuvenated again in 2018-19.” BET has asked for preparation of treated waste water utilisation plan for Bellandur and Varthur lakes catchment area “with a very clear policy decision to use the treated waste water to maintain the lakes of Bengaluru up to its brim.” Terming the one time rejuvenation by the BDA a “complete mess”, the document says, “Its ad-hoc , piecemeal and impractical nature of work has worsened pollution of the lake bed and resulted in infructuous expenses... In terms of silt disposal, an astounding 77% of the desilting cost (i.e. Rs. 131 crore) is allocated for disposal of silt to a quarry 25 km away,” and urges the government for a cost-benefit analysis to justify the disposal cost.
10 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Less than 1,000 cases reported in Bengaluru||After several months, the number of COVID-19 cases reported in the city was less than 1,000. As many as 978 positive cases were reported in Bengaluru on Monday. Meanwhile, the number of positive cases reported in the State was 1,963. This is the first time in several months that the cases have fallen below 2000. However, this is also because number of tests conducted on Sunday had dipped. Only 84,965 tests were conducted on Sunday. The positivity rate for the day however stood at 2.31 %. With this, the total number of positive cases reported in Karnataka stands at 8.48 lakh and with 2,686 discharges on Sunday, and a total numbers of discharges at 8.04 lakh. The recovery rate stands at 94.7%. Meanwhile, as many as 19 COVID-19 deaths were reported on Sunday, taking the total number of deaths to 11,410.
10 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Arrangements in place in R.R. Nagar||By around 1.30 p.m. on Tuesday, it will be clear who the MLA for Rajarajeshwarinagar Assembly constituency is. However, with restrictions in place, there will be no victory procession or bursting of crackers. The byelection to the segment was held on November 3 in 678 polling stations, with 2.09 lakh voters exercising their franchise. The counting of votes will be undertaken at Jnanakshi Vidya Niketan School in R.R. Nagar. Addressing reporters on Monday, Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) Commissioner N. Manjunath Prasad, who is also the District Election Officer, said the counting would begin at 8 a.m. with the 412 postal ballots received. The EVM counting, which will be done in 25 rounds, is to be taken up at 8.30 a.m. The counting of votes will be taken up simultaneously in four halls, each with seven tables to ensure social distancing. Nearly 500 poll staff have been deputed. The staff have been allotted tables through randomisation, and they will be informed of the details on Tuesday morning, as per the directions of the Election Commission of India. Mr. Prasad said that after the EVM counting is completed, the poll staff would randomly pick five VVPATs and count the slips. The entire counting is likely to end before 1.30 p.m. He also said that after the counting, the EVMs would be sealed and sent to a storeroom, where they will be kept for 45 days. This is in case of any dispute in counting. With regard to the restrictions in place, neither the poll staff nor party agents will be allowed to carry on their person any bags or mobile phones. Everyone should wear a mask, while thermal scanning and sanitisation facilities will be provided by the BBMP. “We will strictly enforce social distancing,” he said, adding that public announcements would be made on the results of each round of counting. Police security City Police Commissioner Kamal Pant said a four-layer police security would be in place at the counting centre, and only people with valid ID cards issued by the Returning Officer would be allowed on the premises. As many as 592 police personnel will be in place at the counting centre, apart from nine platoons each of KSRP and CAR. Prohibitory orders will be in place in the Assembly segment from 6 a.m. to midnight on Tuesday. There will be a ban on sale and consumption of alcohol during the period.
10 November 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Power cut||There will be no power supply from 10 a.m. to 5.30 p.m. in the areas serviced by Jayadeva, Sarakki and RBI sub-stations from November 11 to November 13. The areas that will be affected are: November 11: Jayadeva F-11 feeder, Mico BTM Layout II Stage, F-12 Puttenhalli; November 12: Sarakki F-24 and F15 feeders. Jayadeva F-9; November 13: Jayadeva F-10 feeder.
10 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Just signing MoU is not good enough’||Karnataka is fully committed towards fruitful implementation of business partnerships and does not believe in merely entering into memorandum of understanding (MoU) with companies and countries and leaving it, said Deputy Chief Minister C.N. Ashwath Narayan. “We are keen to take each of these MoUs we sign to the logical end. We are not just interested in signing them and forgetting about them,” he said on Monday while addressing a gathering of global delegates and diplomats at a session on Building International Partnership, held in connection with the State’s tech exposition, Bengaluru Tech Summit, scheduled to be held between November 19 and 21. In the last over 25 years, the State would have entered into hundreds of MoUs with prospective domestic and global investors. “So what has been signed (in the past) has to be taken up properly and see to it that the implementation happens very effectively,” said the Deputy CM, who also holds the IT, BT and Science & Technology portfolio. On collaboration, he said, it should not be limited to science and technology.
10 November 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Power tariff hike: DKS warns of stir||Karnataka Pradesh Congress Committee president D.K. Shivakumar has criticised the State government for increasing the power tariff, saying that such a hike would increase the misery of the people already suffering from economic slowdown owing to COVID-19. He termed the hike “anti-people” and demanded that it be withdrawn, failing which protests would be launched in a week.
10 November 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Workers stage protest against NEP||Anganwadi and midday meal workers, on Monday, staged a protest opposing the National Education Policy (NEP) proposed by the Centre and other programmes. They took out a march from Hemavati Statue Circle to the Zilla Panchayat office, raising slogans against the governments and demanding an upward revision of honorarium paid to them. The workers said that if the NEP, recently released by the Centre, was implemented, the schools and anganwadis in rural areas would get no admissions. The purpose of the programme to provide integrated child development services would fail. Both the governments had been getting a lot of work done from the anganwadi workers at low pay. The protesters also said they would take out a protest across the State boycotting their work on November 26. They submitted memorandums to the ZP CEO, Deputy Commissioner and Deputy Director of Women and Child Development.
10 November 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||‘EC did not act against corrupt practices’||The former Minister and JD(S) leader H.D. Revanna has alleged that the Election Commission (EC) did not take action against those engaged in luring voters by distributing money during the byelections to Sira and R.R. Nagar. Speaking to presspersons in Hassan on Monday, Mr. Revanna said that the media showed the corrupt practices adopted by the political parties to lure voters. Despite having this information, the officers of the Election Commission did not act. In Sira, BJP workers distributed money openly. Going by the rulebook, the BJP candidate should have been disqualified. The JD(S) had filed complaints with the Election Commission, he said. Reacting to Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa’s claim that his party candidates would win both seats with a huge margin, Mr. Revanna said if they were confident of winning the seats within margin, one would wonder how much they should have spent to lure voters. “If the Election Commission cannot act to stop the violation of Model Code of Conduct, there is no need to hold elections. Let there be the nomination of representatives,” he said.
10 November 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Demand for State government to take back forest land intensifies||A forum of environmentalists in Shivamogga has intensified its protest demanding that the State government take back forest land leased to Mysore Paper Mills Ltd. at Bhadravati to grow acacia, the raw material for paper production. Nammurige Acacia Mara Beda Horata Okkuta, the federation fighting against acacia plantations in Shivamogga, has appealed to Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa to not renew the lease, instead make use of the land to expand the forest cover, in tune with the biodiversity of the land. The forum, which includes activists, journalists, advocates and writers, is of the view that acacia plantations have impacted the biodiversity here. Shashi Sampalli, a writer, journalist and one of the members, said the increase in monkey menace in the farmlands could be attributed to acacia plantations. “If the same land was utilised for trees that could have offered food for monkeys, the farming community would have been free from the menace. Besides this, if a farmer encroaches upon forest area to grow food crops, the State government arrests him. But, the same government has allowed the company to grow raw material on the forest land. How can anybody justify this,” he wondered. The forum has its taluk units, which also recently staged protests pressurizing the government to withdraw the forest land from the MPM. A delegation of the federation, led by K.P. Sripal, an advocate, met former Chief Minister Siddaramaiah during his visit to Shivamogga on Sunday and urged him to raise the issue in the next Assembly session and support the fight to save forests. It is also taking a delegation to Bengaluru on November 12 to meet senior officers of the Forest Department on this issue. The State government had leased out 22,418.58 ha of forest land in Shivamogga, Chikkamagluru, Chitradurga and Davangere districts to MPM Ltd, a public sector unit for 40 years.
10 November 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Counting in West Graduates today, results by evening||All arrangements have been made at University of Agricultural Sciences (UAS), Dharwad, where counting of votes in the elections to Karnataka West Graduates Constituency of the Legislative Council will be taken up on Tuesday. Returning Officer and Regional Commissioner of Belagavi Amlan Aditya Biswas and Election Observer and Additional Chief Secretary Shalini Rajaneesh reviewed the preparations on Monday evening. The constituency which comprises the districts of Dharwad, Gadag, Haveri and Uttar Kannada recorded 70.11 % polling on October 28, exceeding all expectations. Out of the 74,278 voters, 52,068 voters have cast their votes. While all arrangements have been made for counting, it is likely to take more time than expected as it involves preferential voting. According to officials, counting might more time if no candidate gets the required number of votes in the first round. Any candidate securing 50 % of the total valid votes plus one first preference vote will get elected in the first round itself. If it doesn’t happen, then counting will begin for second preference votes and then, the third preference votes. BJP’s S.V. Sankanur’s attempt for a second term is being challenged by Congress’ R.M. Kuberappa and Independent candidate Basavaraj Gurikar. This apart, there are eight candidates, including Shivashankar Kallur of the Janata Dal(S) who withdrew from the contest in support of Mr. Gurikar. 14 tables Briefing presspersons about the preparations on Monday evening, Mr. Amlan Aditya Biswas said that 14 tables had been set up for counting. “To facilitate smooth process of counting, the Election Commission has appointed four additional assistant returning officers. In all, 64 officials will be engaged in counting of votes,” he said. Mr. Biswas said that three layer security arrangements had been put in place on the university campus and all COVID-19 guidelines would be strictly followed. A special isolation room had been set up on campus as a precautionary measure. In the run-up to the election, 25 cases have been booked for violation of model code of conduct and other violations and in 11 cases, FIRs have been filed.
10 November 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Vinay Kulkarni remanded in judicial custody for 14 days||Congress leader and former Minister Vinay Kulkarni has been remanded in judicial custody for 14 days by the Second Additional District Court after the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) didnot seek extension of custody in the case of the murder of zilla panchayat member Yogeeshgouda Goudar. As the three-day CBI custody ended on Monday, Mr. Kulkarni was supposed to be produced before the Second Additional District and Sessions Court, which also functions as the CBI special court by noon. However, after reviewing the security issues and considering the large gathering outside the court premises in Dharwad, the accused was produced before the court through videoconference facility. As the CBI did not seek police custody and sought judicial custody of the accused, judge Panchakashari M. remanded the former Minister in judicial custody for 14 days. For security reasons, Mr. Kulkarni will be lodged at Hindalga jail in Belagavi, where he was lodged earlier before being brought to the CAR premises in Hubballi for further questioning. CBI prosecutor K. Sudershan informed the court that the accused had not consented to a polygraph test. Earlier in the day, as a large number of followers of Mr. Kulkarni had gathered near the district court premises, the police tightened security with the deployment of additional personnel. Similar security arrangements were also made outside the CAR premises. Seers meet Meanwhile, in the aftermath of Mr. Kulkarni’s arrest, Lingayat seers held a meeting at Gadag Tontadarya Mutt on Sunday to discuss the issue. At the meeting, chaired by Sri Siddarama Swami of Gadag TontadaryaMutt, Sri Basava Jaya Mrutyunjaya Swami of Koodalasangama Peetha, Sri Nijaguna Tondarya Swami of Mundaragi, and Sri Mallikarjun Swami of Murugha Mutt, Dharwad, participated. Sri Siddarama Swami told presspersons that both Mr. Kulkarni and the zilla panchayat member who was murdered were Lingayats. “The CBI has begun investigation and we have high regard and faith in the judicial system. We hope the CBI will conduct the investigation without any prejudice against anyone,” he said. Meanwhile, accusations continued to be made of political vendetta pertaining to the case, and Dharwad district in-charge Minister Jagadish Shettar took exception to them. “If anyone has any objection pertaining to the CBI inquiry, they should question it in court instead of issuing statements on the streets,” he said. Regarding the statements of the Lingayat seers, he said that the investigating agencies and the court would do their job. In such cases, politics and religion should not be brought in, he said.
10 November 2020||HUBBALLI,KARNATAKA||Exams mandatory for intermediate semester students: KSLU||The Karnataka State Law University (KSLU) has clarified that all law students of intermediate semesters in affiliated colleges of the university would have to appear for their examinations compulsorily as per guidelines of the Bar Council of India. For admission only In a press release issued here, Registrar (Evaluation) of KSLU G.B. Patil has clarified that the promotion of students to next semester was only for the sake of admission and the students would have to invariably appear for their examinations of intermediate semesters after the reopening of colleges. The Registrar has said that there was a misunderstanding among the intermediate semester law students that there would be no examination. Referring to the press release issued by Bar Council of India on June 9, October 5, and November 1, he said that KSLU had already sent a circular to all the affiliated colleges. “All intermediate semester students of various law courses who have been promoted to the next class are required to write intermediate examinations compulsorily as per the Bar Council,” he said. The intermediate semester examination will be scheduled after reopening of the colleges by keeping in mind the COVID-19 situation, he has clarified.
10 November 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||All set for counting in North East Teachers segment||Counting of votes in the North East Teachers Constituency of the Legislative Council will be taken up at Bhaskar Hall of the Mathematics Department on Gulbarga University campus here on Tuesday. Regional Commissioner and Returning Officer N.V. Prasad visited the counting centre on Monday evening and took stock of the preparations put in place. Speaking to the media, Mr. Prasad said that counting of votes would begin at 8 a.m. “There are seven tables for counting. Each table would have a counting supervisor, three counting assistants and a Group D staff. In total, we have deployed 120 staff for the purpose and all of them have been adequately trained for the task,” Mr. Prasad said. On the security front, the officer said that 100 police personnel, including a Deputy Commissioner of Police and an Assistant Commissioner of Police, had been deployed in and around the Gulbarga University campus. Section 144 In a press release, Deputy Commissioner Vijaya Jyothsna, who was Assistant Returning Officer for the constituency, said that prohibitory orders have been imposed in and around the Gulbarga University campus under Section 144 of the Criminal Procedure Code to ensure smooth and free counting process. “Carrying ink pen, sketch pen, sharp weapon, explosives, mobile, cigarette, gutka and water bottle is prohibited,” she said. She also made it clear that the sale of liquor was banned in the city between the midnight of Monday and Tuesday under Rule 10(B) of Karnataka Excise Licences (General Conditions) Rules 1967. Elections to the North East Teachers Constituency of the Legislative Council were held on October 28. As per information provided by the office of the Regional Commissioner, 21,437 people have exercised their franchise in 147 polling stations established across the constituency that comprised Bidar, Kalaburagi, Yadgir, Raichur, Koppal and Ballari districts. There were five candidates in the fray: Sharanappa Mattur of the Congress, Shashil G. Namoshi of the BJP, Timmayya Purle of the Janata Dal(S), Vatal Nagaraj of the Kannada Chalavali Vatal Paksha and Independent candidate Chandrakanth Singhe.
10 November 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Survey of India officials are helping illegal miners: Activist||Activist Tapal Ganesh has accused the Union government’s Survey of India officials, who had undertaken a survey along the Karnataka-Andhra Pradesh border in Ballari district to establish the States’ border destroyed by alleged illegal mining, of helping illegal miners. Addressing a media conference here on Monday, Mr. Ganesh said that the survey officers were attempting to cover up the evidence of illegal mining in the district by altering the State border. “The officials, who are on the mission of establishing Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh border, should rely on village maps to draw the inter-State border. But they are attempting to draw the border in such a way that it should help illegal miners who have destroyed the border. Their survey report would show the areas of Karnataka as part of Andhra Pradesh so as to protect the illegal miners who had destroyed the borders to extract iron ore in Karnataka using mining licence of Andhra Pradesh,” he said. He also made it clear that he would move the Supreme Court against the survey report. Mr. Ganesh also criticised Kannada organisations and Congress for not raising their voice against the attempt of illegal miners and the Survey of India officials. “Rural Development and Panchayat Raj Minister K.S. Eshwarappa’s son-in-law owns stakes in a company that was accused of illegal mining. The Karnataka Lokayukta had recommended cancellation of its mining licenses also. I strongly feel that the survey officers were manipulating to protect the company and its owners. Nobody, including Kannada organisations and the Congress, is talking about it. If we all remain silent, large tracts of Karnataka’s land, including Timmapana Gudda, would go to Andhra Pradesh,” Mr. Ganesh said.
10 November 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Anganwadi workers, assistants stage protest||Anganwadi workers and assistants, under the banner of Karnataka State Anganwadi Workers and Assistants Federation affiliated to Centre of Indian Trade Union, staged a protest outside the Deputy Commissioner’s office in Kalaburagi on Monday. State working president of the federation Shanta Ghanti and district president Gauramma Patil demanded that the State government regularise the services of anganwadi workers and assistants. Their demand included basic minimum pay of Rs. 21,000 for workers and Rs. 18,000 for assistants, retirement settlement and a pension of Rs. 10,000.
10 November 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Fines imposed on violators in Bidar, masks distributed among people||Bidar Deputy Commissioner Ramachandran R. and Superintendent of Police Nagesh D.L. participated in a programme to spread awareness about the precautions to be taken to prevent COVID-19, imposing fines on violators and distributing masks free to people in Bidar on Monday. As the officers stopped two-wheelers, four-wheelers and autorickshaws and imposed fines, people who were watching the operations from a distance took out their face masks from their pockets and started wearing them to avoid penalty. The two officers visited the public places near the District Court and Tahsildar Office and asked people on the road and those inside shops without wearing masks to comply with the government directions on COVID-19. They also boarded a few city buses and distributed masks to people, while appealing to them to continue to wear masks to avoid the contract of the infection.
10 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||SKDRDP launches Jnana Tana to help rural Kannada-medium students||In a boost to the morale of Kannada-medium students in rural areas in the State, Shree Kshetra Dharmasthala Rural Development Project (SKDRDP), a non-governmental organisation, will distribute 20,000 tabs and 10,000 laptops at an estimated cost of Rs. 81 crore in the current academic year. These tabs and laptops will come with pre-loaded Kannada-medium curriculum of English, Science and Mathematics subjects for students from Class 5 to Class 10. Launching the initiative under the title Jnana Tana in Dharmasthala on Monday, SKDRDP president D. Veerendra Heggade said that it will benefit about one lakh students. With this, he said, such students who have been deprived of online education due to lack of tabs and laptops can join the mainstream. Mr. Heggade gave away tabs and laptops symbolically to six students on the occasion. He said that the NGO has risen to the occasion to help children of common people. The attitude that only the rich can have tabs and laptops is not proper. The initiative has been launched to help rural students to build their career using the tools of Information Technology. Students who have availed themselves of the facility should make the best use of it. Executive Director of SKDRDP L.H. Manjunath told The Hindu that SD cards having the pre-loaded Kannada-medium curriculum will be given with the tabs and laptops. Hence, students need not purchase SIM card or have Internet or WiFi connectivity. Even if there is no phone and Internet connectivity in rural areas, students can engage themselves in learning by being at home. But the tabs and laptops have options to get phone, bluetooth, Internet and WiFi connectivity. Mr. Manjunath said that the tabs, laptops and curriculum will not be given free. The family of each beneficiary will have to bear the margin money fixed. The NGO will extend financial assistance to student families to bear their cost. The manufacturing companies of tabs, laptops and suppliers of the curriculum have agreed to supply them at concessional rate. Hence, the margin money of student families will also come down, he said. He said that the NGO will appoint 450 trained honorary teachers to guide and help students who have been given the tabs, laptops and curriculum. The teachers will also conduct tests for such students to assess their performance.
10 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Karnataka Bank launches national common mobility debit card for contact-less usage||Karnataka Bank Ltd. on Monday launched the National Common Mobility Debit Card. The bank said in a press release that this Rupay card is a contact-less debit-cum-prepaid and interoperable transport card.  User-friendly It said that users can make payments without inserting the card at Point of Sale terminals.  Payments can be made at toll plazas, metro transits, parking lots, retail outlets and smart cities with the help of this card. The card’s wallet supports small-ticket size offline payments through the value stored in it, the bank said. ‘A change’ Quoting Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of the bank Mahabaleshwara M.S. as saying, the bank said that this card is expected to change the banking paradigm in retail payments with its unique features of “tap and go” and “offline wallet” payments.
10 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||SPCA to study livestock centre’s capacity to take care of cattle notified as unwanted||The Society for Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, Dakshina Kannada, headed by Deputy Commissioner, will look into the capacity of the State Livestock Breeding Centre in Koila to take care of 41 head of unwanted cattle before taking a decision on distributing these cattle among the 13 Gou Shalas (shelters for cattle). During the meeting of the society here on Monday, Deputy Director of Livestock Breeding and Training Centre Henry said that with shortage of staff, the centre is finding it hard to take care of 41 cattle which have been notified as unwanted. Moreover, the centre, which is spread out on 700 hectares, has 440 animals, over two times its carrying capacity of 200. Deputy Director of Animal Husbandry Prasanna Kumar P.G. said that the State government has issued directions that such cattle should be taken care of by the Gou Shalas that are receiving aid from the government. Subrahmanya Bhat from the Swami Vivekananda Sevashrama Trust, Belthangady, which manages one of the 13 Gou Shalas in the district, said that it is wrong on the part of the State government to force Gou Shalas to take care of unwanted cattle. “Just because the government is giving aid, it cannot force Gou Shalas to take care of such cattle for which we have to spend double the aid given by the government,” he said. Activist Dinesh Pai said that the government should not put a rider that refusal to take care of such animals will lead to cancellation of aid. Activist Suma Nayak said that the centre, which has large tracts of land, should look at other ways to take care of the 41 head of cattle. Agreeing with this suggestion, Deputy Commissioner K.V. Rajendra directed Mr. Kumar to visit the centre in a week’s time and look whether the unwanted cattle can be taken care of there. “If it is not feasible, then these cattle can be distributed among the 13 Gou Shalas,” he said. Mr. Kumar said that the State government has so far released Rs. 14.8 lakh aid for eight Gou Shalas in the district for the year 2020-21. Applications have come from five Gou Shalas seeking aid. The total aid sought by 13 Gou Shalas was Rs. 96.69 lakh, he said.
10 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Merge Mangaluru-Thokur rail line with SWR’||Rail users from Mangaluru region have urged Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa to pursue the long-pending issue of merger of the route between Mangaluru Central and Thokur railway stations with South Western Railway (SWR). This stretch is under Southern Railway. A memorandum addressed to Mr. Yediyurappa was submitted by Hanumanth Kamath, president of Paschima Karavali Rail Yatri Abhivrudhi Samiti and member of Palakkad Railway Users Consultative Committee, and Rajiv Gaonkar, member of Konkan Railway Users Consultative Committee, to Sridhar Murthy, Special Officer in the office of the Chief Minister. Mr. Kamath and Mr. Gaonkar said that as the Mangaluru railway network is under the Southern, South Western and Konkan railway zones, it is difficult for starting new trains or making modifications in existing trains by taking concurrence of the three zones. Moreover, the Phalghat division of Southern Railway, which has jurisdiction over the Mangaluru Central-Thokur stretch, has not been answering the needs of commuters of the region. A demand for introduction of more trains towards other parts of the State and places in North India has not been considered by Southern Railway in successive Inter Zonal Railway Time Table conferences. It is considering all these facts that the then Railway Minister Nitish Kumar ordered merger of the Mangaluru Central-Thokur stretch with South Western Railway during his visit to the city on December 28,2003. As gauge conversion was on in the Mangaluru-Hassan stretch, the Railway Board said on December 27, 2004 that the merger would happen after the completion of the work. The gauge conversion work was completed in 2006 and passenger services started on the stretch in December 2007. As the Railway Board was silent, several representations were made demanding merger. South Western Railway wrote to the board in August 2014 stating that the merger was essential for proper management and seamless integration of traffic in the section. The two activists asked Mr. Yediyurappa to persuade the Railway Board to hold a meeting and issue a notification on the merger of the stretch with South Western Railway.
10 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Full-fledged abattoir sought for city||Members of the Communist Party of India (Marxist), the Communist Party of India, the Janata Dal (Secular) and other social organisations staged a demonstration here on Saturday demanding a full-fledged abattoir in the city. Addressing the protestors, Janata Dal(S) leader M.B. Sadashiva said that food is personal choice. The State government has to protect the rights of the people by providing safe and quality food. When a majority of citizens are non-vegetarians, the government should set up a full-fledged abattoir for goat, sheep and cattle. The communal parties politicising issues related to food should be exposed, he said. CPI(M) leader Yadava Shetty said that for over two decades, the BJP and the Sangh Parivar organisations have given communal colour to animal slaughter and transportation of cattle. CPI(M) leader and convener of Aahara Hakku Samrakshana Horata Samiti Sunil Kumar Bajal said that despite having legal documents, meat traders are being booked in cases of cattle theft, he said. CPI leader Seetaram Berinja and the former MLC Ivan D’Souza also spoke. The former MLA B.A. Mohiuddin Bawa and CPI leader V. Kukkyan were among the many who took part in the demonstration.
10 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Postal Dept. launches doorstep Digital Life Certificate service||The postal department has launched Digital Life Certificate service on the doorstep of pensioners wherein the postman will go to the house of the pensioner and do the needful for submitting the Digital Life Certificate. Now, the Digital Life Certificate can be submitted in any month and the certificate is valid for a year from the date of submission. In case the pensioner received the pension payment order generated in less than one year, the life certificate is to be submitted only after a year is completed. After submitting Digital Life Certificate, pensioners need not again send any paper in this connection to the Employees Provident Fund Organisation office or their bank. Their accounts will get updated automatically. Pensioners can submit their Digital Life Certificate through bank branches, common service centres, UMANG App, EPFO offices and post offices, a release issued by Vincent Jacob Cheru, Assistant Provident Fund Commissioner, EPFO Office, Regional Office, Mangaluru, said here on Monday.
10 November 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Cong. protests privatisation of Mangaluru airport||By allowing Adani Group to take over operations of Mangaluru International Airport, the Union government has taken the airport away from Mangalureans, said former Minister B. Ramanath Rai here on Monday. Speaking at the protest by Congress workers held near the airport, Mr. Rai said the Congress built institutions like the Mangaluru International Airport and New Mangalore Port, which are symbols of pride for Mangaluru. The Centre was corporatising operations of these institutions and taking them away from Mangaloreans. Former MLA J.R. Lobo said the pride of Mangaloreans was hit hard with the merger of Corporation Bank with Union Bank of India, which was followed by merger of Vijaya Bank with Bank of Baroda. By allowing Adani Group to operate the Mangaluru airport, the Union government has continued to neglect Dakshina Kannada, he said. Dakshina Kannada District Congress president K. Harish Kumar, former MLA K. Abhayachandra Jain, former MLC Ivan D’Souza and president of District Youth Congress Mithun Rai also spoke.
10 November 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Sandalwood museum may be shifted to palace premises||Visitors to Mysuru palace may soon get to see another attraction here as plans are afoot to shift the ‘sandalwood museum’ being developed at Aranya Bhavan in Ashokapuram to the palace premises. Disclosing this here on Monday, Minister in-charge of Mysuru district S.T. Somashekar, who, after visiting the sandalwood museum that is nearing completion, said it was being planned to shift it to the palace premises. He added that he would consult Forest Minister Anand Singh and Chief Secretary T.M. Vijayabhaskar, who is the chairman of Mysuru Palace Board, in this regard. Mr. Somashekar said many farmers had started cultivating sandalwood on their lands responding to the initiatives taken by the Forest Department for its promotion. In a bid to expand private cultivation and establish a one-stop destination for all information on sandalwood and its farming, the museum was planned and is now coming up at Aranya Bhavan. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa had given his approval to the proposal of encouraging more farmers to take up sandalwood farming, giving them all relevant details about the crop, through the museum. However, since not much space was available for the museum at Aranya Bhavan and the area cannot accommodate more visitors, suggestions have come in for shifting the museum with all its collections to the palace premises as the area there was bigger and can also act as another attraction for tourists, bringing additional revenue. A decision in this regard will be taken soon after consultations with the Chief Minister, who will be requested to inaugurate it, he said. During the Minister’s visit to the sandalwood museum, the forest officials said sandalwood supplied to the depot by farmers and others (grown in private lands) was categorized based on the quality and accordingly stored safely in the sandalwood depot. The stock was auctioned once in two years. Earlier, Mr. Somashekar held a meeting with the forest officials and discussed the museum project. The forest officials suggested establishing the museum on the palace premises instead of Aranya Bhavan. The museum can bring in revenue if it was set up at the palace premises which is a major tourist destination and draws lakhs of tourists every year. They said there is a huge demand for sandalwood and more steps were essential for safeguarding the trees. The Minister said Mysuru is well-known for sandalwood reserves and felt the need to safeguard the trees besides promoting the steps taken by the department for bringing more farmers to take up sandalwood cultivation. “Looking all these factors, a decision will be taken after discussions with the Forest Minister,” he told reporters here. The museum is almost ready with the displays. MUDA Chairman H.V. Rajiv, Project Tiger Director Jagathram, CCF T Hiralal, DCF Prashanth Kumar and senior forest officers were present.
10 November 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||MUDA seeks dedicated task force to prevent encroachment||The Mysuru Urban Development Authority (MUDA) is witnessing a slow but gradual shrinking of its land-bank due to encroachment to curb which it will constitute a dedicated task force. The encroachment is significant and has considerably shrunk the swathe of land under MUDA as a result of which it is unable to roll out new infrastructure or housing projects. MUDA Chairman H.V. Rajiv said the task force would be similar to the one in the BDA in Bengaluru and a proposal has been submitted to the government for approval. He said it will be headed by an officer of the rank of Deputy Superintendent of Police and will have a team which will have powers to evict encroachment and help reclaim the land. He said it will have complete powers to survey and reclaim the MUDA property with additional police support when required. “The encroachment is significant and by the time it comes to the notice of the engineers a full-fledged residential colony would already be in place,” said Mr. Rajiv. Eviction and reclamation of encroached property on a large scale was fraught with difficulties as MUDA comes under political pressure to regularise them by taking a ‘humane view’, he added. Besides, if a police complaint was filed pertaining to encroachment, it does not receive priority and hence the task force is expected to be a solution. Though the official maps indicate a specific property or land belonging to MUDA, spot inspections tend to indicate that the area has been built up over the years and demolition attempts tend to end in legal disputes that drag on for years. “We would have compensated the farmers and acquired the land but a spot inspection would reveal the presence of a layout,” say senior MUDA officials.  Updated registry Mr. Rajiv said that apart from a dedicated taskforce the MUDA would also update its property registry. “In the absence of a property register it is even more difficult to ascertain which is a MUDA property and which is not and hence the property register would also be updated,” he added. Survey of properties MUDA also relies on the property survey conducted under the Urban Property Ownership Records (UPOR) project under which more than 1.75 lakh properties have been surveyed and digitized. This helps in ascertaining the original ownership of land. But almost one-third of the properties surveyed do not have proper or verifiable documents and hence the MUDA cannot entirely depend on this.  By the time an encroachment comes to notice, a full-fledged residential colony would be in place. H.V. Rajiv chairman, MUDA
10 November 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||1,436 students to be conferred degrees at 11th JSSAHER convocation on Nov. 11||A total of 1,436 students will be conferred degrees at the 11th Convocation of JSS Academy of Higher Education and Research (JSSAHER) at Suttur Mutt near Chamundi foothills on November 11. Minister for Health and Family Welfare and Medical Education K. Sudhakar, who has consented to be the chief guest, will deliver the Convocation address and give away gold medals and prizes in the presence of Suttur Mutt Seer Shivarathri Deshikendra Swami. The students, parents and guardians of the students, and others from the institutions will participate in the ceremony virtually. While a total of 1,436 students will be conferred with degrees at Bachelors, Masters and Doctoral levels in the faculties of medicine, dentistry, pharmacy, management studies, life sciences and biomedical sciences, 52 candidates will share 72 medals and awards, besides 46 will be awarded PhD degrees and five others will receive their medical super speciality degrees, JSSAHER Vice Chancellor Surinder Singh told reporters on Monday. The convocation, which will begin at 11 a.m. on Wednesday at Suttur Mutt, will be live-streamed on the JSSAHER YouTube channel. The proceedings will also be screened at a few JSS institutions including JSS College of Pharmacy in Bannimantap. About 7,500 students are presently pursuing an education in about 149 academic programmes offered by JSSAHER’s constituent institutions. JSSAHER, which has a total of 675 teaching staff and 593 supporting staff, has started new courses in health sciences by establishing a Department of Environmental Sciences, a Department of Biotechnology and Bioinformatics and a Department of Microbiology, which were earlier functioning as divisions in Faculty of Life Sciences. JSSAHER, which has published more than 1,032 scientific research publications and filed 12 patents, has received a total of Rs. 21.77 crore as research grants from various national funding agencies. As on date, 716 students are pursuing PhDs here.
10 November 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||M.M. Hills Temple laddu, Dasoha meal secure FSSAI licence||Sri Malai Mahadeshwara Temple has secured a licence under the Food Safety and Standards Act (FSSAI) for the “prasada” it serves to devotees visiting the temple atop M.M. Hills in Chamarajanagar district. With this, laddu and prepared food (served twice a day as part of the Dasoha programme) are now FSSAI-certified. Sri Malai Mahadeshwara Kshetra Development Authority, Mahadeshwara Betta, Hanur taluk, had sought registration under FSSAI six months ago and the licence was issued recently by the Designated Officer, FSSAI, Chamarajanagar. The licence is valid for one year and needs to be renewed every year, subject to meeting the conditions laid down under the Act. The licence had been availed as a part of Blissful Hygienic Offering to God (BHOG), a project initiated by FSSAI for places of worship across the country for complying with the food safety guidelines laid down under the Act while preparing prasada. Authority secretary Jaya Vaibhava Swamy said: “We completed all mandatory registration processes and thereafter the licence was issued to us. This has doubled our responsibilities as highest safety and quality standards have to be adhered to in the preparation of prasada.” The secretary said the temple sought the FSSAI licence on the advice of the Minister in-charge of Chamarajanagar district S. Suresh Kumar, who had inspected the prasada preparation a few months ago. He said the quality control measures as mandated under the Act would be examined once in three months by the representatives of FSSAI. “On the suggestion of the Commissioner, Department of Muzrai, the food safety standards maintained at Sri Kshetra Dharmasthala were studied and the people in charge of the temple kitchen underwent training. Subsequently, we applied for FSSAI licence. All quality control protocols are being met,” he said. Mr. Swamy said the temple has the capacity to prepare 50,000 laddus every day. However, on an average, 20,000 to 25,000 laddus are prepared and during peak season (before COVID-19), laddus were prepared to the installed capacity because of the rush of devotees.
10 November 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Free RT-PCR tests in malls, markets||Ahead of the festive season when people throng markets for shopping, free RT-PCR tests are being conducted at all malls across the city in an effort to check the spread of COVID-19. The free tests for the staff of shops at the city’s two major malls in Nazarabad got off to a start on Sunday. This measure will continue until Deepavali is over. The malls are places that attract large crowds for festive shopping. Mobile testing units set up by the Mysuru City Corporation are being used to collect swab samples of the staff and shoppers. MCC Health Officer D.G. Nagaraj said places attracting large crowds are being focused on at the moment as a precautionary measure. “The cases have come under control in the past few days and we want to ensure that it does not spread, taking all precautions by stepping up the tests,” he said. Dr. Nagaraj said the details of those whose swab samples had been collected were stored and persons testing positive would be isolated, thereby checking the further spread of the infection. Free tests are also being planned for industrial workers, he said, adding that static testing teams had been deployed at places that attract crowds such as markets, bus-stands and so on. They shall remain there and continue tests until further instructions. The results of the tests conducted on Sunday are expected by Monday evening. Meanwhile, cases have continued to fall in Mysuru with 95 testing positive 19 on Monday. This is the second time since last week that the cases had dropped to the two-digit mark.
10 November 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Depleted reserves||Karnataka, especially the forests under Mysuru division, was once known as ‘Srigandhada Nadu’ (Land of Sandalwood). But over the years, it lost this unique distinction with the fast depletion of sandalwood reserves. To promote sandalwood cultivation on private lands, the Forest Department started distributing sandalwood saplings at subsidised costs. On an average, 5,000 to 10,000 saplings raised at the sandalwood nursery here were distributed every year. Saplings can be bought from the department for commercial cultivation. Barring ‘Srigandhada Kote’ (sandalwood depot) here and the Karnataka Soaps and Detergents Limited (KDSL), trees on private land cannot be sold to others. Besides Mysuru, Srigandhada Kote is located in Shivamogga and Dharwad. Mysuru, Chamarajnagar and Sathyamangalam (in Tamil Nadu) are reckoned to be potential belts where sandalwood trees grow naturally. Regeneration was also said to be good in this belt. Unlike teak, people were not very keen to take up sandalwood cultivation on a big scale for two reasons – safety issues and slow-growth of the tree (returns take time). Kerala and Tamil Nadu also are catering to the State’s sandalwood needs. Sandalwood prices had shot up sharply over the years with exhausting reserves.
10 November 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Price of laddu revised||The Malai Mahadeshwara Kshetra Development Authority has revised the price of laddu prasada with effect from November 8 based on the expenditure incurred on making a 100 gm laddu. The price of each laddu has been revised from Rs. 20 to Rs. 25. Meanwhile, the temple will remain closed for devotees from November 13 to 16 as a measure to contain COVID-19, ahead of Deepavali. The order was issued by Deputy Commissioner M.R. Ravi on Monday.
10 November 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Two held, gold worth Rs. 75 lakh recovered||The Mysuru police have arrested two burglars and recovered gold ornaments worth Rs. 75 lakh that they had stolen from two different houses in the city. The accused Lingaraju alias Syed Shahid, 38, a resident of Kunigal in Tumkur district, and Syed Nawab, 40, a resident of Hubballi, had stolen gold ornaments from a house situated in 7th Main, 5th Cross, Saraswathipuram in July end this year before Syed Nawab had similiarly stolen a purse containing gold bangles from a house in Bannimantap in November 2018, police said. A special team constituted by Police Commissioner Chandragupta in the wake of house burglaries being reported in the city picked up the duo near a jewellery store on Ashoka Road earlier this month.
10 November 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Srirangapatna now an EMS station||As a part of the implementation of National Green Tribunal (NGT) directives, Indian Railways is targeting obtaining 720 major stations and 6,000 others the environment management system ISO 14001-2015 certification. In order to comply with NGT directives, it has taken various measures like segregation and disposal of waste, disposal of plastic waste, proper disposal of waste water from stations and ensuring proper cleanliness at stations. The Mysuru division of South Western Railway identified 12 stations for implementation of National Green Tribunal (NGT) guidelines and Environment Management System (EMS) certification. EMS certification of 11 stations in Mysuru, Chamarajanagar, Hassan, Nanjangud Town, Davangere, Shivamogga town, Arsikere, Birur, Harihar, Subramanya Road and Sagar Jambagaru was completed earlier this year and EMS certification was received for Srirangapatna Station on Monday, a release stated.
10 November 2020||November 10 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||RERA-K for online allocation of cases||Amidst allegations from sections of homebuyers of weak implementation of the RERA Act, the Real Estate Regulatory Authority, Karnataka (RERA-K) is preparing to put in place an online system of allocation of cases, which, it says, will result in impartial allotment of cases. RERA-K Secretary K.S. Latha Kumari told The Hindu , “Some people raise questions about the Chairman allotting cases manually. Now we are developing a software where case allocation will be done online and on rotational basis to benches without any human intervention. This will be allotted as and when cases come to the available benches. This will mean impartial allotment. It has already been developed, but it has to be clubbed with our existing complaint model. It should be put in place in another two to three weeks.” The authority put out a notification in November about the constitution of four benches, in addition to the existing three-member authority. “Considering the number of pendency of complaints, a decision has been taken to create additional benches under Section 81 to delegate powers of the authority under the RERA Act on the chairman and members separately by creating the benches,” the notification signed by Ms. Latha Kumari said. Pending cases There are over 2,000 pending cases with the authority, she said, and disposal of cases under the old arrangement was time-consuming. Creation of additional benches will ensure speedy disposal of cases, she added. Meanwhile, the Forum for People’s Collective Efforts, an NGO formerly known as the ‘Fight for RERA’ movement, has written to the Chief Secretary of the Karnataka government requesting a meeting to discuss the functioning of RERA-K. In the letter, they have alleged that RERA Act implementation has not been tracked or reviewed since 2017, when it was first implemented. “The functioning of RERA-K has reached new lows and differences have cropped up among members of the authority, impacting the very purpose of the Act,” they have alleged, adding that there is “no protection for homebuyers.” However, the RERA-K Secretary has denied all allegations. Ms. Latha Kumari said the authority is functioning as per rules and regulations. “Administratively, RERA-K is one of the best in the country,” she added.
10 November 2020||November 10 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Big yield in raid on KAS officer||Documents of over 200 properties, details of 50 banks accounts, Rs. 36 lakh in cash and bank deposits worth Rs. 3.5 crore were among the items recovered during the raids carried out by officials of the ACB in the last two days on the houses and offices belonging to Dr. B. Sudha, administrator of the Department of IT&BT. Seven places belonging to relatives and friends of Sudha in Bengaluru, Mysuru and Udupi were searched. ACB officials are verifying the seized documents. In an official release, the ACB said that over 200 property documents, GPAs and agreement papers were recovered during the raids. These were apart from 50 bank account belonging to Sudha and her relatives. Officials also seized Rs. 36,89,000 from the houses which were raided, as well as bank deposit details of Rs. 3.5 crore. Officials have also seized 3.7 kg of gold valuables and 10.5 kg of silver articles from the houses.
10 November 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||353 cases in Alappuzha||The district reported 353 COVID-19 cases and 792 recoveries on Monday. The fresh cases include 345 patients who contracted the disease through local transmission, while the source of infection of seven others remains unidentified. One person who came from another State also tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. The district also recorded four COVID-19-related deaths. Of the 353 cases, 56 were logged from Alappuzha and 28 from Cherthala. Chennam Pallippuram (27), Cheruthana (27), Mararikulam North (24), Punnapra South (19), Veliyanad (16), Cherthala South (11) and Puliyoor (11) also reported double-digit case count. The number of active COVID-19 cases in the district stands at 8,617. The police have registered 36 cases and arrested 30 people for violating the restrictions imposed to check the spread of COVID-19 in the district. Action was taken against 288 people for not wearing face masks and 849 for not maintaining physical distance. Another two cases were registered for violating prohibitory orders. Parts of ward 17 in Nooranad grama panchayat were declared as containment zones.
10 November 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Supplyco procures 10,500 tonnes of paddy||After the initial hiccups, paddy procurement is making good progress in the district. The Kerala State Civil Supplies Corporation (Supplyco) has so far procured 10,500 tonnes of paddy from farmers in Kuttanad and other parts of the district in the additional crop (second crop) season. “We have completed roughly 50 per cent of the procurement. Barring some minor issues, the process is going smooth,” Maya Gopalakrishnan, paddy marketing officer, Supplyco, Alappuzha said. Earlier, mills decided to keep away from procurement after they failed to reach an agreement with the government over compensation for the procured paddy, which got destroyed in the 2018 floods. Following this, the government decided to rope in cooperative societies to procure paddy directly from farmers. However, a lack of storage, among other facilities for cooperative societies in the district resulted in a delay in the procurement. The impasse ended after an agreement was reached between the Kerala State Civil Supplies Corporation (Supplyco) and mill owners for the procurement of paddy including in Kuttanad and Palakkad in a high-level meeting last month. As per the agreement reached, mills will cooperate with the Supplyco for a period of six months. The yield is expected to be lower this time after the August floods destroyed the additional crop in around 3,500 hectares, a majority in Kuttanad. However, crop in around 5,300 hectares survived the floods. This was the third year in a row, Kuttanad suffered crop loss in the additional crop season. In the last additional crop season (2019), the Supplyco procured 32,977 tonnes of paddy from Alappuzha, while procurement in the 2019-20 'puncha' (first) crop season stood at 1.75 lakh tonnes. Meanwhile, farmers have started preparing fields for the upcoming 'puncha' season. Several farmers complained that the seeds provided by the government were not germinating.
10 November 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||In full swing in Alappuzha||Preparations are in full swing for the upcoming local body elections in the district. On Monday, District Collector A. Alexander chaired a meeting attended by representatives of various political parties. Mr. Alexander urged political parties to conduct electioneering adhering to COVID-19 protocols. According to officials, 2,278 polling booths will be set up including 282 booths in six municipalities in the district. Commissioning of voting machines will be held on December 2. The last date for submitting nomination papers is November 19. Scrutiny of nominations will be held on November 20. The last date for withdrawal of nomination papers is November 23. A total of 1,565 seats are up for grabs in the local body polls in the district.
10 November 2020||KASARAGOD,KERALA||MLA remanded in 2-day police custody||The Hosdurg Judicial First-Class Magistrate Court remanded Manjeswaram MLA M.C. Kamaruddin in police custody for two days in connection with the Fashion Gold Jewellery investment scam. The court will consider the legislator’s bail application on November 11. The prosecution argued that the investigation team had evidence of Mr. Kamaruddin defrauding people of Rs. 13 crore and hence, he should not be granted bail. The prosecution also demanded a detailed inquiry into how the money received as investment was spent. Counsel’s stand Mr. Kamaruddin’s counsel C.K. Sreedharan said that even the complainants had not levelled allegations of criminal offence against the legislator. Mr. Kamaruddin reiterated that he was not in the know of the scam. He had earlier put the blame on Pookoya Thangal, managing director of Fashion Gold International and the first accused in the case. Mr. Thangal is absconding and the police have issued a lookout notice against him.
10 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Work on Seaport-Airport Road hanging fire||The airport and seaport extensions of the Seaport-Airport Road that was commissioned over 16 years ago remain a far cry, mainly due to hassles associated with land acquisition in the airport extension and inordinate delay by PWD (NH wing) in realising the Thripunithura bypass. The Roads and Bridges Development Corporation of Kerala Limited (RBDCK), which developed the 11.5-km Seaport-Airport Road from HMT Junction to Irumpanam and also widened the 2.5- km HMT Junction-Bharata Mata College stretch as four lane, had handed over the stretch to the PWD a year ago. The widening of the rest of the stretch and installing of 400 solar powered streetlights is expected to cost around Rs. 200 crore. The RBDCK is currently engaged in extending the road to the airport. Inordinate delay plagues the construction of HMT-Naval Armament Depot (NAD), the 6.5-km NAD-Mahilayalam and the 5-km Chowara-Cochin International Airport stretches. The hearing in connection with the social-impact assessment (SIA) prior to acquiring land for the NAD-Mahilayalam stretch was held on Thursday. This would be followed by an expert committee taking a call on the process, followed by issuing of notifications to acquire land. The NAD has demanded widening of its approach road from Kalamassery, apart from the value of 5.3 acres of land that it would have to surrender. Compensation The HMT too has sought compensation to surrender 4 acres, although it forms part of the land that the State government had handed over to it free of cost. As per rules, the government can take back land handed over free of cost to an agency if it did not ready an industrial activity within 10 years. This period expired long back, official sources said. The construction of the NAD-Mahilayalam stretch is pending, although KIIFB had earmarked funds. The seaport extension of Seaport-Airport Road hinges on PWD (NH wing) constructing the long-overdue Thripunithura bypass, through which motorists can reach Kundannoor Junction on the Edapally-Aroor NH Bypass. This would form an inner ring road in Kochi, decongesting NH Bypass and also the Edapally-Angamaly NH corridor. The NHAI’s proposed Kundannoor-Angamaly NH Bypass would constitute an outer ring road around Kochi, they said.
10 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Holy Koran shall be returned if Customs objects: Jaleel||All the copies of Holy Koran that were received from the UAE Consulate shall be returned if the Customs had any objection to the UAE sending it to Kerala for distribution, says Minister for Higher Education and Minority Welfare K.T. Jaleel. Speaking to The Hindu after being interrogated by the Customs for seven hours on Monday in Kochi, Dr. Jaleel said he asked the Customs officials to communicate their objections, if any, on the distribution of the Holy Koran to the UAE Consulate as well as the UAE government. “If they have such an opinion that we do not need any support or assistance from the UAE, it should then be communicated to the UAE government,” he said. Collected back “Barring the packets of Holy Koran that were taken away by the National Investigation Agency and the Customs, all the packets have been collected and kept safe. The Staff of C-APT, which took a few copies, have also returned them. Once the Customs officials communicate their objection, all the copies shall be duly returned,” he said. On Act violations On the question regarding the violation of the provisions of the Customs Act in the distribution of the Holy Koran outside the UAE Consulate, Dr. Jaleel said he suggested that the question be asked to the UAE Consulate General and the Consulate officials who imported the packets. “I did not import any consignment of the Holy Koran and hence was not bound to pay any Customs duty. Also, I am not in a position to answer the question on Customs rules violations,” he said. Dr. Jaleel said he had informed the Customs that it was their fellow officials who had cleared the import consignment and hence they would be in a better position to answer those questions. The Customs officials said they did not have any case that gold was smuggled along with the packets of the Holy Koran, he said. Import of dates The Minister said there were questions regarding the import of dates by the Consulate and its distribution in the State, with which, he said, he did not have any connection. No question regarding the diplomatic channel gold smuggling case was asked, he said.  I did not import any consignment of the Holy Koran and hence was not bound to pay any Customs duty. Also, I am not in a position to answer the question on Customs rules violations.
10 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||433 more cases in Ernakulam||The district recorded 433 new COVID-19 cases and 827 recoveries on Monday. Eighteen health workers were among those who tested positive. The source of infection of 115 people remains unknown and 298 acquired the infection through local contact. For testing, 3,190 samples were sent on Monday. The figure fell from 4,789 samples on Sunday and 6,645 samples on Saturday. Cases of the infection were reported from areas including Nayarambalam, Thrikkakara, Vazhakulam, Thripunithura and Kalady. A police officer has also tested positive. A total of 30,280 people are in quarantine. The district’s active caseload stands at 10,805. Fifteen patients are at the Fort Kochi taluk hospital, 51 patients are at PVS Hospital, 208 patients are admitted at the Government Medical College Hospital, 1,033 people are at first-line treatment centres, 117 people are at second-line treatment centres and 8,218 people are recovering at home. Till Sunday, the district had registered 175 deaths from the disease. So far, 52,460 people have tested positive in Ernakulam.
10 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Traffic experts moot use of GPS to track potholes||With the Public Works Department (PWD) disbanding its team of non-muster roll (NMR) workers that used to be part of preventive maintenance of roads over two decades ago, GPS navigation system installed in public transport and other vehicles can well be relied on to track potholes that cause traffic hold-ups, damage vehicles and result in accidents, according to traffic and road safety experts. Apart from traffic hold-ups that are bound to occur in the vicinity of potholes, the system can also keep track of the slant of vehicles when negotiating potholes. It would help government agencies zero in on the precise location of the undulations or potholes, they added. Onus on departments Retired Joint RTO Adarsh Kumar Nair, who was associated with the formulation of rules for the Kochi Metropolitan Transport Authority (KMTA), spoke of how motorists fined for traffic rule violations often exhorted enforcement officials of the Motor Vehicles Department and the police to first pull up departments that ought to have ensured safe, pothole-free roads, before imposing penalty on them. “By December 31, all public transport vehicles in Kerala must install GPS. Data from the system can well be used to identify potholes and other obstructions on roads,” he said. Exceeding speed limit The system can also be used to keep tab of vehicles that exceed the speed limit. The Suraksha Mithram software can track the movement of GPS-enabled vehicles. The Integrated Command Control and Communication Centre (IC4), recently commissioned by the KMTA and Cochin Smart Mission Limited, deploys the technology to keep tab of traffic movement and rule violators. It could also be used to track potholes that hamper smooth traffic. It was all the more relevant at present since the amended Section 198-A of the Motor Vehicles’ Act states that the engineer and contractor concerned would be responsible if an accident occurred due to a pothole on the road, said Mr. Nair. ‘No one keeps track’ “The situation in India is so bad that leave alone engineers, even overseers seldom keep track of the condition of roads. Neither do they monitor resurfacing or repair works as is mandated by law,” said an MVD official who has conducted extensive study on road safety issues. “It is high time that technology was relied on to keep tab of the road condition, since ill-maintained roads cause accidents, worsen pollution, damage vehicles and cause wastage of time,” said the official. Case in Malappuram The RTO (Enforcement) of Malappuram Gokul T.G. said a slew of scientific monitoring measures had helped lessen the number fatalities in that district by 70, for a 10-month period in 2019, as compared to the similar period in 2018. Automated rule enforcement and using artificial intelligence held the key, he added.
10 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||BJP releases first list of candidates||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) has released its first list of 42 candidates for the elections to the Kochi Corporation. The party has decided to field some of its office-bearers. BJP State secretary T.P. Sindhumol will contest from Girinagar, Division 55, of the corporation. Party district secretary C.V. Sajani will contest from Division 56, Panampilly Nagar. The candidates were announced by district president S. Jayakrishnan on Monday. The BJP at present has two seats in the corporation. Sudha Dileep Kumar, councillor representing Ernakulam Central, will contest again from the same division, going by the first list. Of the 74 divisions in the corporation, the BJP itself will contest from nine more divisions, and another list is likely to be announced soon. The remaining 23 divisions have been allotted to other NDA members.
10 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Dollar smuggling: ruling tomorrow||The Customs has pressed for issuing a non-bailable warrant against Khaled Mohamed Ali Shoukry, former finance head of the UAE consulate and Confidential Partner of the UAE Consulate General, in the Rs. 1.3-crore dollar smuggling case. The Economic Offences Court, Ernakulam, has posted the case for order on November 11. The agency submitted before the court that Mr. Shoukry, an Egyptian, did not enjoy any diplomatic immunity. The counsel also explained the content of a letter issued by the Protocol Officer of the Ministry of External Affairs to Mr. Shoukry while his visa papers were cleared. The agency submitted that his arrest and interrogation were warranted in the dollar smuggling case in which Swapna Suresh and P.S. Sarith, accused in the diplomatic gold smuggling case, were also involved. The Customs case is that the Egyptian concealed the foreign currency in his handbag and took it to Cairo via Oman from the Thiruvananthapuram.The Customs wants to arraign him as the third accused in the case.
10 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Metro’s revenue-expenditure gap worrying||The ever-widening gap between revenue and expenditure of the Kochi metro has made critics say that a four-lane flyover can be built using the monthly loss incurred by the metro rail system. The steep fall in patronage from a daily average of 65,000 passengers to approximately 10,000 due to the pandemic situation has further sent alarm bells ringing. “This is apart from the sky-rocketing operation and maintenance (O&M) expenses of the metro system, since the defect liability period/warranty of almost all components has expired or are nearing the expiry date. Even worse, spare parts will have to be procured from firms, including those who enjoy monopoly in the supply of select spares. Thus, KMRL/State government will have to meet the O&M expenses, which will keep increasing due to increased wear and tear,” said an urban transport planner who was associated with the metro project. All these will be apart from the expenses that could spring up if firms which were engaged in the construction of the metro opt for arbitration, he added. Expressing angst at the metro not getting even a fifth of the 4.50 lakh daily passenger patronage that was projected in the ridership figure for 2020, Senior Deputy Transport (retired) Commissioner B.J. Antony, who played a key role in readying projects to integrate the metro with other commuting modes, sought action against stakeholders who readied the metro’s DPR. “No doubt the metro ushered in a fast, comfortable and reliable mode of commute in the Greater Kochi area. But it will not get 4.50 lakh footfall, even if passengers are offered free ride every day. The pre-COVID daily patronage of 65,000 commuters is wholly insufficient, since the metro covers areas falling under the Greater Cochin Development Authority [GCDA] and not just the Kochi Corporation limits. Even among them, a bulk of passengers used to board or alight at Lulu Mall at Edappally,” he said.
10 November 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||For Jhanvi, light at the end of the tunnel||Jhanvi, a Class 10 student from Palathuruthu in Chendamangalam panchayat, on Monday received the good news that she had long been waiting for. Her tin-roofed ramshackle house, located on an isolated plot, will soon be electrified. Having waited for nearly a year in the face of opposition from neighbouring plot owners, the news could not have come a day sooner for Jhanvi. The nearest electric post is across a canal and drawing electric lines needed consent from landowners en route, which was not forthcoming. The Hindu had reported on the plight of her family last week. With the dispute unresolved, Kerala State Electricity Board (KSEB) authorities reported the matter to Additional District Magistrate Sabu K. Isaac, who held a hearing on Monday, the second on the issue. He directed KSEB officials to do the needful to give power connection to the impoverished family of four. Like at the previous meeting, the disputing landowners did not turn up on Monday. “My daughter’s studies will no longer suffer because of the lack of power connection,” said Jeeva Ratheesh, Jhanvi’s mother. Two posts and drawing of electric lines over 44 metres are all that is required to electrify the house, which will be done free of cost since the family belongs to the Below Poverty Line category. “It is hardly a day’s work and we will do it as soon as we receive the order,” said Archana M.K., assistant executive engineer, Chendamangalam electrical section. Since her return from her school hostel in Kollam in March, following the lockdown, Jhanvi has been relying on an erratic solar-powered light for her studies. On overcast days, the power would not last long enough and to charge her mother’s smartphone, her only tool for online classes, the youngster had to depend on the benevolence of neighbours.
10 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Jafar Malik takes over as CEO of KMTA||Jafar Malik has assumed charge as the first Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of the recently launched Kochi Metropolitan Transport Authority (KMTA), said to be the first such body in India constituted by a legislative enactment. Mr. Malik said steps would be taken to seamlessly integrate different modes of commute in Kochi. In the first phase, the metro, railway, buses, autos, taxi cars, and bicycles will be integrated, leaving commuters with a variety of choices. The KMTA will helm the development of urban transport modes, their monitoring and upkeep. “The initial focus will be on improving the transportation system within the Kochi Corporation limits. The emphasis will subsequently shift to areas under the Greater Cochin Development Authority [GCDA] and the Goshree Islands Development Authority [GIDA],” he said. Mr. Malik added that CSML would shortly launch a grievance redressal app, using which people will be able to send messages on issues like potholed roads, waste dumping, and grievances regarding power and water supply. They will be forwarded to the agencies concerned. Photographs of potholes will be sent along with GPS coordinates, to ensure prompt action. Officials of various agencies will be updated about the app. Streamlining urban transport will be a focal area, since it is the backbone of Kochi city, he said.
10 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Gold case: five more accused likely||The National Investigation Agency (NIA) is likely to arraign five more persons as accused in the diplomatic channel gold smuggling case. The agency had earlier listed 30 persons as accused in the case. Three of the accused hail from Malappuram and one from Kozhikode. All the four are abroad at present. The agency is understood to have picked up another person from Malappuram who may be made an accused in the case. The agency may approach Interpol for booking the accused who are abroad. Earlier, the court had released 12 accused on bail.
10 November 2020||Kochi,KERALA||e-vehicles for patrol squads||Four of the total 65 e-vehicles that the Motor Vehicles Department (MVD) took on rent from ANERT for a period of eight years, to step up rule enforcement, were handed over to officials of the department here on Monday by District Collector S. Suhas. This marks the MVD’s foray into green mobility in the district as part of rule enforcement under its Safe Kerala Project that is aimed at clamping down on rule violators and reducing accidents. Each car can cover 300 km after a full recharge. Among those present were Deputy Transport Commissioner (Central Zone) Regi Varghese, Ernakulam RTO Babu John, and Enforcement RTO (Ernakulam) Shaji Madhavan.
10 November 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||236 new cases in Kollam||The district reported 236 new COVID-19 cases, 454 recoveries and three deaths on Monday. Those who tested positive for SARS-C0V-2 include 230 contact cases, three persons with no known source and three health workers. The Health Department also confirmed that the deaths of a 13-year-old Perinad resident, 79-year-old Kottarakara resident and 77-year-old Chavara resident are due to COVID-19. Cases with no known source have been reported from Kottarakara, Thrikkovilvattam and Pathaapuram. The district currently has 18,089 people under observation and the total number of samples collected is 3,79,282. A total of 1,107 people completed home quarantine on Monday.
10 November 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||UDF seals seat-sharing pact in Kottayam||After weeks of intense wrangling, the UDF on Monday sealed a seat sharing agreement with the constituent parties in Kottayam for the upcoming local body polls. In the marathon bilateral talks held between Congress and Kerala Congress (M) led by P. J. Joseph on Sunday night, both parties agreed to share the 22 divisions in Kottayam district panchayat among them. UDF district chairman Mons Joseph announced the decision at a press meet here on Monday. As per the new agreement, the Congress will contest from 13 seats while the Joseph faction will field candidates in the remaining nine divisions. In the previous local body polls, Congress and the undivided Kerala Congress (M) shared 11 divisions each. That the Joseph faction managed to retain nine divisions despite the vertical split in the party and the ensuing migration the of Jose K. Mani group to the rival coalition, has come as a major achievement to the regional party At the same time, the number of seats with the Congress – the leading partner, increased from 11 to 13. As per the consensus emerged in the bilateral talks, Joseph faction would cede one sitting seat (Kaduthuruthy) and one losing seat (Poonjar) to Congress. Meanwhile, the demand for the Erumeli division raised by the Indian Union Muslim League remains still undecided. According to UDF leaders, all the issues will be sorted out by November 15.Besides the UDF, the National Development Alliance (NDA) too is reported to have completed discussions with regard to the sharing of seats in the District Panchayat. As per a preliminary understanding, the BDJS will contest from the Vaikom, Kumarakom, Kurichy and Erumeli divisions while the BJP will field candidates from the remaining 18 divisions. The Kerala Congress led by P.C. Thomas , which contested from a division in 2015 and the Nationalist Kerala Congress (NKC), are unlikely to get any seats this time. While the P.C. Thomas faction is on its way out of the coalition, the NKC is mostly likely to field candidates on their own from a couple of divisions. The final announcement is expected soon.
10 November 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Vexed issue for LDF||Contrary to the precedence, seat sharing talks in the Left Democratic Front (LDF) is turning out to be vexed issue this time in view of entry of Kerala Congress (M) faction led by Jose K. Mani to its side. In the previous election, CPI(M) had contested from 12 out of the 22 divisions while the CPI fielded candidates from five seats. The Janapaksham led by P.C. George, MLA, had been allotted two seats while NCP, Janata Dal, and Congress (S) were given one seat each to contest from. This time however, the Mani group is learnt to have demanded ten divisions with the CPI(M) willing to cede three of its seats. The CPI, at the same time, has been asked to give up two seats while the remaining constituents will have to return empty handed.
10 November 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Man, son killed as truck runs over two-wheeler in Monippally||Two persons were killed when a speeding truck rammed a two wheeler near Monippally on Monday. The police identified the deceased as 53-year- old Rajeev and his 22-year-old son Midhun.The accident took place around 12 noon near the Monippally town when the truck driver lost control over the vehicle and hit the two-wheeler. The injured were rushed to the Government Medical College Hospital in Kottayam though to no avail.
10 November 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Kottayam tally at 203 cases||As many as 203 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kottayam on Monday. According to officials, all persons contracted the disease through local contact. The fresh cases also included 33 children and 28 people aged above 60. 43 in Pathanamthitta As many as 43 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Pathanamthitta on Monday. Of the fresh cases, all but one contracted the disease through local contact.  With 174 recoveries during the day, the district currently has 1,756 active cases.
10 November 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Efforts on to assess damage caused by strong winds||The district administration here on Monday commenced a survey to assess the damage caused by the high-velocity winds that had lashed the western regions of Kottayam on Sunday. District Collector M.Anjana, who visited the calamity-hit region during the day, said the collection of details regarding the damage sustained to houses, agriculture, vehicles and power supply would be completed within a week. Since strong winds have been included in the list of natural disasters, options of availing compensation from the State Disaster Relief Fund will be examined. The engineering department of the respective local bodies has been tasked with assessing the damage to houses and other structures. Officers in the panchayats have begun collecting details of crop damage. The squally winds accompanied by heavy rains, which hit the region on Sunday afternoon, left a trail of destruction in Aymanam, Kumarakom and Arppokkara panchayats where widespread crop loss have been reported, besides uprooting trees and snapping power cables. Traffic along several roads here had been suspended while rescuers commenced efforts to remove the blockades.
10 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Vigilance investigation ordered against K.M. Shaji||The Kozhikode Vigilance Inquiry Commissioner and Special Judge has ordered a probe into a complaint that Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) legislator K.M. Shaji amassed wealth disproportionate to his known sources of income. Special Judge K.V. Jayakumar on Monday asked the Vigilance and Anti Corruption Bureau (VACB) Superintendent of Police to conduct a preliminary inquiry on the complaint that Mr. Shaji had managed to accumulate wealth, including owning a house estimated at Rs. 1.62 crore in Kozhikode city. The complaint, filed by social worker and lawyer M.R. Hareesh, alleged that Mr. Shaji had misused his official position and obtained huge funds from abroad. Also he had purchased land and vehicles in benami transactions, it was alleged. The VACB had already registered an FIR at the Thalassery court stating that Mr. Shaji had allegedly taken a bribe of Rs. 25 lakh for allotting Plus Two courses in an aided school in his Assembly segment, Azhikode, in 2014. Meanwhile, the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in Kozhikode on Monday recorded the statement of K.M. Asha, wife of Mr. Shaji, in connection with the case. The ED is probing the case registered based on the Prevention of Money Laundering Act. The case was that Plus Two courses were sanctioned after collecting a bribe from the management. The statement of Mr. Shaji will be taken on Tuesday.
10 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||479 people test positive||As many as 479 people tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Kozhikode district on Monday and there were 618 recoveries. According to a release, there were 446 cases of locally acquired infections and the source was unknown in 16 cases. The total number of samples tested was 4,993 and the test positivity rate is 9.59%. Active cases from the district stand at 8,781. As many as 5,847 people are under home isolation. There were 119 cases of local transmission of the infection from within the Kozhikode Corporation, 35 in Ramanattukara, 26 in Changaroth, and 23 in Puthuppady. A four-and-a-half year old child from Maruthonkara and a 77-year-old woman from Mankave, Kozhikode, died at the Government Medical College Hospital on Sunday. In Malappuram While 548 people tested positive in Malappuram on Monday, as many as 560 infected persons recovered from the disease in the district. District officials said that 504 of the new cases had contracted the virus through direct contact with infected persons. However, there were 37 cases whose source of infection could not be traced. The total caseload in the district came down to 6,583. However, nearly 72,000 people were quarantined across Malappuram. In Wayanad Wayanad saw a sharp decline in the number of COVID-19 cases as 50 people tested positive for SARS-COV-2 here on Monday. All of them, including two health workers, were infected through contact.   (With inputs from Malappuram and Wayanad bureaus)
10 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||IIMK posts 100% summer placements||Brushing aside the ripple effect of COVID-19, Indian Institute of Management Kozhikode (IIMK) has successfully closed the summer placements drive for the 24th batch of its Post Graduate Program (PGP) and the inaugural batches of PGP Liberal Studies and Management, and PGP Finance. Announcing the successful wrap up of summer placements, Prof. Debashis Chatterjee, Director, IIMK, said that the process was completely carried out through a virtual placement drive and it witnessed encouraging participation from recruiters. The active involvement and commitment of our students and faculty contributed in receiving appreciation by our recruitment partners for a seamless transition to the new normal, he said. A key highlight this year was the excellent participation from front-end investment banking and private equity and venture capitalists, as well as e-commerce companies. Offers in these domains doubled year-on-year during summer placements as compared to the previous season. A press statement said that this season attracted participation from 144 recruiters who offered internships to 541 students with the highest stipend for two months pegged at Rs. 3.2 lakh.  The entire process was carried out through a virtual placement drive
10 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Child rights commission visits rape survivor’s house||The Kerala State Commission for Protection of Child Rights visited the rented house of the 6-year-old rape survivor in Unnikulam panchayat on Monday. The visit was made following reports that the girl and her family had been staying in a dilapidated house with no proper doors or secure rooms. Commission member Nazeer Chaliyam said the reports were true and the house and its surroundings were found totally unsafe for a family. “We have asked the local panchayat authorities to take immediate action against the house owner for violation of the construction plan. It is strange that such a house got even the building number,” he said. Periodic inspections Mr. Nazeer also said the panel would ask the Labour Department to conduct periodic inspections in various migrant labour camps and audit safety aspects. “They have the responsibility to ensure it. In migrant labour camps, we do not want to recreate the tragic situations that once prevailed in the unsafe houses of plantation workers,” he added. Commission members, including Mr. Nazeer and B. Babitha, said they would check the possibility of arranging a temporary stay for the survivor’s family in any of the convenient government facilities in the district. “The family has expressed their wish to go back to their village in Nepal. We will help them in that, upon completion of the ongoing prosecution measures in the case,” they said. It was on November 4 that the girl was sexually abused by a 32-year-old man from the village. She had sustained serious injuries in the incident.
10 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Struggling with waste treatment||With the proposed waste-to-energy plant at Njeliyanparamba taking longer to materialise than expected, the Kozhikode Municipal Corporation is trying hard to keep its waste treatment plant at the site running. After the civic body took over the plant in August 2019 from IL&FS, the machinery was found to be in a poor condition. “Owing to constant handling of waste, several units had rusted or corroded. We had to replace at least some of them to keep the plant going,” said Corporation Secretary Binu Francis. Nearly Rs. 3 lakh was spent on repairing the machinery then. Of late, the corporation allocated Rs. 4.66 lakh for repair work. The plant supervisor had sought Rs. 3.36 lakh for buying spare parts and Rs. 1.3 lakh as labour charge. “IL&FS had set up the plant almost 10 years ago. The machines have been in operation since its inception, and wear and tear is natural. But we cannot afford to slow down work because of that,” Mr. Francis said. At the same time, the corporation has refrained from replacing the machinery completely, as it costs around Rs. 2 crore. “We will not need them once the waste-to-energy plant is completed. So, there is no point in a complete replacement,” he added. Several workers employed by IL&FS had resigned before the plant was taken over by the corporation, and hence, the civic body had to appoint 10 skilled workers to run the plant, besides a supervisor. The corporation had faced music way back in 2013 for extending the contract with IL&FS, as allegations of corruption in the purchase of organic manure from the plant by the civic body were rife. Later, the company plunged into financial crisis and demanded at least Rs. 7 lakh a month from the corporation to run the plant. However, it stopped functioning in April 2019, resulting in unprocessed waste getting piled up at Njeliyanparamba, forcing the civic body to take over the plant.
10 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Ex-MLA C. Moyinkutty passes away||Indian Union Muslim League (IUML) State vice president and former legislator C. Moyinkutty, 77, died here on Monday. He has been ailing for some time. He had represented the Koduvally (1996-2001) and the Thiruvambady ( 2001-2006 and 2011-2016) Assembly segments in Kozhikode district. He had also been the president of the Thiruvambady grama panchayat. His body was buried at the kabarsthan (cemetery ) attached to the Andona Mahal Juma Masjid in the afternoon.
10 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||‘Collectors@School’ against plastic waste||Despite glitches posed by COVID-19, the Kozhikode Municipal Corporation is on the path to ensure the completion of its mission to get rid of single-use plastic and other non-biodegradable waste that had been left unfinished last March. Preparing for the reopening of schools, the corporation has gone ahead with the setting up of mini Material Collection Facilities (MCF) in schools, to ensure that the message reaches even the new generation. Mini MCFs, titled ‘Collectors @School’, have been set up in 50 schools in the city under the 2019-20 Annual Project Plan of the corporation. Accordingly, each school gets two bins with separate boxes to deposit six types of dry waste. The bins have been set up at a cost of Rs. 7.1 lakh by Socio Economic Unit Foundation. Culture of segregation “The objective of the project is to encourage students to be part of our fight against plastic waste and to inculcate the culture of segregation among them,” said K. Sivadas, health inspector in charge of the project in the corporation. “The bio park set up at the Model Higher Secondary School recently was also part of the plan,” he added. Waste deposited in the boxes, big ones in high schools and small boxes in upper primary schools, will be collected by Haritha Karma Sena volunteers on intervals and will be taken to recycling centres. More schools will be included in the project in the second phase, Mr. Sivadas said. Vigil intensified Despite the lag during the pandemic times, the corporation’s health wing has intensified its vigil against single-use plastic products that may be flowing into the city ahead of the local body polls.
10 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Sections of planetarium to open from today||After remaining closed for about eight months, some sections of the Regional Science Centre and Planetarium, Kozhikode, will open from Tuesday. COVID protocol A release said on Monday that the institution had been closed since March 15 after COVID-19-induced restrictions were put in place. The decision to open the facilities followed a nod from the Union government and the Kozhikode district administration. In the first phase, only the science gallery and science park would be opened in line with COVID protocol. The visiting time is between 10 a.m. and 6 p.m. The exhibition in the planetarium and 3D screening would resume only from November 16. An automatic sanitiser has been installed at the entrance. No entry Children aged below 10 and senior citizens aged above 65, and pregnant women would not be allowed entry, the release added.
10 November 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||‘Wellness ward’ opened at shelter home||Member of the Kerala State Commission for Protection of Child Rights Babitha Balraj opened the ‘Wellness ward’ at the Free Birds Shelter Home for Boys in the city on Sunday. The ‘Wellness ward’ is intended to be an isolation room for sick children. The ward, with three cots, toilets and a dining-cum-steam area, has been set up by a non-governmental organisation, Arm of Joy, at a cost of Rs. 2 lakh, collected through donations from 13 well-wishers.
10 November 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||A long walk against an ‘anti-tribal’ remark||A tribal woman staged a unique protest against an alleged anti-tribal remark of an MLA by walking 43 km barefoot from her hamlet to the District Collectorate here on Monday. Shailaja Muppali, mother of two from Kureeri tribal hamlet at Odakkayam in Urangttiri panchayat near Areekode, began her journey on foot at 2 a.m. on Monday and reached here at 1 p.m., daring the scorching sun and heated terrain. Seeks apology In an appeal to District Collector K. Gopalakrishnan, she demanded an apology from V. Abdurahman, MLA of Tanur, for his alleged remark that reportedly hurt the Adivasi community in the State. Mr. Abdurahman, in a media briefing the other day, had cautioned his fellow legislator C. Mammutty from the neighbouring Tirur constituency against trying to educate “the people of Tirur by coming from a tribal land.” Mr. Mammutty is from Karakkamala in Wayanad. Mr. Abdurahman’s remark linking Mr. Mammutty to the tribal land of Wayanad had raised protests from some quarters, and been politicised by his rival groups. Ms. Muppali, in a memorandum here, demanded that Mr. Abdurahman withdraw his alleged anti-Adivasi remarks and apologise. She said guidelines should be issued to people’s representatives not to repeat such “anti-racial remarks.” Other demands She also demanded enhanced presence of excise personnel in the tribal colony to control the drug mafia trying to conquer the youth. The other demands raised by Ms. Muppali included a solution to shortage of drinking water, title deeds for the land they had been living for decades, and introduction of an ambulance to provide medical facilities for the sick in the tribal hamlets.
10 November 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Palakkad’s tally is 225||As many as 225 people tested positive for COVID in Palakkad district on Monday. The district reported 429 recoveries. Of the new cases, 133 had contracted the disease through direct contact with infected persons. There were 82 cases whose source of infection could not be identified. When eight cases came from across the borders, there were two health workers among the newly infected persons in the district. As many as 6,384 infected people were under treatment across the district.
10 November 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Church dismisses reports||The Believers Eastern Church on Monday dismissed media reports on the Income Tax authorities unearthing massive irregularities and requested the media to desist from ‘fabricating reports that are either half-true or totally fake.’ In a video message, Church spokesperson Sijo Panthappallil said the raids would continue and all projects of the Church were being subjected to audit. “If the I-T authorities point out mistakes, they will be rectified through discussions within the Church Episcopal Council,” he said.
10 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Development to be the focus in Nedumangad||Having managed to maintain control over the Nedumangad Municipality for the last two-and-a-half decades, the Left Democratic Front (LDF) will look to maintain stranglehold over the local body. Incumbent chairman Chettachal Sahadevan is confident that coalition will sail through comfortably with development as its main plank.  LDF confident “The municipality has scored highly on several fronts during the last five years. We have managed to construct the highest number of houses among municipalities in the State under the LIFE Mission. As many as 1,818 out of the 2,100 sanctioned houses have already been handed over to its beneficiaries,” he says. Among the other development projects that the LDF camp looks to highlight during its campaign, the municipality has established a Thumboormuzhi model aerobic bin composting unit in Kallampara at a cost of Rs. 40 lakh. The ruling front also managed to realise the local populace’s dream for a public crematorium, named Shanthitheeram, in Kallampara, a project that had remained in the pipeline for long. The United Democratic Front (UDF) has planned to focus on allegations of administrative mismanagement and corruption in its bid to wrest control of the municipality for the first time since 1995. UDF’s focus Former chairman and senior Congress councillor Vattappara Chandran accused the ruling front of involving itself in questionable land deals using a significant portion of the funds allocated for various schemes. Mr. Chandran also faulted the LDF for losing yet another chance to evolve a master plan during its term. The local body continues to suffer the ignominy of being the only municipality in the State that does not have a master plan, he says. BJP’s hope The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), which made inroads during the 2015 polls, hopes to continue the upward trend this time. “The municipality has failed to implement development and welfare schemes of the Centre. We hope to impress upon the public the need for such projects that we will definitely undertake if we come to power. The party will also raise the issues surrounding the CPI(M)’s monopoly that has paved the way for widespread corruption and nepotism,” Pallipuram Vijayakumar, the Nedumangad constituency president of BJP, says.
10 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Clash of claims to rule poll scene in Attingal||Having ruled the Attingal municipality in all terms except one since 1979, the Left Democratic Front (LDF)’s hold here is somewhat formidable. In the 31-member municipal council, the LDF occupies 22 seats with the United Democratic Front (UDF) taking five and the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) four. LDF’s promises Municipal chairman M. Pradeep believes that the LDF’s record over the past 15 years, and especially in the current term, will keep it in good stead in the upcoming local body polls. “We have fulfilled the promises that we had given to the people. For the past 14 years, we have been winning the Pollution Control Board’s award for best waste management, not to forget the award for the best municipality multiple times from the State government. We were able to provide land to scheduled caste families here. The swimming programme for schoolstudents was also successful. In the Attingal taluk hospital, free dialysis is now being given to poor patients. The Animal Birth Control programme has also been well implemented,” says Mr. Pradeep. UDF’s stand M. Anilkumar, the UDF’s leader, however begs to differ. In his opinion, the sorry state of the roads here should be a reason for the voters to have a rethink. “In almost all the wards, one can find that the interior roads are in disrepair. A building that the UDF had built in 2000-05 for Kudumbashree members to make use of to carry out business activities, is now lying unused. The awards for waste management were won just by showing the few areas that have remained clean. We are confident that with Adoor Prakash MP’s work in the constituency, we will be able to make gains this time,” says Mr. Anilkumar. BJP begs to differs For the BJP, the lead that it secured in several wards in the Parliamentary elections last year is a source of confidence. S. Santosh, the BJP leader in the council, says that the LDF is resting on the laurels of the past and has failed to come up with innovative projects in the current tenure. “They have been unable to implement any project in industries or other sectors to generate revenue. They have just continued with the ongoing projects,” says Mr. Santosh.
10 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Leaders selected for Children’s Day||The child leaders selected for this year’s Children’s Day celebrations on November 14 include school leaders, dubbing artistes, youngsters who host YouTube channels, a budding karate champion, and prizewinners in art and literary competitions. The Kerala State Council for Child Welfare announced the names on Monday. The ‘leaders’ were elected on the basis of elocution contests held for lower primary and upper primary students, council general secretary Shijukhan J.S. said. This year, the public meeting would be held online due to the COVID-19 pandemic. Nanma S., a Class 4 student of Holy Angels School, Vanchiyoor, has been elected the children’s Prime Minister for this year’s celebrations on November 14.  YouTuber Nanma has a YouTube channel ‘Nanma’s World of Books’ on which she shares her reading experiences. Adarsh C.M., Class 7 student of St Thomas School, Mukkolakkal, is the children’s President. He is also a student at the Thambu theatre academy. Uma S., chosen the Speaker, is a Class 5 student of the Government Girls HSS, Cotton Hill. She has won prizes for clay modelling and drawing. She had lent her voice for main characters in the children’s cartoon series ‘Kathu’, ‘Banu’ and ‘Bablu’. She also started a YouTube channel ‘Umakutty’ during the COVID-19 lockdown. Nainika Anil, a Class 4 student of Vimala Hridaya LP School, Parassala, will welcome the gathering at the online function. Sreelakshmi C., a Class 4 student of Holy Angels School will deliver the vote of thanks. Nanma will inaugurate the online meeting on November 14. Adarsh will preside and Uma will deliver the keynote address. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan and Health Minister K.K. Shylaja will deliver the Children’s Day message. The Children’s Day stamp will be released on the occasion.  The ‘leaders’ for Children’s Day were elected on the basis of elocution contests held for lower primary and upper primary students
10 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Secretariat fire: police contest FSL report||The State police have contested the Forensic Sciences Laboratory (FSL) report that debunked the government’s theory that electrical malfunction had caused the controversial fire at the Secretariat here in August. The FSL had concluded that a visual and microscopic examination of the electric fan from which the fire had supposedly spread to the hall did not reveal an electrical short circuit as the cause. The police have sought the services of the FSL in New Delhi to conduct an auger electron spectroscopy test to establish the cause of the fire. Other agencies The FSL’s conclusion was also in variance with the findings of the Fire and Rescue Services Department and Electrical Inspectorate that had said that non-stop operation had caused the circuitry of the fan to heat up and melt. Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala and BJP State president K. Surendran said in separate statements that the FSL’s finding validated the sabotage
10 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||324 new cases, 452 recoveries in capital||The district reported 324 new COVID-19 cases when 2,887 tests were performed over the past 24 hours. As many as 452 people recovered from the infection during this period, the district administration and health officials said on Monday. The number of active cases, meanwhile, dipped further to 7,487. As in the past weeks, local transmission accounted for the majority of the cases reported on Monday also. According to Health officials, 224 cases fell under this category while in 85 cases, the source of infection was not immediately known. The day’s caseload also included 11 health workers and four people who travelled to the district. Meanwhile, the death toll continues to mount. Eight more recent deaths have been attributed to the infection. The deceased included a 75-year-old man from Attakulangara, a 78-year-old man from Aruvikkara, a 66-year-old man from Perumkulam, an 85-year-old woman from Plamootukode, a 58-year-old woman from Neyyattinkara, a 62-year-old woman from Attingal, a 71-year-old man from Ulloor, and a 69-year-old man from Neyyattinkara. On Monday, 1,447 more people were placed under quarantine after they displayed symptoms. At present, 25,899 persons are under home isolation and 201 in institutional quarantine in the district. In the meantime, 1,706 persons completed the observation period without developing any symptoms. Inspections by the police and the district administration, as part of the COVID-19 containment measures, are continuing in the district. On Monday, the City police initiated action against 129 persons for flouting COVID 19-related restrictions. Of this, eight persons have been charged under the Kerala Epidemic Diseases Ordinance, 2020. As many as 104 people who did not wear masks and 13 others who failed to maintain proper physical distance were fined a total of Rs. 23,400. The owners of two vehicles and two shops also were booked for flouting norms. Meanwhile, the sector magistrates appointed by the District Collector initiated action against 508 persons on Monday for flouting COVID-19 restrictions. Cases were registered against four persons, while 50 others were fined.
10 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Dry spell to continue||The current dry spell in the northeast monsoon season in Kerala is likely to last for another two weeks, after which the State can expect some rainfall activity. The State has reported a 32% deficiency during the October 1-November 9 period, officials of the India Meteorological Department (IMD) said. Kerala is expected to receive deficient rainfall during the next two weeks, K. Santhosh, Director, IMD Meteorological Centre, Thiruvananthapuram, said in a weather update. Due to the likely formation of a low-pressure area in the Bay of Bengal a slight increase in rainfall can be expected over Kerala in the third week of November, according to him.
10 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||BJP publishes second list of candidates||The BJP district committee published a second list of 29 candidates for Corporation council polls. The candidates are Ashakumari M. (Kinavoor), Harikumar R. (Kesavadasapuram), S. Sreekumar (Kudappanakkunnu), Meena V. (Chettivilakam), Princy C. (Nanthencode), Valiyasala Bindu (Kunnukuzhi), Lali Sreekumar (Peroorkada), Devi Karthika (Vazhottukonam), Padma S. (Kodunganoor), Devima (Valiyavila), Kumari Krishnankutty (Pathirapally), Rajalakshmi V. (Attipra), Gayatri Devi (Chellamangalam), Archana G. Nair (Powdikonam), Balu B. S. (Puthenpally), Shiny Rajan (Beemapally), Vettucaud (K. V. Anil Kumar - BDJS), Shani Leen (Shangumugham), Rani S. (Pettah), Premkumar P. (Valiyathura), Anil Samskara (Muttathara), K. K. Suresh (Manacaud), Ratheesh K. (Perunthanni), Rajendran Nair P. (Sreekanteswaram), P. Ashok Kumar (Palkulangara), B. Mohanan Nair (Kuriathi), S. Janaki Ammal (Fort - BJP-backed independent), Sowmya L. (Estate), Shanthi Giri V. (Kamaleswaram).
10 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Church fete: need to follow COVID norms stressed||District Collector Navjot Khosa has said that the COVID-19 protocol should be strictly followed for the annual feast of Christ the King at the Madre de Deus Church, Vettucaud, to be held from November 13 to 22. Strict restrictions have to be implemented for entry into the church and the surrounding areas during the festival days. Only a maximum of 40 people can participate in the prayers at a time. The participants have to follow physical distancing. There should be separate entry and exit for the church. Thermal scanning should be done at the entry and sanitiser should be provided. Mask is compulsory for all participants. Display boards have to be put up at the entry points and in the surroundings on the importance of following the COVID-19 protocols. Announcements also have to be made. Shops will not be allowed on the church premises or near the beach for the festival this year. The entry to the beach also will be restricted. Stage programmes and community meals as part of the festival should be avoided. Special arrangements will be made on the first and last days of the festival as well as on November 22, when larger crowds usually throng the festival. The church authorities say an online booking system has been implemented for participation in the mass. Volunteers will be deployed to control the crowd during the festival.
10 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Sports quota admission to Nedumangad college||Candidates in rank list of the Kerala State Sports Council for degree admissions in sports quota in Government College, Nedumangad, should report at the college by 11 a.m. on November 12.
10 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Governor shifted to medical college hospital||Governor Arif Mohammed Khan, who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Saturday, was shifted to the Government Medical College Hospital, Thiruvananthapuram, on Monday for “close monitoring”. “He is clinically stable and was admitted to the hospital for close monitoring,” a bulletin issued by the hospital superintendent said. A medical board has been constituted at the hospital to optimise the clinical management of the Governor.
10 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||PSC postpones exams on December 14, 16||In view of the declaration of local body elections in December, the Kerala Public Service Commission (PSC) has postponed the examinations scheduled for December 14 and 16 for the posts of Assistant Professor in Geography (category number 294/19) and Assistant Professor in Zoology (category number 295/19) to December 22 and 23.
10 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Option registration for BTech admission||Candidates who qualified for the BTech (Lateral Entry) course for the 2020-21 academic year can register their options online till 12 noon on November 12, the Commissioner for Entrance Examinations (CEE) said. The first-phase allotment will be published on the basis of options registered till 10 a.m. on November 12. For details, visitcee.kerala.gov.in.
10 November 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Higher secondary equivalency exam results||The results of the first-year higher secondary (improvement) equivalency examination are available onkeralaresults.nic.in. Applications for revaluation and scrutiny of papers should be submitted to the school Principals by November 16.
10 November 2020||November 10 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Entering unawares||
10 November 2020||November 10 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Finishing touches||
10 November 2020||November 10 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Election art||
10 November 2020||November 10 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Impact of an accident||
10 November 2020||November 10 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Tough days ahead||
10 November 2020||November 10 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Rising above all clouds||
10 November 2020||ANANATAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||CPI(M) seeks national project status for HNSS||The Communist Party of India (Marxist) has asked the Central Iinter-Ministerial Team, that visited Anantapur district on Monday, to recommend to the Central government to give ‘national project’ status to ‘Hundri-Neeva Sujala Sravanthi’ (HNSS) to ensure every acre of land in Rayalaseema districts get irrigation water. Party district secretary V. Rambhupal, in a representation submitted to the team members at Vajrakarur, said that due to incessant rains during south-west monsoon, the groundnut farmers, who had sown crop in five lakh hectares, lost the majority of it due to inundation and abysmal crop yields, The party demanded a compensation of Rs. 25,000 per acre for groundnut, Rs. 40,000 for cotton and chilli and Rs. 1 lakh for banana and papaya crops. All put together, the district alone would need Rs. 5,000 crore, he explained, Meanwhile, according to sources, as part of compensation from the weather-based insurance for the groundnut crop, which is managed by the State government now, Rs. 260 crore is likely to be announced very soon for farmers in 52 mandals of Anantapur district. As per the norms of weather-based insurance, farmers will be eligible for compensation only if there was deficit rainfall, excess rainfall or disease-congenial cool climate - which all damage the crop. This year’s situation was unique as there was timely rain but not excess as per their parameters - which define above 200 mm continuous rain for two or three days in September or October. The excess rains were in June and July this year.
10 November 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Magnitude of crop loss moves Central team||Central Government’s Inter-Ministerial team on Monday toured three villages in Vajrakarur and Guntakal mandals of the district to get first-hand information regarding the damage incurred by the groundnut crops during the months of June and July when incessant rain lashed the district. The team, comprising Ministry of Finance Consultant R.B. Kaul and Ministry of Agriculture Joint Director K. Ponnuswamy, was reportedly shocked when they met two such farmers who faced complete yield loss in 15 acres, where they had spent Rs. 4.5 lakh. ‘Green drought’ Commissioner of Agriculture Arun Kumar and District Collector Gandham Chandrudu along with Joint Director Agriculture Ramakrishna explained to the Central team that due to the excess rain, there was vegetative growth, but against 30 to 35 pods per plant, 5 to 6 pods in some cases, and 10 pods in others were recorded in the crop cutting exercise, and they submitted all relevant documents. In local parlance, the situation is described as “green drought” as there is vegetative growth but no yield. Speaking to mediapersons after the team’s visit, the District Collector said the central team had been under the impression that only 9,890 hectares of the total 4,74,404 lakh hectares of groundnut crop sown in the district was lost, but the team was made aware of the ground reality that there was 50% yield loss in 4,61,000 hectares. The District Collector said the team noted the situation and reacted sympathetically. While the normal yield is 11 quintals per hectare, this time the yield fell to below 5 quintals. At Rs. 5,275 per quintal of Minimum Support Price for the groundnut, they would make Rs. 26,350 per hectare and the cost of cultivation comes between Rs. 25,000 and Rs. 30,000 per hectare, the team members were explained. Mr. Gandham Chandrudu elaborated that the loss has been estimated at Rs. 1,200 crore on agriculture crops alone and another Rs. 150 crore on horticulture, roads, and other infrastructure loss due to floods. Minister for Roads and Buildings Malagundla Sankaranarayana also met the team members in Guntakal and briefed them about the loss.
10 November 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID cases cross 81k in Chittoor dist.||The daily average of COVID-19 cases at 300-plus in the last few days is worrying officials as well as people in the district as Deepavali celebrations are nearing. On Monday, the overall tally of positive cases in the district crossed the 81,000-mark, with 800 casualties. By Saturday, the number of government teachers who tested positive to the virus stood at 232. The number of students pursuing the 9th and 10th classes is about 70,000, of which 6,266 students underwent COVID test and 39 tested positive. The attendance is also said to be below 50% in the government schools, and much less in private institutions. Attendance among girls is dwindling in government schools in rural areas reportedly owing to poor maintenance of toilets. Some headmasters observed that a majority of the parents were unwilling to send their children to schools. “Though students are not punctual, we are not taking it seriously. As usual, there is a problem with mid-day meal, with considerable wastage of food as fewer students are taking it,” a headmaster in Chittoor said. Teachers who have crossed the age of 55 and those who are close to superannuation, and suffering from diabetes and hypertension, are a worried lot to mingle freely with students, besides taking classes. Majority of the teachers who tested positive are from urban areas, but travelling daily to their places of work. A number of women teachers reluctant to board buses have to depend on their colleagues or family members to shuttle between schools and residences on two-wheelers.
10 November 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pall of gloom at slain jawan’s native village||A pall of gloom descended on Reddivaripalle, the native village of slain army Jawan Cheekala Praveen Kumar Reddy (37), in Irala mandal, 25 km from here. The jawan was killed in the violence in Jammu and Kashmir on Sunday afternoon. Chittoor district administration said his body would be arriving at his native village by Tuesday evening. According to information, Praveen joined the Madras Regiment of the Army 18 years ago. After working as Hawaldar, he was later promoted to the rank of trained commando. He is survived by wife, a son and daughter. Revenue Divisional Officer (Chittoor) Renuka said the district authorities had spoken to the police officials in Jammu and Kashmir, regarding airlifting of the jawan’s body. “We are making all arrangements for the funeral with full state honours. As per direction of the Collector, all steps would be initiated to help the victim’s family in all possible ways,” the official said. Deputy Chief Minister K. Narayanaswamy, Panchayat Raj Minister P. Ramachandra Reddy and Puthalapattu MLA M.S. Babu visited the residence of the slain jawan, paid tributes to his portrait and consoled the family members. M r. Narayanaswamy said that as per directions of Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy, Rs. 50 lakh would be given to Praveen Kumar Reddy’s family. “They have also made a representation for some other requirements, and the same would be taken to the notice of the Chief Minister,” he added. Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan expressed profound grief over the death of army jawan Cheekala Praveen Kumar Reddy, who died fighting infiltrators in Machil Sector.
10 November 2020||Hyderabad,ANDHRA PRADESH||Chiranjeevi tests positive for COVID, quarantines self||Telugu superstar Chiranjeevi Konidela announced on social media that he has tested positive for COVID-19. The 65-year-old Stalin actor underwent testing as part of safety protocol before joining the sets of his upcoming movie, Acharya , he added in his post. “Unfortunately tested positive. I am currently asymptomatic and quarantining myself at home,” he wrote, requesting all those who met him in the past five days to also undergo COVID test. “Will update you on my recovery soon,” the former Union Minister stated in a letter to fans and mediapersons. On Saturday, Chiranjeevi ,along with actor Akkineni Nagarjuna, had met Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao and handed over cheques towards the Chief Minister's Relief Fund (CMRF) for relief operations in flood-hit areas of Hyderabad. Both Chiranjeevi and Nagarjuna, who donated Rs. 1 crore and Rs. 50 lakh respectively, were seen without masks while having a conversation with Mr. Rao. Directed by Koratala Siva and presented by Chiranjeevi’s actor-son Ram Charan under their home banner ‘Konidela Production Company’, Acharya’s shoot came to a halt in March due to COVID-19 pandemic and the subsequent lockdown. Kajal Aggarwal, who recently got married to entrepreneur Gautam Kitchlu at a low-key affair wedding in Mumbai with only family members and close friends in attendance, is the female lead in the movie. There were reports that actor Trisha was supposed to be cast as the female lead, but due to creative differences with the makers, she walked out of the film. The movie is scheduled to hit the silver screen in the second quarter of 2021. It was launched on October 8 last year on the occasion of Vijayadashami tentatively titled as #Chiru152. Chiranjeevi’s last release was the period epic Sye Raa Narasimha Reddy , which was released nationally in 2019.
10 November 2020||K. Srinivasa Rao,ANDHRA PRADESH||Demand to make Palasa new district headquarters||As the State government is planning to carve create new districts, residents of Palasa are demanding that their town be made a new district. According to them, Palasa is a major economic hub in Srikakulam district, ensuring huge tax revenue from North Andhra region. Palasa is known as one of the biggest cashew markets. It has good rail and road connectivity. It is centrally located and easy access for the people of Tekkali, Patapatnam, Sompeta, Itchapuram and other towns. Currently, people from Itchapuram are forced to travel nearly 110 km to reach the district headquarters of Srikakulam. District officials are unable to travel long distances to places such as Itchapuram, Sompeta, Palasa and other places. Palasa Cashew Manufacturing Association president Malla Srinivasa Rao said the government should consider Palasa as new district headquarters since there would be more economic activity with proposed Bhavanapadu sea port. “Palasa-Kasibugga twin towns have good infrastructure although Tekkali is the headquarters for the Revenue Division. Creation of Palasa as new district will lead to establishment of many offices and attract new investments. It leads to creation of jobs for people living in surrounding areas,” he added. Social Worker Duvvada Jeeviteswara Rao said Palasa would be the right choice for the new district if bifurcation of Srikakulam district was inevitable. “The entire development has been focussed towards southern part of Srikakulam district. All pharmaceutical industries and others were established in Pydibhimavaram industrial zone which is part of Vizianagaram Parliament constituency although it comes under Srikakulam jurisdiction. Now, it is the time the government to focussed on the development of Palasa which will ensure overall development of Srikakulam district,” he said. Demand for Tekkali Tekkali Constituency BJP in-charge Hanumanthu Udaybhaskar said Tekkali Revenue Division needed to be announced as new district since its development had been neglected in the last five decades. “Palasa is already a developed area. So its further growth is limited. The government should consider Tekkali as new district headquarters if it wants to create new districts,” he added. Almost all political parties and organisations have planned to submit their petitions to the government when it would seek the opinions officially.
10 November 2020||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kingpin of red sanders smuggling racket arrested||Shaik Abdul Hakim (41) alias Basha Bhai, an alleged notorious kingpin involved in international red sanders smuggling racket, was arrested by the Kadapa police on Monday. Eight of his accomplices and associates were also nabbed following investigation. The police got the vital breakthrough from the ghastly mishap near the Kadapa airport in the early hours of Nov. 2 in which two vehicles rammed a tipper and went up in flames, killing five persons. The police kept tabs on the surviving occupants of the car who had fled to Tamil Nadu. In view of the inter-State ramifications, Director-General of Police Gautam Sawang directed the Superintendent of Police (Kadapa) K.K.N. Anburajan to crack the case immediately. Following the instructions, the latter formed five teams and deputed them to Bengaluru, Coimbatore, Tirupathur, Vellore and the last one to sieve the nook and corner of Kadapa district . Two teams gathered vital inputs on the involvement of Abdul Hakim, a resident of Coimbatore. The investigating teams nabbed him at Rajampeta on Sunday evening along with 10 red sanders logs, apart from arresting his accomplices. Based on the CCTV footage and the documents seized from the car, the personnel nabbed three more persons involved in the illegal activities at Rayachoti in the district. Gang war Though nine members entered the Seshachalam forest at Kanumalopalli of Bhakarapet beat and came out with dressed logs to be sold in Bengaluru, the local gang decided to hijack the wood. “This led to the hot chase, in which the cars collided with the tipper on the Kadapa-Kamalapuram highway,” Mr. Anburajan told the media on Monday, while producing the logs and the arrested persons. Accused in 25 cases Basha Bhai is the most wanted accused in 14 cases in Kadapa district and 11 in Anantapur district. After serving jail sentence for nine months in Kadapa and Chittoor prisons and in view of heightened vigilance locally, he moved base to Bengaluru. There he got in touch with notorious smugglers Afroz and Fayaz having global connections. He continued to rule the business with a change in modus operandi. With the police focus shifting to Katigenahalli in Bengaluru rural, he finally moved to Coimbatore to illegally transport logs in the guise of cotton, only to draw the attention of the Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI). “We are actively considering to invoke P.D. Act against him,” Mr. Anburajan added. The other arrested were B. Jayaram Naik (Chakrayapet), K. Viswanatha Reddy (Pendlimarri), K.V. Maheswara Raju, P. Chiranjeevi (both Kadapa), K. Beeda Merin Prem Kumar, D. Naveen Kumar, C. Ravikanth and K. Girish (all from Kamalapuram).
10 November 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||ONGC seeks 71 acres of land for pipeline project in East Godavari||East Godavari Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy on Monday said a proposal was being prepared to allocate 71.22 acres of land sought by the Oil and Natural Gas Corporation for laying a pipeline from the sea to the land at Balusutippa village of Katrenikona mandal in East Godavari district. Mr. Muralidhar, Amalapuram MP Ch. Anuradha, Amalapuram Sub-Collector Himanshu Kaushik on Monday discussed the possibilities to spare the proposed land for the ONGC and compensation to be offered to the people affected by the pipeline project. Compensation package “The ONGC's proposal is to lay a pipeline connecting the pipeline system between the onshore and offshore locations as part of their ongoing operations. The package will be given, compensating the livelihood of the fisherfolk in and around the proposed site for the period of the ‘proposed work’. The compensation will also be offered to the fisherfolk in the event of any disturbance to the fishing activity,” Mr. Muralidhar said. He directed the fisheries authorities to prepare a list of families living in five villages that fall in the pipeline project area.
10 November 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Youth gets life imprisonment in POCSO case||A local court on Monday awarded life imprisonment to a 24-year-old youth, Dondapati Pradeep, convicted for sexual harassment and betraying a minor girl on the promise of marrying her in a case under the Rajamahendravaram North Zone Division limits in East Godavari district. In June, 2017, the North Zone police registered a case against Pradeep of Seetanagaram mandal, under the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, 2012. On Monday, Special Judge (POCSO cases) C. Satya Vani awarded the life imprisonment and imposed a fine of Rs. 2000 fine on him, an official release said.
10 November 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Daily wager found dead||The body of a daily labourer Boggula Mahesh, 25, of Budhwarpet area, was found with stab injuries close to the Gattappa School in the city. Mahesh is survived by wife. Passersby noticed the body on Monday informed the police. Police are investigating the case.
10 November 2020||MACHILIPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two fake Aadhaar card issuing centres busted||The police have busted two fake Aadhaar card issuing centres in Gudivada and Tiruvuru of Krishna district and arrested seven persons in separate cases. They seized huge quantity of fake Aadhaar and PAN cards from the accused. Superintendent of Police M. Ravindranath Babu told newsmen on Monday that on information that fake Aadhaar Cards were being prepared by a gang, police conducted raid on Satyasai Sharat Communications at Gowrishankarpuram in Gudivada town. They arrested the internet centre owner Ch. Roopa Satyakumar and Aadhaar Cards resource person G. Sai Pahindra. The police seized 40 fake PAN cards, 20 Aadhaar Cards, 15 driving licenses, 15 voter ID cards and other material from their possession, said Gudivada Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) N. Satyanandam. In another case, the Nuzvid police raided on Sai mee-Seva Centre and arrested G. Kodanda Sai Krishna, Abdul Rehaman (Aadhaar Cards resource person in BSNL Office), R. Kishore, P. Ayyappa and Sk. Saheed. “The accused were taking Rs. 5,000 for issuing Aadhaar cards by changing the date of birth, address and other particulars, as requested by the applicants,” Mr. Babu said. Nuzvid DSP B. Srinivasulu said that police identified more than 200 persons, who obtained fake Aadhaar Cards. The SP appreciated Gudivada Two Town CI Durga, SI Subramanyam, IT Core constable Ganesh, Special Branch officers and other staff for busting the rackets.
10 November 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Police resolve vexed dispute during ‘Spandana’||The Prakasam police on Monday resolved a dispute pending for 30 years much to the relief of a distressed woman. Holding a video conference by adhering to COVID-19 norms during the ‘Spandana’ programme, Additional Superintendent of Police B. Ravichandra along with Officer on Special Duty K. Chowdeswari brought an end to a vexed dispute between Subbaravamma, with her estranged husband Subbaramaiah. The latter, realising his mistake, registered a property which she was entitled to, in her name after protracted talks by the Kanigiri police. The woman from Chinnavarimadu village, near P.C. Palli, had approached Superintendent of Police Siddharth Kaushal two weeks ago and sought his intervention. The SP asked the OSD to monitor the case, which was assigned to the Kanigiri police for adjudication, till the issue was resolved. The woman with two children with no means for a living thanked the SP for resolving the long-pending dispute and ensured that she could lead a dignified life. In all, 57 complaints were received during the programme.
10 November 2020||ONGOLE/NELLORE,ANDHRA PRADESH||New cases dip to 150 in South Coastal Andhra||The health situation showed marked improvement in south coastal Andhra Pradesh as Prakasam and Nellore districts recorded zero COVID-19 deaths in the last 24 hours. The death toll due to the pandemic remained unchanged at 574 in Prakasam district for the fourth consecutive day as the 24x7 treatment provided by health professionals yielded positive results. The toll remained static at 488 in neighbouring Nellore district also, according to a health bulletin released by the State government on Monday night. The casualty rate stood at 0.87% in the region. The number of fresh cases dipped to less than 150 in the two districts, taking the cumulative confirmed cases to 1,22,560 during the period. However, the caseload increased a bit to 2,329 as 118 patients were recuperated during the period. The recovery rate was at 97.63% in the two districts with over 1.19 lakh persons winning the battle against the disease so far. In Prakasam district, the total number of positive cases rose to 60,554 with 66 more testing positive for the disease. As a result, the active cases marginally increased to 908. So far, 59,072 persons have recovered in the district. With 76 new cases, the cumulative confirmed cases edged up to 62,006. With 61 persons recovering from the illness, the number of active cases stood at 1,421. As many as 60,585 persons have recovered from the disease so far. Prakasam District Collector P.Bhaskar asked the ANMs to be more proactive in identifying new cases and shift the needy to hospitals.
10 November 2020||RAMPACHODAVARAM (EAST GODAVARI),ANDHRA PRADESH||Tribals demand new district for Rampa with Alluri’s name||Members of the Rampachodavaram District Sadhana Samithi (RDSS) and the Alluri Seetaramaraju Yuvajana Sangham (ASYS) on Monday demanded creation of a new district with headquarters at Ramachodavaram from the existing Araku parliamentary segment. The group of locals submitted a representation to the Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA-Rampachodavaram) Project Officer Praveen Adithya here, reminding him that the proposal to create a new district headquartered at Araku would land thousands of tribals in trouble in the Rampa agency. The State government’s proposal of creating new districts with the jurisdiction of the existing parliament segments is being studied by an expert committee. “Given the distance and geographical features of the Rampa agency, a new district should be created with headquarters at Rampachodavaram from the Araku parliament segment. The tribals in the Rampa agency have expressed the same desire during the field visits conducted recently by the RDSS,” said its president Balu Akkisa. ‘Jagan’s promise’ ASYS founder president Padala Veerabhadra Rao told Mr. Praveen Adithya that Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had promised to create a new district with headquarters at Rampachodavaram, naming it after freedom fighter Alluri Seetaramaraju during his election campaign. The promise should be kept, he said. Mr. Veerabhadra Rao felicitated Mr. Praveen Adithya and presented him with an idol of Alluri.
10 November 2020||Sumit Bhattacharjee,ANDHRA PRADESH||City sees dip in coronavirus cases||There is a significant drop in the number of COVID-19 cases in the city. But there is a rise in cases from the rural areas causing concern for the Health Department officials. Till Sunday night, the total cases recorded since the outbreak of the pandemic in the district were 57,287, with 1,642 active ones. The cases peaked from July to September, with the district recording close to 50,000 cases in the three months. But in October, they dropped below 6,000. During the peak, the city, especially under the GVMC limits, accounted for about 80% of the cases and the cases from rural and tribal areas were around 20%. “But now things have changed a bit, with the city accounting for about 55% and rural recording 45% of cases,” said District Collector V. Vinay Chand. Cases are on the rise from a few mandals such as Chodavaram, Narsipatnam and Anakapalle (rural). Health officials attribute the rise to the return of migrant workers and people becoming complacent. “There is no reason for letting your guard down. It is important that we be more cautious during this transition period. We can say that the curve is flattening only if the rate of reduction in cases continues for the next couple of months,”Mr. Vianay Chand said. “The crowding of Beach Road and beaches in the city on weekends is a clear indication that people are letting their guard down,” said P.V. Sudhakar, District COVID Special Officer and Principal of Andhra Medical College. The drop in cases is clear, when the daily statistics is co-related with the number of tests per day and positive cases. Since the last four months, the district administration has been conducting close to 6,000 tests, both rapid antigen and RT PCR combined, per day. When at peak, people testing positive was around 20% to 25%, as the daily count varied between 1,200 and 1,400. But now it has dropped to around 2%, with the daily count averaging between 100 and 120, said Mr. Vinay Chand. Second wave “But keeping the predicted second wave in mind, we cannot give it a pass. Already States such as Delhi and Kerala are experiencing a second wave and many European countries are also seeing it. We are trying our best to educate people by running an Information, Education and Communication (IEC) campaign and we can beat the virus only with people’s cooperation,” said the District Collector.
10 November 2020||TIRUMALA:,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Deepavali asthanam’ on November 14||‘Deepavali asthanam’ will be observed at the famous hill temple on November 14. The ‘asthanam’ will be observed at ‘Bangaru vakili’, inside the hill temple wherein the processional deities of Lord Malayappa along with his two divine consorts will be seated.
10 November 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP warns TTD against move to withdraw defamation proceedings||Taking exception to the alleged move by the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) to dilute the defamation proceedings initiated by it in the past, the Telugu Desam Party (TDP) has cautioned it against the withdrawal bid, which it terms a step potentially causing loss of reputation to the world famous temple. It may be recalled that the TTD, at its trust board meeting dated June 5, 2018, resolved to slap defamation cases worth Rs. 100 crore each against its former chief priest A.V. Ramana Deekshitulu and Rajya Sabha member V. Vijaya Sai Reddy for making unfounded allegations. An amount to the tune of Rs. 2 crore had also been paid towards court fee. With the change of guard in the State, the successor board decided to withdraw the case O.S.No. 264/2018. “Though directed by the High Court, the TTD refrained from filing a counter with regard to the implead petition filed by Hindu Jan Shakti Welfare Association, based at Nizampet (Telangana). As the case is postponed to November 16, the TTD should utilise the reprieve and file a counter immediately,” said TDP State general secretary B. Chengalrayudu. Addressing the media here on Monday along with TUDA former Chairman G. Narasimha Yadav, he cautioned that any move to shy away from the case would only embolden ‘anti-Hindu elements’ to make casual comments and baseless charges against the world famous Tirumala temple in future. “Already, the TTD has directly lost Rs. 2 crore of devotee money. By withdrawing the case, it is set to indirectly lose the Rs. 200 crore defamation amount it is bound to get,” he warned. ‘Reputation at stake’ The TDP leader pointed out that more than the money, it was the reputation of Lord Venkateswara at stake and those making wild allegations should not go unpunished.
10 November 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Go green, TTD EO directs officials||TTD Executive Officer K.S. Jawahar Reddy has emphasized the need for the officials to explore the potential to use non-conventional sources to protect the environment. At the meeting of senior officials in his chamber on Monday, he directed the engineering officials to arrange solar panels on top of every building at Tirumala and Tirupati to utilise solar energy. Dr. Reddy also instructed the forest department to identify the plant species mentioned in the ancient texts, Vedas and Puranas and plant such saplings. “The flowers grown in these gardens should be used to decorate Lord Venkateswara,” he pointed out. ‘Keep tab on fake websites’ The Executive Officer made a specific mention of the growing number of fake websites and instructed the vigilance department to keep tabs on such sites and ensure that the devotees were not cheated in booking darshan, accommodation and Seva tickets. All the Vedic schools run by TTD should be brought under the umbrella of Sri Venkateswara Vedic University and the Sanskrit College at Secunderabad should be developed, the officer said, while instructing the scholars to work on bringing to light the unpublished Sankirtans of Annamayya, Purandaradasa and Tarigonda Vengamamba.
10 November 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Don’t let your guard down on COVID: expert||With talk of a second wave of COVID-19 making rounds, experts warn the public not to let their guard down and keep their flock safe at home. The note of caution also comes at a time when people are thronging hospitals in large numbers to get their long-term illnesses treated and seeking relief for non-communicable diseases like cardiac ailments, diabetes, gastric problems, sleeplessness and so on. “Please remember that the virus is not yet gone. Everyone should wear masks, practice social distancing and maintain hygienic practices,” cautioned Ramadevi Gourineni, Medical Director of Amara Hospital, part of the Amara Raja group. Taking note of the laxity among the public, Dr. Ramadevi warned of the likelihood of the curve looking upward and the difficulty in taming it once the leash is loosened. “We are open to orthopaedics, cardiology, CT surgery, critical care, emergency, pulmonary medicine, neurology, sleep medicine, dermatology and paediatrics,” she said.
10 November 2020||Tirupati,ANDHRA PRADESH||Officer in ACB net||Anti-Corruption Bureau sleuths raided 13 locations and unearthed crores of rupees pertaining to P. Shankar, Assistant Commandant of Andhra Pradesh Special Police(APSP)’s 3rd battalion in Kakinada. The searches were simultaneously carried out in Chittoor, Palamaner, Tirupati, Nandalur, Rajampet and Tadipatri wherein property worth Rs. 2.46 crore was seized. The documents include properties pertaining to agricultural lands, house sites, buildings, poultry farms and cash.
10 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Complete Nadu-Nedu first phase works by February: CM||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has directed officials to complete the first phase works under Nadu-Nedu programme in schools by February and to provide all facilities in welfare hostels in the second phase. During a review meeting on Monday, Mr. Jagan instructed that a special wing be set up in the Education Department to monitor Nadu-Nedu works. He wanted welfare hostels to be provided with all amenities, including bunker beds, in the second phase of Nadu-Nedu by Sankranti festival 2022 and each mandal to have a junior college. He observed that there were no government junior colleges in 159 mandals as on date. The Chief Minister directed the officials to revamp Anganwadi centres also under Nadu-Nedu scheme. He ordered that student kits under ‘Jagananna Vidya Kanuka’ should be distributed on June 1 taking into account the likelihood of the opening of schools on June 12 in the next academic year. Officials told the Chief Minister that 15,715 schools were being revamped at a total cost of Rs. 1,690 crore in the first phase. Two types of kitchens costing Rs. 5 lakh and Rs. 15 lakh were planned according to the strength of students in the schools. Minister Audimulapu Suresh, Principal Secretary (School Education) B. Rajasekhar, Special Chief Secretaries Gopal Krishna Dwivedi (Panchayat Raj & Rural Development) and S.S. Rawat, Secretary (Tribal Wlfare) Kantilal Dande, Commissioner of School Education V. Chinna Veerabhadrudu and others were present.
10 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||One-day-old girl baby abandoned near NGO home||An unidentified person abandoned a girl baby near an NGO home in Hanuman Junction in Krishna district on Monday. Home organiser, Sister Mary, who noticed the one-day-old baby wrapped in clothes in a basket alerted the police. In the CCTV footages, it was observed that a person entered the place around 3.15 a.m. and left after a few minutes, said SP M. Ravindranath Babu. The Hanuman Junction police handed over the baby to Women Development and Child Welfare (WD&CW) department personnel. A case has been registered and investigation is on, the SP added.
10 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID: no deaths in 7 districts in 24 hours||The State reported 1,392 new infections and 11 deaths in the 24 hours ending Monday morning. It was the lowest single-day tally in the past four months and the positivity rate of the 61,050 samples tested in the past day was also lowest at 2.28% in the past four months. The overall positivity rate of 87.17 lakh tests was 9.69%. The infection tally increased to  8,44,359 and the death toll went up to 6,802 while the death rate remains at 0.81%. The recovery rate also remains at 96.68% and 1,549 patients have recovered in the past day taking the total recoveries to 8,16,322. There are 21,235 active patients in the state. Seven districts reported no new deaths in the past day, while Krishna district alone reported five of the 11 new deaths. Kadapa reported two and East Godavari, Guntur, Visakhapatnam and West Godavari reported one death each. Also, nine districts reported less than or equal to 100 new cases. East Godavari reported 341 new cases and was followed by West Godavari (243), Guntur (116), Chittoor (105), Kadapa (100), Anantapur (84), Nellore (76), Krishna (75), Prakasam (66), Vizianagaram (61), Srikakulam (47), Visakhapatnam (42) and Kurnool (36). The district tallies are as follows: East Godavari (1,18,930), West Godavari (88,919), Chittoor (80,871), Guntur (69,712), Anantapur (65,662), Prakasam (60,554), Nellore (60,440), Kurnool (59,758), Visakhapatnam (56,817), Kadapa (53,214), Srikakulam (44,728), Krishna (41,879) and Vizianagaram (39,980).
10 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||At fifty plus, an engineer realises his life dream||An engineer chased his long-cherished dream of pursuing a law degree course at the age of fifty plus and emerged as topper in the entrance examination conducted recently. The engineer, T. Raveendra Babu, has geared up for the ‘back to college’ phase. The Lawcet 2020 results were announced a couple of days ago. Mr. Raveendra Babu, who is serving as an executive engineer (EE) in the Central Public Works Department (CPWD), secured the first rank in the entrance test. He is an M.Tech graduate and structural engineer by qualification. When contacted, Mr. Raveendra Babu recalls that he could not pursue the law course when he was out of school due to financial constraints. Then he chose polytechnic and pursued a diploma course with an eye on early employment. He succeeded in his endeavours. The designs and construction of Radar station at Machilipatnam is one of his accomplishments. He became a sun certified Java programmer and got an offer in the US in 2001, year of attack on twin towers. Notwithstanding these achievements, his dream of becoming a lawyer also grew, he recalls. Rigorous preparation Mr. Raveendra Babu says that he made a rigorous preparation for the entrance test. It started with the collection of necessary material. From listening to online lectures on law entrance examination to preparing notes, he used to spend 10 to 12 hours a day on examination preparation. His wife, who is also an executive engineer, was a ‘passive student.’ She used to listen the YouTube classes on constitution and law along with him. He learnt every section and article in the Indian constitution by heart. Newspapers, online material on current affairs helped a lot, he says. Mr. Raveendra Babu says that he plans to specialise constitutional law and help the people in filing Public Interest Litigations (PILs) free of cost. The government pays pension from taxpayers' money. So, I thought it is appropriate not to charge any fee for filing the PILs, he reasons. As one year from the date of relieving from the duties will be a cooling period as per the Central government rules, he plans to try his hand in arbitration. There are plenty of opportunities and scope for arbitration. Also, we have a High Court here to take up the practice, he adds.
10 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Post-COVID complications a cause for worry’||Doctors at the Manipal Hospital emphasised that COVID can cause other complications such as hepatic dysfunction, acute kidney injury and thrombotic events. The drugs used for the management of COVID-19 themselves can also cause side-effects such as uncontrolled sugar levels, which can lead to Invasive Fungal Infection (IFI), they observed. In a conference held at the hospital, V.V.K Sandeep, consultant, ENT, head & neck surgery, said the usage of a high dose of steroids or broad-spectrum antibiotics would increase the risk of IFI. Once IFI was diagnosed, it required surgical exploration, antifungal usage, and diabetic control, he stated. Consultant nephrologist A.V.S.S.N. Sridhar said around 19 COVID patients treated in the last two months recovered, but had been experiencing invasive fungal sinusitis. Due to early diagnosis, they could be treated with aggressive surgical and medical therapy. Consultant diabetologist and endocrinologist Murali Krishna Ganguri said the COVID patients came with different complaints which varied from loss of vision, blurred vision, headache, tooth pain, facial pain, palatal erosion, pain in temples and facial paralysis. Hospital director Sudhakar Kantipudi asserted that early diagnosis and prompt treatment would check possible morbidity and mortality.
10 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Vishnu takes exception to TDP remarks on houses||Andhra Pradesh Brahmin Corporation Chairman and VIjayawada (Central) MLA Malladi Vishnu took exception to the Telugu Desam Party (TDP) allegations on distribution of houses to the beneficiaries. The TDP tricked the people in the name of houses, he alleged. The MLA participated in padayatra “Prajallo nadu, prajala kosam nedu”, in the city on Monday. He said that only 2,000 houses were constructed completely and 4,000 houses were constructed up to basement level during the TDP rule. The TDP leaders, however, were demanding distribution of 12,000 houses. He urged the people to compare the TDP’s five-year rule and YSRCP’'s 17-month rule. The people had to make rounds and plead the Janmabhoomi committees, TDP leaders for sanction of pensions. Corruption ruled the roost then, he allged. The YSRCP government made everything transparent. About 600 new pensions were being sanctioned in Vijayawada (Central) constituency this month, he added.
10 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Govt. to file bail cancellation petition for Kurnool CI, HC||Police will file a ‘bail cancellation’ petition for Kurnool One Town Circle Inspector Somashekar Reddy and head constable Gangadhar, who were arrested in auto driveR Abdul Salam’s family suicide pact. Mr. Reddy and the head constable were granted bail in the case. However, to ensure fair investigation and render justice to the victim’s family, the State government will file a petition seeking cancellation of bail to the two policemen. The petitioner said the bail to the accused may hamper investigation in the case, and they were arrested under Section 306 IPC (Abetment to Suicide) and urged for cancellation of bail.
10 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Disha App will be effective: panel Director||Director of AP Mahila Commission Ravuri Suez has expressed optimism that the Disha App will be effective in curbing the growing crimes against women, especially rape and killing. At a webinar on: “Crimes against women: Rape and brutal killings – Legal perspectives”, organised jointly by Dr. Durgabai Deshmukh Centre for Women’s Studies, Andhra University, and the AP Mahila Commission, in association with University Grants Commission (UGC), here on Monday, Ms. Suez said that the Commission was keen to formulate new policies within the new legislative framework by leveraging the latest technologies. Vice-Chancellor P.V.G.D. Prasad Reddy stressed on the need for empirical research to identify various issues of public importance and thereby the reports to be submitted to the government machinery for formulation of practical solutions and policy framework. SP Cyber Crimes, AP CID, G.R. Radhika, called upon girls to be proactive in terms of reporting crime, wherever it occurs. The resource person of the webinar and advocate Rahimunnisa Begum explained the various sections of Indian Penal Code (IPC) with reference to criminal law amendments, post-Nirbhaya case.
10 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Suicide by Muslim family: TDP seeks resignation of Dy. CM||Telugu Desam Party State general secretary Md. Nazeer has alleged that atrocities on the Muslim community are on the rise under the YSR Congress regime, but the elected representatives of the ruling party and Deputy Chief Minister and Minority Welfare Minister Amzath Bhasha are not in a position to do justice to the community. Addressing the media here on Monday, Mr. Nazeer demanded resignation of Mr. Amzath Bhasha for failing to go to Kurnool after Abdul Salam, his wife and children committed suicide by falling under a train at Nandyal. He said TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu promptly demanded justice to Abdul Salam and his family members. He demanded an inquiry into the alleged suicide by a sitting judge. Commenting on the action taken by the State government, Mr. Nazeer said it (State government) was content with the suspension and arrest of the Circle Inspector and the Head Constable. He alleged that Abdul Salam was branded as a 'thief' and harassed. He ridiculed the contention that there was no CCTV at the gold shop, when even petty shops were installing them.
10 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Woman constable’s murder: husband held||Nakapalle police cracked the murder case of woman constable Durga Bhavani (26), here on Monday and arrested her husband Ch. Simhadri for allegedly killing her and trying to portray it as a suicide. Durga Bhavani was killed in the early hours of Saturday at her police residential quarters at Nakapalle. Addressing a press conference here on Monday, Nakapalle Circle Inspector Vijay Kumar said that Durga Bhavani and her husband were having some differences as he suspected that she was having an affair with her friend G. Srinu. On Friday, Durga Bhavani returned home at around 9 p.m. and had gone to sleep after feeding her two children. Simhadri reportedly acted as if he was sleeping. At around 1.30 a.m. on Saturday, he reportedly woke her up and questioned her about her alleged relationship. They reportedly had a heated argument and he beat her up. He then reportedly used a rope to strangle her to death and tried to show it as suicide by hanging the body to a fan in one of the rooms. According to Mr. Vijay Kumar, both the children were witness to the act and Simhadri threatened them by saying that he would also kill them if they disclosed the information to others. Meanwhile, the accused rang up the police station and informed the Assistant Sub-Inspector that his wife had committed suicide. “Based on a complaint filed by the parents of Durga Bhavani we started to suspect Simhadri. Understanding that he might be arrested he gave us a slip and had gone absconding for a day. But on Monday, he surrendered to the police and confessed to the crime,” the CI said. Simhadri and Bhavani were married in 2008 and the couple has two children aged 11 and nine years. She joined as police constable in 2018-19. Simhadri has been arrested and sent to remand, said the CI.
10 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Focus on upskilling as per industry needs’||Senior students of GITAM Deemed to be University, who got jobs during online placements, conducted a specially designed programme: “How to get placement ready: Trending technologies and job opportunities” here on Monday. The programme was arranged by GITAM University Science and Activity Centre (GUSAC) in association with national skill development forum Phoenix Global. CEO Phoenix Global Kakarla Subhash, an alumnus of GITAM, told the mentees that the focus should on upskilling as per the industry requirements in the aftermath of the COVID-19 pandemic. Over 1,000 students attended the programme.
10 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Naidu failed to give fair deal to Muslims: YSRCP||YSR Congress Party leader and former MLA S.A. Rahaman has alleged that TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu, who had failed to give a fair deal to the Muslim community when he was in power, is now trying to project himself as the messiah of Muslims. Addressing the media here on Monday, the former MLA wondered what more does the TDP chief want when Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy had promptly sent higher officials and cases were booked against the accused CI and Head Constable. He alleged that the TDP president was provoking the Muslims for his political gains. He recalled as to how Mr. Naidu had suppressed upcoming Muslim leaders like him, Lal Jan Basha and Farooq, who were all promoted by TDP founder N.T. Rama Rao. Lal Jan Basha was humiliated in the party. Minister Babu Khan had resigned from the Ministry in protest against the changing stance of Mr. Naidu. Haleel Bhasha was removed and Farooq was given an MP ticket though he had bright chances of winning as an MLA. He alleged that Mr. Naidu was responsible for ‘finishing’ the careers of many Muslim leaders.
10 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Attempt to loot ATM||An unidentified person made an attempt to steal cash from an ATM at Middalapuri colony under PM Palem police station limits on Sunday night. According to the police, the accused entered the ATM booth at around 10 p.m.. and tried to open the chest in the machine to steal the cash. In the meantime, an SMS had gone to the manager of the bank, who alerted the police. But by the time the police could reach the spot, the person ran away. His images have been captured in the CC TV camera and investigation is on.
10 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||AUCET/AUEET admission: last date extended||The last date for uploading the certificates for AUCET/AUEET-2020 admission counselling has been extended up to November 14, due to the delay in the issuance of provisional certificates by other universities in the light of COVID-19 situation and on the requests by many students. Students should upload their certificates before the due date.
10 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Parents of Dubai accident victim meet Minister||The parents of a youth from Visakhapatnam, who died in a road accident in Dubai, met Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao at his residence here on Monday. The youth, D. Krishna from Malkapuram area in the city, had been working in a private company in Dubai for the last six years. He died in an accident three days ago in Dubai. The Minister called up the Indian embassy officials in Dubai and company representatives and asked them to make arrangements to send the body to Visakhapatnam. The Minister assured the parents that the State government will extend all help to them.
10 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||District records 42 new cases, one death||The district recorded lowest number of COVID-19 cases in the last 24 hours since July, on Monday. According to the district bulletin, 42 fresh cases were recorded and this is said to be the lowest since July. This takes the total number of positive cases to 57,329, since the outbreak of the pandemic and recording the first case in March. The district also recorded one death taking the tally of deaths to 487. A total of 110 persons undergoing treatment at hospitals, COVID care centres and in home isolation, were declared free of the coronavirus and were discharged. With this, the total number of discharges has gone up to 55,269. According to the District COVID Special Officer and Principal of Andhra Medical College P.V. Sudhakar, the total number of very active clusters was six as on Monday evening, and active clusters were 19.
10 November 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM:,ANDHRA PRADESH||(Body traced)||The body of the 20-year-old naval personnel from Eastern Naval Command, Shubham, who went missing in Yarada Beach on Sunday morning, was traced on Monday. With the body being fished out of the sea, the death toll in the Sunday’s drowning incident at Yarada Beach in Visakhapatnam went up to two. It may be recalled that a group of naval personnel from INS Sumitra of Indian Navy, comprising 54 persons, went to Yarada Beach on Sunday morning and played some games. Before proceeding to breakfast, four of them ventured into the sea for a bath. All the four were caught in a strong current. Two of them managed to survive.
10 November 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ensure quality education in govt. schools, says official||Principal Secretary of Chief Minister’s Office Affairs Praveen Prakash has directed the Vizianagaram district administration to ensure quality education to all students who joined government schools which were being modernised under Nadu-Nedu programme. He said the standards should be better than corporate schools. As part of inspection of schools, he visited Marupalli village of Gajpathinagaram mandal. He said running water in washrooms was compulsory to avoid inconvenience for girl students. Mr. Prakash said Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy was particular about improvement of educational standards in government schools. “The Chief Minister spent almost 10 hours to finalise Jagananna Vidya Kanuka scheme which ensures uniforms, shoes and others for students who joined government schools. All the teachers should strive hard to meet his expectations,” he said. He also suggested that staff of ward secretariats should be in their respective villages. District Collector M. Hari Jawaharlal and other senior officials accompanied him and explained the progress of various schemes including Nadu-Nedu.
10 November 2020||November 10 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Always in demand||
10 November 2020||November 10 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Preparations in full swing||
10 November 2020||November 10 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Girl drowns in canal||Twelve-year-old Rishita, who accidentally fell into the Bandar canal when she went to dump garbage, drowned in the city on Monday. She was studying in a local school, the police said. The AP State Disaster Response Force (APSDRF) and the National Disaster Response Force (SDRF) personnel searched in vain for the body till evening.
10 November 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Pandemic, geologist crunch impede Giri Vikasam scheme||COVID-induced disruptions coupled with shortage of geologists are proving to be major impediments to the implementation of the ambitious Giri Vikasam scheme meant for development of farm lands of small and medium tribal farmers to help them secure sustainable farm income in the tribal-dominated district. The non-availability of adequate technical field staff to conduct the hydro-geological survey for identifying the right spot to drill a borewell/tubewell, one of the essential components of the scheme, is impeding the implementation of the well-intended initiative. Funds sanctioned Funds to the tune of Rs. 11.99 crore were sanctioned by the Telangana State Scheduled Tribes Cooperative Finance Corporation Limited (TRICOR) to the district for extending benefits envisaged under the scheme to eligible tribal farmers in the last financial year (2019-20), source said. Despite availability of adequate funds, the scheme has failed to make much headway on the desired lines due to alleged initial delay in beneficiaries selection process, conduct of hydro-geological survey, among other factors, sources added. The COVID-triggered crisis slowed down the pace of survey, causing considerable delay in extending benefits of the scheme to needy tribal farmers. The scheme envisages multiple interventions aimed at developing farm lands of tribal farmers, drilling borewells/tubewells, providing agricultural pump set connections and three-phase power supply. The District Rural Development Agency (DRDA), which is tasked with the implementation of the scheme, is grappling with shortage of geologists to expeditiously complete the survey in all tribal blocks. The hydro-geological survey has been completed in the tribal blocks under three mandals — Gundala, Lakshmidevipalli and Dammapeta — under the supervision of the single geologist presently available with the executing agency, DRDA sources said. Efforts are on to recruit another geologist on outsourcing basis to speed up the hydro-geological survey in the remaining mandals under the scheme, said an official of DRDA.
10 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||COVID tests, cases halve on Sunday||Telangana recorded 857 COVID-19 cases and four deaths on Sunday. Less than a thousand cases were detected as only 23,806 people were examined on that day. Usually, from the past three weeks, around 40,000 to 45,000 samples are being tested in a day, leading to the detection of 1,400 to 1,650 cases. The number of samples examined drops on every Sunday. On the last Sunday (November 1), only 25,643 samples were tested and 922 cases were detected. The new 857 cases recorded on November 8 include 250 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation region, 88 from Rangareddy and 61 from Medchal-Malkajgiri. The lowest of zero cases were reported from Nizamabad, one each in Narayanpet, Mulugu, Kamareddy and Jayashankar-Bhupalapally. Of the 23,806 people who underwent testing, 22,031 opted for government health facilities while 1,775 got examined at private labs. From March 2 to November 8, a total of 46,42,276 samples have been examined and 2,51,188 were found positive for coronavirus. Of the total cases, 19,239 are active while 2,30,568 have recovered. The death toll stands at 1,381. While the recovery rate in India is 92.5%, it is 91.79% in the State. In the past one week (November 2-8), as many as 2,92,967 samples were tested and 10,218 positive cases detected. A total of 33 patients who contracted coronavirus died. The number of tests per day have marginally increased in the seven days. While around 40,000 to 42,000 samples were tested from October 13 to October 31, around 45,000 samples were tested on a daily basis in the past one week.
10 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Minister launches three link roads in Hyderabad||Minister for Municipal Administration and Urban Development K.T.Rama Rao has stated that the government has spent Rs. 8,113 crore in the last six years towards various development programmes aimed at improvement in urban infrastructure and betterment of quality of life in Greater Hyderabad. Mr.Rama Rao launched link roads at three locations in the purview of Serilingampally zone, laid with an expenditure of Rs. 67.76 crore, besides laying foundation for vehicle underpass at Road No.45, Nandi Hills. Speaking on this occasion, Mr. Rama Rao cited the development programmes taken up in city by the Telangana government by way of construction of flyovers, underpasses, road development, beautification of junctions and other developmental works, and said that such scale of development activity had not been made during the history of joint State. Of these, a total of Rs. 6,000 crore has been spent on SRDP works, Rs. 313 crore on road development through Hyderabad Road Development Corporation, and Rs. 1,800 crore on the comprehensive road maintenance programme. He cited various survey reports ranking Hyderabad as the fastest developing city in the whole country. HRDCL is developing a total of 137 link roads with an expenditure of Rs. 313 crore with the aim to reduce traffic congestion in the city, he said, and urged people to make suggestions about possibility of link roads anywhere else. The Minister launched three link roads — one of 2.3 kilometre length between Old Bombay Highway up to Delhi Public School via Engineering Staff College of India with an expenditure of Rs. 19.51 crore, the second of 1.2 kilometre length between Leather Park of Old Bombay Highway along the HT power line up to Road No. 45 with an expenditure of Rs. 15.54 crore, and the third of one kilometre length between Miyapur road and the HT power line with an expenditure of Rs. 9.61 crore. He laid foundation stone for the works of vehicle underpass from Old Bombay Highway towards the route to the Road No. 45, with an expenditure of Rs. 23.1 crore. Construction of the four lane underpass will reduce the traffic congestion on the Old Bombay Highway, a media statement informed. Ministers Sabitha Indra Reddy, Talasani Srinivas Yadav, Mayor Bonthu Ram Mohan, MP Ranjit Reddy, MLC Naveen Rao, MLA A.Gandhi, corporators, and GHMC officials were present during the events.
10 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Mobile apps launched to monitor and improve Palle Pragati works||The State government has launched two mobile applications for effectively monitoring the works undertaken by the gram panchayats and improving their efficiency. The launch of the two apps – Palle Pragati PS App (panchayat secretary app) and Monitoring App – are aimed at enhancing the performance of the officials at the grass root level and enable supervision of the works taken up by the inspection officers concerned on a daily basis. The apps envisage identification of the problems at village level, steps for speedy resolution of the issues and bringing in transparency in the works launched. Panchayat Raj Minister Errabelli Dayakar Rao formally unveiled the apps here on Monday. The development follows the Palle Pragati programme, a brainchild of Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao, for improving infrastructure and ensuring all round development of villages. The app for panchayat secretaries is aimed at taking up cleanliness programmes including cleaning of roads, drains, government offices premises, collection of solid and liquid wastes, and maintenance of street-lighting on a daily basis. The app would enable maintaining records of Palle Pragati works on monthly basis, including cleaning of water tanks, conduct of gram sabha, maintenance of records of the respective villages, permissions and certificates issued, revenue of the respective panchayat, expenditure and other works. The reports generated on these aspects would be forwarded to the inspection app wherein the officials entrusted with inspecting the works would certify them. Inspection officers would be given targets based on the information ported on to the app designed for them. The inspection officials on their part would check the effectiveness in delivery of services by eliciting response from the residents. They would also check issues like utilisation of dumping yards, maintenance of nurseries and parks, financial transactions of the respective gram panchayats and certification of the cheques issued by the respective gram panchayat. They would assess the performance of the panchayats based on different parameters and give ranking to the panchayats accordingly. The app had been developed in such a manner that the inspection report would be generated by the app and would be forwarded to the respective panchayat secretaries for their consent. The Minister said the app had been designed to fix responsibilities of the officials at different levels for effectively delivering services to people through team work. These apps would ensure constant flow of information about the progress of works launched in the villages on daily and monthly basis so that works could be speeded up wherever necessary and improvements could be made to ensure all round development of the villages, he said.
10 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Radiology holds the key in detection of coronavirus||Radiology has assumed enormous significance in diagnosis and prognostication during the COVID-19 pandemic and lakhs of people are slowly but surely becoming aware of HRCT Scan, a diagnostic test conducted by the radiology department. Although people seldom interact directly with the radiologists, the role that the latter plays before COVID-19 is confirmed as well as during treatment post recovery is undeniable. In fact, their contribution has become more pronounced during the pandemic. Emergency cases In case of emergency cases such as severe head injury in road accidents, surgeries are taken up after assessment by radiologists using CT Scan or any other radiological investigations. When a person enters a diagnosis room, they usually interact with radiographers or technologists, or supporting staff. The radiographers conduct the process of making a patient or a person undergo the scanning procedure under guidance of the specialists. “The radiographers or technologists send us images of CT Scan or MRI Scan and other radiological investigation reports. We read the images and note down the observations. In case of emergency cases, if a patient needs immediate surgery or other treatment, we immediately call the surgeon or physician after going through the scanning images,” said Ravuri Power, general secretary of the Indian Radiological and Imaging Association-Telangana chapter. The World Radiology Day was observed on November 8. Immediate assessment Usually, for immediate assessment, the radiology department is placed next to the emergency or casualty ward of a hospital. When COVID-19 cases started to increase in March and a few months thereafter, undergoing tests was a challenge in the State. Private labs were allowed to conduct tests to detect presence of the virus from mid-June. Until then, doctors in private hospitals heavily relied on High Resolution Computed Tomography (HRCT) Scan reports to assess if a suspected patient had the virus. Apart from HRCT Scan, radiological investigations used for diagnosing COVID are chest radiograph (X-Ray) and ultra sonography. ‘Accurate diagnosis’ Dr Ravuri said that COVID has a specific Computed Tomography (CT) imaging finding which helps them in accurate diagnosis of the infectious disease. “Hence, it is useful for excluding other infections based on specific chest imaging findings. Besides, physicians manage treatment protocols based on report from radiologists,” he said. During the treatment too, CT scanning can detect Pulmonary Thrombo Embolism or Cerebral Venous Thrombosis which are blood clots in major blood vessels of the lungs and brain respectively. “These COVID-associated complications have high rate of morbidity and, at times, mortality,” Dr Ravuri pointed out.
10 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||HMR next to only Delhi Metro in terms of passenger patronage||Hyderabad Metro Rail (HMR) continues to be in the second position in terms of passenger patronage among all other metro projects in the country, placed just behind Delhi Metro. HMR on Saturday carried about 1.34 lakh passengers across the three corridors — Red Line (L.B. Nagar to Miyapur) Green Line (JBS to MGBS) and Blue Line (Nagole to Raidurg). Managing Director N.V.S. Reddy informed that Delhi Metro, which is 18 years old, has been carrying about 14.75 lakh passengers daily but it moves across a massive 389 km with 285 stations as against the 69 km and 57 stations of HMR, which was launched in November 2017. Third position is occupied by nine-year-old Bengaluru Metro that carries 68,716 passengers across 42 km, covering 40 stations followed by Mumbai Metro carrying 32,322 passengers on 11 km and 12 stations daily for the past six years. The Chennai Metro has been carrying 29,141 passengers for 45 km across 32 stations. It is five years old, he said. !0-city report Indian Metro Operators group keeps a tab on the daily passenger travel in 10 cities and as per the data collected, the following is the patronage — Kochi (1,106 passengers and 26 km), Nagpur (4,051 passengers and 25 km), Lucknow (2,020 passengers and 23 km), Jaipur (20,160 passengers and 12 km) and Mumbai Mono Rail (715 passengers and 20 km). Mr. Reddy has revealed that the ridership of Corridor 1 between L.B. Nagar and Miyapur continues to get good footfalls with about 84,404 passengers using the facility daily or 63% of the ridership. Corridor Three between Nagole to Raidurg is second with 45,551 or 34% of the ridership travelling daily even without the usual rush of IT/ITES employees moving whereas Corridor Two between Jubilee Bus Station (Secunderabad) and Mahatma Gandhi Bus Station (Imlibun) is witnessing less patronage at 4,019 passengers or just 3% of the total ridership. Highest ridership are terminal stations of L.B. Nagar and Miyapur. Interchange station for Red Line and Blue Line at Ameerpet too is witnessing maximum footfall. Metro stations of KPHB, JNTU, Diluskhnagar, Uppal and Parade Grounds are the other popular halts for passengers. Frequency of trains has been 3-4 minutes for Red and Blue Lines while it has been 8-10 minutes of frequency for the Green Line with 55 three-set trains being run non-stop from 7 a.m. to 9.30 p.m. for more than 800 trips a day, he added.
10 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Water samples sent for testing as 11 of a family fall sick, 1 dies||Health officials in Kamareddy are waiting for results of samples of water collected from two sites in Marlakunta Thanda and Gandhari Mandal, after 11 members of a family fell sick and one of them, a minor, developed complications and succumbed on Sunday. As no one else from the thanda fell sick, officials said water supplied to the locality might not be the source of the problem. The family members went to their field on November 6 and consumed home-cooked food. District Medical and Health Officer (DMHO) of Kamareddy, P. Chandra Sekhar said they filled a can with water from the borewell in the field. Four discharged “They consumed home-cooked food and water from the bore on Friday afternoon. They then developed complications on Friday night. Ramavath Ramulu’s daughter Srinidhi (9) died on Sunday afternoon. The girl had cerebral palsy. Of the remaining 10 members who were admitted to the district hospital, four were discharged. Medical condition of the other six is stable. They too will be discharged,” Dr Chandra Sekhar said. Results awaited The officials collected water samples from the bore in the field and the water can, and sent those for testing. Besides, samples from their vomit too were sent for tests. The results are awaited. The DMHO said as per preliminary details, water from the thanda might not be contaminated. “None among the 240 residents developed problems. Besides, four more people from the same family stayed back at home and did not suffer from any complication,” he said.  They consumed home-cooked food and water from the bore on Friday afternoon and then developed complications at night. The nine-year-old girl died on Sunday. P. Chandra Sekhar, DMHO, Kamareddy
10 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Eatala seeks COVID vaccine details from Health Ministry||Health Minister Eatala Rajender has asked Union Health Ministry for details regarding COVID-19 vaccine supply and the priority list during a video conference held on Monday. For his part, Mr Rajender shared information about tests, treatment facilities and other containment measures being taken in Telangana with Union Health Minister Harsh Vardhan. He explained the government has taken a host of measures, considering a possible second wave of COVID-19 in the State and the Health department’s preparedness. Details of RT-PCR tests conducted in district hospitals, primary health centres, community health centres and sub centres were also presented. Mr Rajender said that only 12% to 15% beds in hospitals were occupied, and that there was no shortage of oxygen supply facility. Principal Secretary of Health department Syed Ali Murtaza Rizvi, Director of Medical Education K. Ramesh Reddy, Director of Public Health G. Srinivasa Rao, COVID Expert Committee member and Vice-Chancellor of Kaloji Narayana Rao University of Health Sciences B. Karunakar Reddy also participated in the video conference.
10 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Wearing military uniform was Mahesh’s childhood dream||The residents of Komanpally, a sleepy village in Velpur mandal of Nizamabad district, poured out their anguish at militants inimical to India who had snuffed out the aspirations of a young Army jawan from their village. A pall of gloom descended on this tiny village and villagers stood by the bereaved family consoling them . Ryada Mahesh (26), had lived his dream of joining the Armed forces and was also married to the love of his life Suhasini, the daughter of a retired Army officer from Hyderabad. The couple married two years ago in the presence of their parents, relatives and friends. Right from his childhood, Mahesh nurtured the dream of wearing the military uniform and worked his way to realise it, despite his parents’ apprehensions about the job. “He was a very bright student and always wanted to serve the country by joining the forces,” Komanpally village Sarpanch Manjula’s husband P Rajashekar told The Hindu . He said that Mahesh was an inspiration to several youngsters in the village and surrounding hamlets. After finishing his Class 10 from Government High School in Kuknoor and Intermediate from a private junior college in Nizamabad town, the slain jawan joined a competitive examinations training institute in Karimnagar and got into the Army in 2015. After training, the jawan was posted in Assam and later in Dehradun before his transfer to the Valley. His parents — Ryada Gangamallu and Chinnaraju — are small time farmers, who own four acres of agricultural land, while his elder brother Bhupeshwar works in Muscat as a migrant labourer. Bhupeshwar will reach Komanpally by Tuesday evening. Mahesh’s parents and wife were in a state of shock after they learnt about his death. They recalled that he had last telephoned them on November 2, saying that he was going on patrolling with colleagues in a nearby area and would call them back once he returned to the camp. “That was the last we heard from him,” Mr. Gangamallu said, sitting next to his younger son’s photo frame in their small house. He was among the four Indian Army personnel who were killed in an exchange of fire at Machil sector of Kupwara district in Jammu and Kashmir on Sunday. Three militants were also killed during a failed infiltration bid along the LoC in Machil. Initially they were informed that Mahesh suffered critical injuries and were later told that he had died. Mr. Gangamallu said that his younger son last came home in December last year, and was expected to come on a holiday next month. “My son had a towering personality and loved me a lot. On the day he got the job, he lifted me in his arms and gave a big hug,” recalled an inconsolable Chinnaraju. “He promised to come next month, but now he is coming as a lifeless man,” she said, recalling Mahesh’s words about the weather condition in J&K.
10 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Machil encounter: Slain soldier was from Nizamabad||Ryada Mahesh (26) of Nizamabad district was among the four Indian Army personnel killed in an encounter at Machil sector of Kupwara district in Jammu and Kashmir on Sunday. On Sunday, four Army personnel and three militants were killed during a failed infiltration bid along the LoC in Machil. A native of Komanpally village in Velpur Mandal of Nizamabad district, Mahesh joined the Army in 2015 and got married only two years ago to Suhasini, daughter of a retired Army officer. His parents — Ryada Gangamallu and Chinnaraju — are small-time farmers, while his elder brother Bhupeshwar works in Muscat as a migrant labourer. After training, the jawan was posted in Assam and later in Dehradun before his transfer to the Valley. His mortal remains is likely to reach Hyderabad by 4 p.m. on Tuesday and will be brought to Komanpally for cremation by night, Balkonda MLA and Roads and Buildings Minister V. Prashanth Reddy assured the bereaved family. Mr. Reddy, along with local TRS leaders visited Komanpally, broke into tears while interacting with Mahesh’s family and assured all possible support from the State government. Meanwhile, TRS MLC and Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao’s daughter Kalvakuntla Kavitha took to Twitter to pay rich tributes to Mahesh. She assured that Telangana will stand by the soldier’s family. Director General of Police M Mahender Reddy tweeted “Thank you for keeping us safe, your heroism will never be forgotten.”  Thank you for keeping us safe, your heroism will never be forgotten. M. Mahender Reddy, DGP.
10 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Drunk driving: medico killed, friend injured after car hits tree||In an instance of drunk driving, a medical student was killed and her friend, who was driving the car in an inebriated state, suffered injuries after the luxury sedan dashed against a roadside tree at Gachibowli here late on Sunday night. The car that was allegedly being driven at a very high speed by Mithi Modi (20), a second-year undergraduate student from Gitam University, Visakhapatnam, was proceeding towards Lingampally from a pub in Jubilee Hills. When it reached Indian Immunological Limited Housing Complex on the Old Mumbai Highway around 12.30 a.m. on Monday, Mr. Mithi lost control of the wheel, and the car rammed a roadside tree before coming to a halt, Gachibowli inspector R. Srinivas said. Studying in Georgia The victim, P. Priyanka (20), who was pursuing MBBS third year at a private university in Georgia, went on a ride with Mr. Mithi after finishing their drinks at a pub in Jubilee Hills, the inspector said. Priyanka, who was a resident of Madhuranagar, had not fastened her seat-belt, while Mr. Mithi had. His blood alcohol concentration was 44 mg per 100 ml of blood. Priyanka’s mother, S. Sashikala, an advocate, told the police that her daughter left home around 4 p.m. on her scooter stating she was going to meet her friends. “Later when she did not return home, I called and enquired on which Priyanka said she was on her way home,” Ms. Sashikala told the police. However, around 1.20 a.m. on Monday, she received a call from her daughter’s phone. An unknown person informed her of the accident and asked her to come to Himagiri Hospital in Gachibowli. Ms. Sashikala rushed to the hospital with her elder daughter, only to find Priyanka in a shocking state. Based on her complaint, a case under Section 304 part II (culpable homicide not amounting to murder) of Indian Penal Code and Section 185-A (drunk driving) of Motor Vehicles Act against Mr. Mithi, who was remanded to judicial custody.
10 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Waste-to-energy plant to be launched||The much-awaited waste-to-energy power plant at the municipal solid waste processing facility of Jawahar Nagar will be launched by the Minister for Municipal Administration and Urban Development K.T. Rama Rao on Tuesday. Construction of the 19.8 Megawatt (MW) capacity plant in phase-I of the waste-to-energy project, is set to be the first such in the entire Southern region, and uses environment friendly technology of thermal combustion for the refuse derived fuel (RDF), a statement informed. The plant has been established as part of the public private partnership agreement for solid waste management by the Hyderabad MSW Energy Solutions Private Limited, special purpose vehicle of the concessionaire agency Ramky Enviro Engineers Limited. The plant comprises two RDF fired boilers, and is equipped with a world-class multi-stage flue gas cleaning system and online continuous emission monitoring systems (CEMS), ensuring compliance with international standards of environment friendly technology, it said. Using air cooled condenser, it conserves water too. A power purchase agreement (PPA) with the Telangana State Power Transmission Corporation (TS Transco) will ensure evacuation of the green power with negligible transmission losses, the statement said. Ever since the synchronisation after trial run on August 20, the plant has generated around 15 million units with one boiler. This plant will significantly reduce the land burden associated with management of municipal waste generated in Hyderabad and also act as a sustainable source of green power for the State, the statement said. GHMC estimated the city’s potential for establishment of waste-to-energy facilities during the next five years at 98 MW.
10 November 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Harassed’ mother-son attempt to end life||A mother-son duo attempted to end their lives by setting themselves ablaze in front of the Collector Office in Nizamabad on Monday. The victims — 65-year-old Gadila Gangabai and her 36-year-old son Gadila Gangakishan — from Yanampally village in Dichpally mandal, alleged that local ZPTC Dasari Indira’s husband Laxminarsaiah was trying to forcefully take possession of their land. “Yesterday (Sunday), he along with some others tried to attack us. We don’t have safety for our lives,” Mr. Gangakishan said, adding that officials were not allowing them to meet the Collector. “So, we decided to end our lives,” he added.
10 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Sepoy Mahesh is 54th martyr from TS||Twenty-six year-old Ryada Mahesh has joined the long list of 53 other martyrs from Telangana State, who had sacrificed their lives during the call of duty in wars with Pakistan and China besides securing our borders with the two neighbouring countries in the last 58 years. Data compiled by the Directorate of Sainik Welfare, Telangana revealed that till the martyrdom of Mahesh on Sunday during a fierce exchange of fire near the Line of Control (LoC) at Machil sector in North Kashmir’s Kupwara district, the tally of 53 deceased armed forces personnel included 11 Commissioned officers and rest Junior Commissioned Officers (JCOs) and Other Ranks (OR). Only in June this year Colonel Bikumalla Santosh Babu of old Nalgonda district was killed during action in North Galwan Nala in Eastern Ladakh border while leading his unit against Chinese forces. In the last two decades alone 24 personnel were killed mostly in forward areas during operations such as Operation Vijay, Varuna, Rakshak, Meghdoot, Pawan, Hifazat and Parakram guarding our borders. Eight others laid down their lives during the Indo-Pak war in 1965 and 1971. While the data of World War I and II casualties from old Hyderabad State is now available some interesting information compiled by the Sainik Welfare Directorate shows that the earliest record of Sino-India War of 1962, also called Chinese aggression, saw Sepoy Md. Yusuf of Andole mandal in Medak district laying down his life. Two soldiers – Lance Naiks – K. Sudhakar Rao and V. John Babu of Hyderabad were killed in Sri Lanka in 1987. They were part of the Indian Peace Keeping Force sent by the Union Government to Sri Lanka. In 2002 Lt Colonel S C H NJ Raja was killed while on UN Mission in Congo and another Colonel S. Madhava Perumal lost his life in IED blast. Paying glowing tributes to Jawan Mahesh, Honorary Flying Officer K. Jaganantham, who is the general secretary of National Ex-servicemen Coordination Committee - Telangana said, the situation on the LoC was like a war even though it is peacetime. “The soldiers guarding our borders alone know the sufferings they undergo in the hostile weather condition and terrain. Their commitment and dedication to protect the borders cannot be valued in terms of financial and other assistance. I request the State government to ensure that all the martyrs’ families are provided proper rehablitation and resettlement packages like the one extended by Centre,” Mr. Jaganthanam said. Director of Sainik Welfare Colon Ramesh Kumar said the Telangana government was committed to the welfare and rehabilitation of the deceased family members of armed forces. The family of the martyr was paid an ex gratia of Rs. 5 lakh and additional Rs. 2 lakh was given by the Armed Forces Flag Day Fund. apart, a piece of housing plot and employment opportunity for one family member on compassionate grounds was high on the agenda of State government, he said.
10 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||GHMC polls: BJP alleges voter list manipulation||Telangana BJP has charged the TRS government with “changing the voters profile” of at least 63 divisions of the 150 in the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), which is scheduled to go for polls soon, in order to win the elections by “hook or crook” on Monday. Party president Bandi Sanjay Kumar, in fact, even dragged the State Election Commission (SEC) into the picture and warned that if the objections raised against the division of voters’ lists is not taken into consideration there will be strong protests. Addressing a press conference, the BJP leader said the SEC should play a “fair and independent role” in providing the confidence to the citizens to exercise their franchise freely rather than “succumb to the ruling party’s pressure”. “We have been seeking appointment for many days but it is being denied to us. It will be mockery of democracy if SEC is seen as partisan,” he said. The Karimnagar MP said division wise protests will be taken up to highlight the voters’ list “manipulation” especially in areas where the BJP is seen to be having strong support base. Both TRS and Majlis Party had totally “destroyed” the city and had turned ‘Bhagyanagar into an Old City’ with sewage flowing into every colony during the recent rains. The BJP president pointed out that during COVID-19 pandemic and the recent floods which had affected scores of people, the TRS government had left the citizens to “fend for themselves”. Unlike our Union Minister G. Kishan Reddy who had visited each and every government facility treating COVID-19 patients, KCR did not step out of Pragati Bhavan or his farm house. People have taken note of these, he said.
10 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Centre adopting harmful policies: CPI(M)||Expressing concern over the “harmful” policies adopted by Prime Minister Narendra Modi led BJP government at the Centre, the Communist Party of India (Marxist) has alleged that the Central government is trying to dilute labour laws in the name of ushering in reforms. The government has accelerated steps to handover public sector undertakings, considered as pillars to the country’s economic sovereignty, to corporates at throwaway prices. In the process, the government opened doors for private sector in key sectors like defence, airports, oil sector, railways and coal, besides divesting its stake from major public sector establishments categorised as Navratnas, CPI(M) polit bureau member B.V. Raghavulu said. He said the party has decided to extend its full support to the general strike called by workers, farmers, employees and other sections on November 26 and 27. He recalled that the rule of reservation is being followed in the PSUs and diluting these entities would harm the interests of SC, ST, BC and minority communities. After speeding up implementation of “harmful reforms”, the government has now set its sights on agriculture sector and has enacted three legislations that are against the interests of farmers. The government has also brought in reforms in the power sector to enable collection on charges from the farm sector and the moves for privatisation of distribution companies is stringently opposed by the people from different sectors. The government is adopting repressive measures against those raising voices against its policies and is resorting to indiscriminate arrests of those agitating.
10 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Serious irregularities in flood relief disbursement: Revanth||Member of Parliament A.Revanth Reddy has levelled allegations that the ruling party leaders have resorted to massive corruption in distribution of flood relief to the eligible residents in Hyderabad. Staging a protest in front of the GHMC head office here on Monday along with other leaders from the party, Mr. Reddy alleged that half of the flood relief has been pocketed by the TRS leaders. He said the cash distribution instead of direct bank transfer was devised solely with a view to buy votes in the coming GHMC elections. Unable to meet GHMC Commissioner D. S. Lokesh Kumar despite prior appointment, he accused him of “fleeing” from office. In his representation to the Commissioner, Mr.Reddy said he was surprised to learn about the plunder in the name of flood relief, and cited issues such as compensation paid to multiple persons in the same family, distribution in areas unaffected by floods, partial disbursement, and nil disbursement to the deserving residents. He alleged collusion between GHMC officials and TRS leaders, and questioned why the relief had to be distributed in cash, unlike COVID-19 relief of Rs. 1,500 which was deposited in bank accounts, and why no written instructions have been issued enunciating the disbursement procedure. The corporation headquarters witnessed one more protest by Aam Aadmi Party, which has rallied several tenants from areas such as Khairatabad, Musheerabad and Amberpet, with allegations that the relief disbursement was made to house owners, and not to the affected tenants. Staging a sit in, several women protested displaying their Aadhaar cards, and alleging that the officials disappeared after taking the OTPs (One Time Password) dispatched to the mobile phones of the flood affected.
10 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||SCR launches software to monitor LHB coaches||South Central Railway (SCR) has introduced a software prototype developed by the in-house team of Tirupati coaching depot for integrated online monitoring of LHB coaches while on run to continuously to measure and record data points of axle box bearings and wheel slide protection device making train journey safer and to avoid en-route coach detachments. LHB coaches are provided with protection device to control the adhesion during brake application. It is a combination of various electronic cards and is connected by means of various cables. There are several faults that can happen while the train is on the run, leading to wheel shelling, which in turn causes other problems such as spring breakage, grease oozing, damper leakage etc. The new software will now be able to provide important data, such as time of occurrence of the fault, how long it is in fault mode, provides pointers for reason of the fault and relays this information in the real time so that correct action can be taken to avoid wheel shelling, informed senior officials on Sunday. Similarly, the failed bearings on rolling stocks lead to safety risks like derailment or fire. The monitoring of the hot axle box bearing temperature enables detection of bearings presenting a risk of failure. These two parameters monitoring systems are provided in LHB coaches. Any abnormalities noticed in both during the static and dynamic condition of the coach are immediately showed up in the mobile application, so that immediate preventive action can be taken to avoid unusual occurrences. In addition to the safety of the trains and passengers, life of the vital rolling stock parts like wheel, spring, dampers etc can also be enhanced. It also costs just Rs. 2,000 and consists of printed circuit board, micro controller, LDR sensors, temperature sensors and WiFi router with power supply. The Tirupati coaching depot was appreciated by SCR General Manager Gajanan Mallya, said chief PRO Ch. Rakesh in a press release.
10 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Probe release of funds: Revanth||Telangana Congress Committee working president and Malkajgiri MP A. Revanth Reddy has demanded an inquiry into release of funds in the name of relief measures to the families affected by heavy rains/floods in several parts of the GHMC.
10 November 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||KTR assures resolution of property issues||Minister for Municipal Administration and Urban Development K.T.Rama Rao has assured resolution of ownership-related issues for properties across various localities in the city. Interacting with residents of 20 colonies in Uppal Assembly constituency whose revenue issues have been resolved due to intervention of Mr. Rama Rao, he said the department is ready to address such issues across city. Already, work is in progress to resolve issues from L.B. Nagar, Qutbullahpur, and Kukatpally constituencies, he said, and added that thanks to Dharani portal, land ownership will be secure in future, and registrations will be transparent.
10 November 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Two vehicles reduced to ashes in accident||Two persons escaped unhurt while two vehicles were burnt in an accident that took place at Gaddapotharam in Gummadidala mandal on Monday. According to sources, a car and motorcycle rammed head-on resulting in the accident. The tank of the motorcycle got broke, leading to fire accident. Both the vehicles were completely gutted. Overspeeding was stated to be the reason. Police registered a case and are investigating.
10 November 2020||November 10 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Festival shopping||
10 November 2020||LUCKNOW,||Editors Guild asks Yogi to free jailed journalists||The Editors Guild of India (EGI) on Monday urged Uttar Pradesh Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath to free the journalists who were jailed, withdraw cases that are under review and ensure safety of all working journalists in the State. The EGI also said that it was keen to send a delegation of national editors to Lucknow to meet Mr. Adityanath and work with his administration to explore ways that “can create a protective environment for the media to work without fear or favor”. Several incidents had come to the fore in recent times that raised “deep concerns on the space for free, fearless and independent journalism” in U.P., the Guild said in a letter. The statement was signed by its newly elected office-bearers Seema Mustafa, president of the EGI, its general secretary Sanjay Kapoor and treasurer Anant Nath. Addressing Mr. Adityanath, the EGI said that while he was right to promptly uphold the freedom of the press when an editor (Arnab Goswami) of a TV channel was arrested, there were “far more compelling cases of intimidation, harassment by authorities of working journalists in U.P., who were prevented from doing their job”.
10 November 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Man sentenced to life for raping minor over 7 years||Narayan Govind Perekar (43), a resident of Revas Koliwada in Alibag, has been sentenced to life for raping a 13-year-old girl over seven years. He was arrested on April 12 last year and convicted under sections of the Indian Penal Code, Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act and Information Technology Act. Special judge S.S. Shaikh has directed the accused to pay a penalty of Rs. 1 lakh to the victim. The victim was a classmate of the accused’s daughter and often visited their house. She said the accused first molested her when she was six years old. He also clicked nude pictures of her for around four years. When she turned 10, the accused started raping her. Whenever the girl stopped visiting the house, the accused would go to her home and threaten her. “The victim’s father was short-tempered and she was afraid of confiding in him. She dropped out of school in Class VIII and opened up to her mother in April 2019. A case was then registered by the police,” additional public prosecutor Ashwini Bandivdekar-Patil said. Nineteen videos and several pictures of the victim were found in the accused’s possession. Eight witnesses were examined in the case.
10 November 2020||New Delhi,||Air quality in city continues to be ‘severe’||The air quality of Delhi, Gurugram, and Noida worsened on Monday but continued to remain in the ‘severe’ category, according to data by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). The Capital’s air quality is likely to stay ‘severe’ on Tuesday with no quick recovery expected unless there is a “drastic reduction” in stubble burning in neighbouring States. It is expected to improve by Wednesday to ‘very poor’, said pollution-monitoring agency SAFAR. The average 24-hour Air Quality Index (AQI) on Monday was 477 in Delhi, 482 in Gurugram and 477 in Noida. The AQI of Delhi and Noida was in the ‘severe’ category for the fifth straight day on Monday, and the third straight day in Gurugram. ‘Severe’ air pollution level affects “healthy people and seriously impacts” those with existing diseases. Several other cities in Uttar Pradesh and Haryana, including Agra, Bulandshahr, Bhiwani, and Faridabad also had ‘severe’ category pollution. The level of PM2.5, a deadly pollutant, in Delhi and the National Capital Region has been above 300 micrograms per cubic metre (ug/m3) since 7 p.m. on Sunday. Severe+ protocols Measures under ‘severe+’ category of the Graded Response Action Plan, including odd-even scheme and ban on construction, will be implemented when the PM2.5 level crosses 300 ug/m3 or PM10 level crosses 500 ug/m3 and persist for 48 hours or more. The PM2.5 level in Delhi was 405.1 ug/m3 at 8 p.m. on Monday — the highest this season. The safe limit for PM2.5 is 60 ug/m3. Earlier in the day, environment Minister Gopal Rai said that anyone found violating the ban on firecrackers would be penalised under the Air (Prevention and Control of Pollution) Act, 1981. “The Delhi Police will file FIR against the violators under the Air Act. I want to request every citizen of Delhi to follow the ban on the firecrackers. Today [Monday], the National Green Tribunal also directed that no firecrackers will be allowed in Delhi. Earlier, the Delhi government had allowed green crackers, but looking into the situation of increasing number of COVID-19 cases and rising pollution, it was later decided to ban any kind of firecrackers,” Mr. Rai said. Around 150 tankers are sprinkling water on roads to combat dust pollution and the numbers will be increased soon, he added. Fire counts due to stubble burning in Haryana, Punjab, and neighbouring border regions of Delhi reduced slightly to 3,257 on Sunday; it was 3,780 on Saturday and 4,528 on November 6. The contribution of stubble burning to PM2.5 level in the Capital was estimated to be around 38% on Monday, said SAFAR.
10 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Scholarship payments are not made till second year||Although the LSR College student who was found dead last week was in line for the Centre’s INSPIRE scholarship worth Rs. 80,000 per year, she was yet to see a single paisa of that money despite being almost halfway through her second year. The Department of Science and Technology (DST) said the scholarship money is not paid in the first year to prevent drop-outs from benefiting. Delays built into the system mean that the LSR student may not have received any money for another six months. Surveys suggest that scholarship and research stipend delays have also been further exacerbated by the lockdown. There is no backlog from the DST's end in disbursing the INSPIRE scholarship, according to DST Secretary Ashutosh Sharma. He said that the Ministry annually funds 10-12,000 science students via the Innovation in Science Pursuit for Inspired Research (INSPIRE) scheme, whereby the top 2% of graduates from State school boards are given a scholarship to pursue degrees in basic sciences. Potential awardees get money from the second year onwards depending on maintaining a certain threshold of marks in the first year. “The money is disbursed after the first year as it often happens that students change streams in the first year," he toldThe Hindu. The DST had made the LSR student a ‘provisional’ offer for the 2019 batch, and given time until December to upload relevant documents.  Three-four months According to the FAQ on the Inspire website, “it usually takes 3-4 months to release the scholarship after the approval of relevant documents or sanction installment notification on webportal. If you have NOT received the scholarship even after five months of approval of relevant documents, please write to [the Ministry],” indicating that even if the LSR student had sent in her application by December, she may not have received any money till she finished her second year. In a note found after she died, she had allegedly written, “Please ensure that INSPIRE scholarship is available for at least a year.” “In general, there are no delays in INSPIRE disbursal as it directly goes into student accounts but there have been instances when colleges delay submitting documents such as utilisation certificate," said Mr. Sharma. “The student has not approached the college regarding this. There is nothing in our records showing any application from her,” said LSR principal Suman Sharma. She said the student had maintained a grade point average of about 8 out of 10, well above the 60% requirement for continuation of the scholarship.
10 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Two dead in accident||An autorickshaw driver and a passenger were killed and another suffered injuries after an SUV collided with the three-wheeler on Sunday. The accused driver, Surender Sahlot, has been arrested. Additional DCP (South) Parvinder Singh said the deceased have been identified as autorickshaw driver Vinod Kumar, and Pankaj Kumar, a labourer. The injured person has been identified as Arun Sahu, a contractor. Information regarding an accident at Chirag Delhi flyover, BRT Road, was received at 11 a.m., the police said. The injured were shifted to hospitals where Vinod was declared brought dead and Pankaj succumbed during treatment. Mr. Sahu is undergoing treatment. The sequence of events is being ascertained but it’s suspected that one of the vehicles was on the wrong side of the road at the time of the incident. Pankaj’s family said he and Mr. Arun were going to Okhla when the incident took place. A case has been registered.
10 November 2020||New Delhi,||Compensate cracker traders, LoP tells govt.||The Leader of Opposition in the Delhi Assembly, Ramvir Singh Bidhuri, asked the city government on Monday to compensate traders dealing in fireworks as they had suffered losses due to the ban on their use or sale. “Sale of green firecrackers in Delhi was allowed by the AAP government. For this, licenses were issued to shopkeepers. Traders purchased huge amounts of firecrackers by taking loans,” said Mr. Bidhuri, adding: “Now, with the Delhi government’s sudden ban on sale of green firecrackers, these traders have suffered huge losses.” The Delhi Congress also made a similar demand, stating that businessmen who had bought large quantities of green crackers expecting a bumper sale during Deepavali should be provided adequate financial compensation as the city government took the decision to ban crackers at the last moment. Meanwhile, Delhi Congress chief Ch. Anil Kumar said the government should take immediate steps under the Graded Response Action Plan to check rising air pollution. The air quality has been in the ‘severe’ category for the fifth consecutive day. Mr. Kumar held the government responsible for the soaring pollution levels. He said the pollution levels had made it worse for those infected with COVID-19 and demanded that steps be taken by the government to ensure their respiratory health.
10 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Delay in scholarship put my daughter under stress’||The LSR College student who was found dead on November 3 was upset over lack of access to resources required for continuing online classes, and her stress was exacerbated when the institute issued a notice directing students to vacate hostels, her mother has said. At a press meet on Monday, the mother of the second-year student said delay in release of scholarship funds had affected her daughter’s mental health. “After the notice, she asked for Rs. 30,000-Rs. 40,000 from us so that she could go to Delhi and look for alternative arrangements. She told us that if she shifts to a paying guest accommodation then she would need at least Rs. 15,000/month. Our family income was affected during lockdown, so we could not arrange for the money due to which she got more stressed,” said the mother. “She told us how she would become a laughing stock if she dropped out of her course. Had a part of the scholarship money been released then at least a few things could have been eased,” she added. LSR students’ union general secretary Unnimaya said the student had participated in a survey where she had said that the digital divide had put her under stress. She added that the college had been informed about the issue. LSR principal Suman Sharma, however, said the only communication received was a “general letter regarding online classes” that was sent by the Students’ Federation of India. She added the college does not recognise SFI as it does not “represent the college”. The college said a ‘free-ship’ of Rs. 12,000 had been paid to the student in April 2020 and that it was unaware of whether she was a recipient of the INSPIRE scholarship.  Suicide prevention helpline: Sanjivini, Society for Mental Health, Telephone: 011-4076 9002, Monday-Saturday, 10 a.m.-7.30 p.m.
10 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Govt. to sanction funds to pay salaries of DU staffers||The Delhi government on Tuesday issued an order to sanction Rs. 19.40 crore under the salary head and Rs. 1.675 crore for general expenses respectively for payment of outstanding salaries to teaching, non-teaching and contractual staff. The order is in compliance with directions of the High Court to four colleges of Delhi University the government fully funds. The colleges — Aditi Mahavidaylaya, Bhagini Nivedita College, Shaheed Sukhdev College of Business Studies and Dr. Bhim Rao Ambedkar College — have alleged that they do not have funds to pay salaries as the Delhi government has not released funds. The Delhi government, in turn, conducted a financial audit and alleged that several financial irregularities and violations of UGC norms had been found and that the government was considering initiating legal proceedings based on the report. On net-deficit basis Delhi government said it was releasing the funds but subject to several conditions that included funding on a net-deficit basis. The money that will be released will be adjusted within the current financial year itself based on the assessment of the total revenue of the colleges. The government also said that it has found that salary is being paid to some teaching and non-teaching staffers whose posts creation and appointment have not been approved by the government. It said that where the “pattern of assistance” clearly says that all creation and filling of post has to be done with the approval of the Delhi government. “Action will be taken against this violation of the “pattern of assistance”, and the money spent on salaries for posts created without the permission of GNCT of Delhi, may be recovered from the officials, who were involved in decision making of these violations,” the order read.
10 November 2020||New Delhi,||HC issues notices to 12 DU colleges||The High Court on Monday said it will decide on an application relating to the Delhi government asking 12 DU colleges to pay outstanding salaries of staffers from the students’ fund after hearing all parties. Justice Jyoti Singh issued notices to 12 colleges and DUSU on the Delhi government’s fresh application to vacate the stay order.
10 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Man held for stealing gloves||A 22-year-old man was arrested for allegedly stealing boxes of surgical gloves from his sister’s office to take revenge after she fired him from the job, police said on Monday. DCP (South East) R.P. Meena said the accused has been identified as Abdus Subhan and his accomplice — Mohammad Daud (33). The duo is from Jamia Nagar. The matter came to the fore when the woman lodged an e-FIR on Thursday regarding the theft.
10 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Shinjini-DTEA||The Delhi Tamil Education Association inaugurated its eighth school in the city on Monday. DTEA honorary secretary R. Raju said, “Inauguration of the eighth school has made DTEA the largest linguistic minority educational institution in Delhi. DTEA Mayur Vihar will carry forward the legacy of serving the Tamil community for generations to come.”
10 November 2020||WASHINGTON,||Republicans decline to recognise result||Joe Biden prepared on Sunday to start building his administration, even as Republican leaders and scores of party lawmakers refrained from acknowledging his victory out of apparent deference to President Donald Trump, who continued to refuse to concede. With Mr. Biden out of the public eye as he received congratulations from leaders around the world, his team turned its attention to a transition, with the launch of a coronavirus task force and swift moves to begin assembling his team. But more than 24 hours after his election had been declared, the vast majority of Republicans declined to offer the customary statements of goodwill for the victor that have been standard after U.S. presidential contests, as Mr. Trump defied the results and vowed to forge ahead with long-shot lawsuits to try to overturn them. While some prominent Republican figures, including former President, George W. Bush, called Mr. Biden to wish him well, most elected officials stayed silent in the face of Mr. Trump’s claims that the election was stolen from him. Transition plan Mr. Biden did not respond to Mr. Trump’s attacks on the result, but he also was not waiting for a concession. On Sunday, he unveiled his official transition website as he prepared a series of executive actions for his first day in the Oval Office — including rejoining the Paris climate accord, moving aggressively to confront the coronavirus pandemic and restoring labour organising rights for government workers — aimed at unwinding Mr. Trump’s domestic agenda and repairing the U.S.’s image in the world. But Republicans’ silence suggested that even in defeat, Mr. Trump maintained a powerful grip on his party and its elected leaders, who have spent four years tightly embracing him or quietly working to avoid offending him or his loyal base. For many prominent Republicans, the President’s reluctance to accept the election results created a dilemma, making even the most cursory expression of support for Mr. Biden seem like a conspicuous break with Mr. Trump. Sen. Roy Blunt of Missouri was the most senior Republican to suggest that Mr. Trump had most likely lost and cast doubt on his allegations of a stolen election, but he stopped short of referring to Mr. Biden as the President-elect in an exceedingly careful television interview. “It’s time for the President’s lawyers to present the facts, and it’s time for those facts to speak for themselves,” Mr. Blunt, chair of the Rules Committee, said on ABC’s “This Week.” “It seems unlikely that any changes could be big enough to make a difference, but this is a close election, and we need to acknowledge that.” “I look forward,” Mr. Blunt added, “to the President dealing with this however he needs to deal with it.” ‘Corrupt election’ At the White House, there was little indication that Mr. Trump was dealing with it at all. As he played a second consecutive day of golf at his private club outside Washington, the President recirculated a claim by Newt Gingrich, the former Republican speaker of the House, who told Fox News, “I think that it is a corrupt, stolen election.” Privately the President’s advisers, several of whom have quietly been candid with Mr. Trump that the chances of success in any challenge to the election outcome were not high, had concluded they had little option other than to allow the President to keep fighting until he was ready to bow to the reality of his loss.NY Times
10 November 2020||WASHINGTON,||Biden convenes COVID-19 taskforce||President-elect Joe Biden convened a task force on Monday to devise a blueprint for tackling the coronavirus pandemic in the United States and hailed progress on a vaccine, while President Donald Trump steadfastly refused to acknowledge his defeat. Mr. Biden conferred in Delaware by video link with the 13-member task force that he named, headed by former U.S. Surgeon General Vivek Murthy, former Food and Drug Administration Commissioner David Kessler and Yale University healthcare equity expert Marcella Nunez-Smith. The Democratic former Vice-Pesident is set to give remarks in Wilmington, Delaware, about his plans to address the pandemic that has killed more than 2,37,000 Americans and to rebuild the economy. “Dealing with the coronavirus pandemic is one of the most important battles our administration will face, and I will be informed by science and by experts,” Mr. Biden said in a statement on Monday. Pandemic preparedness Even as Mr. Trump declines to concede and some of his closest allies encourage him to exhaust every recourse for hanging onto power, the Biden-appointed scientists and experts will liaise with local and State officials on the pandemic response. They will consider how to safely reopen schools and businesses and tackle racial disparities. The Biden panel includes Rick Bright, a whistleblower who says he was removed from the Trump administration post for raising concerns about coronavirus preparedness, and Luciana Borio, who specialises in complex public health emergencies. Mr. Biden’s advisers are considering candidates for top Cabinet posts. But the transition cannot shift into high gear until the U.S. General Services Administration certifies the winner. Emily Murphy, the Trump appointee who runs the agency, has not yet done so.
10 November 2020||Hong Kong,||HK pro-democracy lawmakers threaten to resign ‘en masse’||Pro-democracy members of Hong Kong’s legislature will resign “en masse” if Beijing moves to disqualify four of them for violating the city’s Basic Law, the bloc said on Monday. The threat came ahead of a meeting of one of China’s top law-making bodies, with Hong Kong media reporting that it was considering disqualifying four of the city’s legislators for violating their oaths by disrupting the chamber. “(What) the central government is trying to do with the people’s representatives in Hong Kong is totally ridiculous,” Wu Chi-wai, head of the Democratic Party, said. Hong Kong’s leader is chosen by pro-Beijing committees, but half of its legislature’s 70 seats are directly elected, offering the city’s 7.5 million residents a rare chance to have their voices heard at the ballot box. The inability of Hong Kongers to elect their leaders and all of their lawmakers has been at the heart of swelling opposition to Beijing’s rule, including the huge and often violent democracy protests that broke out last year. Hong Kong’s democracy camp has come under sustained attack since Beijing imposed a sweeping national security law in response to the protests, including political disqualifications, arrests for social media posts and activists fleeing overseas.
10 November 2020||Islamabad,||Pakistan media mogul gets bail after months in prison||Pakistan’s top court on Monday granted bail to the owner of one of the country’s largest media groups, after a months-long detention condemned by rights groups as suppression of the press. Mir Shakeel-ur-Rehman’s Jang Group, which includes some of Pakistan’s biggest newspapers and the Geo television network, has frequently been critical of Prime Minister Imran Khan’s government as well as the country’s powerful military. He was arrested in March over alleged corruption in a land transaction dating back to 1986, an accusation denied by his representatives who, in turn, alleged that Pakistan’s corruption watchdog targeted him because Mr. Rehman’s media group looked into the agency’s workings. ‘spurious charge’ “The court has granted bail to Mir Shakeel-ur-Rehman, he is going to be released after spending more than 200 days in detention,” Rana Jawad, Geo TV’s director of news, told AFP. Last week, Reporters Without Borders (RSF) called on Pakistan’s Supreme Court to order Mr. Rehman’s release, saying that he was being held on a “spurious charge”. RSF added that Mr. Rehman’s group was targeted because its journalists “dare to tackle stories that are supposed to be off-limits”. Pakistan routinely ranks among the world’s most dangerous countries for media workers and criticism of the country’s powerful security establishment has long been seen as a red line. Journalists and bloggers have complained of intimidation tactics, including kidnappings, beatings, and even killings if they cross that line. Last month, a Geo journalist briefly went missing after reporting on the controversial arrest of an opposition politician.
10 November 2020||COLOMBO/NEW DELHI,||India, Maldives sign four MoUs to boost ties||New Delhi and Male on Monday signed four agreements, including a $100 million Indian grant for an ambitious connectivity project, during Foreign Secretary Harsh Vardhan Shringla’s visit to the Maldives .  In addition to two MoUs for “high impact” community development projects, the countries signed an MoU on cooperation in sports and youth affairs and another for the $100 million grant, which is part of India’s “$500 million package” for the Greater Male Connectivity Project (GMCP). Last month, the two governments inked a deal for a $400 million line of credit from the Exim Bank of India. Mr. Shringla’s visit comes two months after External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar and Maldives Foreign Minister Abdullah Shahid held a virtual discussion, and about a fortnight after U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo’s visit to the island nation. Amid New Delhi’s growing concern over China’s growing influence in the region, the ties with the Maldives have remained under sharp focus. “The MoUs, which we have signed today, are emblematic of our strong development partnership which is multi-faceted and designed to meet the specific requirements of the government and people of Maldives,” the visiting Indian Foreign Secretary said. ‘India first’ policy “We deeply appreciate the government of President Solih for its ‘India First’ foreign policy. This is reciprocated in full measure by our ‘Neighbourhood First’ policy in which the Maldives enjoys a very special and central place,” he said, even as the political opposition in the Maldives has been criticising the Solih administration for its “India tilt”. Former President Abdulla Yameen, who was dislodged from office in 2018, was widely perceived as a close ally of China. A statement from Mr. Solih’s office said he expressed his gratitude to the Indian government for agreeing to implement an air-bubble between the two countries, and remarked that increasing amounts of Indian tourists have visited the Maldives since the country reopened its international borders. Further, India reiterated its support for Maldivian Foreign Minister Shahid’s candidature for the Presidency of the 76th session of the UN General Assembly in 2021. Mr. Shahid, Mr. Shringla observed, had “best credentials”, while urging the Maldives to play a “more prominent role” at the UN.
10 November 2020||November 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Trump lost the race, but the GOP is still his party||The election of 2020 ended for Republican Party leaders a lot like the election of 2016 began: as much as they may want to move on from Donald Trump, he won’t let them — and neither will the voters. After losing the White House to Joe Biden and the popular vote for the seventh time since 1980, and facing the possibility of once-unthinkable defeat in Arizona and Georgia, Republicans were grappling with how to untangle the man from a movement that is likely to dictate party politics for years. Even in defeat, Republicans saw clear indicators of the enduring power of Trump-style populism. By the time Mr. Biden gave his victory speech on Saturday evening, Mr. Trump had received 7.4 million more votes than he did in 2016 — 1 million more in the battleground of Florida alone. Republicans cut into the Democratic majority in the House with wins in several swing districts from Iowa to New York, where they followed Mr. Trump’s slash-and-burn playbook of branding his opponents as far-left hysterics. No one seems to be under the illusion that Mr. Trump will fade quietly. All week, as he launched an attack on the integrity of the election, few in his party challenged claims that he was being cheated of a victory. Privately, some began discussing the possibility that he may not concede, which would put them in the awkward position of having to choose whether to defend him until Mr. Biden’s inauguration. This dynamic presents a problem for the Republicans who will run for office after Mr. Trump is no longer the leader of the party — on paper, at least. In particular, Republicans in their 30s and 40s see a road map to the bigger and more diverse coalition that the party has tried to build for two decades, if they can salvage the more popular aspects of the President’s appeal to middle-class Americans while jettisoning the racial grievances he fanned. From Senate offices, think tanks and salons, the conversations about what’s next have grown in urgency now that the final months of the Trump presidency are at hand. ‘King with no heirs’ “He is sort of the king with no heirs,” said Oren Cass, executive director of American Compass, a group that hosts monthly online happy hours of Capitol Hill staff and policy experts to debate the successes and failures of the Trump agenda. Mr. Cass said Mr. Trump’s defeat sets up a clash between more conventional Republicans who, on one hand, took the attitude of “This too shall pass, and we can go back to doing to what we were doing before,” and those who think the President “called attention to a certain set of issues and voters that certainly the center-right wasn’t paying enough attention to.” Sen. Marco Rubio of Florida, who said he has tried to reimagine Trumpism with “a mute button” for the President, expressed a view that had taken hold among conservatives — one that would seem to rule out any reflective, autopsy-style self-assessment of how they lost. The fact that Mr. Trump’s defeat was not the blowout critics had hoped, Mr. Rubio said, means that the anticipated repudiation of Trumpian politics was wrong. While Mr. Rubio said he cannot imagine a scenario in which Mr. Trump was not in the picture — “He’s not going to just vanish into a building” — the President’s strong support among Latino voters in Florida (47%) and Texas (40%) showed how the party could expand a “multi-ethnic, working-class coalition” that did not fit neatly inside the left-right paradigm. Navigating the unavoidable, disruptive force that is Trump complicates an already difficult job for conservatives like Mr. Rubio, 49. First, Republicans need to persuade more voters of colour that they are welcoming, despite embracing Mr. Trump and his divisive rhetoric. They also need to demonstrate that Republicans can be the party for Americans who are struggling economically — many of whom were won over by Mr. Trump’s message — not just the party that cuts taxes for corporations and dismantles regulations.NY Times
10 November 2020||PESHAWAR,||Gunmen kill Ahmadi man in Pakistan||Gunmen shot and killed an 82-year-old Ahmadi man on the outskirts of Pakistan’s northwestern city of Peshawar, officials said on Monday, the fourth-such apparently targeted killing of a member of the minority group in recent months. The attackers shot Mahmoob Khan on Sunday as he stood at a bus terminal, said Saleem Uddin, a spokesman for Pakistan’s Ahmadi community. Mr. Uddin said he believed gunmen targeted Khan because of his faith. Police confirmed the shooting took place, but declined to offer any motive. The Ahmadi faith was established on the Indian subcontinent in the 19th century by Mirza Ghulam Ahmad, whose followers believe was a Prophet.
10 November 2020||Mumbai,||Lodha UK sells penthouse for Rs. 1,362.4 cr.||Lodha UK, the London-based arm of India’s Lodha Group, has announced the sale of a penthouse at London’s No. 1 Grosvenor Square for around Rs. 1,362.4 crore (€140 million) to an unidentified buyer. This is the world’s most expensive real estate sale in 2020, the firm said. Located near the U.S. Embassy, the property will be opening in December. “This is the most expensive home sold this year and probably amongst the top 5 most expensive homes ever sold,” Gabriel York, co-CEO, Lodha UK said.
10 November 2020||Addis Ababa,||Addis Ababa, Nov 9, 2020 (AFP) -||Ethiopian Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed on Monday vowed his military operation in the Tigray region would be over soon, seeking to placate foreign allies that the country was not on a path to civil war. The operation began after a months-long feud between the government and the ruling party in Tigray, TPLF.AFP
10 November 2020||Moscow,||Moscow, Nov 9, 2020 (AFP) -||A Russian serviceman on Monday hacked an officer to death with an axe and shot two soldiers dead at a military base in Voronezh. The shooting started after an altercation broke out between them during an inspection.AFP
10 November 2020||Washington,||Washington, Nov 9, 2020 (AFP) -||President Donald Trump on Monday announced by tweet that he had fired his Defense Secretary Mark Esper. “Mark Esper has been terminated. I would like to thank him for his service,” Mr. Trump said on Twitter, announcing his replacement by Christopher Miller, the current head of the National Counterterrorism Center.AFP
10 November 2020||November 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Joe Biden will have to walk a tightrope||Large crowds had gathered in Black Lives Matter Plaza, a wide street in D.C. that leads all the way up to Lafayette Park outside the White House, on Saturday afternoon. The mood was unmistakably festive — drums in the distance, cars honking, music, people taking photographs, some standing silently, taking it all in. A few policewomen and policemen — watchful but relaxed, some with arms crossed — stood on the sides of the plaza. A stream of people and cars flowed to and from the White House area, people filled the sidewalks and drivers gave way to pedestrians and jaywalkers. “It feels like we’ve just completed an exorcism,” tweeted political scientist Francis Fukuyama. A record 74 million Americans and counting voted for the man at the centre of Saturday’s celebrations, Democratic presidential candidate Joe Biden. The day belonged to him and his running mate Kamala Harris, the first woman of colour to be elected to the position. This is only part of the story though, as there exists a parallel universe in the U.S., one in which 70 million people voted for the incumbent, Donald Trump, who now holds the record for the second highest number of votes received. Deeply divided Those who support Mr. Trump and those who support Mr. Biden are deeply divided. Though COVID-19 has killed nearly 2,40,000 people in the U.S., only 24% of Mr. Trump’s supporters, as per a Pew Research Center survey, said last month that the issue was “very important” to their vote, compared to 82% of registered voters who support Mr. Biden. There is also a significant split on healthcare (Mr. Biden’s supporters give this more weight) and the economy (Mr. Trump’s supporters give this more weight). This is the country whose stewardship Mr. Biden will inherit on January 20, 2021. The task he has set himself, of bringing the country together and healing it, is going to require him to navigate complex dynamics, which will often pull in opposite directions. To begin with, Mr. Trump, with a devoted base (that grew by some eight million since 2016) and a vast following on social media, is likely to remain a force to reckon with as long as he is publicly active and can tweet. Writing in The New York Times on his political future, Peter Baker and Maggie Haberman argue that Mr. Trump could use this to pressure Republican lawmakers to push back against Mr. Biden. Some of the effects of Mr. Trump are already being seen. Only a small minority of Republican lawmakers have congratulated Mr. Biden on winning the election. Others have backed Mr. Trump’s sweeping and false claims around voter fraud, or have remained quiet, presumably waiting for Mr. Trump to have his day in court. Some Republicans, such as former U.S. Ambassador to the UN, Nikki Haley, and Senator Marco Rubio, are hedging their bets, making ambiguous statements around the validity of Mr. Trump’s claims. The magnitude of Mr. Biden’s task is, therefore, in some measure dependent on the hold Mr. Trump will have on his supporters. When Barack Obama won the presidency in 2008, his opponent, the late Senator John McCain, asked those who had voted for him to support their new president. Mr. Trump has yet to concede the election, let alone ask his supporters to give Mr. Biden a chance. Republicans on Capitol Hill will continue to factor in Mr. Trump’s presence in the way they vote in the Senate. To gain control of the Senate, Democrats will need to win two run-off races in Georgia, scheduled for January 5. Failing this, Mr. Biden will need to win the support of Republican Senators to confirm his cabinet appointments, confirm judicial appointments, pass stimulus packages and implement healthcare and immigration reform. Mr. Biden, who was a Senator for 36 years, will need to rely on his decades-long relationship with Senate Republicans like majority leader Mitch McConnell and Mr. Trump’s ally, Lindsey Graham, both of whom won their races comfortably and will be around in 2021. Mr. Graham said Mr. Biden “deserves” a cabinet and that he will find common ground with the president-elect. “There may be some people that I just can’t vote for because I think they’re unqualified or too extreme,” he said. Mr. Biden is likely to use Executive Orders to get things through if faced with a Republican Senate. Regardless, he is reportedly planning a series of orders as soon as he assumes office to reverse a number of Trump policies, enacted via Executive Orders (Mr. Obama also used these to circumvent an uncooperative Senate). Orders to rejoin the Paris Agreement and the World Health Organization and to reverse the travel ban from several Muslim-majority countries are among those being considered. Tensions among Democrats Combative Republicans will not be Mr. Biden’s only challenge: there will be issues to resolve within the Democratic Party between the moderates and progressives, who would have rather seen their candidate, Bernie Sanders, win the Democratic nomination and the White House, but got behind the Biden ticket. Mr. Sanders himself campaigned hard for Mr. Biden. Had he won the nomination, it is far from clear that Mr. Sanders could have “rebuilt the Blue Wall” as Mr. Biden did last week, by winning Michigan, Pennsylvania and Wisconsin — States that Mr. Trump flipped in 2016. However, in the south, the story is different. Grassroots activism in Arizona helped get the vote out for Mr. Biden. Demographic shifts and differences in voting patterns between urban and rural areas also contributed to Mr. Biden’s vote lead in Arizona and Georgia. Mr. Biden will need to find policies that speak sufficiently to the mandates that were given to him by these different groups. Already there are some signs of stress within the party. Abigail Spanberger, a Democratic Congresswoman from Virginia, who narrowly retained her House seat, said on a call with other House Democrats that use of the word “socialism” had caused some of their colleagues to lose their seats. Progressive lawmaker Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, who also retained her seat, told The New York Times that progressive policies like the Green New Deal or Medicare for All did not hurt candidates in swing districts, but running obsolete campaigns without an adequate digital focus did. Ms. Ocasio-Cortez cited “anti-activist sentiment” within the Democratic Party and suggested that running on a more progressive platform, rather than hurting the party in Congressional elections (Democrats lost seats in the House), could have helped it do better. She also said that the composition of Mr. Biden’s transition team would indicate whether the administration would take a “collaborative approach” or start “icing-out” progressives. One consequence for Mr. Biden of having to deal with a Republican Senate is that it will probably temper divisions within the Democratic Party. Mr. Biden is reportedly looking to put together a cabinet that will include the likes of centrist Republicans (such as John Kasich who supported him) and Democrats who are moderate as well as progressive. Mr. Biden’s track record of working with colleagues across the aisle, his message of unity, and his empathy are going to be critical come January 20. Nobody, however, is going to get all of what they want. In a country as polarised as the U.S., that is indeed a very good thing. sriram.lakshman@thehindu.co.in
10 November 2020||November 10 2020 00:00 IST,||The real significance of the Biden win||The Indian media has analysed the impact of a Joe Biden presidency on relations between the United States and India in some detail. Most commentators are right in saying there will be little overall change and what there is might be marginally beneficial: India will remain a potential ally in a troubled neighbourhood, defence and counter-terrorism cooperation will continue as will trade negotiations, and there will be greater potential for cooperation on climate change. They are also right in saying that there will be no more free passes for the Narendra Modi administration on human rights, in particular the targeting of Muslims, Islam and Kashmir; and right too in saying that while the Biden presidency will raise these issues with Indian counterparts, they will not significantly impact on other areas of cooperation. Spotting the nuance Yet, in making these points, most commentators miss the nuance. Contrary to the Bharatiya Janata Party’s projection, U.S.-India ties did not strengthen under the Modi-Trump administrations (Mr. Trump weakened the U.S.’s ties to most countries, and India was no exception). The only moment at which U.S.-India ties really did display strength was during the Singh- Obama administrations. At that moment, India was no longer a potential ally for the U.S.; it was an ally, period. It is not that both countries did not strive for better ties earlier. Since the Cold War ended, the two countries have stressed common interests. But the process of outlining and acting upon these interests has been frustratingly slow. The first breakthroughs came during the Clinton-Vajpayee years, but they were in the nature of ‘getting to know each other’. Bill Clinton was eager but India’s traditional caution, coupled with Atal Bihari Vajpayee’s long silences, baffled U.S. policymakers. Manmohan Singh’s willingness to stake his entire political capital on the U.S.-India civil nuclear agreement made U.S. policymakers sit up. But the timing was off. The Bush administration depended on Pakistani cooperation for its war in Afghanistan, and India’s importance was mostly as a lever to pressure Pakistan. The chief progress was in trade, and it was considerable, with U.S.-India trade hitting close to $40 billion. The Obama era It was only when Mr. Obama was elected President in 2009, with Mr. Biden as Vice-President, that ties truly deepened. Between 2009 and 2014, U.S.-India trade nearly doubled, the U.S. agreed on a strategic partnership with India, supported India for permanent membership of the UN Security Council and the Nuclear Suppliers Group, helped it become a member of the East Asia summit, promoted Indian engagement in Afghanistan and opening to Central Asia, encouraged the European Union to engage more closely with India, and strengthened military to military ties in the Indo-Pacific region. Post-2014, when the Modi administration came to power, most of these initiatives whittled down, including even counter-terrorism cooperation. U.S. military strategists were surprised by the weakness of India’s ‘surgical strikes’ on Pakistan in 2016 and 2019. This year, they were astonished by the Modi administration’s quiescence on Chinese intrusions into Ladakh, arguably the gravest security threat to India since the 1962 Sino-Indian war. While the U.S. military will continue such important symbolic gestures as joint exercises with the Indian military, few U.S. strategists see India as a major security asset in Asia. Even trade, though it continued to grow between 2014-2019, grew at a slower rate than in the preceding five years. A time of value sharing In other words, the high points of the U.S.-India relationship occurred when both countries were governed by liberal democrats. Values do matter, despite what purported realists say. Indeed, they matter so much that when two countries share common values, the benefits accrue to the ordinary citizen. Manmohan Singh’s administration may take the greatest share of credit for lifting hundreds of millions of Indians into the middle class, but it is also true that he was aided by the Obama administration’s support for his cause. Indeed, it was President Clinton who first made support for such a cause a key part of the U.S.’s India policy, as he did for the U.S.’s Africa policies. Issue of rights and a message Clearly, the Biden and Modi administrations will not share common values. While this gap may not directly impact U.S.-India ties, it will surely do so indirectly. Speculation on whether the Biden presidency will mount pressure on India’s lamentable state of human rights, which now rivals that of the McCarthy era, is already rife. India is not high on the Biden-Harris list of priorities, which is topped by dealing with COVID-19, healing domestic divides, reviving the U.S. economy, repairing ties with Europe, evolving a calibrated China policy, rejoining multilateral initiatives such as on climate change, reinstating the Obama-era Iran policy and furthering peacemaking in Afghanistan. So, the Modi administration has some time to put its house in at least token order on human rights, should the Prime Minister wish to do so. That is a big if, but it would make a big difference, not only in terms of much-needed human rights reforms and, especially in the case of Kashmir, political rights. At a time when the COVID-19 pandemic has driven so many economies inwards and virtually devastated our own, a U.S.-India business as usual approach will not help. We need countries that will actively work with us to revive our economy, even if their own benefit is less than ours. For a troubled democrat such as myself, however, the real significance of this U.S. election is not how it will impact U.S.-India ties but whether it can re-energise our democratic values. Mr. Biden’s win shows that even under an autocratic administration and deeply polarised society, such as the U.S. had, appeals to unity based on compassion, ‘decency and hope’, as Kamala Harris put it, can succeed. This is a lesson that our Opposition parties, independent institutions and civil society should take to heart. As we slide rapidly into autocracy, and are as deeply polarised as the U.S. (if not more), we desperately need leaders who will appeal to our better rather than baser instincts. It should give our Opposition leaders inspiration that the Biden-Harris message of healing, civilty and responsibility instantly struck a chord. They too can refuse to sink to the ‘era of demonization’ as Mr. Biden put it, no matter how much our hate-filled trolls try to draw them in. A last takeaway Our judiciary and media can draw their own lessons from the U.S. example, where so many State-level courts and the national media fought back against Mr. Trump’s attempts to cow them. They paved the way for this election result. And for those of us members of civil society who care, here is the comforting Biden-Harris message: all is not lost, it never can be. Maybe Bihar will reinforce the point. Radha Kumar is a writer and policy analyst
10 November 2020||November 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Under Biden, unfurling India’s foreign policy concerns||Nobody in the world is going to be sad about U.S. President Donald Trump leaving the White House next January, except, most likely, the Israeli Prime Minister Netanyahu — they had close links. Mr. Trump’s only real achievements in foreign policy were the agreements on establishment of diplomatic relations that he negotiated between Israel and a couple of the Gulf States; these will not be affected by the change in the presidency. The Saudis too will miss him, perhaps not as much as Mr. Netanyahu; they had in Mr. Trump someone who hated Iran as much as, perhaps even more than the rulers of Saudi Arabia. The Saudis and Mr. Netanyahu cannot be sure what policy President-elect Joe Biden will adopt on the questions of West Asia peace plans and the nuclear deal with Iran — the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA) — which President Barack Obama negotiated when Mr. Biden was the Vice-President. For us in India, there are two foreign policy issues which are of great concern and interest — China and Iran in that order. For the world, the equation between the United States and China may be the relationship of the greatest consequence. For India, the most consequential relationship is not with the U.S. — as is sometimes claimed — but one with China. What happens in greater West Asia will always remain of concern to us since we have a huge stake in that region, but those interests will not be affected one way or the other by who lives in the White House. Quad dynamics and China In the Trump years, India got into a pretty close embrace with the U.S. It signed all the ‘foundational’ agreements with America and bought billions of dollars worth of military hardware from them. The arms deals with the U.S. are a unique example when the country that buys tens of billions worth of arms has to be grateful to the vendor when it is a well-known fact that but for these sales, the military-industrial complex in the seller country will not be able to sustain itself. We resisted converting the Quad into a primarily military or strategic grouping, (what China perceives it to be) and is in fact aimed solely at containing China. The Quad is an anti-China coalition. How far it can be successful in containing the Dragon remains to be seen. The outgoing U.S. Secretary of State and his deputy were quite candid in declaring that: India needed America as an ally and that the Quad will have to be formalised in future. In other words, the Quad will have to be institutionalised and expanded by adding additional members such as Taiwan and South Korea. As the External Affairs Minister has stated, India will not join any military alliance. That might remain the case in form, but given the fact that all the other three, and perhaps five or six in future, are already in strategic alliance with one another and with the U.S., it is highly likely that India too will be forced to agree to some form of military alliance at a future date. The government must have come to the conclusion that: we are simply not in a position to deal with China on our own and that we need external support. Even Jawaharlal Nehru, the architect of non-alignment, asked the Americans for help at the time of the war with China in 1962. There is nothing wrong per se in asking for support to protect our territorial integrity although it is evident that all these initiatives such as the Quad are maritime agreements and do not have much bearing on our dispute with China, which is continental in nature. The satellite imagery which the U.S. may provide in terms of the latest agreement concluded with the U.S. (the Basic Exchange and Cooperation Agreement (BECA) for Geo-Spatial Cooperation) might be useful but it does not negate the premise that no external power would want to get involved on our side in case of major hostilities with China. On the other hand, if there is a major skirmish or worse in the South China Sea, the other members of the Quad will expect us to join them in fighting China, in an area far removed from our shores. In addition to Israel and Saudi Arabia, Indian leaders also may miss Mr. Trump. If Mr. Biden adopts a more conciliatory approach towards China, we may find ourselves in a difficult situation. Since the U.S., under whatever presidency, will strictly follow its interests and may stage a somersault, we will be left alone in our confrontation with China. It is generally agreed that the U.S. has always needed an external enemy to keep its foreign policy focused, but that has not been the case so far with us. In any case, we have the ‘other’ in the shape of Pakistan. (Mr. G. Parthasarathi, a very influential adviser to Mrs. Indira Gandhi once told me that it is good for India to always have some tension with Pakistan.) Do we need another ‘other’ in the shape of China? We do not want China to be permanently hostile to us; it will absorb huge resources, human and material. Invoking foreign threats with tough rhetoric might help domestically, but not always and not for long. The strong rhetoric employed in relation to China will need to be tempered. Public opinion which has been worked up against China may make it difficult to do so immediately but the government is efficient in managing and moulding public opinion. Handling Iran As for Iran — the other issue where Mr. Biden’s policy will be of great interest to us — it may be difficult for Mr. Biden to quickly reverse Mr. Trump’s adventurist policy towards Iran. It may not be possible, given the domestic compulsions, to readopt JCPOA in its original form, but he will surely, if slowly, engage Tehran in talks and negotiations through Oman or some other intermediary, to reduce tensions in the region. We should hope that he will not maintain the harsh unilateral sanctions that Mr. Trump imposed on Iran. We may be able to buy Iranian oil, and sell our pharma and other goods to that country. The government may also feel less constrained in investing openly in oil and other infra projects in Iran, including the rail project in which Indian Railways Construction Ltd has been interested. The government need not feel disappointed at Mr. Trump’s defeat. After all, he too was not all that sentimental about India; he did threaten us with ‘consequences’ if we did not give hydroxychloroquine pills to America. Chinmaya R. Gharekhan, a former Indian Ambassador to the United Nations, was Special Envoy for West Asia in the Manmohan Singh government
10 November 2020||November 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Lessons from Vietnam and Bangladesh||Vietnam and Bangladesh are on a roll. While Bangladesh has become the second largest apparel exporter after China, Vietnam’s exports have grown by about 240% in the past eight years. What has helped them? And what can India learn from them? Two nations and their success stories An open trade policy, a less inexpensive workforce, and generous incentives to foreign firms contributed to Vietnam’s success. Vietnam pursues an open trade policy mainly through Free Trade Agreements (FTAs) which ensure that its important trading partners like the U.S., the EU, China, Japan, South Korea and India do not charge import duties on products made in Vietnam. Vietnam’s domestic market is open to the partners’ products. For example, 99% of EU products will soon enter Vietnam duty-free. Vietnam has agreed to change its domestic laws to make the country attractive to investors. Foreign firms can compete for local businesses. For example, EU firms can open shops, enter the retail trade, and bid for both government and private sector tenders. They can take part in electricity, real estate, hospital, defence, and railways projects. This model may not be good for India as it offers no protection to farmers or local producers from imports. Vietnam being a single-party state can ignore domestic voices. Over a decade or so, large brands such as Samsung, Canon, Foxconn, H&M, Nike, Adidas, and IKEA have flocked to Vietnam to manufacture their products. Last year, Vietnam received investments exceeding $16 billion. As a result, Vietnam’s exports rose from $83.5 billion in 2010 to $279 billion in 2019. In Bangladesh, large export of apparels to the EU and the U.S. make the most of the country’s export story. The EU allows the import of apparel and other products from least developed countries (LDCs) like Bangladesh duty-free. Sadly, Bangladesh may not have this facility in four to seven years as its per capita income rises and it loses the LDC status. Bangladesh is working smartly to diversify its export basket. India, as a good neighbour, accepts all Bangladesh products duty-free (except alcohol and tobacco). Vietnam and Bangladesh have gained enormously from trade. Trade has created wealth and employment and lifted millions above the poverty level in less than two decades. Which elements of Vietnam and Bangladesh models should India emulate?  The key learning from Bangladesh is the need to support large firms for a quick turnover. Large firms are better positioned to invest in brand building, meeting quality requirements, and marketing. Small firms begin as suppliers to large firms and eventually grow. Vietnam has changed domestic rules to meet the needs of investors. Yet, most of Vietnam’s exports happen in five sectors. In contrast, India’s exports are more diversified. The Economic Complexity Index (ECI), which ranks a country based on how diversified and complex its manufacturing export basket is, illustrates this point. The ECI rank for China is 32, India 43, Vietnam 79, and Bangladesh 127. India, unlike Vietnam, has a developed domestic and capital market. To further promote manufacturing and investment, India could set up sectoral industrial zones with pre-approved factory spaces. A firm should walk in to start operations in a few weeks. There should be no need to search for land or obtain many approvals. The quick build-up of exports in Vietnam resulted from large MNC investments. But most of its electronics exports are just the final assembly of goods produced elsewhere. In such cases, national exports look large, but the net dollar gain is small. China also faces this issue. Focus on organic economic growth Should a country promote trade at the expense of other sectors? To understand this, let’s look at the export to GDP ratio (EGR). Vietnam’s EGR is 107%. Such high dependence on exports brings dollars but also makes a country vulnerable to global economic uncertainty. The EGR of large economies/exporting countries is a much smaller number. The U.S.’s EGR is 11.7%, Japan’s is 18.5%, India’s is 18.7%. Even for China, with all its trade problems, the EGR is 18.4%. Most such countries, including India, follow an open trade policy, sign balanced FTAs, restrict unfair imports, and have a healthy mix of domestic champions and MNCs. While export remains a priority, it is not pursued at the expense of other sectors of the economy. The focus is on organic economic growth through innovation and competitiveness. With reforms promoting innovation and lowering the cost of doing business, India is poised to attract the best investments and integrate further with the global economy. Ajay Srivastava is an Indian Trade Service officer. Views are personal
10 November 2020||November 10 2020 00:00 IST,||The cost of clearing the air||In February, Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman announced a Rs. 4,400 crore package for 2020-21 to tackle air pollution in 102 of India’s most polluted cities. The funds would be used to reduce particulate matter by 20%-30% from 2017 levels by 2024 under the National Clean Air Programme (NCAP) though it isn’t clear yet what the budgetary outlays for subsequent years are likely to be. Though it was the largest-ever yearly allocation by a government to specifically tackle air pollution, the fine print revealed that only half the money was finally allotted to 15 States (and 42 cities in them) in November. The rest will be given in January based on how cities achieve certain ‘performance parameters’ that are still being worked out by the Centre. The scale of the problem It is unclear if this amount is adequate to handle the task of improving air quality. For one, the scale of the problem is unknown. Delhi, after being the epitome of pollution for at least two decades, has only in the last two years managed to firmly install an extensive network of continuous ambient air quality monitors — about 37 and the highest in the country — managed by several government or allied bodies. There are several organisations with their own networks. It has also managed to conduct source apportionment studies and now, though still contested, has the minimum data to determine the degree of pollution that is contributed by its own activities (construction, road dust, vehicle movement) and that brought on from external sources such as stubble burning. Several research studies and numerous hours of litigation have contributed to establishing this and the actual taxpayer money that has actually gone into it far exceeds allocations that find mention in the Centre and State government’s budgeting books. Several of the States with the most polluted cities that have been allotted NCAP funds are expected to spend a substantial fraction in the act of measurement. Maharashtra and U.P., by virtue of their size, got the maximum funds: close to Rs. 400 crore. An analysis by research agencies Carbon Copy and Respirer Living Sciences recently found that only 59 out of 122 cities had PM 2.5 data available. Historically, cites have used manual machines to measure specified pollutants and their use has been inadequate. Only three States, for instance, had all their installed monitors providing readings from 2016 to 2018. Prior to 2016, data aren’t publicly available making comparisons of reduction incomparable. Now manual machines are being replaced by automatic ones and India is still largely reliant on imported machines though efforts are underway at institutions such as the Indian Institute of Technology, Kanpur, to make and install low-cost ones. Cleaning up The funds don’t account for the trained manpower and the support system necessary to effectively maintain the systems and these costs are likely to be significant. Then comes the all-important aspect of cleaning up. A Right to Information disclosure sourced by the research agencies revealed that for four cities in Maharashtra, Rs. 40 crore had been assigned. Pollution clean-up activities have been assigned 50% of this budget and another Rs. 11 crore are allotted for mechanical street sweepers. Depending on the specific conditions in every city, these proportions are likely to change. Therefore, budgetary allocations alone don’t reflect the true cost of reducing air pollution. Also, money alone doesn’t work. In the case of the National Capital Region, at least Rs. 600 crore was spent by the Ministry of Agriculture over two years to provide subsidised equipment to farmers in Punjab and Haryana and dissuade them from burning paddy straw. Yet this year, there have been more farm fires than in the previous year and their contribution to Delhi's winter air woes remain unchanged. A clear day continues to remain largely at the mercy of favourable meteorology. While funds are critical, proper enforcement, adequate staff and stemming the sources of pollution on the ground are vital to the NCAP meeting its target. jacob.koshy@thehindu.co.in
10 November 2020||November 10 2020 00:00 IST,||No fireworks||In the year of the COVID-19 pandemic, it should surprise no one that the National Green Tribunal has prohibited the sale and use of firecrackers during Deepavali in the National Capital Region of Delhi and in urban centres that recorded poor or worse air quality in November last year. The directions expand on Supreme Court orders issued in the past, and provide some concessions to cities and towns that have moderate or better air quality, by allowing “green crackers” and specified hours for bursting. These stipulations are to extend to Christmas and New Year if the ban continues beyond November. The NGT took note that Odisha, Rajasthan, Sikkim, Chandigarh, the Delhi Pollution Control Committee and the Calcutta High Court had already responded to deteriorating environmental conditions by banning firecrackers this year. The tribunal’s reasoning giving primacy to the precautionary principle in sustainable development over employment and revenue losses is understandable. As the impact of COVID-19 became clear in March, and there were fears of a case surge during the winter, it was incumbent on the Centre to work with States and resolutely prevent the burning of farm stubble ahead of Deepavali. This annual phenomenon unfailingly fouls the air across northern and eastern India, and imposes heavy health and productivity costs. In the absence of pollution from agricultural residue, there might have been some room for a limited quantity of firecrackers, although climatic conditions at this time of year, of low temperature and atmospheric circulation, would still leave many in distress. Only damage control is possible now, including steps to address the concerns of the fireworks industry. Even without the risk of a COVID-19 surge, it should be evident to policymakers that their measures under the National Clean Air Programme, which seeks to reduce particulate matter pollution by 20% to 30% by 2024, must be demonstrably effective. By the government’s own admission, there were 148 days of poor to severe air quality during 2019 in the NCR, down from 206 days the previous year. Many other cities have a similar profile, but get less attention. With 40% of all pollution-linked deaths attributed to bad air quality in leading emerging economies and some evidence from the U.S. on higher COVID-19 mortality in highly polluted areas, it is time governments showed a sense of accountability on the right to breathe clean air. Tamil Nadu, where 90% of firecrackers are produced, has legitimate concerns on the fate of the industry this year, which, producers claim, represents about Rs. 2,300 crore worth of output. A transparent compensation scheme for workers, and suitable relief for producers may be necessary, although the longer-term solution might lie in broad basing economic activity in the Sivakasi region, reducing reliance on firecrackers.
10 November 2020||November 10 2020 00:00 IST,||The war within||When Abiy Ahmed became Ethiopia’s Prime Minister in April 2018, hopes were high that the former Army intelligence officer would bring a new dawn to the country known for its ethnic fault-lines. Early on, he reached out to the political opposition, lifted curbs on the media and made peace with Eritrea — moves that won him the Peace Nobel in 2019. But things fell apart rather quickly. Last week, Mr. Abiy declared war on the country’s Tigray region, which is ruled by the powerful Tigray People’s Liberation Front (TPLF), in response to its attack on a federal military base in Tigray. The militia-turned-party, which was part of the coalition that brought an end to the military dictatorship in 1991, had played a dominant role in the country’s ruling coalition, the Ethiopian People’s Revolutionary Democratic Front. After Mr. Abiy came to power, he purged the TPLF from senior government positions. His push to concentrate more power in the hands of the government alienated the TPLF further. When the federal government postponed the general elections in August to 2021 citing the coronavirus pandemic, Tigray politicians accused him of a power grab and held elections, in September, in the region, in defiance of Addis Ababa. Rising tensions led to an outburst last week, with the attack on the base. The Tigrayans, who make up roughly 6% of Ethiopia’s 110 million people, have traditionally enjoyed outsized influence in the government whereas the Oromos, the largest ethnic group, have complained of marginalisation. Mr. Abiy, an Oromo, has said his mandate is to place Ethiopia’s interests over the regions and correct the uneven distribution of power. But his actions often produced unintended consequences. In the Oromo region, his critics complain that he is trying to grab more powers for the federal government, while the Tigrayans accuse him of taking away their rights. Earlier this year, deadly protests broke out after the singer Hachalu Hundessa, an Oromo, was shot dead in Addis Ababa. Now, with his decision to bomb Tigray, Mr. Abiy has declared war on his people at a time when ethnic tensions are running high. He may be trying to send a strong message to the rebel politicians of the Tigray region that patience is wearing thin. But if he thinks a military campaign would solve the conflicts between ethnicities and regions, he could well be mistaken. The regions, largely divided on ethnic lines, have militias that cut their teeth in the struggle against the junta. Instead of bombing his own country, Mr. Abiy should reach out to regional political leaderships, especially the TPLF, find common ground, and run the country peacefully by restoring the balance between ethnicities and regions and decentralising the federal government.
10 November 2020||November 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Armstice Day||London, November 7: Armstice Day will be observed with even greater solemnity this year than last year. Symbolic burials in London and Paris of anonymous heroes in the national resting places as a tribute to unknown valour has made an unusually strong appeal to popular sentiment. The personal participation of His Majesty in the London ceremony will add an historic interest to the occasion. Seven thousand relatives of fallen warriors, who will be chosen by ballot, are being invited to witness the ceremony of the unveiling of the cenotaph or to attend the service in the Abbey. Places for 100 representatives of the three fighting services, also of the principal organisations for ex-servicemen, of those who lost their sight in the war, and of nurses, will be reserved. Representatives of the 3 services will all be recipients of the Victoria Cross or who otherwise distinguished themselves in the war.
10 November 2020||November 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Probe into British author's book||The Defence Minister, Mr. Jagjivan Ram to-day [November 9, New Delhi] assured the Lok Sabha that the question as to who supplied the material to the British author, Mr. Neville Maxwell for his book “India’s China war” would be examined thoroughly and action taken “as early as possible.” He was replying to Mr. Nath Pai, who sought to know whether Mr. Maxwell had obtained permission to reproduce extracts from Lt.-Gen Henderson-Brook’s report on the NEFA reverses in 1962 and if so what action had been taken against the author for publishing the extracts. Mr. Jagjivan Ram, who faced rough weather on the question, said that “nobody in the Defence Ministry was authorised to disclose any classified document to any unauthorised person”, and if anyone had supplied any document without Government authorisation “action under the Official Secrets Act will be taken.” Mr. Nath Pai, who described the matter as “serious”, contended that the book on which his question was based was patently partial and highly prejudicial though it made “interesting reading”. He quoted from the book in which the author had claimed that he (author) has drawn extracts from unpublished files and materials in the Army. The author had also claimed he was given access to these sources and observed he could not name them (the sources) “but can only thank them.”
10 November 2020||MUMBAI,||Biden win spurs indices to record high||India’s benchmark stock indices closed at their lifetime highs on Monday, as investors bet on the possibility of a U.S. stimulus and President-elect Joe Biden moving to revoke curbs on H-1B visas when he assumes power. Indian technology firms would benefit if they are able to send more workers to client sites in the U.S. on H-1B visas. The rally continued for the sixth straight session that the indices. Led by financial and technology stocks, equities recorded the sixth straight day of gains. But analysts warned that the rally and stock valuations may not sustain in the long run. The BSE Sensex surged 704 points or 1.68% to 42,597.43, its historical high. Only two stocks from the 30-share Sensex were in the red. Top gainers included IndusInd Bank, Bharti Airtel, ICICI Bank, Axis Bank and Power Grid. The BSE IT Index climbed 1.5% while the Bankex rose 2.8%. The NSE Nifty 50 also surged 1.6%, or 197.5 points, to a lifetime high of 12,461. Britain’s FTSE and Germany’s DAX went up by about 5% each, while France’s CAC rose by about 7%. Arjun Yash Mahajan, head, Institutional Business, Reliance Securities, said, “Expectations of a large fiscal stimulus from the U.S. following Biden’s [victory] fuelled global markets.... Improved sentiment with regard to possibility of stronger liquidity and better 2Q corporate earnings are likely to persist in the near term”. ‘Stretched valuations’ “However, current valuations look... quite stretched and the market has factored in a robust above-30% earnings growth in 2021, which will be quite challenging given the muted expectations [on] sharp revival in government and private capex. A sustainable rally in the long-term looks to be challenging,” he added. Nish Bhatt, founder and CEO at investment consulting firm Millwood Kane International, said, “A stronger bilateral relationship with the U.S. under the new administration will help Indian businesses”. He said Mr. Biden’s plans to raise the H-1B visa limit and remove country quotas for green cards was a positive for Indian IT firms. “Mr. Biden at the White House means less protectionism, a sign of ending tariff wars. “The market is rallying on hopes of fewer regulations... under [him]. India seems to be in a sweet spot and may gain as the U.S. under Mr. Biden is unlikely to ease pressure on China,” he added.
10 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Passenger vehicle retail sales fell 9% in October: FADA||Retail sales of passenger vehicles (PVs) fell nearly 9% in October from a year earlier as factors such as lower discounts and supply chain-related issues dragged down demand, the Federation of Automobile Dealers Associations (FADA) said on Monday. The numbers are in stark contrast to the strong growth posted by OEMs in dispatches to the dealers anticipating strong demand during Diwali. While market leader Maruti Suzuki had posted an 18% growth in wholesale sales, players such as Hyundai and Hero MotoCorp had witnessed record sales. FADA said even though the nine-day Navratri period witnessed robust vehicle registrations, October retail sales were in the red compared to October 2019 when both Navratri and Diwali were in the same month. “While new launches continued to be in demand in the passenger vehicle segment, entry level motorcycles witnessed lean demand in the two-wheeler segment,” FADA president Vinkesh Gulati said. “With supply-side mismatch, most of the passenger vehicle dealers ended with limited stock of high selling items and odd variants which did not attract much demand. This, coupled with lower discounts compared to last [year’s] festivals also played spoilsport,” Mr. Gulati added. He said that while small commercial vehicles were seeing robust demand due to local goods transportation back to pre-Covid levels, the medium and heavy commercial vehicles segment continued to bleed. ‘Demand for tractors’ As per data shared by the association, PV sales declined 8.8% to more than 2.49 lakh units, two-wheeler sales fell 26.82% to more than 10.41 lakh units, commercial vehicle sales slumped 30.32% to 44,480 units and three-wheeler sales slipped 64.5% to 22,381 units. Tractor sales, however, continue to witness strong demand, growing 55% to 55,146 units. Total sales across categories declined 24% to just over 14.13 lakh units in October 2020. FADA said there was “sense of cautiousness amongst customers” as the country enters the last leg of the festival season amid the third wave of COVID-19 in many cities. It added that due to the lockdown announced in a few European countries, procurement of spares will also hinder smooth supply of vehicles in Indian markets.
10 November 2020||Chennai,||Ashok Leyland aims to be debt-free in two years||Commercial vehicle manufacturer Ashok Leyland Ltd. is expected to be a debt-free company in two years’ time, as it expects a pick-up in volumes from the third quarter of FY21, a top company executive said. “The company brought down its net debt by Rs. 1,200 crore to Rs. 3,076 crore. Debt equity has reduced from 0.6 times at the end of June ’20 to 0.5 times as of end of Sept ’20,” said Gopal Mahadevan, wholetime director and CFO, Ashok Leyland. ALL had a net debt of Rs. 2,000 crore during March 2020. In the quarter ended June, it had raised funds via non-convertible debentures and long-term and short-term borrowings ‘to have some liquidity in hand to face the pandemic’. With the pick-up in volumes, the debt has been brought down in Q2. “We expect volumes to hit pre-Covid levels during Q3 and Q4. This will bring in more cash,” he added. Mr. Mahadevan said that the Hosur plant, which makes products including light commercial vehicles and trucks, was operating at full capacity and nearing 90% of its pre-Covid level.
10 November 2020||Chennai,||More players eyeing stake in LVB: Sinha||A couple of players, apart from the Clix Group, have shown keen interest in acquiring a stake in Lakshmi Vilas Bank Ltd. (LVB) said a top official. “[Apart from the Clix Group], a couple of others have approached our financial advisers to acquire a stake in our bank,” said Shakti Sinha, director, LVB. “They have already made preliminary enquiries.” “On October 8, we received an indicative non-binding agreement from the Clix Group. There was a minor, incremental due diligence requested by Clix, which was completed last week. Now, the respective sides are in the process of a workable and mutually-acceptable framework.” The statutory auditors, meanwhile, had asked LVB to take urgent steps to augment its capital base during the current fiscal as the latter had been incurring losses for over 12 quarters. “My priority right now is to get the merger completed quickly and also get clearance for the rights issue,” he said. “In principle, we have decided to raise Rs. 500 crore.” For FY21 Q1 and Q2, LVB had posted a loss of Rs. 112.28 crore and Rs. 397 crore, respectively.
10 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||CCI to probe Google’s ‘abuse’ of position||The Competition Commission of India (CCI) ordered a detailed probe against Google for ‘abuse’ of its dominant position, primarily with regard to its digital payments application GPay. The order follows a complaint by an ‘informant’ alleging multiple instances of abuse of dominant position by Google, with CCI deciding to carry forward the investigation into two of these instances — pre-installation of GPay on Android OS smartphones and use of Google Play’s in-app billing as the method of payment by developers. “The Commission is of the prima facie view that the opposite parties have contravened various provisions of Section 4 of the Act. These aspects warrant a detailed investigation,” the order said. Section 4 of the Competition Act pertains to abuse of dominant market position. The Commission has directed the Director General to finish the probe and submit the report in 60 days.
10 November 2020||New Delhi,||Equity mutual funds continue to see outflow||Equity mutual funds witnessed an outflow of Rs. 2,725 crore in October, making it the fourth consecutive monthly withdrawal, on profit booking by investors. All the equity schemes, barring large- and mid-cap and sectoral funds, have seen outflows, data from the Association of Mutual Funds (AMFI) in India showed on Monday. However, investors put in over Rs. 1.1 lakh crore from debt MFs last month after pulling out over Rs. 51,900 crore in September. Overall, the MF industry witnessed a net inflow of Rs. 98,576 crore across all segments during the period under review, against an outflow of a little over Rs. 52,000 crore in September. The positive inflow from debt funds pushed the assets under management of the MF industry to record Rs. 28.22 lakh crore at the end of October, from Rs. 26.86 lakh crore at the end of September.
10 November 2020||Chennai,||EID net surges on lower cost, better prices||EID Parry (India) Ltd, one of the largest manufacturers of sugar, reported an almost 22-fold rise in its standalone net profit to Rs. 131 crore on better realisation and cost-reduction measures. Revenue from operations grew 20% to Rs. 529 crore, the company said. The nutraceuticals division saw profit growth of 190% to Rs. 4 crore (Rs. 1 crore), on account of increased sales to U.S. and Europe. “Though the Centre has announced an increase in ethanol procurement rates depending on the grades of ethanol for the period December 2020 to November 2021, the industry is expecting an increase in minimum support price for sugar, for covering the increase in cane and other costs,” said S. Suresh, MD.
10 November 2020||MUMBAI,||Nutraceutical industry seeks policy changes||With demand for natural immunity-boosting products growing during the pandemic, the nutraceuticals industry has called for policy and regulatory changes to spur sales to $25-$30 billion in 10 years from about $3 billion currently. “The recent consumer preference trends show an increasing focus on nutritious food and food safety globally. This shift offers a variety of opportunities to the Indian nutraceutical industry, which can lead this business globally due to our natural advantages,” Sanjaya Mariwala, executive CMD, OmniActive Health Technologies, and founder-president of the Association of Herbal and Nutraceuticals Manufacturers of India said.
10 November 2020||Mumbai,||Uptick in hiring activities in October over previous month: Report||With economic activity gathering pace post easing of lockdowns, hiring in most sectors has shown a significant recovery in October over the previous month, says a report. On a yearly basis, however, the overall hiring was down 17% in October, according to the Naukri JobSpeak Index for October 2020. IT software and services grew 7% in October, it said.PTI
10 November 2020||New Delhi,||Oil regulator gives up to 251 days more to IOC, Adani Gas, others to complete work||Oil sector regulator PNGRB has given up to eight-and-a-half months of extra time to companies such as Indian Oil Corporation (IOC), GAIL and Adani Gas to fulfil their city gas project roll-out commitments that had been impacted by COVID-19 lockdowns. The extra time is to make up for the lockdown imposed to curb the spread of the pandemic and for the restrictions in States.PTI
10 November 2020||Mumbai,||TCS to acquire Postbank Systems from Deutsche Bank||Tata Consultancy Services Netherlands BV, and Deutsche Bank AG have entered into an agreement under which the TCS subsidiary will acquire 100% of the shares of Postbank Systems AG (PBS) from Deutsche Bank AG for a symbolic cash payment of €1. PBS and about 1,500 staff would become part of TCS. PBS had reported a revenue of £530 million in 2019.
10 November 2020||New Delhi,||Prestige group to sell commercial projects to Blackstone for Rs 9,160 cr||Realty firm Prestige Estates Projects Ltd. on Monday said it had agreed to sell a large portfolio of office, retail and hotel properties to global investment firm Blackstone for an enterprise value of Rs. 9,160 crore. The Bengaluru-based Prestige signed term sheets on Monday with the Blackstone group, and the deal is likely to be closed next month.pti
10 November 2020||New Delhi,||Equitas Small Finance Bank Q2 net profit jumps over 2-fold to Rs 103 cr||Equitas Small Finance Bank on Monday reported a more than twofold jump in net profit to Rs. 103 crore in the quarter ended September on healthy core income and a fall in bad assets. It had posted a net profit of Rs. 49 crore a year earlier. The small finance bank, which got listed on the capital markets last week, witnessed a 32% growth in net interest income to Rs. 461 crore.PTI
10 November 2020||New Delhi,||SAT quashes Sebi’s order directing Prabhat Dairy to deposit Rs 1,292 crore||The Securities Appellate Tribunal on Monday quashed an order passed by SEBI in October asking Prabhat Dairy to deposit over Rs. 1,292 crore. It directed SEBI to process the delisting application of the firm and pass appropriate orders within six weeks. “The direction to deposit [the] sum... is wholly arbitrary and has been passed without any application of mind,” the tribunal said.pti
10 November 2020||November 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Can MI break its odd-even jinx? Or will DC finally taste glory?||And then there were two. After more than 50 days of hectic action, Delhi Capitals and Mumbai Indians have sliced through the pack to battle in Tuesday’s final, at the Dubai International Stadium. Pure match-winners The occasion is especially sweet for DC, which makes its first appearance in an IPL title match. In opener Shikhar Dhawan, pacer Kagiso Rabada and all-rounder Marcus Stoinis — the heroes of the victory over Sunrisers Hyderabad in Qualifier 2 — DC has three pure match-winners. Dhawan is 67 runs behind K.L. Rahul in the race for the Orange Cup, while the fiery Rabada is leading the wickets chart. Stoinis, who achieved only moderate success in previous seasons with other teams, has elevated his game. Promoted to open on Sunday, Stoinis made a quick 38 before picking up three crucial wickets to scuttle the SRH chase. With cerebral spinner R. Ashwin and speed merchant Anrich Nortje also in the ranks, DC boasts of a highly skilful bowling unit. Cool, confident veteran If DC is a newcomer to the bright lights, MI is the cool, confident veteran. A four-time champion, making a sixth final appearance, MI has ‘been there, done that’. The only thing the side hasn’t managed is a title win in an even year, something it will look to improve on Tuesday. MI possesses a great record against DC, having registered comfortable victories on the three occasions the sides have met this season. The most recent win, which came just a few days ago in Qualifier 1, will surely haunt DC. After Quinton de Kock, Suryakumar Yadav, Ishan Kishan and Hardik Pandya blasted MI to 200, DC stumbled in embarrassing fashion. The team lost the first three wickets without putting a run on the board and eventually rolled over, losing by 57 runs.  Jasprit Bumrah and Trent Boult, who scalped six wickets between them in the DC wipeout, form the best new-ball pair in the IPL. If they hit the mark on Tuesday, DC could once again fall out of contention even before the PowerPlay is completed. MI’s batting line-up is no less impressive. Suryakumar, de Kock and Ishan have been consistent, all making in excess of 450 runs this season. Hardik and Kieron Pollard are devastating at the death, more than capable of repairing any early damage. And then there is skipper Rohit Sharma, who may have had an average run thus far, but his ability to win matches can’t be taken lightly.
10 November 2020||MUMBAI,||Kohli to miss three Tests; Rohit included||Virat Kohli will return home midway through the Australia series after he was granted paternity leave, the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) announced on Monday. The national selectors have also added Rohit Sharma to the Test squad but have not included him for the ODI and T20I series beginning later this month. He had originally been omitted from all three formats after suffering a hamstring injury in the IPL. Two weeks after announcing the squads for the tour down under, to be played from November 27 to January 19 next year, the BCCI issued a medical and availability update. According to the media statement, Kohli, during the selection meeting on October 26, had made himself unavailable after the first Test in Adelaide. “The BCCI has granted paternity leave to the Indian captain. He will return after the first Test,” stated BCCI secretary Jay Shah.  Rahane may lead  With Kohli returning for the birth of his child, Ajinkya Rahane could don the skipper’s role in the last three Tests for the Border-Gavaskar Trophy. The BCCI also formally ruled Rohit out of the limited-over leg. “In consultation with Mr. Sharma, it has been decided to rest him for the ODIs and T20Is ... to regain full fitness and he has been included in India’s Test squad,” said Shah. Left-arm pacer T. Natarajan, picked as a back-up bowler for the Australia-bound contingent, has replaced mystery spinner Varun Chakravarthy in the T20I squad. Varun, who is nursing a shoulder injury, has been ruled out for at least a month. Ishant Sharma, working at the National Cricket Academy in Bengaluru, will be added to the Test squad “once he fully recovers and gains sufficient match fitness”.  Decision on Saha  Wriddhiman Saha, whose hamstring tear was confirmed by SRH captain David Warner on Sunday, is a doubtful starter for the Test series and a decision on his availability would be made later, stated Shah. The selectors, who had announced K.L. Rahul as the lone wicketkeeper for the three ODIs, added Sanju Samson as cover. Kamlesh Nagarkoti, named as a back-up bowler, has been withdrawn to manage his workload.   Australia tour updates  Kohli to miss final three Tests Rohit gets the nod for the longer format Natarajan replaces Varun in T20I squad Samson to be second ’keeper for ODIs
10 November 2020||Melbourne,||Living in bio-bubbles not sustainable, says Starc||Australian pace spearhead Mitchell Starc has become the latest cricketer to raise concerns over the mental well-being of players staying in a bio-bubble as he feels it is “not sustainable” to live in such restrictions for a prolonged period. In a world scarred by COVID-19 pandemic, cricket is currently being organised in bio-bubbles and the situation is unlikely to change anytime soon. “It’s not a sustainable lifestyle,” Starc was quoted as saying by ‘cricket.com.au’ “You’re living in a hotel room with zero outside contact. Some guys haven’t seen families or their kids for a long time, for those guys in the IPL.” While the cricketers competing in the IPL have been in a bio-secure bubble in UAE since August, many will have to enter another bio-secure arrangement when they represent their respective national teams in the upcoming events. Long tour The Indian team will leave for its long tour Down Under after the IPL final on Tuesday, along with few Australian cricketers such as Steve Smith, Pat Cummins, Josh Hazlewood and David Warner, who were part of various IPL franchises. Among others, England players will be touring South-Africa for six white-ball matches in less than a fortnight after the IPL, while West Indies players have to depart for New Zealand for another assignment. “It’s tough going — we get to play cricket, (so) we can’t complain too much — but in terms of wellbeing of players, staff and officials, how long can you stay in hubs for?,” Starc questioned the model. “That question remains to be answered... For those guys who have been in the IPL and have to turn around and do another IPL at the end of next summer (in April and May, 2021), they’re earning their money.” India captain Virat Kohli had recently said that the “repetitive” nature of being in a bio-bubble can be mentally tough on cricketers and length of tours will have to be considered accordingly if playing in a protected environment becomes a norm. England and West Indies skippers Eoin Morgan and Jason Holder, who had also spent time in tight restrictions during the Test series in UK ahead of the IPL, too have warned that living in bubbles can led to “extreme burnouts”.  Some guys haven’t seen families or their kids for a long time, for those guys in the IPL
10 November 2020||Chennai,||Natarajan’s story: triumph of passion and talent over obstacles||One day his story could be a blockbuster on the silver screen. Such is the toil, the sacrifice, the drama and the passion behind his tale. Thangarasu Natarajan has seen poverty from close where the next meal was a challenge. Son of a daily wage construction labourer, Natarajan was up against it from the start. From there, to the present day when he has been picked in the Indian team for the T20I series against Australia Down Under is stuff epic journeys are made of. His is one of guts and glory. Passion and relief Cricket was his passion. It was also a relief, an escape from the life he was leading. His is a remarkable against-all-odds narrative, from the dusty lanes of Chinnappampatti, a hamlet near Salem, to the demanding highway of the Indian Premier League, and then to the Indian team. From breaching defences with a tennis ball to shattering stumps with a hard leather sphere, from obscurity to making headlines. At 29, he is not young but each year represents a struggle; he overcame problems with action and injuries.  This IPL was a game-changer for Natarajan. He put his foot on the accelerator for Sunrisers Hyderabad. Filling out well and extracting more out of his action, Natarajan’s pace was up to the high 130s. And then he sent down yorkers at will. Actually Natarajan comprehends his release point extremely well — a trait he learnt while playing tennis ball cricket — the key to bowling toe-crushers. His yorker to castle the mercurial A.B. de Villiers in the Eliminator was arguably the ball of the tournament. Such well-directed yorkers delivered at speeds close to 140 kmph are hard to negotiate. Natarajan bowled at the ‘death’ and was not daunted by reputations. Now, he will be on the flight to Australia. Bumrah and Natarajan unleashing yorkers at the finish. It will be quite a sight.  Natarajan comprehends his release point extremely well — a trait he learnt while playing tennis ball cricket
10 November 2020||November 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Smriti’s team blazes a trail, dethrones Harmanpreet’s Supernovas||There was no hat-trick for Supernovas. Its quest for a third straight title was thwarted by Trailblazers, which won by 16 runs at Sharjah on Monday night. Smriti Mandhana’s side may not have been too happy with its total of 118 for eight, but the bowlers and the fielders did well to defend it. It was the skipper’s 68 off 49 balls (5x4, 3x6) that proved to be the match-swinging contribution. Trailblazers could have made a lot more, but for a five-wicket haul from Radha Yadav. From 112 for two, it crashed to 118 for eight. The left-arm spinner's figures – five for 16 – are the best in the tournament’s three-year history. Smriti smashed 14 off the last three balls off off-spinner Anuja Patil’s first over, the second of the innings. Her lofted six off the last ball, after dancing down the track, was an indication of things to come. She was all grace and timing and more than made up for the uncharacteristically sluggish batting from her opening partner Deandra Dottin (20, 32b, 1x4). The two added 71 before the West Indian ballooned a catch to Radha at mid-on off Poonam Yadav. Three overs later, Smriti was dismissed by a smart piece of work by Taniya Bhatia off off-spinner Shashikala Siriwardene. Supernovas’ chase was never on. Chamari Atapattu was out leg-before to Sophie Ecclestone after a review and Jemimah Rodrigues was brilliantly caught by Nattakan Chantam at cover point as the defending champion slid to 37 for three in the ninth over. Only Harmanpreet (30, 36b, 2x4) could have turned it around. But she was far from fit and once she fell in the penultimate over, it was curtains for Supernovas.
10 November 2020||HYDERABAD,||Preparations will be the same for final: Stoinis||Marcus Stoinis, the man-of-the-match in Delhi Capitals’ victory over Sunrisers Hyderabad (SRH) in the play-off which saw the team enter the IPL final for the first time on Sunday, said it was a great feeling to be in the title-decider. “We packed our bags to be ready to return home if we were to lose the game tonight against Sunrisers,” Stoinis said at the post-match press conference. “The mood is upbeat ahead of the final. Preparations will be the same. It is important to stick to your strategies and routines before the big game and bring the best cricket out of us.” On his role as an opener against SRH, Stoinis said head coach Ricky Ponting spoke to him about it. “It just worked out. This is the responsibility I was given. Earlier, I batted at No. 3, it didn’t work out.” Stoinis said it was important to stick to the strengths and try and control the run rate as well as the game, even if he was not taking wickets. Kane Williamson of Sunrisers, who virtually waged a lone battle, felt they couldn’t build on the partnerships while chasing a big total. “Delhi is a very good side. The players found their rhythm and posted a competitive total. Unfortunately, we didn’t get the start. Real shame that we could not make it to the final but proud of the way the boys played.”  We packed our bags to be ready to return home if we were to lose the game tonight — Stoinis
10 November 2020||VALENCIA,||Hat-trick hero Soler makes Real pay the penalty at Valencia||Real Madrid was thrashed 4-1 at struggling Valencia on Sunday as Carlos Soler scored a hat-trick of penalties to raise further doubts over LaLiga’s reigning champion. Real took the lead through Karim Benzema but presented Valencia with four gifts at Mestalla, including three spot-kicks and an own-goal scored by Raphael Varane, to fall to another surprise defeat. This is the first time Real has conceded four goals since letting in five against Barcelona in October 2018 and puts the brakes on a recovery that had followed a rocky start to the season. Yet this result puts the pressure back on ahead of the international break, with Real now fourth in the table, four points behind early leader Real Sociedad. Aston Villa stormed into sixth in the Premier League as Ollie Watkins scored twice in a comprehensive 3-0 win over Arsenal at the Emirates after Bukayo Saka’s own goal opened the scoring for the visitors. A share of the points with Manchester City has left champion Liverpool in third spot, behind Leicester and Spurs, while City is 10th with a game in hand. Ibrahimovic delivers In the Serie A, Zlatan Ibrahimovic missed a penalty before scoring a late equaliser as league leader AC Milan salvaged a point in a 2-2 draw against Hellas Verona on Sunday to let rivals Juventus and Inter Milan off the hook after both were held 1-1 in earlier games.  The results:   Premier League: Arsenal 0 lost to Aston Villa 3 (Saka-og 25, Watkins 72, 75).   Serie A: Torino 0 dre with Crotone 0; Bologna 0 lost to Napoli 1 (Osimhen 23); AC Milan 2 (Magnani 27-og, Ibrahimovic 90+3) drew with Hellas Verona 2 (Barak 6, Calabria 19-og).   LaLiga: Valladolid 2 (Orellana 19-pen, Andre 48) bt Athletic Bilbao 1 (Williams 86-pen).   Levante 1 (Morales 51) dre with Alaves 1 (Lucas 4); Valencia 4 (Soler 35-pen, 54-pen, 63-pen, Varane OG-43) bt Real Madrid 1 (Benzema 23).   Bundesliga: VfL Wolfsburg 2 (Steffen 6, Weghorst 26) bt Hoffenheim 1 (Adamyan 87).   Bayer Leverkusen 4 (Alario 27, 41, Bailey 68, Baumgartlinger 82) bt Borussia Moenchengladbach 3 (Stindl 18-pen, 31, Lazaro 90).
10 November 2020||MANCHESTER,||Guardiola, Klopp to fight for five subs||Pep Guardiola and Jurgen Klopp united to fight for a U-turn to the Premier League’s three-substitution rule after Manchester City and Liverpool played out a 1-1 draw on Sunday. A share of the points between the sides that have combined to win the title for the past three seasons leaves Liverpool in third just a point off the top, while City sit five points further back with a game in hand. Support Guardiola and Klopp have been outspoken advocates of the use of five substitutes, which was used in the Premier League at the end of last season and is being used in all other major leagues in Europe and the Champions League this season. However, the Premier League’s top teams lost a vote for it to remain for the 2020/21 season with fears it only serves to benefit the clubs with bigger squads. “We speak about how we have to fight again and again about five substitutions,” said Guardiola when asked about the subject of his post-match conversation with Klopp. “All around the world there is five substitutions. Here we believe we are a special league with just three players, we don’t protect the players. “Look at Trent Alexander-Arnold, an international English player, he is injured. That’s why it is a disaster. “With this calendar which comes from a special year before, I will demand, if the people allow my voice, five substitutions have to come back for the players, the managers, everyone to do it. If not, it’s difficult to sustain it.” Klopp accused Premier League CEO Richard Masters of a “lack of leadership” over the matter. “It’s not an advantage, it’s a necessity,” added the Liverpool boss.
10 November 2020||AUGUSTA,||Masters amends rule regarding cut line||The US Masters has ended an extension to its cut policy, with Augusta National announcing on Monday the field will be trimmed to only the low 50 and level after 36 holes. Since 1962, anyone in the top 50 and level and within 10 strokes of the lead was allowed into the weekend at Augusta National no matter where they ranked in the overall scoring. The move comes at the start of official practice sessions for the 84th Masters, which begins on Thursday after being postponed from April due to the COVID-19 pandemic that reshuffled the golf season. A cut was first instituted at the Masters in 1957 and for five years it allowed only the low 40 and level into the third and fourth rounds. In 1962, the amendment was made to include anyone within 10 strokes of the lead and 52 players made the cut from a starting field of 109. That exemption stayed even in 2013 when the cut line was raised to the low 50 and level advancing to the weekend.
10 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Ramkumar thankful for support after a season of struggle||It was a tough time for Ramkumar Ramanathan on the professional Tour, post lockdown. But things fell into place just in time for him to celebrate a memorable 26th birthday as he reached the singles final of the €88,520 Challenger (indoor carpet) in Eckental, Germany There was no icing on the cake, as he was beaten in the final on his birthday on Sunday. Yet, he was grateful to have found some much-needed rhythm. “In tennis, you can’t really predict when you will win or lose. But, I am happy with the way I played. I stayed aggressive all week. It did hurt to lose the final on my birthday, but it was a good gift for me to have had a great week,” said Ramkumar who has now moved to 185 in rankings. Ramkumar was happy to have served strong the whole week, hitting 52 aces. “I was happy to be the leader for aces.” He was grateful to doubles partner Purav Raja for staying back with him till the semifinals in Germany. He was moved by the gesture of his friends from the core group who sent him a birthday cake and some goodies. “I want to thank our entire core group for being so supportive, surprising me with goodies and a cake. And for cheering me up after a tough loss. Am blessed and grateful to have them all as part of my life.” The Babolat and Indian Oil Corporation athlete also pointed out that it was for the 224th day that the group was having a simultaneous workout, despite being in different parts of the world. “They sent me a 12-minute video, with almost everyone wishing me on my birthday. It really touched me,” said Ramkumar. He also thanked his family and coach T. Chandrasekaran for their constant support. He will next fly to USA for tournaments in North Carolina and Orlando.
10 November 2020||November 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Capitals’ best yet to come, says Ponting||Delhi Capitals head coach Ricky Ponting has warned Mumbai Indians not to take his side lightly in Tuesday’s IPL final, saying its best is still to come. “Looking back now we are happy, it’s been a good season but we are here to win the IPL and we will give it our best shot,” said Ponting on Monday. “It’s not an easy thing to make it to the IPL final. There are a lot of guys who never made one. Thankfully, I have coached one before and I was a part of another team as captain, so I know what it’s like to be,” he said. MI captain Rohit Sharma hoped that Trent Boult would be available for the big clash. “Trent looks pretty good. He pulled up pretty well in the last few days, so fingers crossed and hopefully he plays,” said Rohit.
10 November 2020||November 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Mind versus intellect||The episode of Daksha Yagna in the Bhagavata Purana illustrates many aspects of loka dharma, along with the Paramartika dharma, essential for every jiva to attain salvation. The story line shows Sati Devi, daughter of Daksha and wedded to Siva, faces a dilemma when she wishes to attend the yaga conducted by Daksha about which she hears from others and to which neither she nor Siva is invited. They have a difference of opinion on this issue. Siva is well aware of Daksha’s poor estimation of Him and his haughty stance that is the cause for this deliberate omission. He advises Sati accordingly. Sati now faces internal conflict between the mind and intellect and finally the former wins, leading to the many inauspicious consequences as already forewarned by Siva, pointed out Sri B. Sundarkumar in a discourse. Such conflicts between desire and dharma are common in the day-to-day life of people when they have to make suitable decisions. Despite Siva’s advice and foresight about the likely insults they would face at Daksha’s hands, Sati decides to attend the sacrifice. Sati is not welcomed with love or regard due to a daughter. Though she feels uncomfortable by Daksha’s attitude, she is provoked to anger on noticing that her father does not offer Siva a share in the sacrifice he is performing with all pomp and grandeur. She tries to advise Daksha about his self conceit and needless hatred towards Siva whose very name signifies auspiciousness. Even the mere utterance of the word Siva can destroy all sins and wipe the effects of bad karma and confer grace. She wishes to cast off her present body that bears the name Dakshayani and reminds her of her father Daksha, a Siva hater. She enters into yogic penance and casts off her body while meditating on the lotus feet of her Lord.
10 November 2020||VIJAYAWADA:,||Sultan remembered||Rich tributes were paid to S.M. Sultan, secretary of AP Table Tennis Association and also senior vice-president of TTFI, at a condolence meeting attended by sports administrators, officials and players on Monday. Sultan passed away last week along with wife, mother and son due to COVID-19. Badminton Association of India joint secretary K.Ch. Punnaiah Choudhary, AP Olympic Association secretary K.P. Rao, AP Judo Association general secretary N. Venkat and AFI Executive Committee member A. Hyma were also present. “Sultan’s contribution to table tennis in particular and sports in general in Andhra Pradesh was immense. And, as a legal expert, he was helpful to other sports associations on legal issues,” said Punnaiah. APTTA administrator P. Viswanath said it was Sultan who conceived the points system in ranking tournaments, which paved for selection of the state teams in a transparent manner.
10 November 2020||November 10 2020 00:00 IST,||U&YA lifts Ghevra Cup||Narender Kumar top-scored with 42 and Sanjeet Kumar took 3/45 as Ujjwal &Yousuf Academy beat Sai Develop Zone by two wickets to lift the Ghevra Cup. Yusuf Mansuri was named Man-of-the-Series, Tushar Parashar best batsman and Sanjeet Kumar best bowler.  The scores: SDZ 206 in 38.3 overs (Sandeep Mor 81 n.o.; Sanjeet Kumar 3/45) lost to U&YA 211/8 in 37.5 overs (Narender Kumar 42; Prince Rana 3/45).    Man-of-the-Match Mehul Chaudhary scored a century, while Manav Singh and Suraj Kumar took three wickets each as Ashish Nehra Academy beat Hari Singh Academy by 43 runs in the Satish Sharma memorial under-16 tournament. Abhishek Raturi’s fighting 134 for HSA went in vain.  The scores: ANA 264/6 in 40 overs (Mehul Chaudhary 103, Vibhor Pandey 71; Sachin Yadav 3/48) bt HSA 221 in 37.1 overs (Abhishek Raturi 134; Manav Singh 3/31, Suraj Kumar 3/70).    Aditya Chaudhary’s 85-run knock and three wickets for just five runs by Bhavesh Kumar saw Bal Bhawan Academy beat Bosco Academy by three wickets in the third Vicky Bandrey memorial under-16 tournament.  The scores: Bosco Academy 189/8 in 40 overs (Arnav Kumar 44, Vinay Kumar 39; Bhavesh Kumar 3/5) lost to BBA 193/7 in 34.3 overs (Aditya Chaudhary 85, Arjun Thapa 64; Prince Yadav 3/46).    Netik Mathur’s six-wicket haul for just 13 runs and two wickets each by Krishna Kumar and Arya Veer Kohli helped West Delhi Academy beat Uday Gupte Academy by 167 runs in the Turf Youth Cup under-13 tournament.  The scores: WDA 261 in 40 overs (Dhanya Nakra 61, Aditya Goyanka 41) bt UGA 94 in 28.2 overs (Netik Mathur 6/13).
10 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Shashi Khanna is DDCA treasurer||Shashi Khanna, wife of former acting BCCI president C.K. Khanna, was on Monday elected as treasurer of the Delhi and District Cricket Association after she defeated Pawan Gulati in the polls here. The late former finance minister Arun Jaitley’s son Rohan has been the unanimous choice for the president’s post.PTI
10 November 2020||Thiruvananthapuram:,||Referees recruitment||Kerala Football Association (KFA) has initiated a central recruitment programme for inducting new referees into its fold. As part of recruitment programme, the KFA will first conduct online theory classes and later, practical classes for eligible candidates. The candidates should be between 18 and 35 years of age and a pass in 10th standard is the minimum educational qualification. The district football association can recommend the name of eligible candidates to KFA. However, interested candidates can also directly send their request tohorfakerala@gmail.com. Contact 9446084421, 9447509699.
10 November 2020||November 10 2020 08:17 IST,||Sudoku - November 10, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
10 November 2020||November 10 2020 00:00 IST,||Tender from the treetops||“The only way to make coconut water last is to not open its shell,” says R.B. Sivakumar, founder and CEO of Chennai-based Sowkea Agro, agreeing that real coconut water can only be given a semblance of shelf life by keeping it undisturbed within its natural container. “All we do is dehusk it and add a pull ring on top, so it can be opened more easily.” The end result is a whole tender coconut for Rs. 50, with a sealed opening like the ones on canned drinks, that Sowkea first launched in 2018 — as a product named Halo Elaneer — and is trying to popularise, still. But Sowkea’s attempts at making branded tender coconuts a household reality don’t stop there. In October, the firm launched a product line called Tender Springz, which, at Rs. 60 each, purportedly has more water content and less malai than the Halo Elaneer. The coconuts all come from the same plots of land in Pollachi — Sowkea has tie-ups with 11 small farmers who work on 10 to 15 acres of land in the region — so how does the brand ensure this water content in an unopened coconut? “Through the difference in harvest time,” says Sivakumar, “We can say with about 90% accuracy which coconuts have more water or less malai , depending on how early or late they are taken from the tree.” Sivakumar explains that the idea is to do away with the hassle of hacking at the fruit afresh each time you have a craving, and instead make it yet another drink that you can keep in your fridge and pop open when you want to. Provided you finish it in one go, of course. Unopened, the coconuts can be kept in the fridge for as long as 12 days, says Sivakumar Both products are available at select grocery stores in Chennai. Or they can be ordered home via its app, Sowkea Doorstep Daily, that it also uses to deliver other products like milk and coconut oil. Though most of its clientèle is based in south and central Chennai, the brand is capable of delivering these products to about 94 pin codes around the country. Sowkea was in talks with some private IT companies to install entire vending machines of Halo Elaneer in offices, but the lockdown has put those plans on hold for now. Sivakumar adds, “We are planning to expand to Bengaluru, Hyderabad and Mumbai by the end of November.”
10 November 2020||November 10 2020 00:00 IST,||A gift of good health||With inputs fromAishwarya UpadhyeandAkila Kannadasan
10 November 2020||New Delhi,||1.25 lakh municipal workers on strike as salaries not paid: AAP||The Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) on Monday alleged that around 1.25 lakh employees of the three municipal corporations were on strike over salaries not being paid by the BJP-run civic bodies. AAP leader Durgesh Pathak alleged that the corporations have money, but were not paying the employees so that they can blame the Delhi government and added that all services have been affected. “Today is a very significant day in the history of the municipal corporations because today all the 1.25 lakh employees of the three civic bodies have gone on strike. From the security guards to the personal assistants of the Mayors, everyone is on strike and this is happening because of the corruption of the BJP. Thousands of employees have not received their salaries for the past several months. This strike will mean that from today all the work under the municipal bodies would be stopped in Delhi,” Mr. Pathak said. He said that thousands of employees and 24,000 retired employees are suffering due to non-payment of salaries and pensions. ‘Pay salaries or resign’ “On behalf of the Aam Aadmi Party, I just want to tell the BJP that enough is enough. If they cannot pay the salaries of their employees after ruling the civic bodies for the last 14 years then they should not have any kind of moral rights to stay in power. We demand that the BJP should immediately release the salary or resign,” Mr. Pathak said. AAP leader and Leader of the Opposition in the East Delhi Municipal Corporation Manoj Tyagi said, “The BJP is doing shameful politics with the municipal employees. Diwali is coming when everyone celebrates but today the civic employees do not have a single penny.”  We demand that the BJP should immediately release the salary or resign Durgesh Pathak AAP leader
10 November 2020||New Delhi,||Capital’s death toll crosses 7,000 mark||The Capital on Monday reported 5,023 new COVID-19 cases in 24 hours, taking the total cases to 4,43,552, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government. Also, 71 more deaths have been reported, taking the total number of deaths to 7,060. Of the total cases, 3,96,697 people have recovered and there are 39,795 active cases. Out of the total 16,195 beds available for COVID-19 treatment in the city, 49.4% were vacant, as per government data. The positivity rate (percentage of people testing positive for every 100 tests done) was 12.8%. The overall positivity rate till now is 8.6%. The number of containment zones in the city on Monday was 3,882. Also, 82.4% of the ICU beds with ventilators have been occupied and 81.7% of the ICU beds without ventilators are full. “Principal Secretary Health and Family Welfare, Delhi government took a meeting with medical directors and medical superintendents of COVID-19 hospitals,” the bulletin said.
10 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC to hear petition against HC order over ICU bed reservation||A Special Bench of the Supreme Court is scheduled to hear tommorow an appeal filed by the Delhi government to lift a High Court stay of its direction to 33 hospitals to reserve 80% of its Intensive Care Unit (ICU) beds to treat COVID-19 patients. A Bench of Justices Ashok Bhushan and B.R. Gavai is specially sitting for the case at 10.30 a.m. even as the court is closed for Deepavali vacations. The court is scheduled to reopen only on November 16. Rising virus cases The Health and Family Welfare Department of the Delhi government had on September 12 ordered these choice hospitals to reserve substantially more ICU/HDU beds for COVID-19 patients owing to the rising graph of infections. “As a result of this proactive intervention, almost 500 patients were able to secure admission in ICU beds of these private nursing homes and hospitals. The rate chargeable for these beds have also been capped by the government in the interest of the public,” the Delhi government petition, filed through advocate Chirag M. Shroff, has contended in the apex court. A Single Judge of the High Court on September 22 had, however, stayed the government order on a petition filed by Association of Healthcare Providers (India), which said the order would deprive non-COVID-19 patients of urgent medical care. A Division Bench of the High Court, instead of lifting the stay, merely adjourned the case to late November. “The Division Bench has failed to take judicial notice of the COVID-19 pandemic and the steadily rising graph of infections. Delhi has always been the preferred location for seeking medical treatment by patients even from neighbouring and other States,” the government appeal said. The government said the HC failed to appreciate that the petition filed against the September 12 order was nothing but a cloaked attempt by certain hospital managements to guard their own financial interests. The petition said of the 33 hospitals listed, 28 were already functioning as “partial COVID-19 hospitals”.
10 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Chemicals seized from Hussain’s house were lethal: FSL report||Delhi Police received forensic reports of the chemical bottles seized from the residence of suspended AAP councillor Tahir Hussain, from the State Forensic Science Laboratory on Monday, said a senior police officer. The officer said that they have received FSL reports related to combustion material that include chemical contained in soft-drink bottles, videos and other material seized from the house of Mr. Hussain after the riots in north-east Delhi. “The report will be submitted in the court as part of supplementary chargesheet. In the report we have received, it is clearly mentioned that the chemical substances sent to lab were acidic and lethal for human body,” said the officer. During investigation, it was found that the hazardous chemical was collected from unauthorised factories operational in north-east Delhi. It was collected a week ago before riots began. He added that the mobile clips, where Mr. Hussain was seen leading a group involved in riots from his terrace, were also sent to FSL. 10 FIRs registered The FSL reports find the clips are not doctored. These clips were shot by people in the same locality from their terrace. A total of 10 FIRs were registered against Mr. Hussain for his involvement in riots and murder cases.
10 November 2020||GURUGRAM,||Haryana government’s bond policy for MBBS students draws criticism||The Haryana government’s policy to incentivise doctors to opt for government service in the State after completing their MBBS degree, by making them execute an annual bond of Rs. 10 lakh during the course, has met with strong opposition from candidates seeking admission in State-governed medical colleges. Candidates and parents have termed the decision “unjustified”, “ill-timed” and an additional “financial” burden. Most of the parents have questioned the timing of the decision that came two days after the choices for the first round of counselling were locked. The parents and candidates argued that they could have made their choices accordingly, had the decision announced earlier. The Haryana government had on October 29, through a gazette notification, said that fee for the government medical and dental colleges would be Rs. 52,070 per annum. But the government came out with a policy to incentivise doctors to opt for government service in the State on November 6, saying the candidates selected for MBBS degree course in government medical colleges need to execute an annual bond for Rs. 10 lakh minus the fee at the start of every academic year. The candidate can pay the entire bond amount without recourse to the loan or the State government will facilitate them for availing an education loan for this bond amount. As per the policy, the government will repay the annual instalments of the loan if the candidate obtains employment with the State government. Rajpal Vats, a Faridabad resident, said he was mulling to move court on this matter. His daughter Riddhi Vats has scored 2,313 rank in NEET.
10 November 2020||New Delhi,||‘Respond to plea on SPPs’ appointment in riots cases’||The Delhi High Court on Monday asked the Centre and the AAP government to respond to a plea against the appointment of Special Public Prosecutors (SPPs), including Solicitor General Tushar Mehta, in cases pertaining to north-east Delhi riots in February. Justice Navin Chawla gave the direction on the petition by Delhi Prosecutors Welfare Association (DPWA). The court posted the case for further hearing on January 12, next year. Senior advocate Vikas Pahwa, representing DPWA, argued that the question of jurisprudence being raised in the instant plea was how SPPs can be appointed at the behest of the police. Mr. Pahwa said the prosecution has to be independent and insulated from the police and hence, SPPs cannot be appointed at the behest of the investigating agency. Additional Solicitor General (ASG) Sanjay Jain, representing the Centre, said the Home Ministry ought to have been made a party as any decision of Delhi Police will be defended by the Ministry. Subsequently, the court agreed to make the Ministry a party in the case. The plea has sought appointment of independent SPPs by respecting the principles of fairness and impartiality.
10 November 2020||New Delhi,||Why no action over wrong photo of rape victim: HC||The Delhi High Court on Monday asked the Centre as to why no action was taken on a man’s plea claiming that his deceased wife’s photograph was being wrongly depicted on social media platforms as the victim of Uttar Pradesh’s Hathras rape case. Justice Navin Chawla took note of the submission that the man had sent a representation on October 17 to the Centre but no action has been taken till date. Central government standing counsel Monika Arora said the man has to first provide certain details, like specific URLs and web pages where the offending content was being displayed, the death certificate of his wife, his Aadhaar card and any FIR lodged by him regarding the issue raised in his plea. Details provided The man’s counsel said over 200 uniform resource locators (URLs), also termed as web addresses, were provided to the government along with his representation on October 17, but no action has been taken till date. He further contended that the HC in its October 13 order had directed the government to take action within three days of receiving the representation.
10 November 2020||NEW DELHI,||Police lodge case against AAP over fake video||A case has been registered by the police on a complaint from Delhi BJP general secretary Kuljeet Chahal, accusing AAP leaders of circulating a “fake” news clipping on social media that claims corruption in the municipal corporations ruled by his party. In a statement issued in regard to the complaint, the AAP said, “the BJP has levelled baseless and false allegations. We will respond in the court.” Mr. Chahal held a press conference where he told that the police are investigating the role of AAP leaders behind the circulation of the “fake” video, in which it was alleged that BJP councillors were involved in corruption and misappropriation of Rs. 1,400 crore. Baseless charges “The Aam Aadmi Party has falsely accused the corporations and now the BJP will ensure that strict action is taken,” Mr. Chahal said. The case was lodged at North Avenue police station under various sections of the Indian Penal Code and Information Technology Act on Saturday. “A case has been registered and further investigation is under way,” a senior police officer said. He also said the video of a purported news clipping used the logo of a TV news channel to make it look like genuine. “The channel has verified that it is a fake video,” he said. The BJP and the AAP have been taking potshots at each other, levelling allegations of corruption and misgovernance, with an eye on the civic body polls in the Capital due in early 2022.
