11 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Jaishankar, Wang hold talks||External Affairs Minister S. Jaishankar and Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi held their first face-to-face meeting in Moscow on Thursday to discuss the four-month- long stand-off at the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in Ladakh, which has seen violent clashes and even gunfire for the first time since 1975. The meeting took place on Thursday evening, after the completion of the Shanghai Cooperation Organisation Council’s Foreign Minister’s meeting as well as a Russia-India-China trilateral meeting that both Ministers attended. However, the outcome of the India-China bilateral meeting was not immediately known. “Both India and China are in regular touch through diplomatic and military channels to resolve the situation, and this was the consensus when the two Ministers met,” said External Affairs Ministry spokesperson Anurag Srivastava, confirming the meeting between Mr. Jaishankar and Mr. Wang. “As we have reiterated several times in the past, India is committed to resolving the situation on the India-China border through peaceful negotiations,” he said. Meanwhile, there was little change at the LAC, where ground commanders at the north bank of Pangong Tso (lake) met for the second consecutive day. Commanders’ meet China has amassed more troops and occupied ridges in the Finger area of Pangong Tso since Tuesday night, although Indian troops are holding on to dominant positions on the South Bank, said officials. A senior government official said the commanders meeting was cordial but remained inconclusive. He added that status quo was maintained on Thursday. Mr. Jaishankar, who travelled to Russia to attend the 8 -nation Shanghai Cooperation Organisation, also held bilateral meetings with Foreign Ministers of the Kyrgyz Republic, Tajikistan, Uzbekistan and Kazakhstan on the sidelines of the 2-day Council of Foreign Ministers meet. The only member of SCO he did not meet was Pakistan, whose Foreign Minister Shah Mehmood Qureshi was also present. In what would be considered a provocative statement in New Delhi, the Pakistani Ministry of Foreign Affairs (MFA) said that they had discussed India when Mr. Qureshi met with Mr. Wang on Thursday evening, a meeting that took place before Mr. Wang’s meeting with Mr. Jaishankar.  Pakistan statement “Foreign Minister Qureshi emphasized that India’s expansionist and unilateral actions, particularly since August 5, 2019, have been imperilling regional peace and security,” said a Pakistani MFA statement issued in Islamabad, referring to the government’s moves with Jammu and Kashmir and Article 370 last year. The MEA did not respond to the Pakistani statement. Earlier Mr. Jaishankar and Mr. Wang took part in an extended lunch with Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov as part of the Russia-India-China trilateral. Russia has consistently encouraged dialogue between Delhi and Beijing, particularly at the most tense moments of the crisis. In the days after the Galwan clash in June in which 20 Indian soldiers were killed, Russia hosted a videoconference meeting of the RIC trilateral.
11 September 2020||Pune,||State records second-highest surge of 23,446 cases||Maharashtra reported 23,446 new COVID-19 cases on Thursday, its second-highest single-day surge yet, taking its tally to 9,90,795. With 495 more deaths — 448 deaths were reported on Thursday, while 47 were from an earlier period — the death toll has risen to 28,282. Of the latest deaths, 222 were reported in the last 48 hours, while 140 occurred last week. The remaining 133 occurred in the period prior to last week, said State Health Department authorities. Rise in recoveries The active cases have risen to 2,61,432, while the total recoveries has surged to 7,00,715 with 14,253 patients being discharged. “The State’s recovery rate stands at 70.72%, while the case fatality rate has marginally reduced to 2.85%,” said State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate.  Pune reported a consecutive record-high surge of nearly 6,000 cases to take its total case tally to 2,18,502. The district reported 50 deaths to take its toll to 4,634. As per the Pune district administration, the number of active cases has breached 38,500 mark. 2,371 new cases in Mumbai Mumbai reported a spike of 2,371 cases to take its case load to 1,63,115, of which 26,629 are active. With 38 fatalities, the city’s death toll has risen to 8,023. Nagpur district in Vidarbha reported another spike of more than 1,700 cases, taking the district’s tally to 44,700, of which 19,294 are active. With 50 deaths, the district’s total death toll has shot up to 1,193. With nearly 20,000 active cases, the district’s cases have almost doubled in less than a fortnight, causing a major strain on its overstretched health infrastructure, which is acutely feeling a shortage of ventilators and critical care beds. In the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, Thane reported 786 new cases as its tally crossed the 52,500 mark, while seven new deaths saw its toll rise to 1,590. Kalyan-Dombivli reported 18 deaths and 562 cases to take its total toll to 707 and tally to 37,073. Sharp surge in Satara In western Maharashtra, Satara district reported its highest single-day surge in cases and deaths. With 1,017 new cases, its tally surged to 21,674, of which 8,064 are active, while 72 new deaths took its death toll to 525. Neighbouring Sangli reported a spike of more than 1,000 cases, taking the district’s case load to 21,955, of which 8,356 are active. With 22 deaths, the district’s death toll has touched 654. Kolhapur reported 540 new cases, taking its total tally to 30,609, of which 9,506 are active. A spike of 39 deaths saw the district’s death toll rise to 876. Nashik district reported more than 675 fresh cases as its total tally breached the 50,000 mark to reach 50,341, of which 10,244 are active. With eight deaths, the district’s toll crossed the 1,000-mark to reach 1,026. Record spike in Jalgaon Neighbouring Jalgaon reported a record-high spike of 1,089 fresh cases and 14 new deaths. The district’s total case tally has risen to 34,227, of which 8,280 are active, while the death toll has now climbed to 996. Ahmednagar reported 556 new cases as its cumulative cases rose to 26,912, of which 5,867 are active. With 15 deaths, the toll has climbed to 387. “Of a total of 49,74,558 laboratory samples tested so far, 9,90,795 (19.9%) have returned positive. Nearly 91,000 samples across the State were tested in the last 24 hours,” Dr. Awate said. A total of 16,30,701 people across the State are in home quarantine and 38,220 are in institutional quarantine.  The State’s recovery rate stands at 70.72%, while the case fatality rate has marginally reduced to 2.85% Dr. Pradeep Awate State Surveillance Officer
11 September 2020||Kolkata,||Adhir hopeful of alliance with Left||Expressing the hope that political understanding with Left parties will fructify into an electoral alliance,the newly appointed president of the West Bengal Pradesh Congress Committee(WBPCC) Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury on Thursday pledged to give a tough fight to the Trinamool Congress in the 2021 Assembly polls. Addressing a press conference at the State Congress headquarters, a day after he was appointed the WBPCC chief, Mr. Chowdhury urged party workers to launch a fight against the “totalitarian regime” of the Trinamool Congress as soon as the novel coronavirus pandemic showed signs of easing. The five-time Congress MP from Berhampur in Murshidabad, who is also the leader of the Congress in Lok Sabha, was appointed after the WBPCC post fell vacant following the death of Somendranath Mitra in July. Mr. Chowdhury, who has served as the president of WBPCC from 2014 to 2018, also urged Congress leaders, who have joined other parties like the Trinamool and BJP, to return. “I appeal to all those who have left Congress to return. The party will try to give them the respect they deserve,” Mr. Chowdhury said. The Congress leader, who is known to have played a key role in forging the Left-Congress electoral understanding in 2016 Assembly polls and 2019 Lok Sabha polls, said he is hopeful that the “political understanding with the Left will turn into electoral alliance ahead of 2021 Assembly polls”. “The Bengal Congress has not changed its stand as far as the understanding with the Left is concerned. It was the leadership of the Left who felt they should go alone, but our stand of alliance with the remains the same,” Mr. Chowdhury said. After the 2016 Assembly poll debacle, a section of the leadership of the Left parties felt that the Congress supporters did not vote for them while the Left supporters voted in favour of Congress candidates. The Left parties won fewer seats than Congress though they contested almost twice the seats. The Left-Congress alliance could not be forged on some seats ahead of the 2019 Lok Sabha polls. However, post-2019, the Left and Congress have held several political programmes together giving ample hints of a tie up for the forthcoming Assembly polls in 2021.
11 September 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,||Forest Department to study elephants using Coonoor slopes||The Forest Department has taken up an exercise, for the first time, to study elephants using the landscape of the Coonoor ghat. The study is being done in association with the World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF-India). According to Forest Department officials, little is known about the elephants that use this particular habitat range along the lower Coonoor slopes. The Department, with the help of conservationists and NGOs, has a better understanding of the elephant populations that use other habitats in the Nilgiris, including Gudalur and other forest ranges that fall under the Nilgiris forest division. A top official of the Department said that around 12 elephants are known to use the Coonoor landscape, and efforts to better understand the animals will include various parameters of study, such as patterns of usage of the landscape by the elephants. “We will study the types of fodder that drives these animals to climb the steep Coonoor slopes, including types of fruits and grasses, the seasonality of their movements, the quality of the habitat and their points of entry into the habitat,” said I. Anwardeen, Additional Principal Chief Conservator of Forests and Conservator of Forests (Coimbatore Circle). The long-term study of the habitat was ultimately an exercise to increase the knowledge base of the Forest Department regarding the elephants in Coonoor. “We suspect that these elephants were using the Kallar corridor and chanced upon the habitat in Coonoor and return to it each year due to multiple factors. We will study how long this habitat has been in use, and also come up with strategies to ensure the habitat’s continued protection,” he added.
11 September 2020||Kolkata,||3,112 cases take Bengal tally to 1.93 lakh||West Bengal on Thursday recorded 3,112 COVID-19 cases taking the tally in the State to 1,93,175. The number of deaths recorded in the past 24 hours was 41 taking the fatalities in the State to 3,771. Of the 41 deaths, five were recorded in Kolkata and 10 each in North 24 Parganas and Howrah districts. In terms of new cases in the past 24 hours North 24 Parganas district recorded the highest 541 infections followed by Kolkata that recorded 481 cases. The active cases in the State rose to 23,377, and the discharge rate in the State was 85.95%. The State tested 44,347 samples in the past 24 hours taking total samples tested so far to 23.30 lakhs. Help for students Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee on Thursday announced withdrawal of the proposed lockdown on September 12 to facilitate the movement of students to reach NEET exam centres. “Keeping their interest in mind, while keeping the statewide lockdown as it is on Sep 11th, it has been decided to cancel the lockdown on 12th, so that the students can attend the examination on 13th without any apprehensions or concerns. I wish them all the very best,” Chief Minister tweeted. The CM’s decision comes in the wake of demand from various sections of the population seeking lifting of the lockdown on September 12. Good news Meanwhile, all members of the Great Andamanese tribe, a Particularly Vulnerable Tribal Group (PVTG), who had tested positive, have recovered. Chetan Sanghi, chief secretary of Andaman and Nicobar Islands said on social media that all members of PVTGs “who had contracted Covid in #Andamans recovered”. Five members of the Great Andamanese tribe had tested positive in August-end. Senior administration officials later said 10 more had tested positive. “Those who have tested positive have recovered. A few of them are still under observation,” a senior official said. Anyone visiting Strait island, where most of the members of the tribe reside, is being tested. Tests for COVID-19 infection have also been carried out among members of the Jarwa and Onge community. The five PVTGs residing in the Andamans are Great Andamenese, Jarwas, Onges, Shompens and North Sentinelese. Testing for members of Shompen and North Sentinelese, who live in isolation is difficult, the official said.
11 September 2020||CHENNAI,||Don’t fill RTE Act seats with general candidates till Nov. 15, says HC||The Madras High Court has ordered that all private schools in the State wait till November 15 before filling, with general candidates, the vacant seats among those earmarked for the 25% quota at the entry level (LKG or Class I) under the Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education (RTE) Act, 2009. Justices M.M. Sundresh and R. Hemalatha also ordered that the School Education Department make earnest efforts to ensure that all seats under the RTE Act quota get filled with deserving children belonging to the weaker sections and disadvantaged groups, and by following the neighbourhood schooling norms. Disposing of a public interest litigation petition filed by the Popular Front of India (PFI), the judges directed the School Education Department to publicise well the contact details of the monitoring committees constituted to inquire into complaints of irregularities and corruption in the filling of the RTE Act seats. The direction was issued after PFI counsel I. Abdul Basith told the court that people were unaware of the authorities to whom complaints should be addressed and some breathing time should be granted for finalising the RTE Act admissions even after the government fixed the October 7 deadline for completing the entire process. In a counter-affidavit, Deputy Secretary K. Jeyalalitha said the School Education Department had begun accepting online applications for RTE Act admissions since August 27. The last date for submitting the applications was September 25, and the names of eligible and ineligible candidates would be released on September 30. The names would be published on the School Education Department’s website and displayed on the notice boards of individual schools with reasons for declaring applicants ineligible. If the number of eligible applicants for a particular school was more than 25% of the seats, admissions would be decided through random selection (the draw of lots) on October 1. Finally, the list of selected candidates would be released on October 3, and individual schools shall submit written statements to the officials concerned on October 7, the court was told. It was also informed that the total number of seats available at the entry level in every school and the number earmarked for the RTE Act quota had been publicised. The details had been hosted on the School Education Department’s website. Further, individual schools had been instructed to display those details by printing them on a 6x10 ft flex board to be erected adjacent to the name board at the main entrance of every school, Ms. Jeyalalitha told the court. However, Mr. Basith brought it to the notice of the court that the counter did not state anything about the existence of the monitoring committees and the complaints that could be lodged with them about irregularities in the RTE Act admissions. He recalled that such committees were ordered to be constituted on July 6, 2015, by a Bench led by the then Chief Justice Sanjay Kishan Kaul. Then, the School Education Department had informed the court that individual schools had been asked not to fill vacant RTE Act seats with general candidates till November 2015 in order to make earnest efforts to fill them with deserving children. A similar deadline should be followed this year too, he insisted.
11 September 2020||S. Anil Radhakrishnan,||KSRTC to operate intercity bus services from today||The Kerala State Road Transport Corporation (KSRTC) will operate services for intercity and inter-district travellers and for students appearing for the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET) scheduled for September 13. The KSRTC has given instructions to all unit officers to provide Buses on Demand (BonD) services to students appearing for NEET and their parents if they book in advance. Minimum 40 passengers A minimum of 40 passengers is needed for the BonD services. The KSRTC will operate additional services from all key depots in the State to the venues of NEET scheduled from 2 p.m. to 5 p.m. The State utility will operate non-stop multi-axle air-conditioned buses idling in its fleet in the Thiruvananthapuram-Ernakulam and Ernakulam-Kozhikode sectors in the morning and evening. In the Kasaragod-Kannur, Kannur-Ernakulam and Kasaragod-Thrissur sectors, super deluxe and super fast buses will be deployed for morning and evening services. The services will begin on Friday and will be available from Monday to Friday, a top KSRTC official told The Hindu . The services from Thiruvananthapuram will begin at 5.30 a.m. to reach Ernakulam at 9.30 a.m. and in the return direction, at 6 p.m. from Ernakulam to reach the capital at 10 p.m. The services from Kozhikode will begin at 6 a.m. to reach Ernakulam at 9.50 a.m. and from Ernakulam at 6 p.m to reach Kozhikode at 9.50 p.m. The services to Kasaragod and Thrissur will be on similar timings. Advance online reservation facility is available. The KSRTC management has given a free hand to the unit officers to commence the BonD services.
11 September 2020||New Delhi,||Officials confirm two incidents of firing at south bank of Pangong Tso||The south bank of the Pangong Tso (lake) where Indian and Chinese troops are currently engaged in a face-off, witnessed firing in the air not only on September 7 but also a week earlier, a senior government official told The Hindu . The official said the first incident when a few rounds were fired in the air was reported on August 30 from the same area. It was not clear how the firing began. This is the first time since 1975 that shots were fired along the disputed Line of Actual Control (LAC). The Indian Army said on Tuesday that it was the Chinese troops who fired a few rounds in the air on September 7. On August 31, the Army issued a statement, saying China had carried out provocative military movements to change the status quo in the south bank of the Pangong Tso and “Indian troops pre-empted this PLA activity”. The official said the two instances of firing were worrying as no concrete solution on restoring the status quo had been achieved so far through military and diplomatic-level dialogue. “So far, the policy at the China border has only been reactionary. China takes some action and Indian troops react. It cannot be a long-term solution as winter is approaching and it will be difficult to maintain posts at such high altitudes,” said the official. Till now, no dispute has been reported in the south bank and for the past week, the Indian Army has dominated the ridges and hills here. The official asserted that the Army had not transgressed into Chinese territory and was occupying ridges and heights that fall in Indian territory. China has been amassing troops along the LAC in eastern Ladakh since April-May. Many areas in Depsang, Gogra-Hot Springs, Galwan and the north bank of Pangong Tso, within the LAC, have been out of bounds for patrolling by Indian troops since May.
11 September 2020||MANGALURU,||Red alert in Udupi, Dakshina Kannada||India Meteorological Department has issued a red alert for Dakshina Kannada and Udupi on Friday and Saturday. The daily rainfall in the two districts is likely to exceed 204.5 mm on these two days, according to releases issued by the disaster management authorities of Dakshina Kannada and Udupi. The Deputy Commissioners of the two districts have asked all district and taluk-level officials not to leave their respective headquarters. They have asked the panchayat development officers (PDOs) in gram panchayats to be ready to face any eventuality as the districts are likely to get very to very heavy rain for two days. People have been warned against getting into rivers and advised to stay away from beaches. They have asked people to call the toll free number 1077 or WhatsApp on Ph: 9483390800 or call Ph: 0820-2574802 for any help. There was good rainfall in the two districts on Thursday.
11 September 2020||HYDERABAD,||TRS to ‘fight’ Centre in Parliament||The TRS has warned of `big fights' with the NDA government at the Centre for injustice done to the State and will organise a dharna with like minded parties both within and outside Parliament in the coming session. This was decided at a meeting of the Parliamentary party of TRS, presided by party president and Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao on Thursday. Briefing reporters later, Parliamentary party leader K. Keshava Rao and TRS leader in the Lok Sabha Nama Nageswara Rao accused the Centre of ignoring the interests of Telangana for the past seven years. It did not concede funds constitutionally guaranteed to the State nor kept its promises. “Therefore, the TRS had nothing left but to wage a struggle against the Centre in Parliament. Never mind even if it is termed as a war,” Keshava Rao remarked. Listing out the injustices done to Telangana, he said the Centre failed to resolve the inter-State disputes on sharing of Krishna water and not allotted adequate urea in proportion to the 24 % increase in cropped area. The TRS will oppose the Electricity (Amendment) Bill 2020 which was proposed to be enacted as the Centre wanted to enjoy high-handedness over the States by the legislation. Will the BJP leaders in the State support the Act?, he asked. GST dues The Centre also violated the GST Act by denying to the State a compensation of over Rs. 10,000 crore. It was silent on 22 Navodaya schools which were due for sanction to the State. Not a rupee was released to the textile park at Warangal. The new air strips in the State were not announced. In these circumstances, the TRS will wage an uncompromised struggle against the Centre. There must be a limit to the bluff called by the Centre. Never seen such a government that was so deceitful, he added. Mr. Nageswara Rao asked the Congress and BJP MPs of the State to decide for themselves if they would join the fight of TRS against the Centre. There was no point to voice their grievances against Centre from here. The Chief Minister was vexed with merely writing letters to the Centre seeking assistance. There was no question of sparing the Centre any more. It proposed to install meters to the agricultural pump sets of farmers with the backing of Electricity (Amendment) Act. It also aimed to waive payment of GST compensation due to the State citing poor resources on account of corona virus. The BJP MP could not even secure Navodaya schools for the State, he added.
11 September 2020||LUCKNOW,||SIT to probe ‘expensive’ COVID kit purchases in U.P.||The Uttar Pradesh government on Thursday formed a special investigation team (SIT) to probe alleged anomalies in the purchase of equipment related to COVID-19 treatment. There were reports from some districts that certain items were bought at a cost higher than the market price. The reports reportedly said certain gram panchayats in districts, including Sultanpur, Ghazipur, Bijnor and Barabanki, purchased pulse oximeters and infrared thermometers at a cost higher than the market price. Additional Chief Secretary, Revenue Department, Renuka Kumar will head the SIT, which has been asked to submit a report in 10 days, said a government spokesperson. In June, the State government issued orders for procurement of pulse oximeters, infrared thermometers and sanitiser sets as part of the COVID-19 surveillance kits in every gram panchayat. The fund transfer was to be made from the State Finance Commission. Deomani Dwivedi, the BJP MLA from Sultanpur’s Lambhua constituency, had raised the corruption issue in a letter to Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath, and on September 8, accused the District Magistrate of covering up “anomalies” by rejecting his allegations in public. “The allegation of corruption in procurement of COVID-19 kits is absolutely true,” he stated. Suheldev Bhartiya Samaj Party president Om Prakash Rajbhar quoted local news reports to allege that the COVID-19 kits in the said districts were purchased at five times the market rate. Judicial probe demanded Mr. Rajbhar demanded that the “scam” be probed by a sitting judge of the Allahabad High Court. “Turning a disaster into an opportunity, the BJP government is involved in a major scam”, said Mr. Rajbhar, a former Minister and an MLA from Ghazipur, one of the districts under the scanner. A government spokesperson countered saying the Chief Minister had always stressed on “zero tolerance” against corruption. Mr. Adityanath had asked officials to take necessary action in case of irregularities regardless of the level where it occurred, he added.
11 September 2020||Bishwanath Ghosh Kolkata,||Bengal colleges face uncertainty over exams schedule||An air of unease and uncertainty hangs in the colleges of West Bengal though the State has decided to hold exams for final year undergraduate students between October 1 and 18. The primary reason for the uncertainty is that the University Grants Commission — which has set September 30 as the deadline — is yet to respond to West Bengal’s request that it be allowed to hold the exams between those dates. Another reason is the mode of exams: they will be entirely conducted online, something unprecedented for the colleges. The challenge is even greater for the University of Calcutta because quite a few of the 152 colleges affiliated to it are located in far-flung areas, including the Sunderbans. On Wednesday evening, after a meeting of its Vice-Chancellor with the principals of the 152 colleges, it was decided that the colleges, as of now, notify the exams on their websites without giving dates. It was also decided that the question paper set for the exams to be originally held in April be used for the upcoming exams. The question papers would be uploaded on the college websites, but the students would be required to write the answers on paper and — within 24 hours — send scanned copies to the email IDs of their respective colleges. They will also have the option of physically submitting their answer sheets in their colleges. The evaluation will be done by the colleges, who will then post the mark sheets on the university portal. At the meeting, it was also suggested that students be given the option of sending screenshots of their answer sheets on WhatsApp; this was objected to by many principals but the idea still remains under consideration. Principals of colleges in remote locations said 24 hours were too few for students to arrange for sending back answer sheets and sought more time. The university and the colleges will conduct a dry run of the exams from September 28-30. No decision has been taken yet for the conduct of final-year exams for post-graduate students, and the V-C is expected to call another meeting shortly for the purpose. If the UGC agrees to West Bengal’s request for holding the exams between October 1 and 18, the university staff will have to work through Durga Puja so that they meet the deadline for declaring the results by October 31.
11 September 2020||Kolkata,||Premature baby overcomes COVID-19 after 30-day fight||A premature baby, weighing only 1.3 kg at birth has recovered from COVID-19 after a month-long fight. According to the doctors treating the baby, the infection was most likely transferred to the baby from the mother “The baby, who tested positive just after delivery, was released from the hospital yesterday. While there have been a number of cases when children born to COVID-19 mothers are not positive, in this case we think it was a case of transplacental transfer (infection was transferred from the mother to the child),” Sunita Saha, neonatologist at Fortis Hospital told The Hindu on Thursday. The mother had prematurely delivered twins (31weeks) at a hospital in Salt Lake. The delivery required an emergency C-section. The mother had tested positive for the viral infection. After the death of one of the babies, the surviving twin was tested for COVID-19 and turned out to be positive. “The baby was transferred to Fortis Hospital, Kolkata. At that stage the baby was having respiratory distress, needing oxygen and parenteral nutrition because the baby was not tolerating feed. Baby needed oxygen for almost 20 days,” the doctor said. While under treatment, the baby was tested for COVID-19 on day 9 and day 16 and it was only on the 21st day that the baby tested negative. Dr. Saha said that after testing negative the baby showed post COVID-19 myocarditis, which is a disease of heart muscle. The baby was released only after recovering from the condition. “Post-COVID mycocarditis is seen in adults but in this case it seems that the child has developed it. We have another child with similar conditions,” Dr. Saha said.
11 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Total cases inch closer to 1 lakh mark||After testing 40,014 samples in the last 24 hours, the State reported 3,349 new cases of COVID-19 on Thursday, taking the total number of cases one step closer to the one lakh mark, at 99,266 cases. The recoveries reported on the day was 1,657. With the total recoveries reported till date reaching 72,574, the number of COVID-19 patients currently in hospitals across the State is 26,229. Among the active cases, 263 persons are critically ill in ICUs, while another 63 are in ICUs with ventilator support. The official toll in the State, as recorded by the Health Department, touched 396, with 12 more deaths which occurred in the State between August 21 and September 6 finding a place in the “provisional” COVID death list of the State. Seven of these deaths were reported from Malappuram, two from Thiruvananthapuram and one each from Alappuzha, Thrissur, and Kasaragod. Local transmission Community transmission having been fairly well-established in the State, on Thursday too 93.5% of the new cases reported – 3,134 out of the 3,349 new cases – were locally acquired infections, with 266 cases having no known epidemiological link. Of these new cases, 72 are infections reported among health-care workers, with 18 in Kannur, 13 in Thrissur, 12 in Thiruvananthapuram, 11 in Ernakulam, and the rest amongst seven districts. Thiruvananthapuram reported 558 cases, the highest case tally amongst districts, of which all except four cases were locally acquired infections. Among other districts, Malappuram has 330 cases, Thrissur 300, Kannur 276, Alappuzha 267, Kozhikode 261, Kollam 244, Ernakulam 227, Kottayam 217, Palakkad 194, Kasaragod 140, Pathanamthitta 135, Idukki 105, and Wayanad 95 cases. The number of hotspots on the State now is 594.
11 September 2020||Bengaluru,||1,350 kg of marijuana recovered in State||The arrest of an autorickshaw driver in Bengaluru in August led the police on a drug trail that resulted in the unearthing of a huge haul — 1,350 kg of marijuana — across three districts in the State. Around 1,200 kg of it was hidden in a secret chamber in a “sheep farm” in Kalaburagi. It all started when the Seshadripuram police caught a 37-year-old autorickshaw driver allegedly selling marijuana in the last week of August, leading them to one of the biggest marijuana hauls ever. Based on a tip-off , Seshadripuram inspector M.L. Krishnamurthy caught Jnanashekhar near Gayathri Nagar and seized 2.01 kg of marijuana from him. Jnanashekhar told the police that he was buying marijuana from Siddunath Lavate, 22, from Sindgi taluk in Vijayapura district. A police team went to Sindgi and recovered 150 kg of marijuana from him. During questioning, Siddunath Lavate revealed the names of Naganath, 39, and Chandrakanth, 34, from Kalaburagi. It was here that they came across a secret underground chamber built to store marijuana. According to the police, Siddunath Lavate owns several acres of land in his home town, and was peddling marijuana to his contacts across the State. The marijuana was sourced from Andhra Pradesh. Naganath, a local financier, who incurred huge losses in business during the lockdown teamed up with his associate Chandrakanth and got into drug peddling to recover the losses. The duo sourced marijuana from Odisha and smuggled it in goods van concealing the contraband under fodder for the sheep they were rearing. The accused had built a sheep farm but there were no sheep. When the police arrested the duo and took them to the farm, the two led them to the secret chamber where marijuana was being stored. The accused told the police that they sold marijuana to their contacts across the State, and even in Mumbai. The accused were arrested and a huge quantity of marijuana was seized, which, according to Bengaluru Police Commissioner Kamal Pant, is the biggest seizure so far.
11 September 2020||Vijayawada,||Centre reiterates in HC it is not mandated to decide on capital||The Union government has asserted that Section. 94 of the A.P. Reorganisation Act-2014 (APRA) only provides for extending financial assistance for the new capital chosen by Andhra Pradesh and not for deciding a capital. Referring to the argument that the phrase “a capital for the State of A.P.” contained in Sections. 6 and 94 (3) and (4) read with 13th Schedule of APRA connotes that the Act mandated a single capital city, the Centre submitted to the court that Section.13 of The General Clauses Act, 1897 makes it clear that in all Central Acts and regulations, words in the singular includes the plural and vice-versa unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or context. In an additional affidavit filed in the Andhra Praesh High Court in response to a PIL filed against the A.P. Decentralisation and Inclusive Development of All Regions Act, Ministry of Home Affairs Under-Secretary Lalita T. Hedaoo further stated that the law was unambiguous on the issue of capital of Andhra Pradesh, but the Government had decided to shift from the common capital (Hyderabad) before the expiry of 10 years provided in Section 5 of A.P. Reorganisation Act and notified its capital on April 23, 2015, on whose basis the Survey of India incorporated Amaravati as the capital of Andhra Pradesh in the latest political map of India. The Centre informed that the Presidential notification through which the principal seat of the High Court of Andhra Pradesh was established in Amaravati could not be construed as its decision to declare Amaravati as the capital of Andhra Pradesh as the principal seat of High Court need not necessarily be in the capital city of the State. Article 3 of the Constitution of India had no provision in respect of capital, it only envisaged the creation of new States and other related matters, Ms. Hedaoo pointed out.
11 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||One in 100 test positive for COVID in State||The COVID surge in the State during the past one and a half months has seen several highs, and with 10,175 new infections in the past day, the overall tally has gone up to 5,37,687 which is 1.01% of the State's projected population of 5.34 crore, as per the data provided by the government. In other words, one out of every 100 persons in the State has been infected by the novel coronavirus so far, as 8.20% of the population has been tested in the past seven months since February. So far, 43,80,991 samples, including 72,229 in the past day, have been tested in the State. The positivity rate of these tests was 12.27% and the tests per million ratio was at 82,041. The confirmed cases per million ratio has crossed the 10,000-mark and reached 10,069. The percentage of the total population infected in Maharashtra, which is the most-affected State with 9.67 lakh cases as of Wednesday, was only 0.77%. In Tamil Nadu, which is next to Andhra Pradesh with 4.80 lakh cases, only 0.62% of the population (7.7 crore) was infected as of Wednesday. However, Maharastra and Tamil Nadu as of Thursday morning tested only 3.92% and 7.20% of their populations respectively. Meanwhile, the State's COVID recovery rate has reached 81.02% with 10,040 recoveries in the past day and 4,35,647 recoveries so far. There are 97,338 active cases undergoing treatment in the State at present. In the past day, 68 patients have died and the toll climbed to 4,702. The death rate stands at 0.87% which is the lowest. Three districts reported more than a thousand cases, and East Godavari has once again reported the biggest single-day tally. Chittoor, Nellore and Kapada highest number of deaths. Spike in Krishna Krishna which is still the only district with less than 20,000 cases has for the first time reported over 500 new cases. It is also the highest single-day spike reported in the district so far. Chittoor's death toll remains highest as it crossed the 500-mark and reached 504. The new cases and deaths are as follows: East Godavari (1,412 and 5), Prakasam (1,386 and 7), West Godavari (1,139 and 5), Chittoor (968 and 9), Guntur (838 and 2), Nellore (823 and 9), Srikakulam (664 and 4), Kadapa (576 and 9), Krishna (545 and 7), Vizianagaram (516 and 1), Kurnool (482 and 0), Anantapur (422 and 6) and Visakhapatnam (404 and 4).
11 September 2020||Bengaluru,||More rains expected till Sept. 14||While two days of heavy rains left low-lying areas in Bengaluru waterlogged, the Met Department has predicted more showers across several parts of Karnataka till September 14. C.S. Patil, Director (Weather Forecast), Indian Meteorological Department, said that the State experienced widespread rainfall and monsoon was vigorous over north-interior Karnataka and south-interior Karnataka. Districts in south-interior Karnataka would receive widespread rainfall till September 14, with many areas receiving isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall. A red alert has been issued for September 11 and yellow alert for September 12. Coastal Karnataka is expected to receive widespread rainfall until September 14, with coastal districts of Udupi, Uttara Kannada, Dakshina Kannada, likely to experience isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall, with some areas receiving very heavy rainfall of over 20 cm. A red alert had been issued for September 10. North-Interior Karnataka would also receive widespread rainfall till September 14, and a yellow alert had been issued until September 13 with Belagavi, Dharwad, Haveri, Gadag, Bidar, Raichur and Kalaburagi likely to receive isolated heavy rainfall. An orange alert had been issued for September 14.
11 September 2020||HYDERABAD,||2,534 test COVID-positive in State||Telangana reported 2,534 COVID positive cases on Wednesday, taking the total cases to 1,50,176. With another 11 deaths reported during the day, the total number of fatalities due to the virus have gone up to 927. According to a media bulletin issued by the Directorate of Public Health and Family Welfare on Thursday morning, a total of 2,071 COVID-19 infected persons were declared recovered taking the total number of recoveries to 1,17,143. The number of active cases remains at 32,106 as at 8 pm on Wednesday including 25,066 in home and institutional isolation and the remaining 7,040 admitted in government and private hospitals. Along with GHMC area (327), eight other districts in the State reported over 100 cases. They include Kamareddy (123), Karimnagar (107), Khammam (109), Medchal-Malkajgiri (132), Naraynpet (149), Rangareddy (195), Siddipet (103) and Warangal Urban (124). Sangareddy, Suryapet, Bhadradri-Kothagudem and Nizamabad have also report high number of cases between 81 and 96 among the State’s total of 2,534. The bulletin stated that a total of 63,017 samples were tested for COVID on Wednesday taking the total tests done to 19,53,571. Among the samples tested on Wednesday, 28,358 were primary contacts of positive cases and another 8,822 were secondary contacts. Of the total positive cases reported till Wednesday 8 pm, 69% (1,03,621) were asymptomatic and 31% (46,555) were symptomatic. A total of 17,712 beds including 11,463 regular beds, 4,634 with oxygen facility and 1,615 in intensive care units in government hospitals were vacant out of total of 20,396. The number of ventilators in government hospitals is 1,117 and the number is included in the intensive care beds. On the status of deaths of COVID-19 positive cases, the bulletin stated that 46.13% were due to COVID and 53.87% were due to co-morbidities. On the testing facilities, the bulletin said, there were a total of 55 testing centres of RT-PCR/CBNAAT/TRUENAT type including 17 in government hospitals and another 1,076 rapid antigen testing centres in government sector including in area community health centres, public health centres, area and district hospitals.
11 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Frame rules for disposal of cigarette butts: NGT||Following a report filed by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB), the National Green Tribunal (NGT) has directed the board to lay down guidelines pertaining to disposal of cigarette and beedi butts within three months. The report, based on a study conducted by the Indian Institute of Toxicology Research (IITR), however, says that concentration of various parameters analysed are lower than the prescribed limits and “will not be toxic to humans and environment”. Taking a note of the report, a Bench headed by NGT Chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel said, “While tobacco is undoubtedly harmful and the concerned authorities are seized of the remedial action, the tribunal is mainly concerned with the manner of disposal of cigarette andbeedibutts. We do not find any valid reason to reject the expert report.” The report dated August 20 read, “The analysis reflects that concentrations detected will not be toxic to human and environment. Cellulose acetate is a major component (95%) of the cigarette butts along with the wrapping paper and rayon. In general, the toxicity date are not available for cellulose acetate.” “Cellulose acetate is a major component of the cigarette and beedi butts and its degradation studies show that it will persist for a longer duration. Recycling of cellulose acetate after recovery from cigarette butts may be suggested as one among the immediate solution to the problem until the degradation and safety data are generated,” it said. The study added that natural environmental conditions and laboratory stimulating conditions would be required to conclude the safety or toxicity of cigarette butts to further correlate with human and environmental health risk assessment. The NGT directions came while hearing a plea moved by NGO ‘Doctors for You’ that sought instructions to regulate the disposal of cigarette andbeedibutts apart from prohibiting consumption of tobacco in public places.
11 September 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Five-and-a-half-year-old girl climbs 5 forts in a day, sets world record||Harshiti Kaviraj Bhoir, a five-and-a-half-year-old girl from Ulwe in Raigad district, has entered the World Book of Records for trekking five forts in a single day. A senior kindergarten student at Ryan International School in Nerul, Harshiti achieved the feat on January 26. Accompanied by her parents, Kaviraj and Nivedita, Harshiti started the trek at 5.30 a.m. from Shrivardhan fort and covered Manaranjan fort, Visapur fort, and Lohagad fort before finishing her journey at the top of Tikona fort at 4.30 p.m. Mr. Bhoir said, “Harshiti had trekked up all these forts at least once on different days before attempting the world record. We planned to cover seven forts, but we dropped three to cut down on travel time. The road trip, climb and descent were videographed. Eight hours of raw footage was sent to the adjudicators along with the map tracker and around 400 photos. The judges assessed the video, maps and photos, and declared that Harshiti had set a new world record.” Discovering her talent Mr. Bhoir, who works in CIDCO’s fire department in Ulwe, said his family hails from Uran and he enjoyed going on treks with his wife, a nurse at CIDCO’s heath centre in Ulwe. The couple first discovered Harshiti’s talent when they took her on a trek to Raigad fort in 2018. The three-and-a-half-year-old impressed her parents with her strength and enthusiasm. Frequent treks He said, “To find out her interest, we took for treks to various other forts. Trekking has now become her passion. To encourage her, we frequently go on treks to Karnala fort in Panvel, Asheri fort in Palghar, Prabalgad fort in Raigad, Shrivardhan fort in Raigad, and Shivneri fort in Pune.” Mr. Bhoir said Harshiti would join him on his evening walks and they would cover seven kilometres. “We soon progressed to walk eight kilometres, but she never grew tired of it. We mostly visited Karnala fort as it was the nearest one to us,” Mr. Bhoir said. On June 8 last year, Harshiti became the youngest to climb the highest peak in Maharashtra — Kalsubai (1,646 metres) in Satara district — in three hours and 35 minutes. She was honoured for achieving the feat by the India Book of Records on August 19 and the Asia Book of Records on December 19 last year. Setting sights high Mr. Bhoir said the family planned to make a trip to Manali or Uttarakhand, but it was thwarted by the COVID-19 pandemic. On her future plans, Harshiti says, “Reach the ice top”, hinting at climbing Mount Everest.
11 September 2020||CHENNAI,||PM-Kisan scheme: combination of factors led to scam in Tamil Nadu||A combination of factors, such as relaxation of norms in enumeration of farmers, delegation of the power of authentication, emergence of a syndicate and discrepancies in data concerning land holdings, seems to have caused the Rs. 110 crore scam in the Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM Kisan) in Tamil Nadu. The Central government, a year ago, introduced online provision for self-registration of prospective beneficiaries, after furnishing the required details. This arrangement allowed a section of field officials at offices of Assistant Directors of Agriculture to collude with private computer centres in the Kallakurichi-Villupuram belt. The COVID-19 pandemic was used by the alleged culprits, as the field-level officers were occupied with immediate requirements of farmers and many could not visit their offices. Agriculture Secretary Gagandeep Singh Bedi recently acknowledged that as some of the officers were not that tech-savvy, they had to be reliant on data entry operators for authentication. The government has now initiated action against those officers for “not having protected” the passwords. There are reports of multiple beneficiaries in families. While a family may have four individuals, each owning farm lands, there can be only one beneficiary in the family. This is why the State government has sought the Centre’s permission to make the submission of rationcard details mandatory so that the problem of duplication can be eliminated. Data on land holdings In addition, discrepancies in land holding data have been bothering the authorities from the beginning of the scheme. The Agricultural Census 2015-16 reveals that there are about 79.38 lakh farm holdings, regarded as farmers, whereas the State Agriculture department is of the view that the total number of farmer-beneficiaries is estimated at 41 lakh. Dwelling upon this issue, farmers’ leaders P.R. Pandian and K.M. Rama Goundar, want the State government to hold a State-wide survey of all the farm lands, as was done in 1984. “There are numerous instances of farmers having partitioned their ancestral lands informally. If these farmers have been included, the present action of the authorities is to get them eliminated from the scope of the scheme. My request to the government is to conduct the survey; issue pattas to those who do not have one and include such farmers in the scheme,” says Mr. Rama Goundar. Mr. Pandian claims that officials have told him that there were 1.25 crore families in the State dependent upon agriculture but only 60% of them can be covered under the scheme. However, the Agriculture department has requested the Centre to grant permission for making use of the database of ‘Tamil Nilam,’ a web-based system on land administration and management, for validation of applicants' claims on land records. “We are confident of getting the Centre's approval,” the officials add. S. Venkatesan, a farmer leader of Cuddalore, wants the authorities to look into reports of bank accounts of even eligible farmers having been put on lien.
11 September 2020||New Delhi,||I&B Ministry green-lights Sudarshan News show||The Information and Broadcasting Ministry on Thursday allowed Sudarshan News channel to telecast a show on what the channel claimed was a “big expose” on “infiltration of Muslims” in the civil services. It however, directed the channel to ensure that the show proposed to be telecast did not violate any programme code and that action would be taken in accordance with the law if any violation was found. The channel, in its written submission, stated before the Ministry that its show was not violative of the law and if at all was found to be so, action could be taken against it. The programme, Bindaas Bol , was to be originally telecast on August 28. The Delhi High Court on August 29 refused to vacate its stay on the telecast of the programme on a prima facie finding that the show’s trailer violates the Programme Code under the Cable Television Networks (Regulations) Act, 1995. The court directions came after students and alumni of Jamia Millia Islamia filed a petition against the channel.
11 September 2020||Mumbai,||Kangana carried out illegal construction: BMC||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Thursday defended its stand on demolishing parts of actor Kangana Ranaut’s bungalow and said in the Bombay High Court that “she made false, baseless and unwanted allegations of harassment.” A Division Bench of Justices S.J. Kathawalla and R.I. Chagla was hearing a petition filed by Ms. Ranaut after the Shiv Sena-run BMC demolished parts of her bungalow at Pali Hill in Mumbai on Wednesday. Her plea states, “The action of the BMC is illegal, arbitrary, mala fide and without application of mind, in violation of principles of natural justice, unreasonable and improper.” “The petitioner (Ranaut) is seeking to obfuscate and cover up her flagrantly illegal acts of unlawfully making substantial additions and alterations contrary to the sanctioned building plan,” the BMC said. Meanwhile, Union Minister Ramdas Athawale met Ms. Ranaut and said she need not be afraid while in the city. However, Mr. Athawale, a BJP ally, made it clear he does not agree with her remarks comparing Mumbai to Pakistan-occupied Kashmir and criticising the city police. Mr. Athawale alleged that the Shiv Sena-controlled BMC’s demolition drive at her bungalow at Pali Hill in suburban Bandra was carried out in revenge.
11 September 2020||Nagpur,||Hospitals cannot turn away patients, says HC||Taking suo moto notice of problems faced by patients at hospitals in the district amid the coronavirus pandemic, the Nagpur bench of the Bombay High Court on Thursday said no person can be turned away due to shortage of beds or staff. A Division Bench of Justices Ravi Deshpande and Pushpa Ganediwala said the main issue which required attention was to make ventilators and beds available for patients in order to reduce the death rate. “We want all doctors and para-medical staff to rise to the occasion of the severity of the situation and make themselves available 24x7 in this pandemic situation,” the court said. “We do not want a situation where the patients are required to travel from one hospital to another to secure a bed in the ICU, ventilated beds or (go to another hospital) due to non-availability of doctors and medical staff,” the Bench said. If a hospital can not accommodate a patient, the authorities should help the patient reach another hospital, the court said. “Even private doctors are under obligation to provide treatment. The preservation of human life is of paramount importance. Once life is lost, it cannot be restored,” the court said. “Every doctor, whether they are in government or private hospitals, is under obligation to extend their services,” the court added.
11 September 2020||Bengaluru,||Gaurav Gupta is BBMP Administrator||As the five-year term of the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) council ended on Thursday, the State government appointed IAS officer Gaurav Gupta as Administrator to the civic body. The order was issued by Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Thursday evening. Mr. Gupta is currently Principal Secretary of Department of Commerce and Industries. He has been appointed as Administrator in concurrent charge, the order stated. The senior IAS officer is expected to take charge on Friday.
11 September 2020||Ghaziabad,||‘Spurious’ liquor kills 7||Seven people died in Baghpat and Meerut in 24 hours under mysterious circumstances. While residents claimed they died after dri-nking spurious liquor, the local administration said prima facie no evidence of hooch had been found. Five people died in Cha-mrawal village of Baghpat while two died in Mirpur Jakheda village in Meerut.
11 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||CM tests negative for SARS-CoV-2||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Thursday tested negative for SARS-CoV-2. Mr. Vijayan was under observation after Finance Minister T. M. Thomas Isaac tested positive on September 6. Dr. Isaac had been shifted to Government Medical College Hospital here. Health Minister K.K. Shylaja, Industries Minister E.P. Jayarajan and several senior CPI(M) leaders also were under observation as they had attended a State Secretariat meeting of the CPI(M) along with Dr. Isaac.  As many as 16 senior leaders had attended the party State secretariat meeting. Most of them were above the age of 60.
11 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Jagan okays CBI probe into Antarvedi incident||As the burning down of the chariot of Sri Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy temple at Antarvedi in East Godavari district snowballed into a major controversy, Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy decided to hand over the investigation into the case to the Central Bureau of Investigation for the sake of transparency, according to an official release. It was stated that the incident, in which the chariot was completely gutted, would be probed by the Central investigating agency as demanded by some political parties and that the Chief Minister instructed the Director-General of Police (DGP) to hand over the case to the premier investigation agency. The DGP office has sent a communication to that effect to the Union Home Ministry and a GO would be issued soon. The press release said the Chief Minister took the arson at the temple seriously and resolved to get the CBI into the picture as falsehoods started to be spread and aspersions cast on the government even as the police were trying their best to dig out the facts.
11 September 2020||September 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Grand initiation||
11 September 2020||HYDERABAD,||‘TS may reduce age limit for old-age pensions’||The State government is actively working on reducing the age limit for availing of old-age pensions from 65 to 57. Reports have been obtained and the government is waiting for information pertaining to some municipal corporations and municipalities, Panchayat Raj Minister Errabelli Dayakar Rao told the Legislative Assembly. Replying to queries during Question Hour on Thursday, he said the survey for ascertaining the number of beneficiaries was hampered because of COVID-19 pandemic.
11 September 2020||Bengaluru,||Active cases cross one lakh in State||Six months after Karnataka reported the first COVID-19 case, the number of active cases crossed one lakh on Thursday and touched 1,01,537. With this, Karnataka now has the second highest number of active cases after Maharashtra.
11 September 2020||Bengaluru,||More children benefit from ICDS programme||While several health and nutrition programmes have been hit during the pandemic, the Integrated Child Development Services (ICDS) programme appears to have bucked the trend. In fact, more children have enrolled and benefited from it during the pandemic compared to earlier.
11 September 2020||Bengaluru,||437 acres under 169 lakes encroached||As parts of the city continue to live in fear of a heavy downpour, a survey of lakes by the BBMP has revealed that around 437 acres out of around 5,207 acres under 169 lakes in the city have been encroached. So far, the BBMP has managed to recover 45 acres.
11 September 2020||New Delhi,||Delhi records highest virus cases and tests||With a record 58,340 COVID-19 tests being done, the Capital on Thursday witnessed the highest number of daily cases — 4,308 — in the past 24 hours. The total number of cases stood at 2,05,482. Also, 28 more deaths were reported, pushing the toll to 4,666.
11 September 2020||HUBBALLI,||Dharwad, Uttara Kannada see eight deaths each||As many as 644 patients were discharged from hospitals in Belagavi on Thursday even as Dharwad and Uttara Kannada districts recorded eight deaths each. On Thursday, Belagavi saw 263 new cases and two deaths. Dharwad reported 264 new cases and 217 discharged patients, while Uttara Kannada recorded 214 new cases and 116 discharged patients. Meanwhile, Davangere recorded 297 new cases, three deaths and 244 dishcarged patients, Haveri 190 new case, one death and 65 discharge patients, Gadag 180 new cases, two deaths and 153 discharged patients, Chitradurga 142 new cases and 91 discharged patients, Bagalkot 77 fresh cases, one death and 108 discharged patients and Vijayapura reported 63 new cases, three deaths and 55 discharged patients.
11 September 2020||Mumbai,||Court to pass order on Rhea’s bail plea today||A special court on Friday will pass an order on the bail applications filed by actor Rhea Chakraborty and her brother Showik, arrested for allegedly procuring and administering drugs to actor Sushant Singh Rajput. Ms. Chakraborty is currently in Byculla jail after being arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on September 8. Her bail plea says, “There is nothing on record to suggest that she is in any way involved with the financing of illicit traffic and [/] or harbouring of offenders in relation to any narcotic drugs or psychotropic substances.”
11 September 2020||MADURAI,||High Court relief for Harris Jayaraj||A coordination body of non-Bru people in Tripura has opposed the large-scale settlement of Bru refugees across seven sites. The locations straddle two subdivisions of the State’s northern region adjoining Mizoram. The Joint Movement Committee (JMC) comprising the Bengali-dominated Nagarik Suraksha Mancha and the Tripura Mizo Convention said the State government’s move to settle 4,900 Bru families in Kanchanpur and Panisagar subdivisions of North Tripura district would have “negative social, cultural, political, environmental and ecological impacts”.
11 September 2020||Chennai,||5,528 persons test COVID-19 positive in T.N.||Tamil Nadu reported another 5,528 new cases of COVID-19 and recorded 64 deaths on Thursday. A total of 6,185 persons were discharged. The total number of persons currently under treatment is 48,482. As of date, 4,86,052 persons have tested positive.
11 September 2020||Hyderabad,||5,528 persons test positive in Tamil Nadu||Telangana reported 11 deaths and 2,534 COVID-19 positive cases on Wednesday, taking the total cases to 1,50,176. With another 11 deaths reported during the day, the total number of fatalities due to the virus have gone up to 927. The Directorate of Public Health said on Thursday that there were 32,106 active cases including 25,066 in home and institutional isolation and 7,040 in government and private hospitals. Along with Greater Hyderabad (327), eight other districts reported over 100 cases: Kamareddy (123), Karimnagar (107), Khammam (109), Medchal-Malkajgiri (132), Narayanpet (149), Rangareddy (195), Siddipet (103) and Warangal Urban (124). On Wednesday, 63,017 samples were tested. Of the tally of cases, 69% (1,03,621) were asymptomatic and 31% (46,555) symptomatic. Kerala, after testing 40,014 more samples, reported 3,349 new cases on Thursday. The number of patients in hospitals was 26,229. The toll touched 396 with 12 more deaths which had occurred between August 21 and September 6. Seven deaths were recorded in Malappuram, two in Thiruvananthapuram and one each from Alappuzha, Thrissur and Kasaragod. Thiruvananthapuram reported 558 cases, the highest. Among other districts, Malappuram had 330 cases, Thrissur 300, Kannur 276, Alappuzha 267, Kozhikode 261, Kollam 244, Ernakulam 227, Kottayam 217, Palakkad 194, Kasaragod 140, Pathanamthitta 135, Idukki 105 and Wayanad 95 cases. Karnataka’s active cases crossed one lakh on Thursday at 1,01,537. Nearly 43% of the active cases were in Bengaluru Urban, besides 6,816 and 4,466 in Mysuru and Ballari, respectively.  The State reported 9,217 new cases on Thursday. With 129 more deaths, the toll rose to 6,937. Bengaluru Urban reported 3,161 cases. A total of 54,709 tests were conducted in 24 hours, 25,468 of them rapid antigen tests. Tamil Nadu reported another 5,528 new cases of COVID-19 and recorded 64 deaths on Thursday. While 6,185 more persons were discharged after treatment, the total number of persons presently under treatment was 48,482. As of date, a total of 4,86,052 persons had tested positive for COVID-19. Of this, 4,29,416 persons were discharged after treatment and 8,154 persons died. In Chennai, 991 persons tested positive, and 440 persons in Coimbatore. While Salem recorded 300 new cases, Tiruvallur and Chengalpattu had 296 and 279 cases respectively. A total of 263 persons tested positive in Cuddalore. With the new cases, Coimbatore’s overall tally climbed to 20,839, while Cuddalore’s total case count stood at 15,473.  (With inputs from Chennai, Thiruvananthapuram and Bengaluru bureaus)
11 September 2020||New Delhi,||‘House can select Dy. Speaker’||Lok Sabha Speaker Om Birla on Thursday said that if there is a provision for the post of Deputy Speaker in the Lok Sabha, then it was only obvious that there should be one, but it was not the Speaker’s job to appoint one, and that the Deputy Speaker was chosen by the House. His comments come against the backdrop of renewed efforts by Opposition parties in urging the government to fill the Deputy Speaker’s position, which has been vacant for the past 15 months. The Congress has been angling for the post with the party’s Lok Sabha floor leader Adhir Ranjan Chowdhury urging the Speaker to fulfil the Constitutional mandate given to him [the Speaker]. ‘There is a necessity’ “Leaders of all political parties have the right to express their views. It is for the government to act upon this,” Mr. Birla said, reacting to Mr. Chowdhury’s letter. Asked if he felt that a Deputy Speaker was needed, he said, “If there is a provision for such a post, then obviously there is a necessity for it.” The Rajya Sabha, meanwhile, has already commenced the procedure to elect the Deputy Chairman for the upper council. “It is not for the Speaker to appoint a Deputy Speaker. It is for the House to do so,” Mr. Birla added. Mr. Birla said that the Parliament is meeting at a time when the whole world has been challenged by the COVID-19 pandemic. “Holding the monsoon session was a challenge during the pandemic but we have to fulfil our Constitutional responsibilities. We want Parliament to become more accountable and answerable to the people,” he said. Mr. Birla was speaking to presspersons ahead of the unprecedented session that will, for the first time in Indian parliamentary history, have some members sit outside the chambers. According to sources, 20 Lok Sabha members have tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. “So far, out of these 20 MPs, 14 have recovered. Five others are still positive but out of danger. Unfortunately, we lost Kanniyakumari MP H. Vasanthakumar,” a senior Lok Sabha official said. Safety measures Every person, including MPs, will need to get an RT-PCR (reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction) test done prior to the session. No visitors or staff members of an MP will be allowed on the premises. A host of measures have been taken to ensure that physical distancing is maintained. Each of the seats, and each row, in the Lok Sabha have been separated by polycarbonate sheets. In the Lok Sabha chamber, only 257 members will be accommodated. Another 172 will be accommodated in various galleries in the House. A total of 111 members will have to participate in the debate from the Rajya Sabha chamber. Communication lines have been laid to ensure they can make interventions and deliver speeches from the Rajya Sabha chamber. To tackle the unusual situation, for the first time ever, LED screens in both Houses of Parliament will have a real-time transmission from the other House. The Lok Sabha Secretariat has marked out the places for each of the political parties, and it is for the parties themselves to decide which of their members gets to sit in the main hall and who will have to sit in the galleries or in Rajya Sabha. The members who will sit in the galleries will not be able to speak from their seat. Instead, special podiums have been erected in the galleries for their use. This also means that most of the spontaneous interventions and protests would not be possible in the new setting for those sitting in the galleries. To minimise contact between the members, the Lok Sabha Secretariat has also launched a special mobile application named ‘Attendance Register’ for the members. The app utilises GPS and face recognition systems. Members can mark their attendance only when they are present within the Parliament premises.
11 September 2020||Patna,||Former Union Minister Raghuvansh quits RJD||Senior Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) leader and former Union Minister Raghuvansh Prasad Singh on Thursday quit the party amid speculation that he would join the ruling Janata Dal(U). However, imprisoned RJD chief Lalu Prasad said, “You’re not going anywhere.” On June 23, Mr. Singh resigned from his post as RJD vice-president and despite repeated requests from party leader Tejashwi Yadav, he did not withdraw his resignation. Mr. Singh, 74, is currently at the All India Institute of Medical Sciences (AIIMS), New Delhi, as he was indisposed after his treatment for COVID-19 at the Patna AIIMS and subsequent recovery a month ago. In a handwritten, one-page resignation from his hospital bed, Mr. Singh said, “After the death of ‘ jan nayak ’ [people’s leader] Karpoori Thakur, I stood behind you for last 32 years but not now... Please forgive me”. Letter to Lalu He addressed the letter to Mr. Prasad, who is admitted to RIMS (Rajendra Institute of Medical Sciences) in Ranchi. Mr. Singh, a five-time MP from Vaishali, was said to be upset over the likely induction of another Rajput leader of his constituency, Ramakishore Singh, former Lok Jan Shakti Party (LJP) MP from Vaishali. In the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, Mr. Ramakishore Singh was denied a ticket by the LJP and defeated as an independent candidate by party candidate Veena Devi. In 2014, he defeated Mr. Raghuvansh Prasad Singh, who was the RJD candidate. Mr. Ramakishore Singh is said to have some influence in the Raghopur Assembly constituency of Vaishali, represented by Mr. Yadav, heir apparent of Mr. Prasad.  Earlier, amid speculation that Mr. Raghuvansh Prasad Singh may quit the party, Mr. Yadav had gone to Delhi to assuage him, but, party sources said, the former told the latter that it would be difficult for him to remain in the party along with Mr. Ramakishore Singh. The buzz in the political circle is that Mr. Raghuvansh Prasad Singh, who had steered the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGA) at the Centre when he was the Rural Development Minister in the Congress-led UPA government in 2005, may join the JD(U). And JD(U) leaders lost no time in offering an invitation to the veteran socialist leader. “If Raghuvansh Prasad Singh expresses his wish to come to the JD(U), he would be most welcome,” they said. However, hours after his resignation letter circulated in media, Mr. Prasad sent him a handwritten letter, saying “you [Raghuvansh Prasad Singh] are not going anywhere”. In the one-page letter, he said, “We’ve discussed all our political, social and even family issues together for four decades... You get well soon and again we’ll sit together to talk… You’re not going anywhere”.
11 September 2020||AMBALA,||Rafales a game changer: Rajnath||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Thursday called the induction of the French Rafale fighter jet into the Indian Air Force (IAF) a “game changer”, and said it was a very important step in light of the security conditions that “have been created along India’s borders.” The formal ceremony marked the full operational induction of the jets into the IAF, Air Chief Marshal R.K.S. Bhadauria said. “They are good to go and deliver,” he added. At the ceremony at the airbase here, Mr. Singh said, “The IAF plays an important role in maintaining military deterrence and their actions will be decisive in any future war. While the prevailing situation on our boundaries has caught our attention, we should not ignore the threat of cross-border terrorism.” India’s responsibilities were not limited to land borders alone. In the Indo-Pacific and the Indian Ocean region, it was working with international community as a commitment to world peace, he noted. Vigilance was the first measure of security on the northern borders amid current security challenges, he said. French Defence Minister Florence Parly who was present, said that in strategic terms, India would have an edge over the entire region with the induction of the Rafales. Five Rafales were inducted into the No. 17 Golden Arrows squadron. This is the first imported fighter to be inducted since the Sukhoi-30s came from Russia in the late 90s. More opportune time Air Chief Marshal Bhadauria, in a reference to the stand-off with China, said the induction could not have happened at a more opportune time, given the security scenario. Pilots had undergone intense combat training with other aircraft and also firing of advanced weaponry. From Ambala, the Rafales would be able to rapidly access our areas of interest, he added. A traditional ‘Sarva Dharma Puja’ was performed, followed by an air display by the Rafales and indigenous Tejas aircraft and the Sarang helicopter aerobatic team. A traditional water cannon salute was given to the jets before their formal induction. The five Rafales arrived at Ambala from France in July-end. They were handed over to India in France last October but have since been used for training IAF pilots there. In a joint statement after bilateral talks, Ms. Parly said the induction of the Rafale marked a step forward in the strategic partnership that dated back to 1998. “France has always stood beside with India both through good and bad times,” she noted. Ms. Parly said they planned to reinforce cooperation in maritime, air, space and cyber domains. There were great prospects for co-operation in the Indo-Pacific.
11 September 2020||Bhopal,||Don’t stop oxygen supply to M.P., Chouhan tells Maharashtra CM||Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Shivraj Singh Chouhan on Thursday appealed to his counterpart in Maharashtra, Uddhav Thackeray, to continue supplying medical oxygen to his State, which is reportedly facing a shortage. Speaking with reporters here on Thursday, Mr. Chouhan said he had spoken to Mr. Thackeray and requested him “during a crisis like this, oxygen supply shouldn’t be stopped”. Madhya Pradesh used to get 20 tonnes oxygen from Maharashtra, he added. “There is a firm named INOX which supplied it from Nagpur. Now, the same company will supply it from Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh,” he said. Mr. Chouhan said the Maharashtra Chief Minister had told him even they were facing a problem owing to COVID-19 patients. “But he said they would make efforts to ensure oxygen supply to our hospitals,” said Mr. Chouhan. Stating that Madhya Pradesh had made alternative arrangements, he said, “Initially, our production capacity was only 50 tonnes, which we ramped up to 120 tonne. We will take it to 150 tonne by September 30.” “Our small plants were generating 50%-60% oxygen against their capacity. We have asked them to produce oxygen to their full capacity so that there is a greater availability,” he added, while reassuring the State’s people against a shortage. As for long-term planning, he said, INOX would install a plant at Mohasa near Babai in Hoshangabad district. “The plant will have an installed capacity of 200 tonnes in the next six months. No one can say until when COVID-19 will last. So, wearing masks is the only option left to prevent it,” he added. Sources of supply Madhya Pradesh has two major sources of oxygen supply — manufacturing capacity available in the State with 11 manufacurers is around 45-50 MT a day, which is not in surplus, and 70-80 MT a day in liquid form being transported largely from Gujarat and Maharashtra, S. Dhanaraju, Officer on Special Duty with the Madhya Pradesh Public Health Services Corporation Limited told The Hindu.  The Nagpur firm supplies to Jabalpur and Rewa, he added. Cases increased rapidly in Jabalpur, and in the meantime Maharashtra government ordered a ban on out-of-State transportation of oxygen. “This order came suddenly. Only the Jabalpur area had some critical moments, which have been addressed,” he said. On Thursday, Madhya Pradesh got 32 MT oxygen from Bhilai. “Now that this route has started, I don’t think there will be an issue. We are comfortably placed. The oxygen available with us can cater to 5,500 patients in oxygen beds and ventilators,” said Mr. Dhanaraju. Further, he said the State government planned to ramp up the availability to 200 MT a day by September-end, which would roughly translate to 8,000 patients. “Given the increasing rate of consumption, we will be comfortably placed with this capacity,” he added. Meanwhile, former Madhya Pradesh Chief Minister Kamal Nath on Twitter echoed Mr. Chouhan’s request to Maharashtra to ensure complete supply.
11 September 2020||Bengaluru,||Drug case accused sent for medical examination||Continuing investigations into the drug racket, CCB officials on Thursday subjected the accused to medical examination to get evidence against them. The accused, actors Sanjjanaa Galrani and Ragini Dwivedi, along with Viren Khanna, Rahul Thonse and Prashanth Ranka were taken to KC General Hospital, before they were escorted back to State home for women and CCB office for further investigations. Ranka, a city-based businessman and alleged drug peddler, was arrested on Thursday before he was taken for medical examination. He was allegedly in touch with Ravi Shankar, a clerk at RTO in Jayanagar, and supplied drugs for high-end parties . The officials also obtained details of the accused retrieved from their mobile phones, which had been deleted earlier. Meanwhile, officials of the Enforcement Directorate (ED) met CCB officials after they found that the accused have disproportionate assets, which, according to the officials, could be from the drug dealing. CCB officials who carried search operations at party planner Viren Khanna’s house and found foreign currency. The officials also found that the accused organised high-end parties not only in metro cities across the country, but also abroad, a senior police officer said. The CCB also said that Sanjjanaa and Ragini had many business ventures and led lavish lifestyles. This needs to be probed in detail, an official said. Another team of officials are gathering evidence against suspects who are family members of politicians, bureaucrats and businessmen for their alleged links to the accused. “We are gathering more evidence against them before zeroing in on them,” a police officer said. Nigerian held In another operation, the Banashankari police, on Thursday, arrested a 35-year-old Nigerian national and recovered 10 grams of cocaine worth Rs. 80,000 from him. The accused, Ifeatu Monday Eze, was waiting for his customers near KIMS hospital to deliver the contraband.
11 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Have a clear loan policy: SC to govt.||The Supreme Court on Thursday gave in to a persistent plea of the Union government for two more weeks to brainstorm with the Reserve Bank of India (RBI) and banks on crucial issues such as sector-specific loan restructuring, charging borrowers’ interest on interest for loans deferred during the moratorium period. The next hearing is scheduled for September 28. Solicitor-General Tushar Mehta told a Bench led by Justice Ashok Bhushan that deliberations were being held at the “highest level” of the government. Individual borrowers and various sectors of commerce and industry, including traders, power and real estate, urged the court to pass an interim order extending the loan moratorium that expired on August 31. They said loan restructuring would not help as banks have already started debiting interest on interest. Their credit ratings and asset value have dipped. This has seriously affected the confidence of account-holders. The worst-hit are the individual borrowers who have come out of the moratorium period only to find that they are supposed to pay interest on loan interest deferred during the moratorium. But the court, which was on the brink of passing an interim order, merely went on to record the versions of the government and the borrowers before deciding to wait for the results of the “deliberations being held at the highest level”. Its order recorded the government had formed “expert committees” that would file reports. Mr. Mehta assured the court, “We are going into the problem in a holistic way”. Justice M.R. Shah told him, “You must have a complete and clear policy. Whatever is there it should be very clear”. On the other hand, senior advocate Rajiv Dutta, for an individual borrower, said status quo as on August 31 should be maintained till the government took a decision.
11 September 2020||CHENNAI,||COVID-19 delays Army officers’ training at OTA||The COVID-19 pandemic and the eventual nationwide lockdown has delayed the training schedule in the Army’s prestigious Officers’ Training Academy (OTA) here. A batch of officer cadets, who were supposed to have completed their training this month, is expected to do so only after a few months. As a result, the ceremonial passing-out parade marking the completion of the training schedule for officer cadets in the academy, would not be held in September as in other years and would be delayed by a few months. “This time, due to COVID, and in between everywhere lockdown was there, and that’s why, it [the POP] would be most probably, tentatively, it would be in November,” an officer told The Hindu . This is probably the first time in recent decades that the training at the academy could not be completed as per schedule. Since the ceremonial parade for the senior batch in the academy was likely only in November this year, the fresh batch of cadets would report only after that for their training schedule. “It is not that every September and March batches keep on coming. It is only when one batch passes out, the next batch will come,” the official said. Asked whether the training has been rescheduled, the officer clarified, “Because of nationwide lockdown due to government guidelines, the training started late. Most probably, tentatively, it [the passing-out parade] will be in November.” The ceremonial parade in the OTA is usually held in March and September every year. It marks the completion of the training programme of officer cadets and these officers are commissioned into various arms and services of the Army only on the day of the parade. The 750-acre academy is the only institution in the country to train both men and women cadets into officers for various arms and services of the Army.
11 September 2020||Mumbai,||BMC defends demolition in court||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) on Thursday defended its stand on demolishing parts of actor Kangana Ranaut’s bungalow before the Bombay High Court and said, “she made false, baseless and unwanted allegations of harassment.” A Division Bench of Justices S.J. Kathawalla and R.I. Chagla was hearing a petition filed by Ms. Ranaut after the Shiv Sena-run BMC demolished parts of her bungalow at Pali Hill in Mumbai. Her plea states, “The action of the BMC is illegal, arbitrary, mala fide and without application of mind, in violation of principles of natural justice, unreasonable and improper.” After directions from the Bench, the BMC officer Bhagyavant Late from the H West Ward filed an affidavit on Thursday. It stated: “The petitioner has unlawfully made substantial alterations and additions to the property, contrary to the sanctioned building plan.” “She has made false, baseless and unwarranted allegations of harassment and mala fides. She illegally carried out substantial unlawful additions and alterations, contrary to the sanctioned building plan,” it said. ‘Substantial alterations’ The stop work notice was issued by the BMC under Section 354A of the Mumbai Municipal Corporation Act (power of designated officer to stop erection of building or work commenced or carried on unlawfully) was issued to Ms. Ranaut on September 8. It pertains to details regarding substantial alterations and additions unlawfully carried out, including the construction of new toilets (including in open chowk area and in parking area), conversion of existing toilets into cabins and rooms, construction of pantry, kitchen, cabins, and so on. Senior advocate Aspi Chenoy representing the civic body said Ms. Ranaut, in her reply, did not dispute the substantial work of alterations and additions carried out in the commercial complex. Advocate Rizwan Siddiqui appearing for the actor interrupted, and said the premises were residential, and sought time to file a rejoinder and to make amendments in the plea. The matter is adjourned till September 22. The BMC also issued notice to fashion designer Manish Malhotra for an existing unauthorised construction under Section 351 (proceedings to be taken in respect of buildings or work commenced) of the Act.
11 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||BJP unit comes under U.S. Foreign Agents Act||The BJP has become the first mainstream political party from India to have named itself as a foreign principal of an organisation in the United States, after the Overseas Friends of the BJP (OFBJP) registered under the 1938 Foreign Agents Registration Act (FARA) under the U.S. Department of Justice. The registration was done on August 27, 2020, according to the registration statement filed by the OFBJP. The FARA requires “agents representing the interests of foreign powers in a political or quasi political capacity [to]disclose their relationship with the foreign government and information about related finances.” BJP’s foreign affairs cell chief Vijay Chauthaiwale confirmed that the registration had taken place. “The OFBJP registered itself under FARA voluntarily,” he said. Mr. Chauthaiwale said while the BJP and OFBJP had no financial transactions, and “all of the meetings and activities arranged by the OFBJP have been on a volunteer basis”, it was felt that it would be better to register under FARA and that the OFBJP had also consulted lawyers. ‘No compensation’ Under activities and services, the OFBJP says that it “primarily engages in support of the Principal (BJP) on its own initiative and receives no compensation for its efforts. Registrant does engage in regular communication with officials of the BJP and from time to time acts under the direction or at the request of BJP officials when planning events or distributing materials with the U.S.” Following the registration, the OFBJP will have to declare any meetings with U.S. legislators, organisation of events and funding from U.S. groups. It will also not be possible for OFBJP members to use organisational help during the U.S. elections as it would then be seen as foreign interference. Mr. Chauthaiwale in fact wrote to the OFBJP last month that this separation should be followed strictly. Most other entities from India registered under this Act are legal, lobby or public relations firms engaged by the Indian Embassy or the Tourism Department. An unknown political party from India, (Democratic Party of India) and a TV channel are also registered. Pakistan’s ruling Tehreek-e-Insaaf (PTI), Pakistan People’s Party (PPP) and Pakistan Muslim League (N) as well as Bangladesh’s opposition Bangladesh Nationalist Party (BNP) are some of the political parties from the South Asian neighbourhood with FARA registration. While Mr. Chauthaiwale did not comment on what were the triggers in this voluntary registration under FARA when the Act has been around since 1938, sources says that in April this year the U.S. Department of Justice had announced that it would conduct an FARA enforcement drive with wider scrutiny of all consultants and organisations and sent a number of “deficiency notices”, asking suspected foreign agents to register or stop activity on behalf of foreign entities. Party’s denial The BJP has denied that the party received any such notice. The DoJ also published for the first time the names of more that a dozen entities which had been made to register or stop activity on behalf of the foreign entities, along with the names of more than a dozen entities which had been made to register between 2017 and 2019.
11 September 2020||NEW DELHI/pune,||SII pauses trials of vaccine||The Serum Institute of India (SII) in Pune on Thursday paused the clinical trial of the COVID-19 vaccine candidate being developed by Oxford University’s Jenner Institute and Astra Zeneca following a notice from the Drug Controller General of India (DCGI) on Wednesday. Trials were stopped globally after a recipient in the U.K. showed adverse symptoms. In a statement on Thursday, the SII said, “We are reviewing the situation and pausing India trials till AstraZeneca restarts the trials. We are following DCGI’s instructions and will not be able to comment further on trials. You can connect with DCGI for more updates.’’ While trials were stopped in four countries as a precautionary measure, the DCGI, in its notice to the SII, asked why it was progressing with the trials and why it had not sent a detailed report about the U.K. patient. The SII maintained that they were going by the DCGI’s direction and were not told to pause the trials. “We are going by DCGI’s direction and so far were not told to pause the trials. If DCGI has any safety concerns, we will follow their instructions and abide by the standard protocols,” it had said. British-Swedish pharma giant AstraZeneca had stated that the said volunteer suffered “an unexplained illness” and such pauses in drug trials are “routine”. Earlier, the SII has come out with a statement, saying nothing untoward has been reported during the trials and that they would be continuing them. “We cannot comment on reports of the U.K. trials, other than that they have been paused for further review and that they hope to restart soon. As far as Indian trials are concerned, they are continuing and we have faced no issues at all,” said a statement issued earlier today by the SII, the world’s third largest vaccine manufacturer. Till date, 100 volunteers have been administered the vaccine shots, following the commencement of the phase two trials in India on August 26. As many as 34 of the volunteers who were administered the shots were from the Pune-based Bharti Vidyapeeth Medical College and Hospital. According to the medical authorities in Pune, none of these volunteers had shown signs of ill-health and all their vital parameters were appearing normal more than a week after being administered the vaccine shots.
11 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Centre flags violation of COVID-19 testing norms||The Union Health Ministry on Thursday noted with concern that “some large States were not following up symptomatic negative cases tested by Rapid Antigen Tests [RAT] with RT-PCR [Reverse Transcriptase-Polymerase Chain Reaction] testing”. Coming down heavily on these States, the Ministry said that as per its and the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) guidelines, two specific categories of persons must necessarily be retested through RT-PCR tests. “This includes all symptomatic [fever, cough or breathlessness] negative cases of Rapid Antigen Tests [RAT] and asymptomatic negative cases of RAT that develop symptoms within two or three days of being tested negative,” said a senior Health Ministry official. Ministry writes letter The Ministry and the ICMR have jointly written to all the States/UTs and urged them to ensure that the all symptomatic negative cases of RAT are mandatorily retested using the RT-PCR test. “This is necessary to ensure that such symptomatic negative cases do not remain untested and do not spread the disease among their contacts. This will also ensure early detection and isolation/hospitalisation of such false negatives. The joint letter reiterates that while the RAT is being used to increase access and availability of testing in the field, RT-PCR remains the gold standard of COVID-19 tests,” said the Ministry.  It urged the States/UTs to urgently establish a monitoring mechanism in every district (a designated officer or a team) and at the State-level to follow up such cases. Monitoring teams at the district-level shall analyse details of RAT conducted on a daily basis and ensure that there were no delays in retesting of all symptomatic negative cases, it stated. “The aim of States/UTs should be to ensure that no potentially positive case is missed out. They have also been advised to undertake an analysis on a regular basis to monitor the incidence of positives during the RT-PCR tests conducted as a follow up,” it noted. Nine States Data released by the Ministry on Thursday said that more than 74% of the total active COVID-19 cases were in nine most-affected States. “Maharashtra, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh presently contribute 49% of the total active cases. Maharashtra is leading this tally with more than 2,50,000, whereas Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh follow with more than 97,000 each,” said the Ministry. A total of 1,172 deaths have been registered in 24 hours, it said. “32% of deaths reported yesterday are from Maharashtra with 380 deaths, followed by Karnataka with 128 deaths, and Tamil Nadu with 78 deaths. Of the total deaths, 69% are concentrated in five States/UT of Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Delhi and Andhra Pradesh,” it added.
11 September 2020||MANGALURU,||Bengaluru-Mangaluru special train schedule revised||South Western Railway (SWR) has revised the schedule of Bengaluru-Mangaluru-Bengaluru Special Trains postponing departure time at Bengaluru and advancing departure time at Mangaluru on public demand.  SWR in a communiqué here said that the change in schedule would be in force only till the resumption of regular services. Train No 06515 KSR Bengaluru-Mangaluru Central Special Express will now leave at 10.30 p.m. to reach Mangaluru Central at 8.25 a.m. the next day for the journey starting on Saturday. The train will reach Kunigal at 11.48 p.m., Hassan at 1.40 p.m., Sakleshpur at 2.40 a.m. and Subrahmanya Road at 5.35 a.m. Train No 06516 Mangaluru Central-KSR Bengaluru Special Express will now leave Mangaluru at 7.15 p.m. to reach Bengaluru at 4.15 a.m. the next day for the journey starting on Sunday. The train will reach Subrahmanya Road at 9.05 p.m., Sakleshpur at 11.40 p.m., Hassan at 12.40 a.m. and Kunigal at 2.39 a.m. While there is no change in the schedule of Train No 06517 Bengaluru-Mangaluru Central Special Express via Mysuru, the departure of its pairing train 06518 Mangaluru Central-Bengaluru has been advanced. Train No 06518 Mangaluru Central-KSR Bengaluru Special Express will now leave Mangaluru Central at 7.15 p.m. to reach Bengaluru at 6.45 a.m. the next day for the journey starting on Saturday. The train will reach Subrahmanya Road at 9.05 p.m., Hassan at 12.50 a.m. and Mysuru at 3.30 a.m. Karwar Express Similarly, SWR has revised the schedule of Train No 06585 Yeshwantpur-Karwar Special Express with no change in departure time at Yeshwantpur (6.45 p.m.) from Saturday.
11 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Beauty business forced to take a back seat||Mini Rajeev had taken a Mudra loan to spruce up her beauty parlour in Kochi. A few months later, COVID-19 happened and the lockdown was announced. She had to shut up shop, all her plans going up in smoke. Though Ms. Rajeev, a member of the Kerala Beauty Parlour Owners’ Association, could finally reopen by mid-August, things are not exactly looking up. Her loan is pending, she can just about afford the rent, and she has had to let go of three employees. 80% still closed The pandemic has taken the glow off the beauty sector. Though parlours and salons were allowed to reopen last month, nearly 80% still remain closed, says Aryanad Mohanan, working president of the Kerala Beauticians’ Association. “People are scared to visit salons and parlours. There just aren’t enough customers,” says Mr. Mohanan who used to run a men’s parlour at a hotel here. He had opened his establishment for a few days but the meagre earnings did not yield enough even to pay the staff. As many as 4.5 lakh beauticians, mostly self-employed women entrepreneurs, are struggling to survive. Many have loans to repay and rent to pay. Without an income for six months, the going is just too tough for them. Only bigger establishments that have own buildings and offer premium services are getting by, he says. Ms. Rajeev is working alone these days. Her former employees have turned to other jobs such as stitching to make ends meet. Also, health risks have prompted her to receive only familiar customers through advance bookings. ‘Govt. must clarify’ As per Mr. Mohanan, people are still under the impression that only hair cuts are allowed in salons, since that was the only service allowed in the initial days of ‘Unlock.’ Though parlours have reopened, the government is yet to clarify that all services are open. Until that happens, people will not feel confident about stepping into parlours and there will be no point in keeping them open, he says. The association also hopes the government will extend beauticians an interest-free loan to help them tide over the difficult times.
11 September 2020||KOCHI,||CPI(M) to oppose ‘distortion’ of freedom struggle history||Protesting against the “attempts to rewrite the history of Indian freedom struggle by the Sangh Parivar,” the CPI(M) will organise political campaigns across the State. The CPI(M) Polit Bureau will discuss the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) attempts to distort history and finalise the campaigns, said Polit Bureau member M.A. Baby on Thursday. The Punnapra-Vayalar agitation was an integral part of the freedom movement as the workers wanted Travancore to be part of the Indian Union. Malabar Rebellion leader Variamkunnath Kunhamad Haji and others fought against feudal lords and the British. Though the leaders of the rebellion themselves had denounced the communal diversions the agitation took, the fight against colonialism cannot be undermined, Mr. Baby said. The Kanpur and Meerut conspiracy cases and the Punnapra-Vayalar struggle and other Communist uprisings were integral part of the struggle. The party and independent historians will highlight the role of Communists and others in the freedom movement,, said P. Rajeev, State Secretariat member of the party. B. Shobhanan, Kerala coordinator of the fifth volume of the 'Dictionary of Martyrs: India’s Freedom Struggle (1857-1947)', said the deletion of the victims of the Wagon Tragedy, martyrs of the Malabar Rebellion and the communist movement in Kerala from the list was unjustifiable. Different approaches to history should not come in the way of acknowledging the role of martyrs, Dr. Shobhanan said. Historian K.N. Ganesh said all those who fought the British for the freedom of India and perished should be recognised as martyrs. ‘Not monolithic’ The freedom struggle was never a monolithic one in nature and content but a multifaceted one in which several segments of society participated. People from diverse culture, religion and region fought the British for the freedom of the country in their own ways. One need to take an all encompassing view of history and recognise the martyrs, Dr. Ganesh said.
11 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||‘Call off Chavara, Kuttanad bypolls’||A growing consensus that the Election Commission of India (EC) should ideally call off the byelections in the Chavara and Kuttanad Assembly constituencies scheduled for November appeared to emerge in informal consultations between the ruling front and the Opposition on Thursday. The BJP has also largely agreed to the suggestion. An all-party meeting convened by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Friday will debate the issue in detail. The meet can only make a recommendation to the EC, which has the sole authority in the matter. Party leaders reportedly gave each other the impression that the bypolls are inessential given the Assembly polls in mid-2021. The meeting is also likely to attempt to arrive at an accord on the growing demand to postpone the local body polls, given the COVID-19 scare. However, the BJP is against the proposal. State Election Commissioner (SEC) V. Bhaskaran has called a meeting of political parties on September 18 to inform them about the conduct of the polls against the backdrop of the pandemic. The SEC is responsible for the preparation of the voters’ list and conduct of elections to the local self-government institutions. The Congress-led United Democratic Front and the ruling Left Democratic Front will attempt to put a united face in front of the SEC to push their case for postponement of the local body polls despite opposition by the BJP.  Congress MLA V.D. Satheeshan told The Hindu that the government would require to amend the Kerala Panchayat Raj Act and Rules, possibly by issuing an Ordinance, to postpone the polls. Ideally, the amendment should carry the provision that the proposed postponement is because of the pandemic. “Voters should feel safe to come out and exercise their franchise,” he said. An SEC official said the commission would inform the government if political parties raise the demand to defer the elections at the September 18 conference. The government would also require to issue an order to hand over the governance of local bodies to administrative committees if newly elected councils are not sworn in by November 2.
11 September 2020||New Delhi,||SC seeks A-G’s aid in Bhushan case||The Supreme Court on Thursday reached out to Attorney-General K.K. Venugopal to act as amicus curiae and assist it with legal questions raised in a contempt case initiated against civil rights lawyer Prashant Bhushan for his remarks on judicial corruption in Tehelka magazine in 2009. A three-judge Bench led by Justice A.M. Khanwilkar agreed with senior advocate Rajeev Dhavan’s suggestion that Mr. Venugopal needed to be heard first as the case raised several cardinal issues of the right to criticise the judiciary in a public forum. Questions on law The case has brought to focus pertinent questions of law, including whether a person who expresses a bona fide opinion about judicial corruption is obliged to prove it or “whether it is enough to show that he bona fide held that opinion”. The case also involves the issue whether the suo motu powers of the Supreme Court to initiate contempt under Article 129 to curtail free speech and expression is restrained by the Contempt of Courts Act, 1971. Mr. Dhavan has strongly pitched for the questions to be referred to a Constitution Bench. Due process One of the questions also deals with the violation of due process as suo motu contempt proceedings in the Supreme Court has no provision for appeal. This is the maiden hearing of the contempt case before the Justice Khanwilkar Bench. Earlier, the case was listed before another three-judge Bench headed by Justice Arun Mishra, who retired on September 2. The Justice Khanwilkar Bench ordered the copies of the case records to be served on the Attorney General and posted the case for hearing on October 12.
11 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||India and Japan sign logistics agreement||India and Japan signed a logistics agreement that will allow the Armed Forces of both sides to coordinate closely in services and supplies. Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his outgoing Japanese counterpart Shinzo Abe, who held a telephone discussion on Thursday, welcomed the pact that was signed by Defence Secretary Dr. Ajay Kumar and Ambassador of Japan Suzuki Satoshi. Closer cooperation A statement from the government informed that the agreement on ‘Reciprocal Provision Supplies and Services’ will “increase interoperability between the Armed Forces of India and Japan” and assist in maintaining regional security. “The agreement establishes the enabling framework for closer cooperation between the Armed Forces of India and Japan in reciprocal provision of supplies and services while engaged in bilateral training activities, United Nations Peacekeeping Operations, Humanitarian International Relief and other mutually agreed activities,” the statement said. The Prime Ministers of Japan and India welcomed the signing of the agreement, which will help both sides coordinate on medical requirements, supplies, maintenance, airlifting and communication. Naval exercises Significantly, the agreement signed on Wednesday is mainly aimed at greater maritime cooperation and can dramatically upgrade India-Japan naval exercises as the participants are expected to share maritime facilities for mutual benefit.
11 September 2020||New Delhi,||Centre’s policies led to loss of crores of jobs, says Rahul||Former Congress president Rahul Gandhi on Thursday alleged that the Narendra Modi government’s policies have led to the loss of crores of jobs and appealed to the people to make the Modi government “listen to their voice” as part of the Congress’ social media campaign ‘Speak Up for Jobs’ . “The policies of the Modi government have caused the loss of crores of jobs and a historic fall in GDP. It has crushed the future of India’s youth. Let’s make the government listen to their voice,” Mr. Gandhi said. The party has also demanded that the government bring in Nyuntam Aay Yojana [NYAY], a minimum income guarantee scheme extending financial help of Rs. 6,000 per month to poor families, for the next one year. The NYAY scheme was part of the Congress’ 2019 general election manifesto. In a video message, Mr. Gandhi further alleged that the BJP government works only for a select few. He also sought to remind the government that he had predicted way back in February that the country was staring at an economic disaster.
11 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||26% of candidates did not take JEE-Main||Over a quarter of students who registered for the JEE-Main last week failed to appear to write the exam. Of the total 8.58 lakh registered candidates, 6.35 lakh actually wrote the exams, a tweet by Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank said on Wednesday. A section of students had held protests and gone to court to postpone the exams due to the COVID-19 pandemic and difficulties in transportation due to local lockdowns. On the first day of the exams for the B.Arch. and B. Planning admissions, less than 55% of the students showed up. About 80% of students appeared for the BE and B.Tech. entrance stream on the remaining days, resulting in a total attendance rate of 74%. Last year Last year, over 94% of the registered students wrote the B.E/B.Tech. papers, while the B.Arch and B.Planning papers saw more than 80% attendance. The JEE-Main is for admission to all Central engineering colleges, as well as a number of State and private institutions. Top-ranked students are then eligible to apply for the IITs and attempt JEE-Advanced, which is to be held on September 27. As the JEE-Main is held twice a year, students who attempt both times can choose their best score. “JEE Main Exams are held twice in a year. The previous one was held in January this year. Several students who did not appear for the exam in September may have done well in the January exam hence did not feel the need to sit for the exam this time. We are ascertaining those numbers,” tweeted the Minister.
11 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Kinfra’s food park to be opened this month||The Kerala Industrial Infrastructure Development Corporation’s (Kinfra) mega food park is all set to be officially opened this month. The park, located on 79.42 acres spread over Elapully and Pudussery villages in Palakkad, has been implemented as part of the Mega Food Park Scheme of the Union Ministry of Food Processing Industries. “The work began two years ago. Now it has been completed. We are one of the few States to complete construction so early. The inauguration is expected to be held after September 20 once we get the dates of the Chief Minister and the Union Minister for Food Processing,” Santhosh Koshy Thomas, Managing Director, Kinfra, told The Hindu . The food park aims at providing a mechanism to link agricultural production to the market by bringing together farmers, processors and retailers to maximise value addition, minimise wastage, increase farmers’ income and create employment opportunities, particularly in the rural sector. Out of the project cost of Rs. 102.13 crore, the Union Ministry provided a grant-in-aid of Rs. 50 crore while Kinfra has availed itself of a loan assistance through the State government under the food processing fund from the National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD). 30 units get land As of now, 30 units have been allotted land, out of which two have started production and 11 are under various stages of construction. The project also includes four Primary Processing Centres (PPCs) located in the districts of Wayanad (Kinfra Park at Kalpetta), Malappuram (Kinfra Park at Kakkancherry), Thrissur (Kinfra Park at Koratty) and Ernakulum (Kinfra Park at Mazhuvannr) with infrastructure facilities for pre-processing activities. The Project Implementation Zone of the park extends over Wayanad, Kozhikode, Malappuram, Palakkad, Thrissur and Ernakulum.
11 September 2020||Kozhikode,||Allow only pilgrims from Kerala at Sabarimala this season, say doctors||With just two months to go for the start of the Mandalam-Makaravilakku season, a group of doctors have suggested that only pilgrims from Kerala be allowed to perform rituals at the Sabarimala temple this time and their numbers should be restricted to avoid drastic spread of COVID-19. The suggestions were part of a study published in The Journal of Travel Medicine recently. The authors include K. Rajasekharan Nayar, Professor, Global Institute of Public Health, Thiruvananthapuram; Shaffi Fazaluddin Koya, research analyst, Boston University School of Public Health, U.S.; Althaf Ali, Associate Professor of Community Medicine, Government Medical College, Manjeri; and Shahul H. Ebrahim, Adjunct Professor, University of Sciences, Technique and Technology, Bamaco, Mali. The study suggested that only “5,000 in-State pilgrims” should be allowed in a staggered manner during the six-week season. Among them, 60% should be “persons of other State origin residing in Kerala.” It said each of the six weeks could be designated to various districts in the State to enable ease of transportation and contact tracing in the future. An exclusive COVID-19 command and control centre should be set up for Sabarimala. A website and a web application should be developed in Malayalam, Tamil, Kannada, Telugu, and Hindi for online registration. The selection should be through draw of lots. The pilgrims should have completed 20 years of age as on the first day of scheduled departure for Sabarimala and must not be over 50 years as on the scheduled end of the pilgrimage. Individually identifiable electronic non-removable monitoring tools should be placed on their person to enable compliance with home isolation for 14 days before the departure and 10 days after the pilgrimage. The recommendations may be presented to the State government soon.
11 September 2020||Bengaluru,||KSPCB posts: HC fiat on finalisation of names||The High Court of Karnataka on Thursday directed the State government not to finalise the name for the posts of the chairperson and member-secretary of the Karnataka State Pollution Control Board (KSPCB) till final order is passed by the court in a PIL petition. A Division Bench comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Ashok S. Kinagi passed the order while hearing the petition filed by R. Anjaneya Reddy of Chickballapur district. However, the Bench said this order will not come in the way of the search-cum-selection committee undertaking other processes, including scrutinising of applications, for the post of chairperson. Slight variations The Bench noticed that there there were slight variations in the qualification/eligibility fixed for selection of persons to these two posts in the guidelines issued by the government in June 2020, when compared to the criteria prescribed in the Water (Prevention and and Control of Pollution), Act, 1974. It was pointed out in the petition that the government’s guideline had omitted the word ‘special’ prefixed to knowledge and experience in the Section 4(2) of the Act in the qualification/eligibility prescribed for selecting persons for the post of chairperson for the State pollution control boards. Also, the petitioner said the government’s guideline had said that only an officer from Indian Administrative Service be deputed to the post of member-secretary contrary to the provisions of the Act, which states that person possessing qualification, knowledge and experience of scientific, engineering and management aspects of pollution control to be appointed as a member-secretary. In another PIL petition, the Bench had earlier upheld the other part of the guideline that empowers a search-cum-selection committee, comprising Chief Minister, the Minister for Forests, and the Chief Secretary to undertake the exercise of choosing the chairperson.
11 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||HIV drug combo could fight COVID: KU team||A group of researchers of the University of Kerala have found potential in a combination of antiretroviral HIV drugs ritonavir and atazanavir in treating COVID-19. A study led by the Department of Computational Biology and Bioinformatics based on molecular docking and dynamics studies highlighted the promise held by drug combination as a remedy for the disease. The university is set to submit the findings to the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) for further studies. The findings of the study undertaken by Abhinand C.S., Perumana R. Sudhakaran, Oommen V. Oommen and department head Achuthsankar S. Nair in collaboration with Anand Krishnamurthy, senior technical manager, Dassault Systèmes, Chennai, have been published in the Journal of Biomolecular Structure and Dynamics. The results of the study suggested that ritonavir can target both viral 3CL protease and host protein TMPRSS2, while atazanavir inhibits human protein Cathepsin L which is involved in virus fusion and transport in endosomes. The researchers examined the feasibility of repurposing the existing antiviral protease inhibitor drugs that are used to treat COVID-19. Dr. Nair said the drug combinations could be used since the FDA-approved drugs were employed for drug repurposing. However, further pharmacokinetic analysis would be required to fix the relative dose to obtain an optimal effect.
11 September 2020||September 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Jaishankar, Wang hold talks in Moscow||China has amassed more troops and occupied ridges in the Finger area of Pangong Tso since Tuesday night, although Indian troops are holding on to dominant positions on the South Bank, said officials. A senior government official said the commanders meeting was cordial but remained inconclusive. He added that status quo was maintained on Thursday. Mr. Jaishankar, who travelled to Russia to attend the 8 -nation Shanghai Cooperation Organisation, also held bilateral meetings with Foreign Ministers of the Kyrgyz Republic, Tajikistan, Uzbekistan and Kazakhstan on the sidelines of the 2-day Council of Foreign Ministers meet. The only member of SCO he did not meet was Pakistan, whose Foreign Minister Shah Mehmood Qureshi was also present. In what would be considered a provocative statement in New Delhi, the Pakistani Ministry of Foreign Affairs (MFA) said that they had discussed India when Mr. Qureshi met with Mr. Wang on Thursday evening, a meeting that took place before Mr. Wang’s meeting with Mr. Jaishankar. “Foreign Minister Qureshi emphasized that India’s expansionist and unilateral actions, particularly since August 5, 2019, have been imperilling regional peace and security,” said a Pakistani MFA statement issued in Islamabad, referring to the government’s moves with Jammu and Kashmir and Article 370 last year. The MEA did not respond to the Pakistani statement. Earlier Mr. Jaishankar and Mr. Wang took part in an extended lunch with Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov as part of the Russia-India-China trilateral. Russia has consistently encouraged dialogue between Delhi and Beijing, particularly at the most tense moments of the crisis. In the days after the Galwan clash in June in which 20 Indian soldiers were killed, Russia hosted a videoconference meeting of the RIC trilateral. Although India refused to discuss bilateral issues at the time, the meeting eased tensions and paved the way for talks between the Special Representatives a couple of weeks later in July. Last week, Moscow provided the venue for the first face-to-face political level talks between the two sides when Defence Minister Rajnath Singh met with his Chinese counterpart General Wei Fenghe along with their delegations. There was no breakthrough, but the talks set the stage for Mr. Jaishankar’s visit to Moscow.  (With inputs from Vijaita Singh)
11 September 2020||September 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Officials confirm two incidents of firing||On June 15, as many as 20 Indian soldiers were killed in violent clashes with the People’s Liberation Army (PLA) in the Galwan Valley. The official said the number of Indian troops in Eastern Ladakh has been doubled in the past few days. “Both sides carry automatic weapons now but it is as per the agreed norms and within the prescribed limit. We have no clarity till when the tensions will persist,” said the official. As reported by The Hindu , a massive build-up had again begun in the Finger area of the north bank since Tuesday evening but no violent incident was reported. “The current position in south bank gives the Indian troops an advantage as they have a clear vision of the Chinese base at Moldo. They are exposed. The action at north bank seems to be a reaction to it,” the official said.
11 September 2020||New Delhi,||HC issues notice to Raja||The Delhi High Court on Thursday asked former Telecom Minister A. Raja and others to respond to the plea of the CBI and the Enforcement Directorate for an early hearing of their appeals challenging their acquittal in the 2G spectrum allocation case. Justice Brijesh Sethi issued notice to individuals and firms related to the case and listed the case for hearing on September 21. The agencies have sought advancement of the hearing from October 12.
11 September 2020||New Delhi,||Golden Temple gets FCRA registration||The Union Home Ministry has granted Foreign Contribution Regulation Act (FCRA) registration to Gurdwara Harmandir Sahib, or the Golden Temple, in Amritsar, enabling it to receive foreign donations. The gurdwara is currently administered by the Shiromani Gurdwara Prabandhak Committee (SGPC), controlled by the Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD), one of the oldest allies of the BJP. Any association, non-government organisation (NGO) or registered society requires FCRA registration to receive foreign donations for specified purposes. In the present case, the foreign contribution can be used by the Sikh shrine for activities such as providing financial assistance to the poor, medical assistance to the needy and organise langars , which serve as free community kitchens. Home Minister Amit Shah tweeted, “Sri Darbar Sahib’s divinity gives strength to us. For decades, the Sangat worldwide was unable to serve there. Modi Government’s decision to allow FCRA to the Sri Harmandir Sahib deepens the connect of Seva between the Sangat globally and the Sri Darbar Sahib. A blessed moment!”
11 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Health Ministry issues revised SOP for exams||The Union Health Ministry has issued a revised standard operating procedure (SOP) on preventive measures to be followed to contain spread of COVID-19 while conducting examinations, here on Thursday, removing the clause to facilitate symptomatic candidates who insist on taking the exam to do so in isolation. The revised SOP notes that in the regular course, a symptomatic candidate should be referred to the nearest health centre and given an opportunity to undertake the examination through other means, or the university/educational institution shall arrange for the exam at a later date, when the student is declared fit. Granted as per policy However, if a student is found to be symptomatic, the permission or denial thereof in such cases shall be granted as per the policy already enunciated on the issue by the authorities conducting the examination. The SOP notes that the examination centre should have a designated isolation room for isolating any person found to be symptomatic at the time of screening or during the examination, till such time that medical advice may be sought. “A clear policy on allowing/disallowing symptomatic candidates to undertake examinations shall be delineated by the Examination Conducting Authorities in advance,” it added.
11 September 2020||Srinagar,||Body of woman caught in Ladakh border tensions||With the border in Ladakh tense, it will take at least seven days for the body of a 30-year-old woman, Kherun Nissa, to cover 4 km to reach home for burial in the Nubra Valley, Leh, from Pakistan-occupied Kashmir (PoK). Nissa, who left her husband’s home at Leh’s Bogdang village on August 26, mysteriously fell into the Shayok river and was washed away over 10 km into PoK’s Baltistan region. With the relations between the two countries tense and the Chinese aggression aggravating the situation, the villagers alerted their counterparts in PoK on a common WhatsApp group, which has kept the Balti community together despite the barriers.  Social media news “We flashed the news of missing Nissa on a common WhatsApp group, which helps us to stay connected with the other side. We have relations there as Bogdang joined India after the 1971 war. The news went viral there and finally the villagers from Thugmas [in PoK] spotted the body and informed us on the social media,” Ghulam Muhammad Tso, uncle of the deceased woman, said. Since then, the father of the deceased woman, Muhammad Ibrahim, has been making appeals to both the Indian and Pakistani governments to allow the body to be handed over at the shortest possible distance. “Bogdang is just four km away from the Zero Line at Thang. It was easy to handover the body there but the permission was denied,” Mr. Tso added. With no progress on handing over the body at the tense Ladakh border, the Baltistan administration on Thursday rushed the body for PoK capital Muzaffarabad from Skardu, which is at least 467 km apart. From Muzaffarabad, the body is likely to be handed over in Baramulla’s Uri and will cover 376 km to reach Nubra valley. The body is expected to reach Leh by Saturday.
11 September 2020||Mumbai,||Court to pass order on Rhea’s bail plea today||A special court on Friday will pass an order on the bail applications filed by actor Rhea Chakraborty and her brother Showik, arrested for allegedly procuring and administering drugs to actor Sushant Singh Rajput. Ms. Chakraborty is currently in Byculla jail after being arrested by the Narcotics Control Bureau (NCB) on September 8. Her bail plea says, “There is nothing on record to suggest that she is in any way involved with the financing of illicit traffic and [/] or harbouring of offenders in relation to any narcotic drugs or psychotropic substances. NCB is silent on the amount of financing, quantum of drugs and type of drugs allegedly procured and financed by her. The case against her is that she would co-ordinate the delivery of drugs for her boyfriend and occasionally pay for them herself. These allegations make for an offence which is bailable.” Her 19-page plea says, “She was coerced into making self-incriminatory confessions. There is serious risk to her life if she were to be detained in judicial custody.”
11 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Activists question govt.’s new advisory on migrants||Labour rights activists on Thursday questioned the Centre’s recent advisory for States and Union Territories regarding migrant workers who are returning to work, saying that it lacked funding for the free COVID-19 tests, formation of a database of workers and other suggestions mentioned. On Tuesday, the Labour and Employment Ministry released an advisory for States and UTs on the situation of migrant workers. The advisory said States should carry out screening and testing for COVID-19 free of cost for workers before they leave from their home States to the destination States. Among the 18 points on the advisory was the creation of a database of all migrant workers to be shared by the State of origin with the destination State. States were also instructed to make sure that workers are enrolled in the various social welfare schemes of the government. Sudhir Katiyar, the secretary of the Prayas Centre for Labour Research and Action and a member of the National Human Rights Commission’s core group on bonded labour, said: “The only good thing about this advisory is that it has been issued. It will have no impact.” He said the advisory had failed to come up with any new social security measures for migrant workers, lakhs of whom were forced to start walking home in the wake of the lockdown in March. He added that one of the main demands of workers had been a safety net when they do return to their workplaces. “Workers are being forced to return to work at a time COVID-19 cases are increasing. They are risking their lives, so a safety network should be created. Employers should have been asked to provide insurance against COVID-19 to workers. In case a worker contracts the virus and is isolated, there is loss of wages for the worker and all contacts,” he said. Asif Shaikh, the director of Jan Sahas, said the guidelines were a good initiative. “I’m glad the government is thinking about workers,” he said. However, he said there was a need for a national-level database of migrant workers for which the Centre should set up a technology-based platform. He said the database of workers under the Inter-State Migrant Workmen Act, 1979 had not been developed.
11 September 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Punjab approaches Centre to block social media sites||In a crackdown against rumour-mongers spreading misinformation about COVID-19 on social media, the Punjab police on Thursday approached the Centre for blocking access to 45 links indulging in false propaganda after the social media platforms concerned failed to act against them within the mandated 36 hours of notices being issued to them by the State. Director General of Police Dinkar Gupta said with 13 more accounts/links blocked by the various platforms, the total number of URLs/links blocked for spreading false propaganda in the State has gone up to 121, while the Central government’s intervention has been sought in 45. “While Facebook has blocked 47, Twitter has blocked 52, YouTube 21 and Instagram 1 accounts/ links from their platforms. In addition, 292 more such URLs/links carrying malicious content have been reported to social media platforms for blocking the same,” said the DGP. On the 45 accounts/links that the social media platforms concerned had failed to block despite notices from the police, the DGP said a letter has been sent to the cyber law division of the Union Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology. In the letter, a request has been made for blocking of access to the said YouTube channels/accounts under Section 69A (1) of Information Technology Act, 2000.
11 September 2020||Mumbai,||HC surprised there is no state control over electronic media||While hearing pleas seeking restraint on the “media trial” in the Sushant Singh Rajput’s death case, the Bombay High Court on Thursday observed, “We are surprised to find there is no state control over electronic media.” A Division Bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G. S. Kulkarni was hearing two public interest litigation (PIL) petitions. One of them pertains to the “unfair, malicious and false media campaign against Mumbai Police”. The court directed all parties to file their affidavits, and that the ER, NCB, India TV, News Nation and ABP News be added as respondents in the matter, and adjourned it for October 8. Republic TV filed an affidavit stating the petition had been filed with the ulterior motive to curtail the freedom of the press.
11 September 2020||New Delhi,||Comply with undertaking in Sunanda case, says HC||The Delhi High Court on Thursday directed Republic TV anchor Arnab Goswami to comply with his undertaking to exercise restraint and “bring down the rhetoric” while reporting on the Sunanda Pushkar death case. Justice Mukta Gupta directed Mr. Goswami to be bound by his undertaking to the court while reporting on the case, as the investigation is still pending. The High Court’s direction came while hearing Congress leader Shashi Tharoor’s interim plea seeking to restrain the news channel from levelling allegations in connection with the ongoing trial. During the hearing, Justice Gupta questioned the claims made by Mr. Goswami that a “murder” has been committed when the chargesheet says it’s a case of abetment to suicide. “Were you [Mr. Goswami] at the spot? Are you an eyewitness? You must respect the sanctity of an ongoing investigation,” Justice Gupta said. Pushkar was found dead in a suite of a luxury hotel in the city on the night of January 17, 2014.
11 September 2020||September 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Team Krishna||
11 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||RS post: NDA reaches out for support||The government on Thursday set about securing numbers for getting the NDA’s candidate elected for the post of Deputy Chairman of the Rajya Sabha on September 14, with calls going out to non-NDA parties for support. The NDA has nominated Janata Dal(U) MP and former Deputy Chairperson Harivansh again. Bihar Chief Minister and JD(U) president Nitish Kumar lost no time in canvassing support from Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik. Sources said the two Chief Ministers spoke on the phone, with Mr. Kumar asking for the Biju Janata Dal’s support. Union Ministers Piyush Goyal and Pralhad Joshi (who is also Parliamentary Affairs Minister) called up Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister and YSRCP chief Y.S. Jaganmohan Reddy for support to the NDA candidate. Mr. Reddy has six MPs in the Rajya Sabha and has reacted positively to the appeal. Rashtriya Janata Dal (RJD) MP Manoj Jha has filed nomination papers on behalf of certain parties in the Opposition, including the Congress.
11 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC looks into cases against legislators||The Supreme Court on Thursday prioritised the need to expeditiously complete trial in over 4,000 criminal cases, from corruption to money laundering, pending against legislators across the country. A Bench led by Justice N.V. Ramana was alarmed to find that cases registered against politicians nearly 40 years ago were still pending trial. One such case in Punjab dates back to 1983, and is one of the oldest found in a report submitted by the court’s amicus curiae , senior advocate Vijay Hansaria and advocate Sneha Kalita. “Charges were framed in the case. It is still pending. It has been 36 years,” Mr. Hansaria submitted. “This is shocking... Why is it pending?” Justice Ramana asked advocate Karan Bharihoke, for Punjab. The Bench asked the Punjab and Haryana High Court to make an inquiry and get back. It asked Mr. Hansaria to recommend a plan to complete the trial in pending cases and suggest if more special courts were required to be set up. The court scheduled the case for hearing on Wednesday.
11 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Paresh Rawal appointed NSD chair||Paresh Rawal, actor and former BJP MP, has been appointed Chairperson of the National School of Drama Society by President Ram Nath Kovind, Union Culture Minister Prahlad Singh Patel said on Thursday. Mr. Patel announced the appointment by a tweet, saying Mr. Rawal’s experience would help artistes and students of the NSD. Mr. Rawal, who served one term as the Ahmedabad East MP from 2014 to 2019, is a recipient of the Padma Shri. The post had been vacant since playwright Ratan Thiyam’s tenure ended in 2017. Mr. Rawal had been appointed for a four-year term, Nitin Tripathi, Culture Minister’s media adviser, said in a tweet.
11 September 2020||Mumbai,||Defamation complaint against actor||A complaint has been filed against actor Kangana Ranaut for using defamatory language against Maharashtra Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray. It was filed on September 9 at the Vikhroli police station as soon as the actor made a video addressing the CM when she learnt about the demolition being carried out at her bungalow by the Shiv Sena-run Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation. At 4 p.m., Ms. Ranaut uploaded a video on Facebook and Twitter, in which she addressed the Chief Minister. Senior police inspector Sanjay Dalvi of the Vikhroli police station told The Hindu that a non-cognisable complaint had been registered on Wednesday. Advocate Nitin Mane’s complaint said, “The actor has defamed the CM by linking him with the film mafia.” It sought a First Information Report to be registered against her under Section 499 (defamation) of the Indian Penal Code.
11 September 2020||B. Chandrashekhar,||Spillway discharge resumes at Srisailam||Discharge of flood water from the spillway of Srisailam reservoir resumed after a gap of about 13 days around noon on Thursday, with the inflows from Krishna and Tungabhadra rivers registering a rise from Wednesday afternoon. After the spillway discharge at Jurala project resumed on Wednesday afternoon, the release of flood from the spillway crest of Srisailam commenced on Thursday morning as the inflows from both Krishna and Tungabhadra kept increasing steadily. Starting with lifting of one gate for 10 feet height, three more gates were lifted for the same height till 8 p.m. to increase the spillway discharge to over 1.12 lakh cusecs at Srisailam. At 8 p.m., the inflows into Srisailam were over 1.53 lakh cusecs including supplementation of about 30,000 cusecs from Tungabhadra (Sunkesula Barrage) and the discharge of flood was about 1.43 lakh cusecs including over 30,700 cusecs of release after power generation in the right bank power station of Andhra Pradesh and the dam authorities are maintaining the full reservoir level of 885 feet and storage of 215.81 tmcft. In the upstream at Jurala, the spillway discharge began at 14,500 cusecs from the two crest gates around 3 p.m. on Wednesday, it increased to nearly 52,000 cusecs from eight gates on Thursday night as the inflows increased to over 94,500 cusecs. Another 34,500 cusecs was also being let into the river course at Jurala after power generation. Further upstream, inflows into Almatti were about 60,000 cusecs and they were 85,000 cusecs into Naraynapur dam. At the same time, the discharge of flood to the river course there was about 60,000 cusecs and about 87,000 cusecs, respectively. The Central Water Commission (CWC) has forecast steady increase of inflows into most of the dams in the Krishna Basin due to the ongoing heavy rainfall in interior Karnataka — in the districts of Belagavi, Vijayapura, Bagalkote, Yadgir, Koppal, Haveri, Chitradurga and Davangere. “Due to ongoing rainfall, river Tungabhadra and river Hagari downstream of Tungabhadra Dam is rising, giving additional inflows into river Krishna at Srisailam dam. In the Godavari Basin, the authorities of Sriramsagar have started releasing water to the flood flow canal along with other canal systems in proportion to the inflows of nearly 26,000 canals as the reservoir has only about 3 tmcft of flood cushion against its capacity of 90.3 tmcft. The water released to the flood flow canal would reach Mid-Manair which has nearly 7 tmcft of cushion against its capacity of 25.87 tmcft.
11 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Sringeri Sarada Peetham team calls on CM||Representatives of Sringeri Sarada Peetham called on Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy at his camp office on Thursday regarding the inauguration of the Kumaraswamy Temple project. The delegation met the Chief Minister and gave a power point presentation of the Kumaraswamy Temple being built underKumaraViharam in the famous Shaivite shrine Srisailam. The project coming up in an extent of 16 acres is aimed at being completed by December 2022.
11 September 2020||Thrissur,||Guruvayur temple opened, devotees stick to COVID-19 norms||The Sreekrishna temple at Guruvayur has started allowing darshan for 1,000 people from Thursday. Devotees have to register through an online portal for darshan. The temple would remain open from 9.30 a.m. to 12.30 p.m. and from 5 p.m. to 6 p.m. COVID-19 protocols will be followed strictly. Press Trust of India
11 September 2020||Hyderabad,||Man sets self afire at Assembly, rescued||A 54-year-old man set himself on fire in front of Ravindra Bharathi auditorium near Telangana State Legislative Assembly here on Thursday morning. Police personnel deployed at Telangana Assembly for bandobust for the ongoing monsoon session rushed to the spot and rescued the victim, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Central Zone) P. Viswa Prasad told The Hindu . Narlakanti Nagulu, a security guard with MB Towers in Banjara Hills and a resident of Cherlapalli, ECIL, yelled ‘KCR sir, Jai Telangana. KCR sir Jai Telangana’ as passers-by and police doused the flames. He was rushed to Osmania General Hospital for treatment. Nagulu suffered 25 % burns and was said to be out of danger. Nagulu hails from Kadthal village in Amangal mandal of Rangareddy district and 15 years ago he had migrated to the city in search of livelihood. According to Mr. Viswa Prasad, around 11.30 a.m. the victim, who was addicted to alcohol, came near Ravindra Bharathi on foot. “He was carrying petrol in a bottle. After reaching the place, he poured petrol and set himself on fire,” he said. Two days ago, Nagulu had left home after a fight with his wife. “The exact reason for his extreme step is yet to be known,” the Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP) said. He ruled out possibility of the man attempting to end life, as he couldn’t secure a government job.  (Every year, September 10 is observed as World Suicide Prevention Day in order to provide worldwide commitment and action to prevent suicides. There is always someone to listen at: +914066202000 or 6666 1117 in case of any emotional breakdown at the Hyderabad-based suicide intervention centre, Roshni)
11 September 2020||New Delhi,||KPMG-led consortium consultant on Ordnance Factory Board corporatisation||The Defence Ministry has appointed the KPMG Advisory Services-led consortium for consultancy on corporatisation of the Ordnance Factory Board. “Consequent to evaluation of the technical and financial proposals of the bidders, the Department has selected KPMG Advisory Services Pvt. Limited, lead consortium member, with Khaitan & Co. Ltd. as consortium member, as the consultancy agency for the said project,” the Ministry stated.
11 September 2020||Lucknow,||Rs. 6 lakh fradulently withdrawn from Ram mandir trust account||Fraudsters allegedly used cloned cheques to withdraw around Rs. 6 lakh from the bank account of the Shri Ram Janmabhoomi Teerth Kshetra Trust, which is entrusted with the Ram temple construction. Police have launched a probe. DSP of Ayodhya Rajesh Kumar said that on September 9, the general secretary of the trust, Champat Rai, submitted an application to the police saying that around Rs. 6 lakh had been withdrawn from the trust’s account through fraudulent cheques. The matter relates to an SBI account in Nayaghat.
11 September 2020||New Delhi,||A-G permission sought for contempt proceedings against Rajdeep Sardesai||A plea has been made to the Attorney-General for permission to initiate contempt proceedings in the Supreme Court against senior journalist Rajdeep Sardesai. The plea concerns Mr. Sardesai’s tweets in connection with the Supreme Court verdict in a contempt case against lawyer Prashant Bhushan. The plea by Astha Khurana says the statements by Mr. Sardesai attempt to erode faith in the judiciary.
11 September 2020||KOLKATA,||Nadda accuses Mamata of “anti- Hindu” mindset||BJP president J.P. Nadda on Thursday criticised the West Bengal government for observing a lockdown on August 5, the day of the foundation stone laying for the Ram Mandir in Ayodhya, and accused Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee of having an “anti-Hindu” mindset. “On July 31, the day Bakrid (Id-ul- Adha) was observed, there was no lockdown… We are happy that there was no lockdown on July 31, but why impose a lockdown on August 5?” Mr. Nadda said.
11 September 2020||New Delhi,||Sunanda case: Comply with undertaking and “bring down the rhetoric”, HC tells Arnab||The Delhi High Court on Thursday directed Republic TV anchor Arnab Goswami to comply with his undertaking to exercise restraint while reporting on the Sunanda Pushkar death case. It directed him to be bound by his undertaking as the probe is still pending. The direction came while hearing Congress leader Shashi Tharoor’s interim plea seeking to restrain the news channel from levelling allegations in connection with the ongoing trial.
11 September 2020||New Delhi,||I&B Ministry nod for Sudharshan News show||The Information and Broadcasting Ministry on Thursday allowed the Sudarshan News channel to telecast a show on what the channel claimed was a big expose on “infiltration of Muslims” in the Civil Services. It directed the channel to ensure that the show did not violate any programme code. The channel in its written submission stated before the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting that its show was not violative of the law and further that if at all the programme was found to be violative, action as per law could be taken.
11 September 2020||ARIYALUR,TAMIL NADU||MBBS aspirant ends life||A 19-year-old MBBS aspirant of Elanthankuzhi near Jayamkondam, who had been preparing for the National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Test (NEET), is said to have ended his life on Wednesday. According to sources, V. Vignesh, 19, reportedly woke up early in the morning and ventured out of his house. Since he did not return even after four hours, his parents searched for him at various places. His body was found floating in a well. On information, the police rushed to the spot and sent the body for a post-mortem examination to the Government Hospital at Jayamkondam. Taken NEET twice On Thursday, high drama prevailed in front of the hospital as the victim’s relatives, friends and well-wishers refused to receive his body, putting forth a slew of demands. They alleged that he had taken the extreme step because of his inability to get a medical seat through NEET, which he had taken twice. Police and Revenue officials held talks with the agitators and assured them that their demands would be brought to the notice of the State government. Later, they withdrew the protest and received the body. Expressing shock and grief over the death, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami said a solatium of Rs. 7 lakh had been sanctioned from the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund to the family. An eligible member of his family would be given a government job commensurate to qualification, he said. Meanwhile, DMK youth wing leader Udayanidhi Stalin called on Viswanathan, father of Vignesh, at Elanthankuzhi, and handed over a cheque for Rs. 5 lakh on behalf of the party. Minor scuffle A minor scuffle broke out between workers of the DMK and the PMK as PMK workers objected to his visit. Viduthalai Chiruthaigal Katchi leader Thol. Thirumavalavan placed a wreath on the body at the hospital at Jayamkondam. Counselling for overcoming suicidal thoughts is available on the State health helpline 104, or Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline 044-24640050.
11 September 2020||ARIYALUR,TAMIL NADU||Medical aspirant ends life in Ariyalur district||A 19-year-old MBBS aspirant of Elanthankuzhi near Jayamkondam, who was preparing for National Eligibility-cum-Entrance Examination (NEET) is said to have ended his life on Wednesday. According to sources, V. Vignesh, 19, reportedly woke up early in the morning and ventured out of his house. Since he did not return even after four hours, his parents searched for him at various places. His body was later found floating in a well. On receipt of information, police arrived at the spot and sent the body for postmortem to the Government Hospital (GH) in Jayamkondam. On Thursday, high drama prevailed in front of the GH at Jayankondam as the victim’s relatives, friends and wellwishers refused to receive the body and put forth a slew of demands. They said he took the extreme step because of his inability to get a medical seat through NEET, which he had taken twice. Police and revenue officials held talks with the agitators and assured them that their demands would be taken to the notice of the State government. Later, they withdrew the protest and received the body. Expressing shock and grief over the death of Vignesh, Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami said a solatium of Rs. 7 lakh had been sanctioned from the Chief Minister’s Relief Fund to the family of the victim. Besides, an eligible member of his family would be given a government job commensurate to their qualification. Meanwhile, DMK youth wing leader Udayanidhi Stalin called on Viswanathan, father of Vignesh, at Elanthakuzhi, and handed over a cheque for Rs. 5 lakh on behalf of the party. A minor scuffle was witnessed between the DMK and PMK cadre as the latter objected to Mr. Stalin’s visit. Viduthalai Chiruthaigal leader Thol. Thirumavalavan placed a wreath on the body of Vignesh at the Government Hospital in Jayamkondam. Counselling for over coming suicidal thoughts is available on the State health helpline 104, or Sneha’s suicide prevention helpline- 044-24640050.
11 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Police begin evidence-based patrolling in north Chennai||In a move to improve visible policing and to reduce law and order problems, the Greater Chennai Police, North, has started Evidence-Based Patrolling, based on calls received by the modern police control room and cases registered at police stations. However, residents of north Chennai said a lot needed to be improved when it came to crime prevention and law and order maintenance. There are a total of 32 police stations in GCP, North. “We analysed the law and order calls received by the control room over the past three years from the jurisdiction of these stations, and also the number of cases registered . We short-listed spots which have witnessed frequent problems and started stationing our patrol vehicles there. We expect the number of law and order problems to reduce due to this form of intervention,” said V. Balakrishnan, Joint Commissioner, North. The highest number of calls were received from the Tiruvottiyur police station limits. Patrol vehicles from stations that have the least number of calls will be diverted to localities that have seen a high number of calls. On an average, each station has anywhere between one to five problem spots within its jurisdiction. “These vehicles will be stationed at each point for some time, before moving to another spot. This will ensure visible policing and give people a sense of security. The time schedule of the patrol vehicles will keep changing,” Mr. Balakrishnan said. Rotating patrols A policeman in charge of a patrol vehicle said the vehicle is stationed at every point for half an hour. “We have been given four to five points. We interact with the public to gain their trust. If we get a call from the control room, we rush to the spot immediately,” the policeman said.  On the other hand, residents said policing needed to be improved in north Chennai. “Considering the population, the number of patrol vehicles should be increased. Besides, if the control room receives calls from a locality frequently complaining about a particular problem, a Commissioner’s special team should be deployed to handle the issue,” said Ganesan Perumal, secretary, Ever Vigilant Citizen Welfare Association, in Kodungaiyur. R. Boopalan, joint secretary, Seeniamman Koil Nagar, TNSCB Tenants Welfare Association in Tondiarpet, said the police should monitor the CCTV cameras installed in the jurisdiction. “They made residents pool in money and install the cameras. But policemen do not seem to be monitoring it for crime prevention. If they do, many law and order problems can be identified and stopped. Now, the footage is checked only when a crime or murder takes place,” he said.
11 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||5,528 persons contract infection in T.N.||Tamil Nadu reported another 5,528 new cases of COVID-19 and 64 deaths on Thursday. A total of 6,185 more persons were discharged after treatment. The total number of persons currently under treatment is 48,482. As of date, a total of 4,86,052 persons have tested positive for COVID-19 in the State. Of this, 4,29,416 persons have been discharged after treatment, and 8,154 have died. Districts’ tally In Chennai, 991 persons tested positive for COVID-19, while 440 tested positive in Coimbatore. While Salem recorded 300 new cases, Tiruvallur and Chengalpattu saw 296 and 279 cases respectively. A total of 263 persons tested positive in Cuddalore. With the new cases, Coimbatore’s tally climbed to 20,839, while Cuddalore’s total case count stood at 15,473. Villupuram recorded 189 new cases, while Kancheepuram and Tiruppur saw 173 and 155 cases respectively. Cases up Among other districts, there were 130 cases each in Nagapattinam and Tiruchi, 127 in Tiruvarur, 123 each in Krishnagiri and Namakkal and 122 in Dharmapuri. Among the 64 deceased (42 in government hospitals and 22 in private facilities), 11 died in Chennai, while both Nagapattinam and Salem saw seven deaths each. Many seniors dead A total of 24 persons who died were in their 50s, while 12 were in their 60s. A 27-year-old man from Kanniyakumari with seizure disorder and psychiatric illness was admitted to the Kanniyakumari Medical College Hospital on September 6. However, he died within four hours of admission due to COVID-19 pneumonia and status epilepticus. Active cases Of the 48,482 active cases in the State, Chennai accounts for 10,845, while 3,790 persons are under treatment in Coimbatore and 3,489 in Cuddalore. A total of 85,473 samples were tested in the State in the last 24 hours. This has taken the total number of samples tested so far to 56,30,323.  A total of 85,473 samples were tested in the State in the last 24 hours. This has taken the total number of samples tested so far to 56,30,323
11 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||As Metro Rail resumes full service, ridership increases||The Chennai Metro Rail has registered a spike in patronage with the opening of the stretch between Chennai Central and Chennai airport on Wednesday. The services between Washermenpet and Chennai airport restarted on Monday and only had about 5,000 passengers. On Tuesday, there was a marginal improvement, with about 6,000 availing the service. But following the latest reopening, nearly 13,980 commuters travelled by Metro Rail on Wednesday. A total of 24,980 passengers have travelled by Metro Rail as of Wednesday. Officials of Chennai Metro Rail Limited (CMRL) said the patronage was expected to increase further on Thursday as the direct train services between Chennai Central and Chennai airport had now recommenced. Those with workplaces in and around Anna Salai would begin using the service, they added. As many as 11,091 passengers have used smartcards in the last few days.  “Gradually, more people will return when they notice the safety measures that are in place and how strictly they are implemented. Right now, we are seeing a lot of people coming to extend the validity of their expired smartcards. They will start using the service now. We have both returning commuters and many new ones as well,” an official said. Commuters are slowly taking to the QR code based ticketing system. So far, 325 passengers have used the system, which was specifically introduced as a contactless alternative to tokens. “The main advantage is that commuters can easily cancel or even reschedule their trips. Another feature that most commuters have been asking of us is a round trip feature, and this can be implemented with QR code tickets,” another official said.
11 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Where traditional games play a vital role||At Ananya, a school for children with dyslexia, traditional games play a vital role in the growth and the well-being of the children. Apart from that , the training at the centre prepares them to join mainstream schools. The school has found that children who play traditional games have reaped benefits. Swetha Krishna, secretary of Madras Dyslexia Association, said the experiment by Ananya has been fruitful. It uses the games to develop the pre-skills in children which in due course would help them in their learning abilities. “Usually schools use only two senses – the eyes and the ears. Our children have problems with auditory and visual perception. So, we need to reach out to them, stimulate them using the other senses as well. In our experience of working with children we found that there are many games that are multi-sensory by nature,” she said. The school applied the games and incorporated spelling and math problems to make students learn the subjects and improve their focus and concentration as well. One of the traditional games that the school uses is Pallanguzhi (mancala) to develop children’s motor skills and interpersonal correspondence. “We integrated the game into our teaching by asking them to divide equally, the concept of reminder in division. We give them five seeds and use it to teach division,” said Harini Ramanujam, chief executive officer of Madras Dyslexia Association. The school uses rope-skipping to improve the students’ wrist movement, which enables them to write better. A variation of pandi (hopscotch) where players test their ability to reach the finish line blind-folded is helpful in teaching skills that would enable them to get into their academics. Sometimes the school would give each square the name of a planet, using it as a method to teach the students. “In child development we talk about seven senses - apart from the five senses we talk of the sense of balance and body position. Some children are hyperactive and cannot be made to sit still. As a supplement to occupation therapy we use these games,” Ms. Harini said. Indigenous games have been helpful as busy parents leave the care of the children to their grandparents, who are familiar with the traditional games. The school allows children to play even during the class if they find that the child is fidgety, she said. It stores a couple of tops that students can spin a few times. They then return to class and are able to focus better, Ms. Harini added. Since special children have a tough routine of school and then therapy with little room for play and relaxation, the school added traditional games “in order to tweak their pre-skills, which are vital for the academic development. We realised that they were naturally multi-modal and multi-sensory and usually cater to more than one skill. These games can be easily adapted to suit the strengths and the needs of each child,” said MDA president D. Chandrasekhar.
11 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Tamil Nadu now has a total of 11.9 lakh RT-PCR test kits||Tamil Nadu has been ramping up COVID-19 testing with its daily sample count crossing 80,000 recently. Presently, the State has a total of 11.9 lakh RT-PCR testing kits. Officials of the Health Department said presently, 7.1 lakh RT-PCR testing kits were available with the Tamil Nadu Medical Services Corporation (TNMSC), while 4.8 lakh were available on the field, with hospitals across the State. On average, the State has been testing 80,000 samples a day since September 3. As of September 10, a total of 56,30,323 samples have been tested in Tamil Nadu.  Falling positivity rate With the daily sample count remaining in the 80,000-85,000 range, an official said that 60,000 samples were tested in government laboratories and 20,000 in private ones. “The TNMSC has ordered 63.25 lakh kits so far, cumulatively. Of this, 48.25 lakh have been supplied so far,” he said. A health official pointed out that the State had increased testing for COVID-19, and its positivity rate had come down. According to official month-wise data, the number of samples tested in March was 2,345, while in August, a total of 19,15,671 samples were tested in the State. The State’s positivity rate in August was 8.53%. Testing infrastructure, too, has improved, with the State having a total of 163 laboratories — 64 in the government sector and 99 in private — as on Thursday. An official said there may be a need to focus more on the districts that have been seeing a surge in COVID-19 cases.
11 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Producers urge govt. to supply milk to schoolchildren||Milk producers have urged the State government to supply milk to children in government schools as part of the noon meal scheme to improve their nutrition levels. Pointing out that Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu had recently suggested that milk be included in the diet of schoolchildren, the Tamil Nadu Milk Producers’ Welfare Association said it would also help the Tamil Nadu Cooperative Milk Producers Federation and the farmers who depend on it as it would provide a permanent sales channel for Aavin. “This would encourage farmers to supply more milk to Aavin. It can be supplied as hot milk or milk powder or even flavoured milk. This suggestion has been made at least seven years ago to the State government, but it is yet to be implemented,” a former Aavin official said. The government could utilise a portion of the corporate social responsibility funds or some from the education cess, he added.
11 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Efforts on to bring down positivity rate in 2 districts’||Only two districts — Krishnagiri and Cuddalore — in the State have positivity rates at 11%, and steps are being taken to bring COVID-19 cases under control, said Health Minister C. Vijayabaskar. “Disease transmission is under control in the State. As per the guidelines of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), we are maintaining a positivity rate of less than 10% across the State. The positivity rate is higher than 10% in Krishnagiri and Cuddalore. It is 11%-11.7%. We are making efforts to bring it under control in two days,” he told reporters during an inspection at the Government Stanley Medical College Hospital on Thursday. Focused efforts are being made in districts such as Cuddalore, Nagapattinam and Tiruvannamalai, where cases have been rising, he said, adding, “The strategy includes aggressive testing, holding of fever camps and picking up influenza-like illness cases from the field level.” However, with complete relaxation in restrictions, he urged people to wear masks, adhere to physical distancing norms and wash hands without fail. With over four lakh persons treated for COVID-19 in the State, he said 80% of them were treated in government hospitals. “Very few patients approach private hospitals, but we are stressing on the need for private hospitals to increase the number of beds,” he said. Beds increased So far, 25,000 COVID-19 patients have been treated at the Government Stanley Medical College Hospital. The hospital has a recovery rate of 94%, while the State’s recovery rate stands at 88%, he said. Another 400 beds have been added at the hospital for COVID-19 treatment, taking its total bed strength for infected patients to 1,200. The hospital currently has less than 1,000 patients, he added. “All 400 beds have oxygen support. The hospital has an 80-bed intensive care unit. It also has a post-COVID-19 follow-up facility where all required equipment, including ECG, X-ray and CT scan are available,” he said. He said the government was increasing bed strength across the State as per the situation. “Initially, we had 75,000 beds in the State. Today, we have 1,42,000 beds for COVID-19 patients,” the Minister added. Dr. Vijayabaskar, while noting that the State had nearly 3,000 ventilators, said more than the ventilators, it was high-flow nasal cannulas that were being utilised to provide oxygen support to the patients. The State had procured sufficient high-flow nasal cannulas and had distributed them to government hospitals, while the capacity of oxygen tanks and the number of oxygen beds was being increased, he said. On wearing masks J. Radhakrishnan, Health Secretary, said, “Masks are one of the most important preventive measures in our hands. We have now authorised health inspectors, sanitary inspectors, sub-inspectors of police and revenue inspectors to issue receipts and collect fines,” he said. People continued to ignore symptoms and sought medical help two to three days later, resulting in 40%-50% lung involvement. “We reached an important milestone on Wednesday, as we moved to less than 50,000 active cases,” Dr. Radhakrishnan said. On the occassion, the Minister laid the foundation stone for a foot overbridge, connecting the hospital and the college.
11 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Stalin demands CBI inquiry into PM-Kisan scam||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Thursday demanded a CBI inquiry into the PM-Kisan scam and arrest of those responsible for crediting Rs 110 crore in the bank accounts of an estimated 5.5 lakh ineligible people. In a statement in Chennai, he charged that inclusion of so many fake beneficiaries could not be possible without the connivance of the ruling party. “Instead of diverting the issue by claiming that the government had dismissed and suspended lower-level workers, the Chief Minister should recommend a CBI inquiry,” Mr Stalin said. Alleging that the PM-Kisan scheme was introduced by the BJP government with a view to winning the 2019 Lok Sabha polls, Mr Stalin wondered whether the fake beneficiaries were included by the AIADMK government to gain advantage in the next Assembly elections. Mr Stalin wanted to know why the Agriculture Secretary was removed from the list of secretariat nodal officers four days after the Government Order was issued for appointing him along with the Revenue Administration Commissioner. Recalling the Chief Minister’s claim that the announcement of the Centre that the beneficiaries themselves could upload details online led to the sudden spurt in their numbers, Mr Stalin said even then the figures given by the Chief Minister was lesser than what was quoted by the Secretary of the department. “This clearly shows that the Chief Minister had failed to go through the files kept by the Chief Secretary and Agriculture Secretary,” Mr Stalin charged. Pointing out that it was the duty of the government to identify the beneficiaries and cross-check the details in the application forms, he said the Chief Minister had conveniently forgotten the fact. The DMK leader alleged that the amount due to farmers in the time of the pandemic had been appropriated by some people and in the Chief Minister’s native Salem district alone 10,000 fake beneficiaries had been reported.
11 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Biomining in Perungudi dumpyard may begin shortly||The Greater Chennai Corporation is likely to start a biomining project in the Perungudi dumpyard shortly, reclaiming 200 acre of land near the Pallikaranai marshland. At a meeting on implementation of solid waste management rules this week, Corporation officials said administrative sanction from the government for biomining 3.06 million cubic metre of legacy waste at an estimated cost of Rs. 350.65 crore was expected shortly. Biomining of legacy waste in the dumpyard is expected to facilitate eco-restoration of the marshland and prevent pollution of groundwater in the neighbourhood. The Corporation had been dumping municipal solid waste in 200 acres of the Perungudi dumpyard for the past few decades, leading to pollution of the Pallikaranai marshland, which covered an area of over 1,000 acres a few decades ago. The marshland has reduced in size owing to the unauthorised dumping of waste and also due to encroachments. The Perungudi dumpyard, which is the most important facility in the southern parts of the city, receives at least 2,500 tonnes of municipal solid waste every day.
11 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Like Thirumazhisai, fruit market will also be closed on Sundays||After the Thirumazhisai vegetable market declared a weekly holiday, the temporary fruit market in Madhavaram will also be closed on Sundays, starting September 13. The market receives about 200 tonnes of fruits, mostly bananas, daily. Besides wholesalers, the market has up to 15,000 daily visitors, according to merchants. Members of the Chennai Fruits Commission Agents’ Association noted that the decision was taken after recent relaxations in the lockdown. The market will continue to be closed on Sundays till they move back to the Koyambedu Wholesale Market Complex. S. Srinivasan, association president, said earlier, the market did not function due to the total lockdown on Sundays. The decision to declare Sundays as holidays was taken following the demand of wholesalers. This will not affect the availability of fruits as retail markets will remain open. The association requested government authorities to regulate shops outside the Madhavaram market. While about 300 wholesale shops functioned inside the market, nearly 50-60 shops had mushroomed around it and hindered business, traders added. Meanwhile, semi-wholesalers, who own 50 sq ft to 300 sq ft shops in Koyambedu, have demanded to be allowed to operate along with wholesalers when the vegetable market reopens on September 28. There are nearly 10,000 semi-wholesalers in the three sections of the market. Moreover, about 20,000 labourers are also dependent on the trade. Many were rendered jobless for the past four months as they do not have a dedicated market allotted to them. A. Selvaraj, president, Puratchiyalar Ambedkar Koyambedu Valaga Vyabarigal Munnani Sangam, said, “Retail merchants from smaller markets and grocery shops used to purchase produce from us. Most of the semi-wholesalers have left the city as they could not carry out business. Only a few of them rented out shops or sold produce in fishcarts and small vehicles.” The State government should allow semi-wholesalers to function with strict physical distancing norms from September 28, he added.
11 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Crowding at entry points, e-pass counters at Chennai airport||Despite announcements and constant reminders, physical distancing among passengers remains a failure at the Chennai airport. The problem mainly persists at the entry point of the departure hall of the terminals and near the e-pass counters in the arrival hall, say sources. Now, about 12,000 passengers are travelling through the airport and 100-110 flights are handled daily. Airport sources said that as the number of flights and passenger traffic had gone up, there was crowding, and it was particularly bad during the peak hours. “Long queues and crowding occur at the entry point because checking of each passenger takes time. This will result in queues. But passengers should be cautious and stand apart. Many of them are standing too close to each other, putting each other at risk,” an airport source said. Similarly, buses ferrying passengers from the terminal to the aircraft too are full and sometimes, passengers stand too close to each other, the source said. Officials of the Airports Authority of India said they had taken steps to control crowding and maintain physical distancing at the terminal. There is crowding at the e-pass counters because many passengers choose to arrive at the airport and then apply for the e-pass at the arrival hall. Chennai Corporation officials said this was happening because many were not aware of the norms and got the e-pass only after landing at the airport.
11 September 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Appointment of Director of Collegiate Education stayed||Less than a month after D. Poornachandran was appointed Director of Collegiate Education (DCE), the Madras High Court on Thursday stayed his appointment after prima facie finding that there is “something amiss” in it. His appointment was challenged by G. Geetha, who was superseded. “It could be seen from the materials made available that in such appointments, whenever the qualified and eligible seniors are superseded and overlooked, [those] who have less than a year of service left for the superannuation, they are promoted as Officers on Special Duty on the same terms and privileges as enjoyed by the DCE,” Justice V. Parthiban said in an interim order. The judge pointed out that this means due consideration and weightage is to be accorded to seniority for appointment to the post of DCE. “In this case no material has been disclosed as to why the petitioner herein was overlooked when she has more than two years of service left for her retirement and what is the exceptional merit enjoyed by the third respondent (Mr. Poornachandran) for him to steal a march over his seniors,” he said. “This court is also unable to understand as to why the petitioner herein has been appointed as Officer on Special Duty,” and her junior appointed DCE. Objections overruled The court overruled objections by Government Advocate Karthigai Balan and Mr. Poornachandran’s counsel L. Chandra Kumar, against granting interim relief to Ms. Geetha. The court “prima facie is of the view that the impugned appointment is questionable.” The judge directed the respondents to produce relevant files pertaining to the impugned appointment and file their counter affidavit and posted the matter to September 22.
11 September 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Police ask people to exercise caution when sharing personal details on the internet||Karthik*, 29, was on the verge of taking an extreme step as he was continuously threatened by an unknown woman on social media repeatedly for money. The well-educated professional was relieved only after police rendered assistance. A few months ago, he ignored a friend request on Facebook from the woman from the Philippines. Later, he said he half-heartedly accepted the request. He and the woman had chats over Facebook Messenger and became friends. He went on to exchange intimate videos and pictures with her. The woman recorded his videos and started blackmailing him. A police officer said, “The fraudster had collected contacts of the victim from the social media account. She threatened that obscene videos would be sent out to his friends on his profile unless he paid money. He was forced to transfer Rs. 2 lakh to her online. However, the fraudster continued to demand Rs. 5 lakh.” Immediately after the receipt of the complaint, the police officer said the cyber crime cell in T. Nagar acted swiftly. “We wrote to Facebook and disconnected the link between her and victim. We also alerted bank authorities about fraudulent transactions. Now there will be no further threat to the victim,” said the officer. Rajaram*, another victim, was shocked when he received a threat mail from a stranger. The sender of the mail said that while he was watching porn videos, his browser started working as a remote desktop with a keylogger. The fraudster threatened to circulate details of his activities to his contacts unless he paid $1,900 via Bitcoin within a day. Vineet Kumar of Cyber Peace Foundation, Hyderabad, explaining yet another fraud executed via social media, said, “What the criminals do here is hack into the FB account of a particular person and access the entire friends’ list. They send messages through Messenger seeking money to meet urgent medical needs. The fraudster makes the victims pay through e-wallet.” “Don’t accept friend requests from strangers unless the profile is verified and proper credentials are checked. Do not share any private photos or videos with unknown people on social media. In case of fraud, the victim should immediately approach the local police. We have a 24-hour helpline in T. Nagar,” said Deputy Commissioner of Police, T. Nagar, D.N. Hari Prasad.  (* name changed)
11 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||From adding infrastructure to scheduling classes — challenges for schools aplenty||Despite the Tamil Nadu government stating that no decision has been taken so far on the reopening of schools, the Union Health Ministry’s recent guidelines on the partial reopening of schools for Classes IX to XII has got institutions in Chennai thinking about the changes such a move will bring about. The challenges are plenty. Even a partial reopening will mean that schools need to focus on several aspects like infrastructure, scheduling of classes and transport facilities for students. Vishnucharan Panneerselvam, correspondent, Shree Niketan Group of Schools, said that schools, so far, never felt the need for handwashing facilities at their entrances — something extremely important in the current scenario. “We have had to build them at our three campuses. Thermal temperature guns, which most guidelines prescribe, will be tough to use among a high number of students and we’re trying out a thermal scanner instead,” he said. Classroom strength The guidelines specify that for guidance activities, a distance of 6 ft should be maintained at all times. They have also suggested staggered timings for classes. “Most schools, however, have only two or three-seater units in classrooms, and when they reopen fully, it will be impossible to fit all students in a single room,” Mr. Vishnucharan said. Schools like his have started switching to single-seater furniture as a first step. Another change that is being considered is to split students into smaller batches and call them to the campus on alternate days. Batch system “Even if we reduce the numbers, they will still be occupying the same space and the scheduling has to be well thought of. Having one batch in the morning and another in the evening will not be the safest way to go about,” noted Srinivasa Raghavan, principal, Bala Vidya Mandir. He cautioned that the buck doesn’t stop with infrastructure and scheduling aspects. “Schools in our country are designed to handle the strength that they are currently operating with. Children will be children, and it will be challenging to constantly enforce and monitor physical distancing norms among them, when they are bound to sit in groups, talk and play,” he said. P.K. Ilamaran, president of the Tamil Nadu Teachers’ Association, said in government schools, infrastructural needs begin from ensuring that all students and teachers are provided with masks when the institutions reopen. “Through the lockdown, many students might have also faced issues that will have to be addressed through psychological counselling,” he added. Transport norms Schools in semi-urban areas, where students largely depend on transport facilities, have started sensitising drivers on how to disinfect vehicles and ensure adherence to physical distancing norms. “Many students largely depend on our buses. While we will ensure that the norms are followed, we will have to see how many parents continue to opt for the facility,” said Lakshmi Prabha, principal, Prasan Vidya Mandir. Ms. Lakshmi, who heads the Kanchi Cluster group of schools under the Chennai Sahodaya Schools Complex, said they were planning to meet and discuss safety measures and norms that would be practical and feasible to implement across schools. “The major task that schools have is to completely orient and make teaching and non-teaching staff aware of ways to implement and ensure that norms are followed on campus,” said Mr. Vishnucharan.
11 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Dialysis session saves seven-year-old dog with acute renal failure||Seven-year-old Benny, a Labrador Retriever, had been vomiting continuously for the last three days and could not drink even water without regurgitation. Benny’s pet-parent Ravikumar thought it could be a case of food poisoning. When he took it to a veterinary hospital in T. Nagar, the veterinarians suspected something else. A blood test proved that Benny’s creatine level was through the roof at 6.3 and he was suffering from acute renal failure. “Tick-borne fever had damaged the kidneys. So, we decided to do haemodialysis for the dog,” said a team of veterinarians, comprising Afzal, Aravind, Subatra, Vijay and Vaishnavi, taking care of the dog. Benny was subsequently shifted to The Ark Veterinary Clinic at Thiruvanmiyur, a place equipped with a haemodialysis machine. The first dialysis session proved effective and the creatine level came down to 3. Veterinarians said it would take five hours to complete the process. “Haemodialysis helps a lot in cases of acute renal failure. Early diagnosis is very important,” the team said. While the Veterinary College in Vepery has dialysis facilities, there are not many private clinics that offer the service to dogs as it is a costly procedure. “I never knew that dialysis is available for dogs. Benny is keeping well now. We expect the creatine level to become normal after the second dialysis,” said Mr. Ravikumar, who had raised multiple black Labrador Retrievers as pets and incidentally, all of them were named Benny. The veterinarians said the dog would survive and henceforth he should be on a kidney-friendly diet. “Food with high-quality restricted protein, restricted sodium, phosphorus and omega fatty acids can slow down the progression of renal disease,” the veterinarians said.
11 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||‘Hello police’ helpline started in Tiruvallur to tackle illegal activities||The Tiruvallur district police have started ‘Hello Police’ — a special number at a control room — in a move to crack down on illegal activity, including sand mining and ganja and gutkha smuggling, with the help of information from residents. The special number is 90033 90050. A control room with four police personnel, who will work on shift basis, has been set up in the Tiruvallur SP’s office. “Any member of the public can call, text or WhatsApp information related to illegal sand mining, gutkha, ganja, lottery, gambling and illicit arrack. The identity of the sender will not be revealed,” said P. Aravindhan, SP, Tiruvallur district. The complaint will be sent to the SP. “A total of five special teams have been formed to investigate the complaint. I will forward it to the respective team and they will rush to the spot and conduct a raid. If it is a false information, we will contact the caller again to verify, otherwise they won’t be disturbed,” he added. The Tiruvallur district police have booked 3,657 prohibition cases, 634 illegal sand mining cases, 469 Cigarettes and Other Tobacco Products Act cases, and 45 gambling cases. “We have been cracking down on illegal activities. But this can be done efficiently with help from the public. People hesitate, fearing their identity may be revealed. Hence, this control room has been started,” Mr. Aravindhan said.
11 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Plea to declare HR&CE Act unconstitutional dismissed||The Madras High Court on Thursday dismissed as withdrawn a writ petition to declare as unconstitutional the Tamil Nadu Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR&CE) Act of 1959. Chief Justice Amreshwar Pratap Sahi and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy were not inclined to entertain the case filed by Arjunan Elayaraja of Cuddalore and hence his counsel chose to withdraw it. In his affidavit, the litigant claimed that the State Government had put fetters on practice of Hindu religion by enacting the 1959 law. He said a secular State could not be allowed to control Hindu temples alone. He also contended that the Act violates Articles 14 (right to equality) and 15 (prohibition of discrimination on grounds of religion) of the Constitution besides being opposed to Articles 25 (freedom to practice religion) and 26 (freedom to manage religious affairs). The petitioner claimed that Hinduism was the oldest religion in the world and that other religions such as Islam, Christianity, Sikhism, Jainism and Buddhism had come into being only in the last 3,000 years. “The enactment of a law for Hindus alone is wounding and hence this writ petition is filed,” his affidavit read. However, Chief Justice Sahi pointed out that there was also the Wakf Act of 1995 and many mosques were covered under the wakfs. He said that there was the Sikh Gurudwaras Act of 1925. However, the petitioner's counsel replied that the Christians and other religious denominations were not governed by any such enactment. He contended that it was not right on the part of the State Government to take full control of Hindu temples alone by appointing its own employees as Executive Officers of those institutions. Unimpressed with the submissions, the Chief Justice said the argument might carry weight in the United States whose Constitution itself prohibits the State from enacting laws aimed at administering religious institutions. No prohibition He said the Indian Constitution does not impose any such prohibition. Hence in order to avoid the writ petition getting dismissed on merits, in which case a new case for the same relief could not be filed in the future, the petitioner's counsel chose to withdraw.  It was not right on the part of the State Government to take full control of Hindu temples alone by appointing its own employees as Executive Officers
11 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||ESIC notice to Boat Club not enforceable, says court||The Employees Insurance Court (Principal Labour Court), Chennai, has ruled that the notice issued by the Employees State Insurance (ESI) Corporation in 2005 against the Madras Boat Club, seeking payment of contribution with interest of about Rs. 6.62 lakh, is not enforceable. The Madras Boat Club had moved a petition against the notice, issued after inspection, and said there were only five employees working in its kitchen and therefore provisions of the Employees State Insurance Act were not applicable to it. The Employees State Insurance Corporation argued that the number of employees was never below 20 and also it could not accept the Club encircling the kitchen portion alone as a production unit, as it has been exploring many activities and was engaging regular workers. The court ruled that as per provisions of the ESI Act, the corporation could not enforce the payment merely on the basis of notice and there was no order passed. When there is no return or the claim is made only on the basis of an inspection by the ESI Corporation, the provision of Section 45A of the Act comes into operation and makes it mandatory on the side of the ESI Corporation to give an opportunity to the petitioner and pass an order, it noted.  Relentless exercise The court noted that it would be a relentless exercise after a lapse of nearly 15 years to call upon the ESI Corporation to pass a fresh order. However, it rejected a plea by the Madras Boat Club, seeking a declaration that it was not covered by the provision of the ESI Act. There could be no total exemption, and the question of coverage depended on various factors like less number of workers and the exemption granted by the government, the court added.
11 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Gang attacks 15-year-old in Virugambakkam||The police have launched a search to nab the persons who attacked a 15-year-old boy while he was sitting near his house in Virugambakkam. The police identified the victim as Thiyagu, son of Gajendran. While he was sitting outside his house on Wednesday, four persons on a bike attacked the boy and fled. The assailants have been identified as history-sheeters ‘Pura’ Manikandan, Suman and their associates. Police suspect their actual target may have been someone else.
11 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Ku.Ka Selvam challenges expulsion from DMK||Thousand Lights MLA Ku. Ka. Selvam has filed a suit in a city civil court challenging his recent expulsion from the DMK. The DMK leadership had suspended him soon after he met BJP national president J.P. Nadda in New Delhi, and hailed Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Besides, he also participated in a function at the BJP State headquarters on the day of ‘bhoomi poojan’ for the Ram temple in Ayodhya. The DMK then expelled him, not satisfied with his response to a show-cause notice. In his civil suit, Mr. Selvam submitted that the manner in which he had been removed from the primary membership was against the principles of natural justice and in blatant violation of the party’s bylaws. He said there was nothing wrong in his meeting BJP leaders in Delhi. The charges made against him were vague and not specific. He had not made any derogatory statement against the DMK party or leadership when he addressed mediapersons, he claimed. Mr. Selvam sought the court to declare the party’s order dated August 13, removing him from the primary membership of the DMK, as non-est, null and void. When the matter came up for hearing, assistant civil judge J. Bharathi ordered issuance of notices to the DMK, represented by its president M.K. Stalin.
11 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Two held for bank fraud||The Anti-Bank Fraud Wing of the Central Crime Branch on Thursday arrested S. Murali, 46, a jewel appraiser, and his associate S. Shanthi, 31, for allegedly pledging imitation jewellery and raising loans over Rs. 1 crore from a nationalised bank in the city. They were arrested by the police following a complaint from the senior manager of Syndicate Bank, Nandanam.
11 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC relaxes bail condition||The Madras High Court on Thursday relaxed a bail condition imposed on DMK MLA L. Idhayavarman in a case booked against him for allegedly using illegal firearms.
11 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Comedian ‘Vadivel’ Balaji dead at 42||Actor and comedian ‘Vadivel’ Balaji died in the city on Thursday. He was 42 years old and his family members said he was hospitalised around two weeks ago after his health deteriorated suddenly. Balaji was immensely popular among television viewers through his appearances in the comedy shows Adhu Idhu Yedhu and Kalakkapovadhu Yaaru . He was known for imitating popular comedian Vadivelu, earning him the title ‘Vadivel’. He went on to act in a few films and had also participated in numerous stage shows. More recently, he played a role in the film Kolamaavu Kokila starring Nayanthara. He recently began working on a small screen project after lockdown restrictions were lifted in the State. In a video message, actor ‘Robo’ Shankar said everyone was shocked by his untimely death. “I have worked with him for over 19 years and he was a good actor across television, films and stage shows,” he said. Mr. Shankar said even if there were thousands of people in the audience, he would engage them with witty responses as a sole performer. Balaji is survived by his wife and two children.
11 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Mobile phone snatchers held in Adyar||The Adyar police on Thursday arrested five suspects, who allegedly indulged in mobile phone snatching in Adyar and Thiruvanmiyur. The police said at 7.30 a.m. on September 3, while L. Sathyavani, 25, was walking towards Indira Nagar, two bike-borne suspects snatched her mobile and fled. Police traced the suspects with the help of CCTV footage and arrested J. Dinesh, 35, and M. Deenadayalan, 56. Their associates, S. Moinudeen, 20, S. Rahim, 20, and Sahib Hussain, 19, were also arrested. Six mobile phones, a few narcotic tablets and a bike were seized from them.
11 September 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Withdraw circular on Sanskrit learning: Vaiko||MDMK general secretary Vaiko on Thursday urged the State government to withdraw the circular asking schools to prepare the list of students who were interested in learning Sanskrit. In a statement, he said the office of the Deputy Commissioner of School Education had sent a circular to schools.
11 September 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Woman sells fourth baby, buyer couple arrested||A woman from Angalakurichi, near Pollachi, sold her fourth child, a male baby, to a couple, for Rs. 80,000. She claimed to have sold the child to raise money for treating her husband, who was ill. The Aliyar police have arrested the couple who bought the baby and a woman, who brokered the sale. R. Gokila (42) from Annapuram near Podanur in Coimbatore, her husband Rajesh Kumar (43) and S. Powlina alias Nirmala (41) from Puliyankandi near Aliyar were arrested late on Tuesday, police said. Nirmala claimed to be a social worker. According to the police, Karuppathal from Angalakurichi gave birth to the baby at a primary health centre in Aliyar on August 15. It was her fourth child. Her husband had undergone below-knee amputation of both legs due to diabetic foot ulcer, and the family was struggling to make ends meet, said the police. As per the statement given by the baby’s mother to the police, Nirmala informed the mother that Gokila and her husband were ready to buy the baby as they did not have children. She brokered the deal, and the baby was sold for Rs. 80,000 on September 6, said the police. A person, who came to know about the incident, informed Childline. “The mother did not know the whereabouts of the couple who bought the baby. She said that Nirmala mediated the deal. Nirmala was traced with the help of the police and the baby was rescued from the couple. The baby is currently at the Government Hospital, Pollachi,” said I. Angeline, counsellor with the Childline centre at Don Bosco Anbu Illam in Coimbatore. The accused were arrested under Section 81 of the Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of Children) Act.  (Childline emergency helpline can be reached at 1098 )
11 September 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||AEPC welcomes release of RoSCTL benefits||The Central Government has released funds for payment of dues under the Rebate of State and Central Taxes and Levies (RoSCTL) scheme and it will bring positive sentiments among garment and made-ups exporters, according to A. Sakthivel, chairman of Apparel Export Promotion Council. A release from the Council said that the competitiveness of the industry will improve as the government has said that the scheme will continue till it is merged with the Remission of Duties and Taxes on Exported Products (RoDTEP). “This scheme has been the backbone of policy support for the industry and will surely restore not just the competitiveness of the industry, but also positive sentiments for achieving higher export targets. This has been the request of our members in the apparel export industry for a long time and who would definitely benefit from this measure,” he said. Apparel exports, which had been hit hard by several factors such as the lockdowns, global depression in demand, increasing defaults due to bankruptcies and closure and huge increase in logistic and transactional costs needs this support to regain it advantages in the global markets. The apparel industry saw double digit decline in exports so far this financial year - 91.04 % in April, 66.19 % in May, 34.84 % in June and 22.09 % in July. , The announcement about continuation of the scheme and release of funds is expected to change the export trends, Mr. Sakthivel said.
11 September 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||TNAU starts online exam for final semester students||Tamil Nadu Agricultural University has started conducting online examination for final year undergraduate students of 10 programmes from September 2. The university used an online examination platform for the purpose. Final semester students could use either computer or mobile phone to write the examination and for them to do so with ease, the university had conducted a sensitisation programme, a release said. As many as 2,365 students are writing the examination.
11 September 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Gani Market traders pin hopes on Deepavali sales||With inter-district bus services resuming and more merchants arriving at the E.K.M. Abdul Gani Textile Market (Gani Market), traders are hopeful of improved sales for Deepavali. The wholesale and retail market has 730 weekly shops and 370 regular shops that merchants from across the States visit frequently and place bulk orders. The market was closed from March 16 owing to COVID-19 pandemic and was reopened on May 22. However, owing to restrictions on inter-district vehicle movement, traders from other districts were unable to come to the market. But on Tuesday, the market saw brisk business as merchants from other districts arrived. “Both wholesale and retail sales were good and we started receiving orders”, said T. Murugan, a trader. He was hopeful of good business ahead of Deepavali. “We have lost all our festival orders this year and our only hope is orders for Deepavali”, said another trader. S. Sakthivel, secretary, Erode Gani Market Weekly Textile Trader’s Association said that an increase in cash flow among traders would ensure credit facilities for the merchants and push up sales. “Only if we give credit, we can do business now”, he said. With business picking up, loadmen, tea sellers, hoteliers and autorickshaw drivers also began to see some income.
11 September 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Co-op societies to distribute pension through ration shops||In a first of its kind, Old-Age Pension (OAP) of Rs. 1,000 that is currently distributed by nationalised banks to beneficiaries will be distributed by Primary Agriculture Cooperative Credit Societies through ration shops in Bhavani and Bargur areas. Schemes Under the Social Security Schemes comprising Indira Gandhi National Old Age Pension, Indira Gandhi National Widow Pension, Indira Gandhi National Disabled Pension, Destitute Widow Pension Scheme, Destitute Differently Abled Pension Scheme, Destitute/Deserted Wives Pension Scheme and Unmarried Poor Women Pension schemes, monthly financial assistance of Rs. 1,000 is distributed to the beneficiaries in the State through nationalised banks. As part of improving the services of cooperative banks, Erode District Central Cooperative Bank has decided to disburse the assistance to beneficiaries through cooperative banks. Savings bank account was opened for 1,248 beneficiaries at the Central Cooperative Bank at Bhavani branch while account was opened for 1,273 beneficiaries in Bargur Panchayat at the bank’s branch at Anthiyur. Assistance distributed On Monday, Minister for Environment K.C. Karuppannan, in the presence of Collector C. Kathiravan, distributed the assistance to 1,248 beneficiaries at Bhavani branch. He said pension would be distributed through ration shops while differently-abled persons would receive the assistance at their door steps.
11 September 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||MLA seeks action over patta land sale||Claiming that over 100 acre of ‘condition patta’ land that were given to scheduled caste people were sold to many individuals which is against the law, AIADMK Perundurai MLA Thoppu N.D. Venkatachalam submitted a petition to Collector C. Kathiravan demanding action against persons who purchased the land. Speaking to reporters after presenting the petition, he said over 500 acre patta lands in Karumandichellipalayam Town Panchayat area in Perundurai Taluk were given to poor people on a condition that it should not be sold to others for a specific period. After utilising the land, they can sell the land to people of the same caste and not to others. “These lands were located on Salem – Kochi National Highway and over 120 individuals of other caste had purchased the land at a very meagre price,, he said.
11 September 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||COVID-19 victim’s body buried amid security||The body of a 75-year-old woman, who died of COVID-19, was buried at a graveyard near a lake in Anthiyur amid tight police protection after villagers opposed burial at her native village. The victim, a native of Palakuttai in Anthiyur, had cough and fever and was admitted to a private hospital for the past few days. After she tested positive, her condition deteriorated and she was shifted to the Government Hospital in Anthiyur on Wednesday where she died. The villagers opposed to burying the body in her native and efforts by the health and revenue officials to pacify them failed. Later, the officials in consultation with the police buried the body at a graveyard at Peri Eri in the night. Police picketing were posted to prevent untoward incidents.
11 September 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Turmeric centre: land survey begins||Survey of land for establishing a special centre for turmeric at Vadugapatti Aindhu Kinaru area in Arachalur has commenced. The district administration had proposed to establish the centre on 25 acre at a cost of Rs. 48 crore at the village. On Wednesday, a team led by Modakurichi Tahsildar Ravichandran and officials began surveying the land in the presence of police personnel. Boundary stones were placed and work is expected to commence soon.
11 September 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||580 fake accounts in Erode district||Under the Pradhan Mantri-Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM KISAN) scheme, 580 fake accounts of non-farmer beneficiaries were detected and Rs. 11 lakh recovered so far in the district. After the scam was unearthed in many districts in the State, officials here began verifying the applications and found 580 fake accounts. The money was recovered and the accounts were frozen. Collector C. Kathiravan said that all the applications received were being scrutinised and the exact number of fake beneficiaries will be known soon. Sources said a total of 85,000 applications were received in the district and they suspect irregularities in 7,000 applications that were mostly submitted through browsing centres and e-service centres. The Crime Branch CID police arrested one person in Salem in connection with the scam on Thursday.
11 September 2020||ERODE,TAMIL NADU||power shutdown||Due to maintenance works, power supply will be disrupted in the following areas on September 11.  Thanneerpandal and Avalpoondurai sub-stations, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.: Avalpoondurai, Kanagapuram, Thuyyam Poondurai, Poondurai Semur, Palliyuthu, Sullimedu, Thirumangalam, Vettukattuvalasu, Velampalayam, Rattaisutri Palayam, KAS Industries, Solipalayam, Kumaravalasu, Chennimalai Palayam, Velliyampalayam and Rasampalayam.  Thirunagar Colony electric line, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.:  Cauvery Road, Kuyilaan Thoppu, Vandiyuran Kovil, Ganapathipuram, Kamala Nagar, R.K.V. Nagar, Chinnappan Colony, Jeyagopal Street and Kavitha Theatre.
11 September 2020||HOSUR,TAMIL NADU||Australian woman assaulted and robbed||A 65-year-old Australian woman was robbed, assaulted and dumped at an isolated spot, before she was rescued by factory workers in Hosur on Thursday. The accused, a history-sheeter, who had taken up driving of a shared-auto at the Hosur bus stand, has been arrested and remanded. The victim, Ruth Alexander, had arrived in India on a tourist visa to Kodaikanal before the COVID-19 pandemic and had been stranded during the lockdown. C. Murali, Deputy Superintendent of Police, Hosur, told The Hindu that Ms. Alexander had been extending her visa through the Bengaluru City Commissioner during the lockdown. She had left Kodaikanal for Dindigal by bus, and had changed buses to reach Salem and from there, had come to Hosur. “She had reached the Hosur bus stand at 1.30 a.m on Thursday and was hoping to reach Bengaluru and from there to Puttaparthi. She found a share auto with five passengers at the Hosur bus stand, and assumed it would be safe. The auto driver asked the other passengers to get off, and had assured Ms. Alexander that he would drop her off safely at the border that was only five minutes away,” Mr. Murali said. The auto driver, Shankar alias Mullu Shankar, was a history-sheeter, who was already jailed under the Goodas Act last year, he said. He was let out during the COVID pandemic. Shankar had driven the Australian woman around for over 10 minutes to a desolate spot in Muneeswar Nagar, where he assaulted her and robbed her of her bag and belongings that included cash, Rs. 3,000. Ms. Alexander had sustained facial injuries to her lips and jaw and was incapacitated for over 45 minutes in the dark. She was spotted by some factory workers, who were returning home from their factory shifts. She was rescued and admitted to Hosur Government Hospital, where she was recovering on Friday. “We took down her statement, and soon we traced the accused, who already had criminal antecedents. We were not aware he was driving an auto after he was released. The victim was trying to go to Puttaparthi but the only cash she had was robbed. Now, we will personally escort her and drop her in Puttaparthi, after what she had gone through here,” said DSP Murali.
11 September 2020||KARAIKAL,TAMIL NADU||NITPY-NHAI pact for knowledge-sharing in transportation sector||National Institute of Technology, Puducherry (NITPY), on Wednesday signed a memorandum of understanding with National Highways Authority of India (NHAI) for sharing of knowledge on the latest trends in highway/transportation sector. The memorandum of understanding envisages adopting national highway stretches between Sattanathapuram and Nagappatinam running to about 55 km under the institution’s social responsibility for five years. The adopted stretches will be used as a field of study for faculty, researchers and students. NITPY Director K. Sankaranarayanasamy and T.V.Sivaji General Manager and Project Director, NHAI Villupuram, exchanged the MoU documents. Alongside bridging the industry-institution gap, the MoU paves way for familiarising students with the latest trends in industry. The joint research output could be suitably adopted by NHAI, Prof. Sankaranarayanasamy said. NHAI will be offering internship to maximum of 10 undergraduate and postgraduate students of the institute periodically and also extend stipend, Mr. Sankaranarayanasamy said. The MoU will help the researchers and students of Civil Engineering Department to improve their practical knowledge and make them ready for employment, Madappa, Department Head, said.
11 September 2020||KARAIKAL,TAMIL NADU||Collector distributes reusable menstrual cloth pads to students||Reusable menstrual cloth pads were distributed free of cost to female students of Akkaraivattam Government High School on Thursday by Collector Arjun Sharma, under a project supported by Oracle – CAF India under its Corporate Social Responsibility ( CSR) initiative. The project of one-year duration being executed by Gramalaya since April 1, entails distribution of 15,000 reusable menstrual cloth pads to adolescent girl students alongside conduct of Menstrual Hygiene Education by Gramalaya’s volunteers. Handing over the cloth pads to 34 adolescent girls students, the Collector said it was necessary for the rural population to shed the taboo and realise that menstruation was a natural biological process, and that adolescent girls could do any activity as in the normal days, but with higher emphasis on personal hygiene. M.Elangovan, Executive Director of Gramalaya, explained that commercial cloth pads contained chemical by-products and did not decompose easily. The reusable cloth pads were made out of pure cotton and would not affect the health of women and girls. The project, which is being executed at a budget of Rs. 74 lakh, was supported by Oracle – CAF India. School headmaster A. Immanuvel said the project would benefit poor school students who could not afford to purchase commercial pads. N. Ponnusamy, Project Co-ordinator, Gramalaya, said through the project 15,000 poor students would be provided with as many pouches, each containing four pieces of reusable cloth pads.
11 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Online application process for RTE Act seats difficult: parents||A section of parents and activists say it is difficult to file online application for school seats reserved under Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education (RTE) Act, 2009. The RTE Act mandates private schoolsto set aside 25% of entry-level seats for students from economically weaker sections of the society. According to the School Education Department’s website, the online application process for RTE Act seats which started on August 27 will end on September 25. There are 5,715 seats reserved under the RTE Act in 443 schools in Madurai district. Activist K. Hakkim of People’s Awareness Trust, which along with Students Federation of India (SFI) has been helping out parents in the application process, says there are several issues with the usage of Google Maps tool while filing the application. The process demands that applicants have to enter their address on Google Maps, based on which they have to choose schools that come within a one-km radius. “Several schools, that are not connected to Google Maps App, do not show up within the one-km radius on the map,” he says. A major concern expressed by parents is the restriction to choose schools within one km. This problem is more pronounced in rural areas where students travel several km to reach private schools. M. Sivakumar, a resident of Thengalpatti near Chekkanoorani, who works as a load man at Central Vegetable Market in Mattuthavani, is one such applicant who could not apply for the RTE Act seat as no private school is present within one km from his address. “It is only through RTE Act seats that I can admit my daughter to a private school,” he said. R. Charles, a volunteer who assists parents in the online application for RTE Act seats, says it is “unfair” to follow the one-km rule in case of students from rural areas. “It would be better if applicants can directly select the schools, without using Google Maps tool,” says Mr. Hakkim. In addition, parents have complained that the process to get documents necessary for the application process from government departments gets delayed, owing to the COVID-19 pandemic, says S. Veldeva, Madurai district (urban ) secretary of SFI. “Hence, it would be better if there is an extension of the deadline for filing online applications,” he says. Mr. Hakkim says schools must also publish the vacant RTE Act seats for all classes so that students from the less privileged families can fill them up.  Major concerns Schools that are not connected to Google Maps do not show up within the one-km radius  The process to get documents from government departments gets delayed
11 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Extend moratorium on loan repayment: CPI(M)||Communist Party of India (Marxist) cadre staged protests at 10 places across the city on Thursday urging the government to extend moratorium on loan repayment for another six months. The protesters said that with the end of the moratorium period announced by the Reserve Bank of India, micro finance companies were pressurising poor women to pay interest on loans during the COVID-19 pandemic. J. Lenin, one of the cadre from Munichalai, alleged that collection agents of private financial institutions were threatening the borrowers to pay additional interest for delay in paying their monthly due. “Though lockdown relaxations have been announced, it will take more time for people to start earning a decent income. Many still have no work and are penniless,” he said. So, the mortaorium on loan repayment must be extended, the protesters said. They also asked the authorities to take action against private hospitals that were charging exorbitantly for treating COVID-19 patients. The protesters said the civic body must desilt all tanks and water channels to prevent flooding during monsoon.
11 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Entrepreneur installs life-size statue of late wife at home||C. Sethuraman, a 74-year-old entrepreneur from Mela Ponnagaram in Madurai, has installed a life-size statue of his late wife at his home to symbolically recreate her presence with him. His wife S.Pichaimani, 67, died due to heart attack on August 10. Mr. Sethuraman, who owns three big marriage halls in Madurai, says his wife always supported him, even during the most turbulent times during their 48-year-long journey. “I quit my government job as a health inspector to venture into real estate business. Through the years, I faced financial losses several times. But she was always there with me. She was more like my best friend,” he adds. After her death, Mr. Sethuraman wanted to recreate the feeling of being with his wife at home. “After I came to know that a businessman from Karnataka had installed a statue of his deceased wife, I was inspired to follow suit,” he adds. It took around 25 days for a sculptor in Madurai to make this fibre statue. “It is guaranteed that the statue will stay intact for many decades if it is kept indoors,” he says. Mr. Sethuraman says his three daughters are married, with his first eldest son-in-law being Tirupparankundram MLA P. Saravanan. He has placed the statue in his living room. Apart from the statue, Mr. Sethuraman has also placed a huge portrait of his wife in the living room. “The portrait is placed in such a manner that the moment I open the door of the living room, my wife’s portrait will be visible. It is to symbolise that my wife still opens the door for me,” he adds.
11 September 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Rs. 59 lakh recovered from 2,987 ineligible accounts under PM-KISAN scheme||A sum of Rs. 59 lakh credited into the bank accounts of 2,987 ineligible beneficiaries and non-farmers under PM-Kisan scheme had been recovered in Madurai district as on Thursday, said Joint Director of Agriculture T. Vivekanandan. It came to light recently that out of 16,474 registered beneficiaries in Madurai district, 11,135 were ineligible to receive the benefit. Speaking to The Hindu , Collector T.G. Vinay saidblock-level teams, comprising Assistant Directors of Agriculture, were formed to verify the ineligible accounts and recover money credited to those accounts. “Two instalments had been credited in some accounts, and only one instalment was credited in others,” he said. Under PM-Kisan scheme, eligible farmers get Rs. 6,000 per annum in three equal instalments. The money is credited to their bank accounts. Recently it was found out that in 13 districts of Tamil Nadu, around Rs. 110 crore was fraudulently credited to the bank account of ineligible persons. Dr. Vinay said the issues emerged after the introduction of ‘Farmers Corner’ in the Union government’s official website, where farmers were asked to upload documents for registration under the PM-KISAN scheme. Mr. Vivekanandan said that prior to that introduction of the online portal, farmers had to submit relevant documents in person to revenue officials for verification. “But, since February this year, the work was entrusted with the verification work,” he said. The problems surfaced since April, during the COVID-19 pandemic. “During this period, login IDs and passwords of government officials were misused to validate applications of ineligible persons. The list of ineligible persons also included government servants and those who were non-farmers. In some cases, all family members of a farmer had been registered,” he said. Investigations were under way to find out how staff of private computer centres had access to the password and whether there was connivance by officials,” he added. Virudhunagar As many as 2,622 beneficiaries among 89,000 farmers in Virudhunagar district have also been found ineligible, said B. Manickam Tagore, MP. Talking to reporters here, he said Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswamy himself had admitted that five lakh beneficiaries were ineligible. “Was the Government in deep slumber to have allowed such a big scam. If the CM himself says that the number is five lakh, this needs to be probed further to get into the bottom of the scandal,” he said. “We need to fix the officials and politicians from the ruling parties,” he said.
11 September 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||High Court grants relief for music director Harris Jayaraj||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Thursday allowed the petition filed by music director Harris Jayaraj who sought relief from levy of maximum demand charges and compensation towards low power factor by TANGEDCO on Thanjavur-based G.V. Studio City cinema theatre, of which he is the lessee. The petitioner said the theatre has a high tension (HT) consumer connection. He was aggrieved by levy of demand charges by TANGEDCO from March to July, when the COVID-19 lockdown had been imposed throughout the country and theatres remained closed. In fact, the lockdown for theatres would continue through September. No theatre was allowed to function and there was virtually no service activity since the lockdown, the petitioner said. He pointed out the Madras High Court had already ruled as illegal the charges levied by TANGEDCO on HT consumers. Relying on the earlier order of the High Court, Justice G.R. Swaminathan allowed the petition filed by Mr. Harris Jayaraj and directed TANGEDCO to rework the bill. The excess amount should be adjusted towards future bills and the minimum charges be collected, the court said.
11 September 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||‘File status report on probe into Poolankurichi incident’||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court on Thursday directed the State to file a status report on a public interest litigation petition that sought a probe by the District Crime Branch in Poolankurichi incident in Sivaganga district, in which a gang had attacked a couple following an altercation. A Division Bench of Justices M. Sathyanarayanan and P. Rajamanickam directed the State to file the status report on the PIL petition filed by advocate P. Rathinam, who also sought appropriate compensation for the couple. The case was adjourned till September 22 for filing of the status report. The petitioner said that one S. Senthil was beaten up by one P. Prakash and three women. Mr. Senthil and his wife sustained injuries in the attack. Mr. Rathinam said that it was only after the intervention of retired Madras High Court Judge A. Selvam that Mr. Senthil and his wife received proper treatment at a government hospital and the police agreed to look into the issue. However, nothing much happened thereafter.
11 September 2020||NAGAPATTINAM,TAMIL NADU||New VC takes charge||The new Vice-Chancellor of Tamil Nadu Dr. J. Jayalalithaa Fisheries University G. Sugumar assumed charge on Thursday. Mr. Sugumar was earlier Professor and Head, Department of Fish Processing Technology, Fisheries College and Research Institute, Tuticorin. He had served as Dean there. Mr. Sugumar received the Best Research Publication in Fisheries Technology Journal (2018), Best Book Award –Co-Author (2018), Best Scientist Award (2015), Best Teacher Award (2008), and ICAR Senior and Junior Fellowship (2000).
11 September 2020||NAGERCOIL,TAMIL NADU||Five policemen shifted to other districts||Five policemen including the Inspector of Marthandam police station have been transferred to various districts after they were reportedly found to have indulged in irregularities while returning vehicles seized in connection with lockdown violations. The police seized over 7,000 vehicles from riders who were roaming around without any valid reason, registered cases against them and kept the vehicles in the police stations concerned. When Superintendent of Police Badri Narayanan ordered his subordinates to hand over the seized vehicles to the rightful owners on production of valid documents, Inspectors of all police stations commenced the process recently. As Mr. Badri Narayanan received complaints from a few vehicle owners about irregularities in handing over vehicles, he asked Deputy Superintendent of Police, Thuckalay, Ramachandran, to look into the charges. The DSP found that 8 vehicles had been wrongly handed over to owners after changing registration numbers of vehicles. Based on his report, the SP shifted Inspector, Marthandam, Authilingam Bose, Sub-Inspector, Marthandam, Suresh Kumar, head constables Victor and Sunil Raj and constable Reni to the Armed Reserve Police Force. The Superintendent of Police, explaining the embarrassing development that compelled him to shift the policemen of Marthandam police station, forwarded a letter to Inspector General of Police, South Zone, S. Murugan, who transferred Authilingam Bose to Ramanathapuram, Suresh Kumar to Sivaganga, Victor to Virudhunagar, Sunil Raj to Dindigul and Reni to Ramanathapuram.
11 September 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||‘Diabetes main cause of COVID-19 deaths in U.T.’||COVID-19-related deaths in the Union Territory have brought to focus the high prevalence of diabetes in a large section of the population. Among the comorbidities behind COVID- 19 deaths reported in the Union Territory, diabetes is the main cause; in a few cases, diabetes combined with hypertension is the cause. Data released by the Health Department on COVID-19 cases in the Union Territory on September 10 reveal that all six patients who succumbed to the virus were diabetic. Of the six deceased, four were under treatment for hypertension. Of the 10 deaths reported on September 9, five of the patients were diabetic. Data for September 6 revealed that of the 16 deaths reported, 11 persons were diabetic. The statistics released earlier for COVID-19 gives a nearly similar picture. Singular factor Director of Health and Family Welfare Services S. Mohan Kumar told The Hindu that diabetes remained the main cause of COVID-19 deaths. “If you take a singular factor for mortality, diabetes remains the top one among co-morbidity conditions. In certain cases, diabetes along with hypertension led to a large number of deaths. It is a fact that we have a large number of diabetes and hypertension cases. Hereditary factor combined with lifestyle is the main cause of high prevalence rate.” According to former Director of Health and Family Welfare Services Dilip Kumar Baliga, people of the Union Territory, especially Puducherry, were more prone to diabetes and hypertension. Two decades ago, a survey was conducted by doctors from France along with the Health Department in Puducherry. The survey found the prevalence of hypertension to be very high among the residents. “We joined the French team as they informed us about the high incidence of hypertension among Puducherrians settled in France. So they wanted to know if it was because of migration or because of the high prevalence rate here. The study found a high percentage of diabetes cases here,” Mr. Baliga said. Jipmer survey Subsequently, a survey conducted by the Jawaharlal Institute of Postgraduate Medical Science and Research (Jipmer) showed 30% of government servants in Puducherry were diabetic, he said. “Heredity, undisciplined dietary habits and a very sedentary lifestyle are the causes of such a high incidence,” Mr. Baliga said. ‘Awareness needed’ Emergency physician at New Medical Centre T. Arjun Sundaram said people with co-morbidities were at a higher risk of getting infected with the virus. So it is very important that people present themselves before a doctor, he said, stressing the need for more awareness among people on early symptoms. “It is an obedient virus if treated early for even people with comorbidities. But people with comorbidities try to ignore early symptoms as part of their existing medical conditions or just as flu-like symptoms. Once ignored, the oxygen saturation plunges and recovery chances of the patients are reduced,” Dr. Arjun said.
11 September 2020||Puducherry,TAMIL NADU||Toll crosses 350 in Puducherry||The COVID-19 toll in Puducherry crossed 350, with six more deaths recorded on Thursday, while 452 cases were recorded and 422 patients discharged in the last 24 hours. Puducherry accounted for five of the fatalities and Yanam one. The patients, including a woman, were in the 50 to 86 age range. The toll stood at 353, fatality rate at 1.9% and recovery rate at 72.23%. The new cases were detected during testing of 2,264 samples, Director of Health S. Mohan Kumar said. Puducherry accounted for 288 cases, Karaikal 123, Yanam 38 and Mahe three.
11 September 2020||PUDUCHERRY,TAMIL NADU||Pondicherry varsity, NIOT sign pact||Pondicherry University has inked a Memorandum of Understanding with the National Institute of Ocean Technology (NIOT) for research on marine organisms. “The MoU intends to exploit marine living resources using deep-sea exploration facilities of the NIOT and expertise of Pondicherry University in the field of microbiology, biotechnology and marine biology,” said a press note. Among those who participated in the video-conferencing were Gurmeet Singh, Vice-Chancellor; M.A. Atmanand, NIOT Director; B. Chithra, Registrar; and S. Balakrishnan, head of the Directorate of Studies, Educational Innovations and Rural Reconstruction.
11 September 2020||RAMANATHAPURAM,TAMIL NADU||Security arrangements in place for Immanuel death anniversary||A majority of areas in and around the district leading to Paramakudi has come under a thick security cover since Thursday afternoon. About 4,000 policemen have been deployed in and around the district in view of 63rd death anniversary of Immanuel Sekaran on Friday. With pandemic and curfew order in force, movement of the public has been restricted this year. “‘There will be neither processions, rallies nor public meetings,” Ramanathapuram Collector K. Veera Raghava Rao said. Additional Director General of Police (Law and Order) Jayanth Murali, inspected the memorial and other arrangements, accompanied by IGP (south zone) Murugan and SP E. Karthik. Visitors have been instructed to follow physical distancing norms. Political outfits have been given routes to follow from other districts. and check posts provided with high resolution cameras and adequate manpower. Only those with permission from the Collector should pay tribute at the memorial. Each political outfit can have five persons. The vehicles should not be hired ones. With 144 Cr. P.C (curfew) in place, no assembly of persons would be permitted. People from nearby villages intending to reach the memorial without any pass should be treated as unauthorised assembly. As many as 14 DSPs, eight additional SPs, eight Superintendents of Police, two DIGs and personnel from various districts have been positioned at vantage locations including the Five Corner, the place where police opened fire in 2011 against the public, which claimed six lives.
11 September 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||‘Positivity rate less than 10% in Salem district’||Officials from the Health Department here said the number of positive cases a day was decreasing and the positivity rate in Salem district was less than 10%. R. Selvakumar, Deputy Director of Health Services (Attur), said there was a decreasing trend in terms of positive cases and as on Wednesday, there were 2,046 cases in the district. The number of cases went close to 500 cases a day earlier and it had started reducing. Precautions Dr. Selvakumar, however, said the situation could change at any moment if proper precautions like maintaining social distance, wearing masks and hand sanitation were not taken. He said as on Wednesday, the positivity rate was at 6.9% in the district and on an average, six persons tested positive for every 100 persons tested. The health condition of 182 persons, who were under treatment in home isolation, were being monitored through health control room and block level health workers. Animators provided assistance to the people in home isolation. Dr. Selvakumar said 4,756 swab samples were tested on Wednesday alone and 279 returned positive. Samples were being collected at four private labs in the city as well and their quality was being monitored on a regular basis to prevent any anomalies. ‘Avoid mass gatherings’ The health officials advised the public to avoid mass gatherings like weddings, funerals and ensure they wore masks during such circumstances.
11 September 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Parks in Yercaud opened to visitors||The parks maintained by the Horticulture Department in Yercaud were opened to visitors from Wednesday. Park authorities carried out general maintenance to ensure safety. Officials said Anna park, Lake park, Rose park, heritage garden and two parks in government botanical garden were opened and there was no change in the entry fee. Sathya, Deputy Director of Horticulture Department, said temperature of the visitors were checked with thermal scanners and masks would be provided if required. Visitors were advised to physical distancing inside the parks and hand sanitation facilities had been arranged. Only close to 50 persons visited the parks on Wednesday. The officials were expecting more crowd during the weekend. They said staff had been deployed to ensure that there was no crowding at the parks and separate entry and exit points had been planned as part of crowd control measures. The officials said lawn maintenance were carried out and flower pots were arranged as part of reopening the parks. Flower pots were being readied for the next season.
11 September 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Commissioner inspects fever camps in Salem||Salem Corporation Commissioner R. Sadheesh on Thursday inspected fever camps conducted at industrial spaces here. According to a release, Mr. Sadheesh reviewed the arrangements at the camps held at SIDCO industrial estate for workers. Between September 7 and 9, the Salem Corporation collected samples from 3,328 workers at various commercial spaces through such fever camps. Till date, the Corporation had conducted 3,152 camps and screened 2.07 lakh people. The Corporation was planning to conduct more such camps as part of its COVID-19 containment measures.
11 September 2020||SALEM,TAMIL NADU||Ground breaking ceremony conducted||District Collector S.A. Raman on Wednesday conducted ground breaking ceremony for three village roads and inaugurated three part time ration shop buildings near Karumandurai. According to a release, the roads would be laid between Valavathu and Pelapadi, Thandanur and Ganeshapuram Kuruchi and Odavankadu and Ulankuruchi.
11 September 2020||THOOTHUKUDI/MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Thoothukudi’s tally up again||After a lull, the number of fresh COVID-19 cases in Thoothukudi crossed the 100 mark to reach 112, with which its tally rose to 12,066, with 708 active cases, on Thursday. Ninety-two people were discharged from hospitals. With the district recording one more fatality, its death toll rose to 118. Tirunelveli recorded 123 new cases to have a tally of 10,774, with 1,092 active cases. A total of 111 people were discharged from hospitals. With two more deaths registered on Thursday, the district’s toll went up to 192. In Kanniyakumari, 75 more cases were reported. After 138 people were discharged, the district’s tally stands at 10,615 and the number of active cases at 780. The district witnessed four fatalities, which raised its toll to 205. Tenkasi’s tally increased to 6,092, with 664 active cases, after 64 new cases were reported. Ninety people were discharged in the district, which has a toll of 113. Theni registered 96 fresh cases, with which its tally moved up to 13,520. After 78 people were discharged, the district, which has marked a toll of 154, has 804 active cases. Dindigul added 84 new cases to have a case count of 7,681. Hospitals discharged 82 people, and the number of actives cases stands at 966. The district has recorded a toll of 146. Fifty-three fresh cases were reported in Ramanathapuram, which has marked a tally of 5,132. There were 29 discharges from hospitals. The number of active cases stands at 966 and toll at 112. Sivaganga’s case count rose to 4,399 with the addition of 17 cases on Thursday. There were 30 discharges. The number of active cases stands at 224 and toll at 114. Sixty-one new COVID-19 positive cases were recorded in Madurai, taking the district’s tally to 15,118. The number of active cases stands at 992. A total of 137 people were discharged. No death was recorded in Madurai. Virudhunagar reported 31 fresh cases, which took the number of positive cases to 13,576. After 37 people were discharged, the number of active cases stands at 544. The district’s death toll remained at 201.
11 September 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||12 deaths, 700 new positive cases in central region||The central region on Thursday recorded 700 new cases of COVID-19, a slight drop over Wednesday’s count of 743. Also, 12 deaths have been recorded by the State Health Department. Seven patients in Nagapattinam, two in Thanjavur and one each in Ariyalur, Pudukottai and Tiruvarur succumbed to the viral infection. A 60-year-old man with multiple organ dysfunction syndrome, men aged 61, 70, 50, all with co-morbid conditions including diabetes, a 74-year-old man suffering from Parkinson's disease and chronic kidney disease, and men aged 63 and 72 suffering from hypertension were among those who died in Nagapattinam. In Thanjavur, men aged 66 and 70 with co-morbidities, including chronic kidney disease, died of COVID-19. Meanwhile, a 55-year-old man of Ariyalur, who suffered from pulmonary edema, a 55-year-old woman of Pudukottai, who suffered from coronary artery disease, died and an 80-year-old man of Tiruvarur with medical history of left ventricular dysfunction, among other conditions, succumbed to COVID-19. Nagapattinam recorded a sharp increase in cases for the second day in a row with 130 patients testing positive. Among them were local contacts, index cases with no history of travel, inter-district travellers and persons with symptoms of Influenza-Like Illnesses. Tiruchi too recorded 130 new cases, many of whom were from containment zones. The patients were primary cases, local contacts and travellers, official sources said. The Siddha clinic situated within Tiruchi Mahatma Gandhi Medical College Hospital would remain closed on Friday and Saturday as three office staff tested positive. “We have informed the patients and those who require assistance will be given consultation on the phone for the two days,” District Siddha Medical Office S. Kamaraj said. The clinic would be sanitised and disinfected during the two days and would reopen for patients, he added. Tiruvarur recorded 127 cases for the infection. In Pudukottai, 99 patients tested positive on Thursday. A large number of them were local index cases with no history of travel or contacts, officials here said. Thanjavur recorded 90 cases. Among them were a security guard at Thanjavur Medical College Hospital and three office staff of a private hospital. Meanwhile, employees of private companies and primary contacts were also among those who tested positive. Karur recorded 66 new cases and Ariyalur 33. Of the 33 patients in Ariyalur, five hailed from Ariyalur block, six from Thirumanur, four each from Sendurai and T. Palur, six from Andimadam and eight from Jayankondam districts. Meanwhile, 449 throat swabs were lifted from patients who suffered from symptoms of COVID-19, primary and secondary contacts. In Perambalur, 29 patients tested positive. Eleven patients hailed from Perambalur block, eight from Veppanthattai, six from Veppur, and four from Alathur blocks.
11 September 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Occupancy yet to pick up at TTDC hotels||Ten days after the Tamil Nadu government granted permission to reopen hotels and lodges, facilities run by the Tamil Nadu Tourism Development Corporation Ltd (TTDC) are reporting poor occupancy. Along with private hotels, TTDC reopened its units, named Hotel Tamil Nadu, in different parts of the State, including in Tiruchi, Mamallapuram, Thanjavur, Rameswaram, Kanniyakumari, Tiruchendur and Madurai, on September 1 after a gap of over five months. Besides on-site bookings, TTDC resumed online services too. However, the bookings are yet to show encouraging signs. Almost all 22 hotels, which have restaurants and bars, have reported poor bookings. The occupancy rate hovers around 5% in most hotels. Of the 30 rooms that include budget and A/C suites in Hotel Tamil Nadu in Tiruchi, located near the Central Bus Stand, just two rooms were occupied on Thursday. The same trend prevailed over the past 10 days. Sources said that TTDC hotels in Thanjavur, Rameswaram and Kanniyakumari, which cater mainly to tourists, also received poor bookings. There were hardly any enquiries for bookings for the next couple of weeks. Tourism Minister Vellamandi N. Natarajan told The Hindu that TTDC hotels had put in place safety precautions in accordance with the standard operating procedures issued by the State government. However, most hotels had received just one or two bookings in the last 10 days. The movement of pilgrims and business and marriage travellers had not picked up yet. “We need to admit that apprehensions do prevail among people about contracting COVID-19. We are taking ... steps to enhance customer confidence in TTDC hotels. We hope the bookings will pick up gradually,” he said. He said the resumption of public transport and train services was expected to lead to an increase in bookings in the days to come. Instructions had been given to hotel managers to carry out deep cleaning of rooms and washrooms on a daily basis. Guests should be admitted after they are screened with a thermal scanner, he added.
11 September 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Widened Karur Bypass Road clogged with parked vehicles||While redevelopment of Karur Bypass Road in the city as a “model road” by Tiruchi Corporation has been largely welcomed by local residents, unrestricted parking along the stretch seems to have defeated the objective of the widening project. Conceived under the State Government's Infrastructure Gap Filling Fund, the project taken up at an estimated cost of Rs. 8 crore is still under way. However, redevelopment of the stretch from Salai Road intersection up to the road over bridge has been completed. The stretch has been substantially widened and walkways have been laid. A road median has also been constructed to regulate the traffic flow. The project was executed in the wake of persistent demand from residents for development of the road, which, in recent years, has emerged one of the busiest in the city as it connects Salai Road and Tiruchi-Karur Highway on one direction and leads to Chathram Bus Stand and Srirangam on the other. The road has also emerged the main entry route for vehicles coming from the northern and western districts of the State. Mofussil buses and other vehicles from the districts enter the city via this road to take Anna Nagar Link Road towards Central Bus Stand and beyond. Several motorists prefer to take the road to reach Thillai Nagar from Chathram Bus Stand instead of going via the heavily congested Main Guard Gate area.  Commercial hub The road has also emerged a commercial hub as retail showrooms, hotels and eateries have come up along the road. Many of these establishments do not have dedicated parking space, forcing visitors to park their vehicles on the road. Frequent traffic pile-ups have been a major irritant for motorists, leading to calls for widening, removal of encroachments and regulation of parking. The District Road Safety Council too called for widening and construction of a median given the heavy traffic that it caters to. However, with a major portion of the work having been completed, scores of cars and two-wheelers are now seen parked along the road, nullifying the benefits of the widening project. “Now, perpendicular parking is followed on the road and cars seem to occupy almost three-fourths of the carriageways on both sides,” observed R. Gopalakrishnan, a regular commuter. With West Boulevard Road also being redeveloped on similar lines under the Smart City Mission, residents hope that the city police will regulate parking of vehicles on arterial roads. M. Sekaran, Member, District Road Safety Council, emphasises that parking of vehicles should not be allowed on main thorough fares and the rule should be strictly enforced in the city. “The onus of providing parking space for visitors and others is on the commercial establishments,” he said.
11 September 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||40 farmers trained in Fall Armyworm control||About 40 farmers of Mann Winn Farmers Producers Organisation at Venkatachalapuram in Uppilliyapuram block in the district were briefed on ways to control Fall Armyworm in maize crop at an awareness-cum-training programme organised by the Sugarcane Research Centre, Sirugamani, on Wednesday. The training was organised under the Tamil Nadu Irrigated Agriculture Modernisation Project jointly implemented by Water Technology Centre, Tamil Nadu Agricultural University and Sugarcane Research Station, Sirugamani, in Aiyyar Sub-basin. The research station expects to reach out to a large number of farmers by training members of the FPO and help them control the invasive pest, which had caused extensive damage to maize crop in the district earlier. Farmers were briefed on how the Fall Armyworm ( Spodoptera frugiperda ) attacks the maize crop in all stages and varieties of the crop. Cool temperature and intermittent rainfall favour the spread of the pest. The incidence can be marked by the scrapping of leaves, emerging leaves having window like pinholes, frass materials in whorl regions and loss of top portion in leaves are the characteristic symptoms of this pest. A single adult moth could lay up to 2,000 eggs. It was necessary to control the deadly pest through an integrated approach such as summer ploughing, application of eem cakes an hectare at last ploughing, seed treatment, raising border crops such as cowpea, sunflower, sesame, sorghum or chrysanthemum, intercropping with fodder grass desmodium, use of pheromone trap and light traps and chemical control by using recommended pesticides, scientists explained. N. Tamilselvan, Professor and Head (in-charge), Sugarcane Research Station, Sirugamani, inaugurated the training in which scientists and experts briefed the farmers on various aspects of the pest control. Scientist in-charge M. Sakila and others spoke.  It is necessary to control the deadly pest through an integrated approach experts
11 September 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||142 traders tested, two turn positive during special drive in Tiruchi||Two traders of Gandhi Market and the temporary wholesale vegetable market at G-Corner have tested positive for COVID - 19 in tests carried out under a special drive by the district administration. As part of the special drive, traders in the two large markets were subjected to COVID-19 test about three days ago. While some of them volunteered to undergo test, others were chosen randomly. A total of 142 traders were subjected to the test. Of them, 100 were from Gandhi Market and the rest from G. Corner. Similarly, all traders of Puthur Fish Market were also subjected to the test. The swab specimens were subsequently sent to K.A.P. Viswanatham Government Medical College Hospital. Both COVID-19 positive cases pertained to Gandhi Market. The positivity rate worked out to just 1.4% All traders of Puthur Fish Market tested negative, officials said. “It is an encouraging result. It is less than the district average,” said Tiruchi Collector S. Sivarasu. The Collector toldThe Hinduthat the traders were subjected to COVID-19 test as they were directly dealing with the public while selling vegetables to retail traders and others on a daily basis. The results showed that fresh cases were slowly but steadily coming down in the district. However, there was no question of complacency. Health, revenue and local bodies had been instructed to conduct fever camps. Al though the number of cases was slowly coming down, the scale of testing had not been reduced. About 1,800 to 2,000 persons were being tested every day. A total of 1,966 samples were collected on Tuesday. It breached the 2000-mark on Monday. On an average, about 100 patients tested positive accounting for about five per cent of the tested. Micro-level fever camps conducted in Tiruchi city and rural areas had been received well among the people. Besides patients with fever, cough and breathing difficulties, those with co-morbid conditions were also screened in the special clinics, the Collector said.
11 September 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||It’s usual timetable for online classes at NIT-T||National Institute of Technology-Tiruchi (NIT-T) is sticking to the usual timetable for conducting online classes for B.Tech / B.Arch. students. The online classes for the students began on August 25 with newly appointed faculty. Sixty-seven of them have joined duty. With this, the faculty strength of the institution has risen to 312. NIT-T has promoted the existing faculty to the next grade before making the new round of recruitment. Over the past two years, NIT-T has recruited 119 faculty members. The two generations of thought leaders will augur well for the growth of the institution, NIT-T Director Mini Shaji Thomas contends. NIT-Tiruchi has developed a dedicated web portal https://studymaterial.nitt.edu/login.php for uploading course material such as power point presentations and lecture notes. Students can access the material using their official email ID credentials. The faculty members are also conducting online lectures through video conferencing. Since good broadband connectivity is not available everywhere, recorded online lectures are also sent to students. Faculty have also used other platforms such as google drive, google classroom, email and WhatsApp to clarify doubts. The online classes are running smoothly and the new recruits have adapted well to the virtual teaching-learning platform, senior members said. At present, online assignments are considered as internal assessments. Lab and project work will be taken up after reopening.
11 September 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||Two killed in road accident||A man and his son were killed in a road accident after a goods carrier autorickshaw in which they were travelling crashed into a truck on the Madurai-Virudhunagar highway near Tirumangalam in the early hours of Thursday. Police said that P. Palpandi, 50, and his son Dhavamani, 20, from Sadachipatti near Usilampatti were selling onions and were proceeding on the highway. When the vehicle neared Rayapalayam junction, Dhavamani lost control of the vehicle and hit the truck that was going in front at around 6 a.m. Both were killed on the spot. The bodies were taken to Government Hospital in Tirumangalam. Tirumangalam Taluk police are investigating.
11 September 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Litigants body appeal to CM||The Litigants Welfare Association has appealed to the Chief Minister to impress upon the Centre the need for establishing a super speciality block Pradhan Mantri Swasthya Suraksha Yojana at Mahatma Gandhi Memorial Government Hospital attached to K.A.P. Viswanatham Government Medical College in Tiruchi city. In a representation, association president M. Sekaran said the Tiruchi hospital was first identified for setting up the super speciality block in 2003. “Subsequently, the project was shifted to Salem, owing to political pressure.” Since then, such super speciality blocks were sanctioned for 87 government medical colleges across the country. The association recently submitted a plaint in this regard to the NHRC and it had been referred for appropriate action to the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. The State government and MPs from the region should press for the establishment of the super speciality block in the Tiruchi hospital, he said.
11 September 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Man murdered in Manapparai||A 42-year-old person was stabbed to death by his friend at North Bharathiar Nagar in Manapparai on Thursday. Sources said Nagaraj, who owns a salon at Thengaithiranipatti, attacked C. Mani alias Palanisamy of Anna Nagar with a knife. The victim suffered serious injuries and died on the spot. Mani, a TANGEDCO employee, borrowed Rs. 6,000 from Nagaraj by pledging his two-wheeler. But he failed to repay the loan on time and Nagaraj was angered by this.
11 September 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Mobile shops to distribute rations||The Tirunelveli region will soon get 110 Amma mobile ration shops for those cardholders in far off places and in places situated a bit away from their ration shops, Minister for Cooperation Sellur K. Raju has said. Addressing a review meeting here on Thursday, he said the Department of Cooperation was opening ration shops in adequate numbers. The department had created 2,438 ration shops - 676 full-time shops and 1,762 part-time shops - across the State since 2011. For these shops, 1,973 buildings – 1,231 for full-time shops and 742 for part-time shops – had been built. To reach the hitherto uncovered areas or cardholders living in little far off places from ration shops, 3,501 mobile ration shops were being introduced on an outlay of Rs. 9.66 crore. Tirunelveli region comprising Tirunelveli and Tenkasi districts would get 110 mobile ration shops soon as part of this arrangement. The department was opening cooperative stores near ration shops where the public could buy 300 types of essentials at 5% discount. It had opened 712 cooperative stores so far across the State including 18 in Tirunelveli region, which got 10 more shops on Thursday. The Farm Fresh Cooperative Stores, which were opened to ensure unhindered supply of fresh fruits and vegetables to the public at right price, had so far sold 58,258 tonnes of fruits and vegetables worth Rs. 172.99 crore to consumers through 79 shops across the State. The mobile farm fresh shops that were inaugurated following the pandemic were of very much helpful to residents. The ‘Amma Pharmacies’, being run by the Department of Cooperation, had sold drugs worth Rs. 1,012.31 crore at 20% discount. “Cooperative banks across the State have deposits of Rs. 26,245.17 crore on March 31, 2011 which had gone up to Rs. 59,278.05 crore on July 31, 2020. The cooperative banks have given loans to the tune of Rs. 3,84,903 crore to 7.66 crore beneficiaries,” he said. He informed that the department had constructed 4,044 godowns with a capacity of 5.17 lakh tonnes on an outlay of Rs. 533.78 crore. Inaugurating the distribution of free masks to the cardholders, he said Tirunelveli district would receive 16.13 lakh masks even as 5.46 crore masks were being distributed across the State to protect the public from COVID-19 infection. Mr. Raju inaugurated 10 cooperative stores and 10 buildings built at a cost of Rs. 2.17 crore and distributed assistances worth Rs. 86.36 crore to 9,850 beneficiaries in the presence of Collectors Shilpa Prabhakar Satish of Tirunelveli and G.K. Arun Sundar Thayalan of Tenkasi and MLAs.
11 September 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Plan to stage protest||Ayyakannu, president, Farmers Forum for linking national and south Indian rivers, said that an agitation would be launched from September 23 seeking reservation for Other Backward Classes candidates in education and employment in the Union Government. Submitting a petition to Collector Sandeep Nanduri on Thursday, he said fast in support of this demand would be conducted across the country on October 2. He said irregularities in the Prime Minister’s Kisan Yojana should be weeded out by arresting the officials.
11 September 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Re-admitted man dies||A COVID-19 positive patient, who was discharged from Tenkasi Government Headquarters Hospital within three days of admission and readmitted on Tuesday, succumbedat Tirunelveli Medical College Hospital on Thursday. K. Raja Subramanian, 49, of Alwarkurichi admitted to the Tenkasi GH on September 3 and discharged on September 6 with the advise of home quarantine for a week. The discharge summary did not say he tested negative. As the issue surfaced, officials took steps to bring him back to the hospital on Tuesday afternoon. “The patient was conscious, oriented and responded when he was taken to the Tenkasi GH in an ambulance,” health officials said. However, his health condition deteriorated forcing the hospital authorities to rush him to TVMCH on Tuesday, where he was admitted to the intensive care unit. Yet, he died on Thursday morning. The TVMCH mortuary card, dated September 10, 2020, termed the victim as ‘COVID suspect’ even though the patient had tested positive for the viral infection on September 3.
11 September 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Five triage screening centres set up in Tiruppur district||With Tiruppur district recording over 100 COVID-19 cases every day in a nearly consistent manner, the Health Department recently set up five triage screening centres across the district. According to Deputy Director of Health Services (Tiruppur) K. Jegadeesh Kumar, the government hospitals at Udumalpet, Dharapuram and Palladam, the old Tiruppur Government Hospital building near the Old Bus Terminus in Tiruppur and Maharaja Engineering College in Avinashi are the centres available in the district. Each of these centres would have one medical officer and staff nurse to screen the COVID-19 positive patients. “If the patient is asymptomatic, we will refer the case to sanitary inspector or health inspector, who will check their houses as to whether it can accommodate the patient,” Dr. Kumar said. If the residence of the asymptomatic patient had the required facilities, he/she would be allowed for home quarantine for 14 days. However, if the residence did not meet the requirements, the patient would be sent for isolation at a COVID-19 Care Centre (CCC). Two wedding halls in Tiruppur Corporation limits had been converted into CCCs with a capacity of 150 beds each and similar arrangements had been made in other parts of the district, he said. If the patient showed COVID-19 symptoms such as fever, shortness of breath and loss of taste and smell, the screening centre would refer them for admission at either Tiruppur Government Medical College Hospital or taluk-level government hospitals. Those patients with mild symptoms would either be hospitalised or sent to a CCC as per the discretion of the medical officer in the triage screening centre concerned, Dr. Kumar noted. Bed availability According to Health Department sources, 2,281 beds are available in Tiruppur district for COVID-19 patients. This includes the Tiruppur Government Medical College Hospital, taluk-level hospitals and CCCs. Out of this, 577 patients have been admitted in the district as on Thursday. With the establishment of 19 sample collection centres across Tiruppur district, about 2,500 swab samples are being lifted and tested every day, according to Dr. Kumar.
11 September 2020||Tiruppur,TAMIL NADU||Vehicle restrictions in Tiruppur||In an effort to reduce traffic congestions, Tiruppur City Police said that heavy duty and light commercial vehicles will not be allowed to enter the city limits from 8 a.m. to 12 noon and from 4 p.m to 9 p.m. Tiruppur Commissioner of Police G. Karthikeyan said in a statement on Wednesday that these regulations were enforced following the relaxations in COVID-19 lockdown. However, these restrictions will not be applicable for vehicles carrying essential goods such as medicines and milk.
11 September 2020||Udhagamandalam,TAMIL NADU||Funds requested from varsity for conduct of exams||A Senate member of the Bharathiar University and president of Tamil Nadu Government College Teachers’ Association (TNGCTA), Ooty unit, has written to the Vice-Chancellor of the university requesting funds for the safe conduct of university exams during the pandemic. R. Sanil, the senate member and an associate professor at the Government Arts College in Udhagamandalam, said, “during the examination, the entire section of society will be represented in the college, and maintenance of proper sanitation facilities are a must. “The colleges are acting only as centres for the conduct of university examinations, and the university is conducting examinations in non-autonomous aided/self-financing/government colleges.” In a letter to the VC, he said that for the conduct of the examinations, the university is collecting exam fees from the students, and as exams for first and second year students have been cancelled, the funds collected would be more than sufficient for setting up proper facilities for the exams to be safely conducted. When contacted by The Hindu , Dr. Sanil said that the issue had been raised by the college principals in the meeting with the VC and university registrar but added that the respective colleges were asked to approach the local administration with a request for funds. He has requested the university authorities to sanction an amount of Rs. 20 per student per examination to properly sanitise the exam centers, clean the rooms and also set up separate halls for students who are unwell and who would need to be separated from their peers. Bharathiar University Vice Chancellor P. Kaliraj said availability of funds should not be a problem, as sought by Mr. Sanil. “The University will do all this is possible for safe conduct of examination.”
11 September 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||Order regulates use of horses for joy rides in Nilgiris||The Department of Animal Husbandry and the Nilgiris Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (NSPCA), have announced that any retired race horses found to be used for joy rides on the streets will be confiscated and sent to an infirmary already identified by the authorities. Persons who are found to be using race horses to offer rides to tourists will also be fined Rs. 50,000, officials said.
11 September 2020||September 11 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||440 persons test positive, 545 discharged in Coimbatore||Coimbatore reported 440 new COVID-19 cases on Thursday, taking the district’s tally so far to 20,495. According to the Health Department, 3,790 persons were undergoing treatment and 545 persons were discharged on Thursday. In Coimbatore, two patients aged 58 and 63 died of the disease, taking the toll to 340. Two persons aged 65 and 75 died in Salem and a 65-year-old in Namakkal. In Erode, two persons died, taking the toll so far to 54. In Salem, 300 fresh cases were reported, of which 292 were indigenous including 133 in the Salem Corporation limits. Eight patients returned from Kallakuruchi, Dharmapuri, Namakkal, Tiruppur and Villupuram. In Namakkal, 123 persons including two civic body staff and a village health nurse tested positive. Twelve of them returned from Coimbatore, Tiruchi, Erode, Salem and Karur and three from Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh.  Tiruppur crosses 4,000 mark With 155 fresh cases, Tiruppur district crossed the 4,000-mark in total number of cases on Thursday. The district did not report any death and 105 persons were discharged. Erode reported 32 new cases, taking the district’s tally to 4,205. A total of 90 persons were discharged while 965 persons were under treatment. In a single-day spike since the pandemic began, Krishnagiri recorded 123 cases, taking the total number active cases to 667 and the infections to 2,632. Similarly, Dharmapuri recorded 124 cases, the highest ever single-day infection reported in the district. There are 440 active cases and the total number stood at 1,461. With 69 persons testing positive in the Nilgiris, the total number of cases increased to 2,128.
11 September 2020||September 11 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Tribal settlement awaits new bridge across contour canal||Residents of Nagaroothu tribal settlement within Pollachi forest range of Anamalai Tiger Reserve (ATR) are waiting for a proper bridge of about 15 feet across the contour canal connecting Sarkarpathy Power House and Thirumurthy Dam, which they need to have access to outside world. Around 140 residents of the settlement, around 10 km away from Sethumadai, are now using a metal bridge of two-and-a-half feet width without railings to cross the canal. After coming to know about the plight of the community, the Rotary Club of Coimbatore Town has expressed willingness to construct a bridge with railings across the canal with the consent of authorities. “There were several concrete bridges of about eight feet width with a side wall of about two feet across the canal for the use of the settlement and also for animals. The bridge for the settlement was removed when maintenance works were done for the canal some years ago. The present metal bridge that was constructed a few years ago is very narrow and difficult for the use of children and elders,” said V.N. Paramasivam, Coimbatore district president of Tamil Nadu Tribal Association. The settlement is situated 2.5 km away from the contour canal in an elevated area. Anna Nagar, near Sethumadai, the nearest town from the settlement, is 7 km away. Rotary office-bearers met Coimbatore District Collector K. Rajamani recently seeking necessary approvals for aiding the construction of a wider bridge. According to G. Sakthivel, secretary of Road Club of Coimbatore Town, the Collector assured them that necessary approvals will be ready in a week.
11 September 2020||September 11 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||580 fake accounts detected in Erode||Under the Pradhan Mantri-Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM-KISAN) Scheme, 580 fake accounts of non-farmer beneficiaries were detected and Rs. 11 lakh recovered, so far, in the district. After the scam was unearthed in many districts in the State, officials here began verifying the applications during the last one week and found 580 fake accounts. The money was recovered and the accounts were frozen. Collector C. Kathiravan said that all the applications received were being scrutinised and the exact number of fake beneficiaries will be known soon. Sources said that a total of 85,000 applications were received in the district and they suspect irregularities in 7,000 applications that were mostly submitted through browsing centres and e-service centres. “Most of these applications were submitted at the last hour”, an official said. One held in Salem The Crime Branch CID police arrested one person in connection with PM-Kisan Nidhi Scheme scam in Salem on Thursday. According to sources, the accused was identified as Kalaiarasan from Nengavalli here. The accused has forged documents and created over 150 beneficiary accounts under the scheme. Police are investigating. Kisan Sabha demand  Special Correspondent adds from Krishnagiri: The All India Kisan Sabha has demanded that Chief Minister Edappadi K Palaniswami submit a report in the Assembly session and also order a social audit at the panchayat level in the wake of the unearthing of fake accounts under the scheme According to the farmers’ association, the scheme that came into force in December 2018 had registered over 41 lakh small and marginal farmers. However, many of them were yet to receive any such relief. Similarly, over 1.50 lakh lessee farmers tilling temple lands were denied income support under the Scheme. According to All India Kisan Sabha, even as the government claimed that only 5.25 lakh fake accounts were found, and a purported fraud of Rs. 110 crore, the amount transferred amounted to over Rs. 300 crore. In its wake, the State government has ordered a CB-CID inquiry, which according to the Sabha was only an “eye wash”, it said.
11 September 2020||September 11 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Erode corporation collects e-waste at doorstep||Disposing of electrical or electronic waste safely is easy now as the corporation has begun collecting e-waste at the doorsteps of residents and commercial establishments. About 300 tonne municipal solid waste is generated in the 60 wards in the corporation which are classified as wet and dry waste. While wet waste is sent to the 19 micro-composting centres and converted as manure, dry waste is further classified as saleable and non-saleable waste. Saleable waste comprising plastic materials, cardboard sheets and papers that are collected by the conservancy workers are sold and the money obtained is divided among the workers. Non-saleable waste comprising picture tubes of old televisions, mobile phone chargers, tube lights, batteries, printers, wires and other e-waste are collected by the workers in vehicles and transported to the zonal office. The corporation, with the authorisation of the Tamil Nadu Pollution Control Board had entered into a Memorandum of Understanding with a Chennai-based e-waste recycling company for disposing the waste safely. Hence, the waste collected is sent to the company for safe disposal. Officials said that as part of the civic body’s plan to create ‘zero percentage garbage city’ by the end of 2020, it had planned to establish two waste incineration plants at Vairapalayam and Vendipalayam where the dry waste will be converted into fly ash. They said that the plant will burn the waste at 1,000 degree Celsius and the end product can be used in manufacturing bricks. While tender has been floated for establishing the plant at Vairapalayam, tender will be floated after six months for establishing the plant at Vendipalayam where bio-mining the waste work is in progress. “Once the plant starts functioning, e-waste will be disposed of by the corporation here”, they added.
11 September 2020||September 11 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||‘Deemed-to-be-varsities must publish that they are covered under RTI Act’||The Consumer Protection Council, Tamil Nadu, has urged the University Grants Commission to direct all deemed-to-be-universities to publish on their websites that they are covered under the Right to Information (RTI) Act. In a resolution adopted at its executive committee meeting, held online recently, the council charged the deemed universities with claiming that they are not covered under the RTI Act. However, the University Grants Commission, in a letter to the secretary of the council recently, has made it clear that deemed universities are covered under the Act. The matter was referred to the Central Information Commission (CIC) as early as 2007 and the CIC replied that deemed universities did come under the RTI Act. This fact has been suppressed by the deemed universities, the council alleged and requested the UGC Chairman to ensure that all deemed universities publish the information that they are covered under the RTI Act in their websites and prospectus within 15 days. Through another resolution, the council has also called for the shelving of a Tiruchi Corporation proposal to revamp Gandhi Market under the Smart City Mission in view of the opening of the integrated market at Kallikudi. It has suggested that a car park and a fair centre be set up in the area. The meeting was presided over by council president C.T. Selvakumar. S. Pushpavanam, secretary, presented a report on the council’s activities.
11 September 2020||September 11 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Jewellery recovered, one held||The Thudiyalur police on Thursday arrested a 33-year-old man, a post-graduate, who was involved in at least four housebreaks. The police recovered 34 sovereign of gold from him. The accused Manoj was involved in series of jewellery thefts within the limits of Thudiyalur police station. The police came to know about the involvement of Manoj in the crimes after his accomplice Nandakumar, 44, of Karur was arrested recently. The police said that the accused melted the stolen jewellery and turned them into bars. He was produced before court and remanded in judicial custody. Man killed in accident A 24-year-old man was killed after the two-wheeler he rode was hit by a vehicle near Chinthamanipudur on Salem–Kochi highway late on Wednesday. The vehicle, which hit the two-wheeler did not stop and the police were trying to trace it. The victim was identified as S. Velmurugan from Sivaganga district, who had been working in a company at Neelambur. Pillion rider Dawood suffered head injuries. The police said that the accident took place at 8 p.m. Velmurugan died on the spot. Mr. Dawood was admitted to a private hospital at Neelambur.
11 September 2020||September 11 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Crucial checks||
11 September 2020||September 11 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore district||Till September 10   Cases on Thursday: 440 Persons tested +ve so far: 20,839 Indigenous cases: 20,495 Imported cases: 44 Active cases: 3,790 Persons recovered: 16,709 Deaths: 340    Cases on Thursday: 155 Persons tested +ve so far: 4,066 Persons recovered: 2,650 Active cases: 1,333  Deaths: 83
11 September 2020||September 11 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Briefly||The Department of Posts will conduct divisional-level Dak Adalat for the quarter ending September 30, 2020 on Septembet 24 at 11 a.m. The meeting will be held at the office of the Senior Superintendent of Post Offices, Coimbatore Division, on Good Shed Road. Specific complaints and suggestions regarding postal service should be sent to Office of the Senior Superintendent of Post Offices, Coimbatore Division, before September 21. The cover should be superscribed as “Dak Adalat”.    Nandini Voice for the Deprived will conduct an essay competition for students and teachers separately on the topic “Online Classes for Students”. The aim of the competition is to provide an opportunity to teachers and students to provide their views and suggestions on the subject. The best three essays from the two categories - students and teachers - will receive awards. The essays should be maximum 1,500 words and should be sent to the following address before September 30: Nandini Voice for Deprived, M 60/1, fourth cross street, Besant Nagar, Chennai - 600090 or email: nsvenkatChennai@gmail.com For details, dial 044-24916037 or log on to:www.nandinivoice.com
11 September 2020||Belagavi/Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||ED attaches properties of film producer||Enforcement Directorate has attached 31 immovable assets and 32 bank accounts, worth Rs. 31.35 crore, belonging to Anand Appugol, film producer and founder-chairman of Krantiveera Sangolli Rayanna Cooperative Society, in and around Belagavi. He is facing charges of misappropriation and defrauding customers. This was the result of an investigation of financial misappropriation conducted by the central financial vigilance agency, under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act, 2002. ED officers had initiated this following complaints from depositors to the Prime Minister’s Office. Officers had visited Belagavi in July 2020, to speak to depositors and to consult local investigators. The attached immovable properties are in the form of agricultural land, commercial complexes, house in the name of Mr. Appugol, his wife Prema Appugol, and others including Shivmurthy Chivgol, Sanjay Patil and Mahantesh Angadi, all residents of Belagavi. ED initiated investigations under PMLA based on the FIR registered against Mr. Appugol and 15 others for embezzling more than Rs. 232.69 crore collected from over 1,300 members through fixed deposits by promising them high rate of interest ranging from 12% to 16%. From 2016, the society stopped paying back interests on deposits and did not allow depositors to withdraw their money. This led to several police complaints being lodged in the district. One year later, all the branches of the society closed down. Acting on a bunch of complaints, the city police arrested Mr. Appugol in 2017. Economic offences branch of Corps of Detectives also received some complaints and began an investigation. Though the accused was granted bail once, he was arrested again on charges of destruction of evidence. After an inquiry under the Karnataka State Cooperative Societies Act, the Deputy Commissioner issued an order for converting the assets into liquidity to be distributed to the depositors as per law. In June 2020, Assistant Commissioner filed a petition in the local court seeking auction of the properties.
11 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||With no clarity on SOP, leave for COVID-19 varies across factories||While COVID-19 pandemic has spread in many factories, there is no uniformity across them in terms of facilities like paid leave and insurance for the workforce exposed to the virus. Workers in many factories in the manufacturing sector have been denied quarantine leave and insurance cover. Part of the problem is that the Standard Operating Procedures (SOP) issued with detailed guidelines on handling the pandemic outbreak in the factories is vague on leave, giving scope to varied responses, industry sources said. What kind of leave? A SOP issued on August 17 by Department of Factories, Boilers, Industrial Safety and Health stated that the infected worker has to be given leave to prevent the spread. The SOP does not specify what kind of leave or whether it would be quarantine leave or leave adjusted against earned leave or sick leave. For example, many pharmaceutical companies have not only extended additional insurance cover for COVID-19, but have also given paid quarantine leaves ranging from 14 to 28 days to the infected workers. Their primary contacts have been given seven days paid quarantine leave. However, the response in manufacturing sector is in contrast. In some companies, the days of absence from work is being adjusted against the sick leave. There are also instances of workers being sent on half wages or no wages. Already, many factories had adjusted the workers leave for the shutdown period and many may not have enough leaves left. In one case, an automobile ancillary unit in Narasapur industrial area, near Kolar, that gave 28 days paid leave to all workers after an outbreak, threatened workers of disciplinary action and police complaint if they did not adhere to the company laid-out guidelines that could result in another outbreak. This notice, however, was withdrawn later. “While we have been given SOP on how to deal in an event of the pandemic outbreak in the factory, we have no clarity about leaves. Though so far there has been no outbreak, we are planning to pay half wages for leave of absence in case of a worker testing positive,” said an industrialist on condition of anonymity. He runs a MSME unit with 50 workers in Bommasandra Industrial Area in Bengaluru. “Each industry is responding to the outbreak based in circumstances and financial condition,” he added. Petition in HC The All India Trade Union Congress (AITUC) has also petitioned the High Court seeking uniformity in handling the labour welfare issues arising out of the pandemic outbreak. “Our fear is that if a worker without paid leave gets infected, there are higher chances of him turning up at the production facility, as he will be anxious not to lose wages. In the end, he will spread the infection,” said AITUC Secretary, Bengaluru, M. Satyanand. “We are asking for a separate quarantine leave of 14 days specifically for COVID-19 under the Disaster Management Act.” Meanwhile, a senior officer in the Factories Department clarified that the Factories Act does not empower the department to issue specific instruction on leave.
11 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||210 MLD ISPS to help revive Bellandur, Varthur lakes||A 210 MLD capacity Intermediate Sewage Pumping Station (ISPS) at National Games Village (NGV) in Koramangala is expected to play an important role in the rejuvenation, maintenance and protection of the polluted Bellandur and Varthur lakes. Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa inaugurated the ISPS, built at a cost of Rs. 38.61 crore by the Bangalore Water Supply and Sewerage Board (BWSSB), on Thursday. Waste water collected at the ISPS would be pumped to the 150 MLD sewage treatment plant (STP) being constructed at K.C. Valley for which BWSSB is laying a 5.3-km pipeline. BWSSB officials said treated water from the STP would be supplied to tanks in and around Anekal taluk, which can be used for irrigation and construction purposes. The under-construction STP near Bellandur lake is expected to be completed by December, after which the ISPS will pump waste water to the STP. Gangadhar B.C., chief engineer (wastewater management), BWSSB, said, “The pipelines will be laid before completion of the STP at K.C. Valley. Work on 4.2 km of the 5.5 km pipeline has been completed. Around 2 km of it is being laid inside a stormwater drain (SWD). Work is delayed due to rain and lack of labour,” he said. Ramalinga Reddy, former minister and MLA of BTM Layout, said that once both, ISPS and the STP, start functioning, around 80% flooding in and around Koramangala would reduce as the stormwater drains will be free of waste water. He also said that it would prevent waste, untreated water entering Bellandur and surrounding lakes.
11 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Committee favours extending mayor’s term||The committee constituted to finalise the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) Bill has recommended, among other things, extending the Mayor’s term to 30 months and increasing the number of wards from the existing 198 to 225. The BBMP Bill will be tabled in the next Assembly session that will begin on September 21, said S. Raghu, chairperson of the committee constituted to finalise the BBMP Bill. Speaking to The Hindu , he said the committee has been working on ensuring that the Bill is ready by then, so that the polls to the civic body may be held in December. The term of the BBMP council ended on Thursday. Apart from increasing the number of wards, he said the committee had deliberated on more than 50 different issues pertaining to the BBMP Bill. For instance, the committee was deliberating on appointment of members to the ward committees. Some members suggested that members should be decided by the Commissioner, who will also issue guidelines for the same. “Hitherto, the councillors, who were the chairpersons of the ward committees, had the say in this,” Mr. Raghu said. Proposal on mayor He also said that the committee had decided to extend the Mayor’s term to 30 months from the current 12 months. Several reports have batted for an extension of the Mayor’s term to five years. “The committee considered having three mayors, each with a term of 20 months. Finally, it was decided to extend the term to 30 months and have two mayors in the five-year term,” he said. With regard to increasing the number of zones, the BJP MLA said if IAS officers of the principal secretary level were to be made in-charge of zones, then the number of zones may be brought down to five from the current eight. However, if senior KAS officials are to be made in-charge, the number of zones may be increased to around 10. “The committee will meet again on Tuesday to discuss the remaining issues, before finalising the Bill,” he added.
11 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Rain misery continues||Residents of Sai Layout, Vaddarapalya, near Horamavu Main Road, continued to struggle on Thursday having lost most of their belongings following heavy rains on Tuesday night. Many were forced to spend the night in the open. Mohammed Shahjahan, a resident, said that there were two rajakaluves that merged near the layout. “One coming from Hebbal, Nagawara and Rachenahalli, and another from Banaswadi, Babusapalya and Chellakere. The channel where they merge cannot hold the huge volume of water when it rains, causing the drain to overflow and flood our homes,” he said. The residents have demanded a permanent solution to the problem. Following the rains on Wednesday night, a few homes in low-lying areas at Mylasandra in Hemmigepura and Jodibhavi Road in Rukmini Nagar were inundated. While tree fall complaints were received from Seshadripuram 1st Main, Jayanagar 7th Block, Attimabbe Road, Koramanagala, Babusapalya, a compound wall fell at Pramod Layout in Rajarajeshwarinagar zone.
11 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘No major impact of banning traffic inside Cubbon Park’||As the tussle over whether vehicular movement should be allowed inside Cubbon Park continues, a new study by researchers at the Indian Institute of Science (IISc.) has said that there will be “no substantial reduction in traffic or improvement in the volume to capacity ratio” on the roads adjoining Cubbon Park even if the park is opened for traffic. The study, ‘Traffic Impact Analysis of Closing Cubbon Park for all motorised vehicles in Bengaluru City’, also says that the Cubbon Park No-Traffic Scenario (CPNT) resulted in the reduction of total Vehicle Kilometres Travelled (VKT) over Bengaluru Metropolitian Region (BMR) network by 0.44%, from 32.08 million km per day on business-as-usual days and to 31.94 million km per day under CPNT. According to Ashish Verma, associate professor of IISc., who is the main author of the paper, under the Cubbon Park no traffic scenario, there would be a net reduction in CO2 and PM2.5 compared to vehicular movement inside the park. “This is mainly due to net reduction in total Vehicle Kilometres Travelled. Important roads, including Cubbon Park road, Nrupathunga Road and Kasturba Road, have already reached saturation. More traffic on them would not have much impact,” he said, adding that the ban on vehicular movement inside the park would benefit in multiple ways, apart from saving one of the most significant lung spaces of the city. The study comes at the time when the government opened Cubbon Park for vehicular traffic. The park was closed for vehicular movement since the imposition of the lockdown.
11 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Active cases cross one lakh in State||Six months after Karnataka reported the first COVID-19 case, the number of active cases crossed one lakh on Thursday and touched 1,01,537. With this, Karnataka now has the second highest number of active cases after Maharashtra. Nearly 43% of the 1,01,537 active cases are from Bengaluru Urban. The rest are spread out across the districts with 6,816 and 4,466 cases from Mysuru and Ballari, respectively.  The number of active cases have been fluctuating since the beginning of this month. After touching 99,101 cases on September 4, it hovered around 99,600 till September 6. Then the cases reduced to 97,001 on September 7 and 96,918 the next day. However, the active cases again rose to 99,470 on Wednesday and crossed one lakh on Thursday. With 7,021 discharges on Thursday, the total number of recoveries have now touched 3,22,454. From mid-July onwards, recoveries outnumbered the number of new cases and the trend continued till August 5. However, with a daily load of over 8,000 from the second week of August, the number of recoveries also came down marginally. The State’s recovery rate as on Thursday stands at 76.1%. New cases The State reported 9,217 new cases on Thursday taking the total number to 4,30,947. The number of cases have been hovering around 9,000 since last week except on Monday and Tuesday when the number of tests were lesser than the usual number of over 70,000. With 129 deaths in 24 hours, the toll rose to 6,937. This is apart from 19 non-COVID deaths. As many as 768 patients are being monitored in the ICUs of various hospitals. Bengaluru Urban reported 3,161 cases taking the total number of cases here to 1,60,205. With 33 of the 129 deaths from Bengaluru Urban alone, the total number of deaths in this district rose to 2,340. As many as 54,709 tests were conducted in the last 24 hours taking the total number of tests to 35,86,150. Wednesday’s tests included 25,468 rapid antigen tests.
11 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||NLSIU test: Students shocked by fiat on physical centres||Several candidates who did not have adequate infrastructure to take the online home-based test for admissions to the National Law School of India University (NLSIU) had got help from non-governmental organisations, who had promised to set up physical centres. However, they were shocked when NLSIU on Thursday stated on its website that students cannot appear for the test in centres outside the list identified by the National Law Aptitude Test (NLAT) authorities. Note on website “Our technological systems will identify the location and descriptors of all devices. If there is evidence of people working together in a single site, this will be interpreted as evidence of malpractice unless this is a centre or a group identified by NLAT,” said a note on the website. A few candidates were relying on offices that had agreed to allow them to appear for NLAT from their premises. “We are taken aback seeing this announcement just two days before the examination. We will call the NLAT helpline and seek permission to write from the office in Bengaluru where five of us will be appearing for the test,” a candidate, who registered for NLAT in Bengaluru, said. The candidate said they had made these arrangements after NLSIU said that if candidates do not have the facilities to appear for NLAT 2020 from their homes, they could appear at a place where necessary facilities are available. NLSIU has updated the list of centres where candidates could appear. As many as 35 centres have been updated on the website and none of these centres are in Karnataka. However, NLSIU authorities said that besides these centres, other centres too have been whitelisted by them. “If any candidates are appearing for the test from a centre where there will be more than one candidate, they have to get in touch with us,” said a source in NLSIU. Simulation test Meanwhile, candidates appearing for NLAT on September 12 can take a simulation test on September 11. This will be the exact same time as their batch for the actual NLAT examination. Later in the day, however, NLSIU changed its stance and said candidates may be allocated different batch timings for the simulation test than the actual NLAT examination. This was to avoid malpractice, the university said.  Law school says those not able to write NLAT from home can take them only from designated centres
11 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Make use of labs in neighbouring districts if need be: Yediyurappa||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa on Thursday expressed concern over increase in the number of COVID-19 cases in some districts, including Bengaluru Urban, and asked authorities in the districts to ensure sufficient availability of kits, laboratories and beds for reducing cases. To assess the COVID-19 situation in the State in the post-lockdown period, Mr. Yediyurappa held a videoconference with Deputy Commissioners, Chief Executive Officers, and District Health Officers and asked them to utilise oxygen and laboratories of neighbouring districts, in cases of shortages, for testing and faster delivery of test results. He told DCs and DHOs to be vigilant on availability of ventilators in ICUs. Noting a hike in the number of cases on a daily basis in the post-lockdown period owing to increased movement of people and economic activities, he said the newly appointed 900 doctors would be deployed to districts to handle the cases. Mr. Yediyurappa told officials of 30 districts to form task forces at the booth level for tracing primary contacts. Specifically mentioning Mysuru district, he said there was a need to increase tests as a large number of people start visiting the city during Dasara next month.
11 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Bommai directs banks to check card fraud||With increasing online banking frauds in the recent days, Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai on Thursday asked the bankers to implement stringent measures to prevent fraud using fake debit and credit cards.  Mr. Bommai held a meeting with officials of various banks and police and said support of information technology experts has been sought to eliminate fraud in the banking sector. To ensure safety of credit and debit cards of customers of various banks, the Home Department sought suggestions from the Finance Department, banking, IT, CID and other wings of the Police Department, he told mediapersons.  Support of information technology experts has been sought to eliminate fraud in the banking sector.Home Minister
11 September 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘App-based crop survey must from next year’||Agriculture Minister B.C. Patil on Thursday advised agricultural officers to be farmer-friendly rather than business-friendly. Presiding over a review of the Agriculture Department’s works in Bengaluru, the Minister called upon department officials to be available to farmers in their areas. Karnataka had set a record with its sowing for kharif season achieving 101% of the target, Mr. Patil said. Pointing out that the government had introduced a system of app-based survey of crops, he said such a system would be mandatory from next year though it is being introduced on an experimental basis from this year. Under this system, farmers should conduct crop survey using the app, he said, and noted that such a survey was necessary for availing government benefits in future. He instructed officials to take keen interest in the crop survey. Agriculture Commissioner Brijesh Kumar clarified that there was no shortage of urea and other fertilizers. “There could have been some shortcomings in the distribution of urea, but there is no shortage,” he said.
11 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Kempegowda awards||The BBMP gave away Nadaprabhu Kempegowda awards to 32 persons on Thursday in a simple function at the Dr. Rajkumar Glass House. It was M. Goutham Kumar’s last public event as the Mayor. The last event, however, was not bereft of controversy. Mr. Kumar had stated that 20 ‘COVID-19 warriors’ would be identified for the awards. However, opposition Congress alleged that only four ‘COVID-19 warriors’ had been identified.
11 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Railways raises platform ticket rate to Rs. 50||Platform tickets will be issued at Krantiveera Sangolli Rayanna City Railway Station (KSR Bengaluru), Yeshwantpur, and Bengaluru Cantonment Railway stations with immediate effect. To avoid crowding The South Western Railway, in a release, said that the cost of a platform ticket will be Rs. 50 instead of Rs. 10 at these railway stations until further advice.  This has been done in order to avoid crowding of people in view of the pandemic. The release also stated that seven pairs of trains will begin operating from the Bengaluru division with effect from September 12. These services will be operated in addition to the special trains that are running.
11 September 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Deadline to settle dues of artistes||Kannada and Culture Minister C.T. Ravi has directed officials concerned to pay the pension of 2,934 artistes that had been stopped for various reasons. The Minister, who reviewed the progress of works taken up by the department along with heads of various academies, served a deadline of 15 days for officials to settle the issue.
11 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Applications invited||Karnataka Lalithakala Academy has invited applications for graphic fellowship. Students with degrees in BFA, BVA, MVA, and MFA can apply. The last date to submit application is September 25. For details, call 080-22480297.
11 September 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||COVID-19 positive students write exam||Six students, who tested positive for COVID-19, appeared for the second year pre-university English supplementary examination on Thursday. Primary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar said the Department of Pre-University Education had made necessary arrangements for these children to write the exam. Out of 1,08,375 candidates, who had registered for the examination, 1,02,431 attempted the paper.
11 September 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Six held in triple murder case||Chitradurga Police have arrested six people in connection with the murder of three persons of Koracha community at Nayakanahatti in Challakere taluk, reported on August 17. Seenappa, his son Yallesh, and Maresh, who were rearing pigs, were murdered on the night of August 16. The accused brutally murdered the three, before taking away their 50 pigs. Two more involved in the crime are yet to be arrested.
11 September 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||Nine more deaths||As many as nine people, including a 25-year-old man, died of COVID-19 in Hassan on Thursday, taking the toll to 241. The total number of confirmed cases has increased to 10,878, including 218 fresh cases. So far, 7,718 have recovered and 2,919 are under treatment. Among them, 50 are in the intensive care unit.
11 September 2020||Hubballi,KARNATAKA||SISLEP Dharwad to implement New National Education Policy in State||The State Institute for School Leadership, Educational Planning and Management (SISLEP) in Dharwad will be given the crucial responsibility of implementing the New National Education Policy in the State, Minister for Primary and Secondary Education S. Suresh Kumar has said. Speaking after visiting SISLEP situated on the premises of the District Institute of Education and Training (DIET) in Dharwad and reviewing the activities of the institute on Thursday, Mr. Suresh Kumar said that the New National Education Policy would promote development of analytical skills and new ideas. The Minister said that SISLEP would have greater responsibility in developing school leadership and educational projects that would be simple, moral, responsible, responsive and transparent. He said that he would again visit the institute during the training programmes for teachers. He said that discussions were being held across the nation about the New National Education Policy which was submitted by the Kasturirangan-led committee after five years of elaborate study. The new policy would promote new views and new inventions, he said. Earlier, Director of SISLEP B.S. Raghuveer spoke about the activities of the institute. Additional Commissioner of Public Instruction Major Siddalingayya Hiremath, Deputy Director of Public Instruction Mohankumar Hanchate and other officials were present. ‘Vidyagama helpful’ Mr. Suresh Kumar, who then visited Salakinakoppa and Baada villages in the district, told presspersons that the “Vidyagama” programme was aimed at protecting children from COVID-19 and also for maintaining continuity in school education programme. The programme would help in checking child marriages and child labour in the villages, he said. The Minister said that as the reopening of schools was likely get delayed further, the “Vidyagama” programme had been launched to maintain contact with children and also ensure continuity in their education. “Bringing children back to school will be a difficult task, if they are kept away from schools for long. The programme will help them in keeping contact with schools,” he said. The Minister also appreciated the work done by teachers in Dharwad district. Warning Replying to a query, the Minister said that there were complaints about some private schools collecting “additional fee in the name of coronavirus” and there was no such provision to collect any such fee. “If any private educational institution has collected such a fee, then legal action will be taken against it,” he added. To another query, he said that private educational institutions should safeguard the interests of teachers and other non-teaching staff working with them. Interaction During his visit to schools, the Minister asked children to sing the State anthem, recite multiplication tables and asked them several questions. Expressing happiness over the handwriting of a few children, the Minister also asked them about coronavirus prevention and their opinion on reopening schools. On the way to Baada village, the Minister alighted from his car and boarded a vehicle meant for journalists for an informal discussion.
11 September 2020||Hubballi,KARNATAKA||Minister hands over voluntary retirement order to KES officer||Minister for Primary and Secondary Education S. Suresh Kumar on Thursday visited the residence in Dharwad of KES officer Mahadev Malagi, who has been bedridden for the last five years, and handed over a voluntary retirement order to his family members. Mr. Malagi, a 1999 batch KES officer, has served as headmaster, Block Education Officer and DIET teacher at various places, but has been restricted to his bed since 2015 after he had an attack of paralysis. Although his family had sought voluntary retirement and a government job for a family member on compassionate grounds, no decision was taken by the authorities concerned and the family was undergoing a difficult time. After a section of media reported the incident, Mr. Suresh Kumar had asked the authorities to immediately complete the formalities and, on Thursday, he handed over the voluntary retirement order to the officer’s family. The Minister also promised that all related benefits would soon reach the family. He said that the family had sought a government job for one of its members on compassionate grounds. “I will raise the issue in a Cabinet meeting in the coming days. It is a matter to be decided in the Cabinet and the Chief Minister has the authority to decide on it,” he said. MLA Arvind Bellad urged the Minister to expedite reimbursement of medical expenses of the officer. Mr. Malagi’s wife Prabhavati and children Sameeksha and Sampada aired their grievances before the Minister.
11 September 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Some trains continue to remain cancelled, others diverted on Konkan Railway network||With track restoration works between Pernem and Madure railway stations on Konkan Railway network still going on, the Railways has continued to keep two pairs of special trains cancelled. Another two pairs of trains operating via Mangaluru will continue to run on diverted routes till September 15. Train No 06346/06345 Thiruvananthapuram Central-Mumbai LTT-Thiruvananthapuram Special Netravathi Express and Train Nos 02342/02341 New Delhi-Thiruvananthapuram-New Delhi Rajdhani Superfast Tri Weekly Special Express will remain cancelled during the period. Train Nos 02617/02618 Ernakulam Junction-Hazrat Nizamuddin-Ernakulam Junction Superfast Special Mangala Express (daily) will continue to operate on the diverted route via Madgaon-Londa-Miraj and Pune-Panvel-Kalyan during the period. Train Nos 02284/02283 Hazrat Nizamuddin-Ernakulam Junction-Hazrat Nizamuddin Duronto Weekly Special Express will continue to operate on the diverted route via Pune-Guntakal and Jolarpettai, according to a release from the Palakkad Division of Southern Railway.
11 September 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Forest Dept. divided over move on nature camp||The proposed move to vest the management of the ‘Mystery Trails’ nature camp at Gopinatham in Cauvery Wildlife Sanctuary with the Jungle Lodges and Resorts has the Forest Department divided on the grounds that a strategically important area for conservation is being opened up for private parties. It has also drawn the ire of wildlife activists who say that the move will promote mass commercial tourism which is in violation of a Supreme Court order. The SC order states that “forest rest houses and inspection bungalows within the forest area including the protected areas, shall not be transferred to private and commercial entities in the name of public-private partnership or by whatever name such an arrangement is called, for promotion of any form of tourism including eco-tourism.” Gopinatham is the birthplace of brigand Veerappan and the ‘Mystery Trails’ is a Forest Department initiative to let tourists follow his trail. Some department officials told The Hindu that the forest area surrounding Gopinathan village was strategically vital for curbing inter-State poaching, which was rampant in the area. The Cauvery Wildlife Sanctuary, spread over 1,027 sqkm, abuts the forest region of Dharmapuri in Tamil Nadu and it is critical to ensure that the region surrounding the village remains out of bounds for the public. It is also critical for maintaining the surprise element in conducting coordinated anti-poaching exercises by the Forest Departments of Karnataka and Tamil Nadu, say officials. However, Chief Conservator of Forests Manoj Kumar told The Hindu that the SC rule pertained to the use of department guest houses and offices. “This is a tented accommodation that already exists and was once managed by Jungle Lodges and Resorts and its management is reverting to them and is meant for nature education programmes,” he argued. Mr. Manoj Kumar said the trekking routes are still being explored and there are similar trails in Dandeli, Anshi, and Shettihalli. But activists say since the facility is inside the wildlife sanctuary, it requires clearance from the wildlife board and hence the move to vest the management of the property with Jungle Lodges and Resorts is illegal. Activists also questioned the need for converting every protected forest area into a tourism hotspot and said the area was already under severe stress from poachers and if tourism was increased it would add pressure on the wildlife. Even the Karnataka Elephant Task Force has pointed out that Cauvery Wildlife Sanctuary and the adjoining areas of Mandya and Kollegal Forest Divisions had unregulated influx of tourists causing direct disturbance to elephants and recommended the creation of designated areas outside the sanctuary for tourism.
11 September 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Red alert in Kodagu dist.||The India Meteorological Department (IMD) has issued red alert in Kodagu with a forecast of heavy rain on Thursday and Friday. Accordingly, the Kodagu district administration has cautioned the public and urged them to remain in safer places in view of the forecast of moderate to heavy rain across the district. Kodagu was battered by rain, floods and landslip last month, resulting in loss of lives and damage to properties. This is the third consecutive year that the district faced the devastation. The disaster response teams were still camping in the district with men and material positioned at vulnerable places for tackling rain-related emergencies. The control room will be active 24x7 and public can call the helpline numbers 08272-221077 or WhatsApp to number 8550001077 for assistance, the administration said. Two days ago, the Central team visited Kodagu and conducted an assessment of the damage caused by last month’s calamity.
11 September 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||‘An elitist move’||Wildlife activists have said the proposed move to let Jungle Lodges and Resorts run the nature camp at Gopinatham smacks of elitism, as it will deprive rural children an opportunity of imbibing environmental education. The State government launched the Chinnara Vanadarshana programme in 2015 to impart environmental education to rural children. Gopinatham is currently the only location where children in and around the Cauvery and the MM Hills wildlife sanctuaries could participate in the programme.
11 September 2020||September 11 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||437 acres under 169 lakes encroached||As parts of the city continue to live in fear of a heavy downpour that might leave their localities and homes inundated, a survey of lakes by the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) has revealed that around 437 acres out of around 5,207 acres under 169 lakes in the city have been encroached. So far, the BBMP has managed to recover 45 acres. According to the survey, parts of most of the lakes in the city have been encroached over a period of time, including by government agencies and departments. “In some cases, a few guntas have been encroached and in some others, acres of land have been encroached upon. However, not all encroached portions have been used for buildings,” a senior BBMP official said. Another official said that three tahsildar level officers have been appointed as ‘Special Executive Magistrates’ to execute the encroachment drive. “They have not yet reported for duty due to COVID-19 related administrative reasons. Once the number of cases in the city come down, they will focus on taking possession of the encroached parts,” the official said. Commenting on government agencies encroaching on lakes, a BBMP official said that a decision on such issues should be taken at the government level. “Layouts have already been built by government agencies in lake areas. The government needs to take a decision on it,” the official said. In the third week of June, the BBMP had issued a public notice that it would crack down on encroachments and take possession of lake beds and surrounding areas that fall under its jurisdiction. The BBMP has uploaded certified survey sketches and encroachment details of over 80 lakes under six zones in the city on its website as per directions of the High Court. SWD encroachment V. Ramprasad, convener and co-founder of Friends of Lake, said that lake encroachment survey and clearance drive should be extended to rajakaluves (stormwater drains or SWDs) that are linked to lakes. “I hope that the BBMP takes similar action against encroachers of SWDs so that the lakes greatly benefit,” he said. Mr. Ramprasad also said that the officers during whose tenure the encroachments took place should be “criminally prosecuted”. “Until and unless and criminal prosecution against the erring officials is not done, the battle is only half won. This will also send a strong message and act as an alarm bell to officials working now and those who will come in the future,” he said.
11 September 2020||September 11 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||More children benefit from ICDS programme during pandemic||While several health and nutrition programmes have been hit during the COVID-19 pandemic, the Integrated Child Development Services (ICDS) programme in Karnataka appears to have bucked the trend. In fact, more children have enrolled and benefited from it during the pandemic compared to earlier. Interestingly, this period has also seen a trend of parents enrolling children to anganwadis in their vicinity, taking them out of private pre-primary schools. According to statistics by the Department of Women and Child Development in July, 41.93 lakh children aged between six months and six years were covered under the programme and received dry ration. According to the data, 90.92% of the total 46.12 lakh children targeted were covered. In March, 39.36 lakh children in the same age group were covered. As much as 73.58% of the targeted 53.36 lakh children were covered under the programme. Prior to the pandemic when anganwadi centres were open, dry ration was given to families of children in the age group of six months to three years and children in the age group three to six years were given hot meals at the anganwadi centre. Now, both categories of beneficiaries receive ration at their doorstep, delivered by anganwadi workers. K.A. Dayanand, director of the department, said an additional 2 lakh children were able to receive the benefits of the programme because of direct delivery. “Earlier, children from some families would not come to the anganwadis. But now since we are delivering ration to the doorstep, more people are getting covered during the pandemic. We view this as an extremely positive development,” he said. The ration is supplied monthly and includes items like rice, different types of dals, oil, masala, jaggery, sugar, milk powder, and peanut among others. N. Nagalakshmi, anganwadi worker at Malleshpalya in Bengaluru, said parents of four students who go to private pre-primary schools have registered with their anganwadi centres. “Parents told us that even after the pandemic ends, they will send their children to anganwadis as they will not be able to afford the school fees,” she said. Rohini Managuli, anganwadi worker at  Jambagi village in Bagalkot district, said prior to the pandemic, 35 children were enrolled at the anganwadi centre. “This month, we have given rations to around 40 children. When we go to a particular locality, some families who have children in the same age group ask us for food, so we deliver to them as well,” she said.
11 September 2020||September 11 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Encroachment of valley resulting in flooding||Flooding of various areas during rains is a result of mismanagement of landscape and encroachment of wetlands and valleys, lake conservationists say. V. Ramprasad, co-founder and convenor of Friends of Lakes, said, “Encroachment and infrastructure development in huge portions of land that was once valley area is one of them main reasons for flooding. Take the example of places in and around Manyata Tech Park, which was inundated recently. It is a part of Hebbal valley, and a huge wetland was present even in the early 2000s,” he said, adding that it was the same case in other two important valleys in the city – Vrishabhavathy valley and K.C. Valley. T.V. Ramachandra from the Indian Institute of Science, said that encroachment of stormwater drains (SWDs) and reduction of their width also contributed to the problem. “In the name of remoulding of SWDs, they have reduced the width and have concretised the bottom of the SWD, which should not have been done,” he said, adding that the links that interconnected lakes were also cut.
11 September 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Govt. mulling resumption of houseboat operations||The State government is contemplating houseboat operations adhering to the COVID-19 protocols. Sources in the Tourism Department said here on Thursday that they hoped the vessels would be able to operate again on backwaters from October.  In two days “We cannot allow houseboats to operate like in the pre-COVID-19 times. A whole set of measures and protocols need to be in place before allowing the operations. We have sought the guidance of the Health Department which will draw up protocols. It is up to the government to take a final decision on restarting the houseboat operations,” said a Tourism Department official. Tourism Minister Kadakampally Surendran said a decision on the matter would be taken in two days. The houseboat sector, one of the worst-hit businesses owing to the COVID-19 pandemic, has been urging the government to grant permission to restart the operations. The industry was among the first to come to a grinding halt after the outbreak started to sweep the world earlier this year. More than six months after, houseboats remain anchored awaiting a nod from the government to resume the operations. “Backwater tourism is one of the mainstays of the tourism sector in the State. However, the pandemic has tormented the lives of people attached to the sector. Although the government has allowed public transport, functioning of shopping malls and apparel stores, among other sectors, it is yet to give relaxations to houseboats, shikaras, and motorised boats,” said Kevin Rozario, general secretary, All Kerala Houseboat Owners and Operators Samiti. 1,500 houseboats There are around 1,500 houseboats in the State, a majority of them in Alappuzha. Thousands of people are directly attached to the sector and many thousands indirectly. Following the outbreak, a large number of them have lost jobs. While some have migrated to new pastures, others took up odd jobs to make ends meet. According to the houseboat owners, the losses suffered owing to the pandemic run into crores. “It is very important to resume the houseboat operations for the survival of the industry. To restart, we will have to spend huge amounts of money on maintenance of the boats that remain defunct for the past several months,” said Vinod V., president, All Kerala Houseboat Owners Association. Mr. Vinod said that even if the government allowed houseboat operations, they were not expecting normality in the sector anytime soon. “Lack of flight operations will keep foreign tourists away while the mandatory 14-day quarantine will discourage people from other States to travel here,” he said.
11 September 2020||ALAPPUZHA,KERALA||Case spiral continues in Alappuzha||The district logged 267 COVID-19 cases on Thursday, making it one of the worst single-day spikes since the outbreak began. Of the fresh cases, 240 patients contracted the virus through local transmission. Besides them, 18 people who came from other States, eight from abroad, and one health staff also tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. One more death The district reported another COVID-19 death, taking the official death toll to 17. The deceased was identified as a 68-year-old woman from Alappuzha. She succumbed to the disease on September 5. Among the 240 locally transmitted cases, 22 cases each were reported from Alappuzha and Kayamkulam, 16 each from Arattuppuzha and Pallippuram, 13 each from Chettikkad and Mulakuzha, and 11 each from Chennithala, Muhamma, and Thaikkattussery. Meanwhile, 87 people who were undergoing treatment at hospitals tested negative. The number of active cases in the district now stands at 1,926.
11 September 2020||Idukki,KERALA||Steps to rehabilitate Pettimudy survivors||The district administration will find land at Kuttiyarvalley, near Munnar, to rehabilitate survivors of the Pettimudy landslip in August. At a meeting held online on Wednesday, which was attended by the Chief Minister, Revenue Minister, and representatives of Kanan Devan Hills Plantation (KDHP) Ltd, it was decided to find alternative land at Kuttiyarvalley on which the KDHP will construct houses for the survivors. Of the survivors of 22 families, only those from eight are entitled for rehabilitation, KDHP officials told at the meeting. District Collector H. Dinesan, who attended the meeting, told The Hindu on Thursday that he would visit Kuttiyarvalley next week to identify land suitable for construction of houses. Title deeds would be issued and the construction would be completed in a period of three months. The KDHP officials informed the meeting that Rs. 1 crore had been set aside for construction of the houses and the survivors working with the company would also be transferred to the estate division close to Kuttiyarvalley. Meanwhile, S. Rajendran, MLA, said finding excess land at Kuttiyarvalley was remote as nearly 3,400 families had already been accommodated there after the government took over 292 acres in 1965 for providing land and houses to landless estate workers. Land suitable for construction was highly unlikely there, he said adding that there was no clarity on the rehabilitation of survivors other than those belonging to the eight families. “There should not be any hesitation in rehabilitating all the survivors,” Mr. Rajendran said. The death toll in the landslip has been put at 66.
11 September 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Tally over 100 in Idukki||For the first time, those testing positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Idukki crossed three digits on Thursday. The number of new cases was 105 with 66 persons contracting the infection through contact, the District Collector said. The source of infection in nine cases could not be traced, he said. These cases were reported from Ayyappancoil Chappathu, Elappara, Chakkupallom, Kanjikuzhy, Kumily, Peerumade, Rajakkad, and Thodupuzha Keerikkode. Those who contracted the disease though contact were residents of Alakkode, Kulamavu, Ayyappancoil, Elamdesam, Erattayar, Kanchiyar, Kanjikuzhy, Karunapuram, Kattappana, Kumnaramangalam, Munnar, Kumily, Muttom, Thodupuzha, Pampadumpara, Nedumkandam, Rajakkad, Santhanpara, Senapathy, and Udumbanchola. Meanwhile, 15 people tested negative for the disease on Thursday.
11 September 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||Tribal youth hurt in tiger attack||A tribal youth was injured in an attack by a tiger at Vakery, near Sulthan Bathery, in the district on Thursday noon. Vipin, 21, son of Krishnan of the Maramala Kattunayakka tribal settlement under the Chethalayath forest range of the South Wayanad forest division, was attacked by the tiger at the Kattikolly forest area, near Pambra. He had gone to the forest with his wife and two other relatives to collect firewood, South Wayanad forest divisional officer B. Ranjith Kumar said. The tiger spared the youth when others in the party made loud noise, Mr. Ranjith Kumar said.
11 September 2020||Kannur,KERALA||Salahuddin’s murder planned for days: police||The murder of Social Democratic Party of India (SDPI) activist Salahuddin was carried out after several days of planning and the assailants used a rented car from Kolayad for executing the crime. The police said the suspects had taken the car on rent for three days, but the murder was carried out on the eighth day. This indicated days of planning to execute the murder, the police observed. The car was taken on rent from one Sajesh, who had started a business of renting cars in Kolayad in the district. According to his statement, two persons, who had approached him and were wearing masks, introduced themselves as from Chunda near Kannavam. They took the car for three days, the police said. Sajesh, who did not doubt them, gave the car at a rent of Rs. 1,200 per day after taking the required documents as proof. Amal, also known as Abhi, drove the car. However, they extended the time when contacted by Sajesh after the car was not returned on the due date. The car was found in a deserted area near a rubber plantation after the murder. Fingerprint and forensic experts examined the car in detail.  The police said that Salahuddin’s movement was constantly monitored by the assailants. Five persons involved The police suspect the involvement of at least five persons in the murder, based on the statement given by the victim’s sister, Raidha, who was injured in the attack and was discharged after treatment at the Thalassery Co-operative Hospital. Meanwhile, the investigation team led by Thalassery Deputy Superintendent of Police Moosa Vallikadan on Wednesday night arrested Amalraj, 22, Ashiq Lal, 25, and P.K. Pribin, 22, all residents of Chunda. Suspects remanded All three suspects were produced in the Koothuparamba court on Wednesday evening and remanded in custody for two weeks. However, the police said that the role of the arrested persons in the murder was yet to be ascertained. The involvement of more people in the case was being investigated, the police said.
11 September 2020||KANNUR,KERALA||Minister orders probe into death of newborn||Health Minister K.K. Shylaja on Thursday ordered an inquiry into the death of a newborn after a doctor attached to a community health centre (CHC) here reportedly refused to attend to the delivery of the baby citing COVID-19 protocol. The baby was born to Haneef and Sameer, residents of Manikoth at Panoor. The mother was eight-month pregnant and delivered the baby at home before she could be shifted to the Panoor CHC. Ms. Shylaja ordered the District Medical Officer to probe the incident and submit a report. She also ordered the transfer of the doctor and staff nurse from the CHC. Meanwhile, the family members of the woman said they had immediately approached the doctor at the health centre. Citing COVID-19 protocol, the doctor refused to attend to the case, they alleged.
11 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Death rate may rise post Sept. 21: Shylaja||Minister for Health K.K. Shylaja said on Thursday that the death rate in the State owing to COVID-19 may go up with further relaxations in the lockdown coming into effect on September 21. “The number of positive cases and death rate is likely to go up in view of the relaxations. But we are trying our best to check the possible spike,” she said at the inauguration of various developmental projects at the Government Medical College, Ernakulam. Stating that Kerala figured among the States having the least mortality rate along with Assam, Ms. Shylaja said the number of deaths stood below 500 owing to the steps taken to limit the spread of the disease. “However, we may soon face a shortage of ventilators. There is a shortage of ventilators worldwide. Even though we have booked ventilators through the Kerala Medical Services Corporation, the supplies are limited to 10 to 20 ventilators at a time,” she said. Tougher situation The Minister said the density of population in the State and the increase in the number of persons with co-morbidities had made the efforts to contain the pandemic tougher. About 90% of the dead was people aged above 60 years and having co-morbidities. “We have recorded the details properly and will examine it once again. Reverse quarantine will be stepped up to protect the elderly,” she said. Ms. Shylaja urged health workers and elected representatives to ensure that no patient was left unattended. “They should be treated at COVID-19 hospitals and first-line treatment centres. The elected representatives in Ernakulam have to intervene to check the spread of the disease in colonies across the district,” she said.
11 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Fleeing grinding penury, migrant workers flock back to Kerala||Not long ago, a Kochi-based travel agency published in the social media a series of caricatures featuring popular meme characters advertising their bus service to bring back migrant workers from faraway States. Since then, the agency has operated nearly 50 trips, predominantly to West Bengal and even up to the point of the Bangladesh border, transporting migrant workers who were at a premium here after they rushed home in the wake of the pandemic. “For us, this has emerged a lifesaver with tourists, the mainstay of our business, all but gone as is the moratorium on loans for buses,” said Bobby Varghese whose entire fleet of 24 buses with a few exceptions is now engaged in transporting migrants. The three-day trip covering over 3,000 km and touching multiple States – West Bengal, Odisha, Bihar, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, and Kerala - is charged around Rs. 5,500 per worker. A capacity trip for 50 throws up a profit of about Rs. 30,000 after meeting multiple States’ taxes of around Rs. 52,000 and toll of Rs. 22,000 not to mention a few thousand rupees as bribes along the way, said Mr. Varghese who claimed that they carried only workers whose quarantining back in Kerala was guaranteed by contractors. “The absence of trains from Eastern India is the only thing stopping migrants from returning as extreme poverty back home has forced them to put livelihood over their concern about the pandemic,” said Benoy Peter, executive director, Centre for Migration and Inclusive Development (CMID). Though the employers are also in dire need of migrant workers, circumstances seem to be far from ideal for the workers en masse return. “Notwithstanding the large demand for migrant workers, we are going slow at the moment since owners of buildings are very reluctant to offer space for their quarantining,” said Shibin Jose, director, KLR Facility Management Private Limited. Migrants, nevertheless, seem so desperate to return that some of them even run up further debts for the unaffordable air travel. Vishnu Narendran, director, partnerships and advocacy, CMID, shared how his recent flight back from Bengaluru to Kochi was dominated by migrants from West Bengal. “However, they are forced to go without even a cup of tea at airports in the long hours between connection flights, thanks to the exorbitant prices in airport lounges,” said Mr. Narendran, who, while having a tea at a shop at the lounge, noticed a few migrants turning back from the stall, realising that even a cup of tea was beyond their means.
11 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Four Communist martyrs may qualify as freedom fighters||The Communist movement of Kerala will be left with just four martyrs in the Independence struggle in the controversial ‘Dictionary of Martyrs India’s Freedom Struggle (1857-1947)’ if an earlier review report to the Indian Council for Historical Research (ICHR) is accepted. The four who may make it to the list include Aboobacker and Chirukandan of Kayyur, “who walked to the gallows shouting Inquilab Zindabad and Communist Party Zindabad”. Abu of Mambram, a Communist and active partner in the nationalist and anti-imperialist movements, and Chattukutty, an active Communist cadre involved in the agitations for price control, wage hike, and relief to peasants, who were killed in the Tellichery police firing on September 15, 1940, would also qualify. The report, submitted to the council four years ago, had suggested the deletion of the martyrs of the Punnapra-Vayalar, Karivelloor, and Kavumbayi agitations as they were “riots against the interim government headed by Jawaharlal Nehru,” according to C.I. Issac, the reviewer and a member of the ICHR. Cut-off date All agitations that took place after September 2, 1946, the date on which the interim government led by Nehru took over the Indian administration, were suggested to be excluded. Kayyur and other Communist party agitations that took place prior to the cut-off date and its martyrs were recommended to be included, Dr. Issac said. Meanwhile, Communist Party of India leader Binoy Viswam, MP, wrote to Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Union Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal to intervene to “prevent attempts that seek to communalise our history and disturb the social fabric of the nation.”
11 September 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Surge in infections among workers a cause for concern||The return of migrant workers in search of livelihood to the district in large numbers has coincided with a perceptible rise in SARS-CoV-2 infections among the community with more than 200 migrants testing positive for the virus since the start of the month. Of these, 140 were reported in Paipra panchayat alone while Kaloor accounted for 25 cases in a single day. Six cases each were reported from Vadavucode and Nedumbassery as well. While the 14-day quarantining of migrant workers, before they are being thrust into the workplace, is being done consistently, the same cannot be said about physical distancing during their transportation, especially in private contract carriers. “While we insist on quarantine facilities by contractors who hire them, there seems to be little insistence on maintaining physical distancing during transportation. So, most times, all 50 seats in our buses are taken,” said Bobby Varghese, who has been operating services, mainly to West Bengal, for transporting migrants. A senior State-level Labour Department official said that such transportation of migrants by road had not come to their notice while they were religiously tracing and quarantining migrants arriving by trains. Asked whether physical-distancing norms had been done away with regard to the transportation of migrants, he would only say that there was clear norms but dodged whose responsibility it was to enforce those norms. Practical difficulties Motor Vehicles Department officials said that keeping track of transportation of migrants by road was fraught with practical difficulties as there was no fixed schedule for their operations. “The easiest way to do that is at check-posts. Though the government is increasingly allowing relaxations, there has been no relaxation with regard to physical-distancing norms in transportation,” said Babu John, Ernakulam Regional Transport Officer. District Medical Officer N.K. Kuttappan said that the absence of physical-distancing during transportation and accommodation could be one of the reasons for the surge in the number of cases among the migrant community. “They might be carrying the infection back from their homes and it is for the Labour Department to keep a tab on their movement and accommodation facilities. We might now have to expand the surveillance to check the possibility of transmission from migrants to local residents as well,” he said. Meanwhile, a company at Paipra panchayat that accounted for the most number of infected migrant workers there has set up a treatment facility at their own expense. “Most of them are being treated at the facility set up by the company itself while some have been moved into the COVID cell,” said Zeenath Azeez, chairperson, panchayat health standing committee.
11 September 2020||Kochi,KERALA||New Ernakulam Market to have multi-level parking, skywalk||The redevelopment of Ernakulam Market under a Rs. 100-crore project will see a new modern multi-storied complex, replete with multi-level parking and a skywalk connecting it with Marine Drive, replacing the existing wholesale and retail market which houses over 225 stalls most of which are in a rundown condition. The proposed complex will have space to host more number of stalls than the existing ones. Ground and first floors would house vegetable/fruits and meat/fish market, while the open space that would be available on the second and third floors could be partitioned and used as godown or office space, said sources in Cochin Smart Mission Limited (CSML), which would implement the project. CSML had fixed Rs. 70 crore as the estimated cost of the project, official sources said. Temporary stalls For now, work is under way to construct temporary stalls with roofing sheet in another 75 days, in order to temporarily shift stalls selling vegetables and fruits to a 1.25-acre land, about 100 metres away from the existing market. Stalls selling meat and fish would be temporarily shifted to another place close by. The temporary stalls will be erected for Rs. 4.98 crore, by MaryMatha Infrastructure Private Limited. There would also be a loading and unloading area on the premises. The proposed complex will come up where the market stood, on land owned by the Kochi Corporation. The temporary relocation could have been done earlier, but for a legal battle regarding the 1.25 acre land. Long-pending project The proposal to have a new complex to house the Ernakulam Market dates back to the 1980s. The hugely-delayed project picked pace when CSML came into the picture, to provide funds and to implement the project. The proposed complex, which would come up in two years, will have its own sewage treatment plant, while waste generated from the market will be sent in compactor lorries to the corporation’s waste-treatment plant at Brahmapuram. The tidying of the canal close by the market has been included in the rejuvenation project covering once-navigable waterways of the city, that KMRL would implement, the sources said. “Redevelopment of Ernakulam Market under the Smart Cities Mission will see the more-than-a-century-old market in the heart of the city get a facelift,” said Jafar Malik, the new CEO of CSML. The general secretary of Ernakulam Market Stall Owners’ Association, Shameed N.H., said that merchants would shortly approach the Kochi Corporation to fix a rent for the temporary premises. “Much of the existing wholesale market is very old and in dilapidated condition. The new complex will streamline the market’s functioning and also ensure cleanliness. This will ultimately give a new identity to the market,” he said. Even as the market redevelopment work is set to begin, beautification of the adjacent Broadway Market is pending.
11 September 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Government medical college gets a facelift||Health Minister K.K. Shylaja on Thursday said that the assistance under Kerala Infrastructure Investment Fund Board (KIIFB) helped ensure the modernisation of the Government Medical College, Ernakulam. The new mother-and-child block had received administrative sanction to the tune of Rs. 311 crore. The construction is progressing after the government sanctioned Rs. 285 crore from the total assistance under KIIFB. The medical college would get a facelift with the completion of the eight-storey building, she said after inaugurating developmental projects at the institution. The projects inaugurated included a modernised out-patient wing, intensive care unit, PCR lab, mortuary, power laundry, digital fluoroscopy machine and CCTV. Ms. Shylaja said that infrastructure facilities were given a push through the Aardram project. Dialysis centres were opened in 44 taluk hospitals. Cath labs were set up at district general hospitals. Five district hospitals had set up stroke centres, she said. Ms. Shylaja also inaugurated a ward-level facilitation centre at Kalady grama panchayat. Such centres offer social and health services to people. The ward member concerned, accredited social health worker, member of Kudumbashree and anganwadi teacher will be part of the committee, besides health workers.
11 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Bird sanctuary moots biodiversity campaign||A biodiversity campaign on wheels may roll out of Mangalavanam Bird Sanctuary located within the city if its draft management plan is approved. The plan envisions a mobile campaign focusing on the conservation of nature and related aspects. The ecological significance of mangroves, a speciality of the bird sanctuary, can be highlighted. The vehicle campaign will cover educational institutions in the district, said E.A. Jaison, a wildlife expert who was instrumental in the preparation of the plan. The formation of an Eco Development Committee (EDC) as in other protected areas of the country has also been mooted. The EDCs in most of the protected areas, which are formed by incorporating the representatives of the people who are dependent on the forest, manage conservation and protection activities besides running the eco-tourism programmes. However, in Mangalavanam, there are no such populations. The draft management plan suggests formation of an EDC by drawing people from the nearby areas, he said. Zoning The plan has also suggested zoning for the sanctuary. The area where the office structure is located and adjacent areas would be marked as tourism zone, leaving aside the area with thick vegetation as the core. The absence of zonation was earlier pointed out by the authorities. The zonation of the sanctuary was necessary to protect the core area from further damage and destruction, Dr. Jaison, a former scientist of the Kerala Forest Research Institute, said.
11 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||HC directive to finalise socio-economic study||A Division Bench of the Kerala High Court has directed the Central and State governments to take steps to finalise the reports of the socio-economic study required for the identification of socially and educationally backward classes in the State at the earliest and submit it to the Kerala State Commission for Backward Classes. The Bench led by Chief Justice S. Manikumar on Thursday directed the commission and the Central government to take all steps to finalise the evaluation of the reports and make their recommendations to the State government on the revision of the backward classes list. The exercise should be completed within six months. The court made it clear that the State government was duty-bound under Section 11 of the Kerala State Commission for Backward Classes Act, 1993 for revising the list every 10 years after the Act coming into force. The court passed the verdict while disposing of a public interest litigation alleging inadequate representations of backward classes in government services and the failure of the State government to conduct a socio-economic survey under terms of the Act.
11 September 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||CM opens Supplyco’s first suburban mall at Piravom||The first suburban mall of Supplyco was inaugurated by Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan at Piravom on Thursday. It is the biggest Supplyco supermarket in Kerala. In his inaugural address, Mr. Vijayan said that the functioning of the agency would be streamlined to boost efficient distribution of essential items. “The agency must be able to avoid middlemen and directly purchase items from producers, so that produce is available to consumers at economical rates. The government has alotted Rs. 11 crore to modernise Maveli Stores. The presence of government agencies in the market has helped check price rise,” he said.
11 September 2020||Kochi,KERALA||District sees 227 new cases||As many as 227 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Ernakulam on Thursday. Of this, 222 got infected through contact. Ten of them were health workers. Some of the regions that recorded a higher count of positive cases included Edathala, Kothamangalam, Cheranalloor, Thrikkakara, Pachalam and Fort Kochi. 116 recover The district also recorded 116 recoveries. Of the 116 tested negative, 107 belonged to Ernakulam. Seven were from outside the State and two were from other districts. As many as 126 persons were discharged from first-line treatment centres. The test results of 820 swab samples are expected soon. About 20,600 persons are under observation in homes and paid facilities. Nearly 190 persons have been admitted at first-line treatment centres. The total number of persons under treatment is 2,843. Over 900 persons among this are under home care. Over 1,400 samples were sent for testing on Thursday, according to an official communication.
11 September 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Selection of film by Kamal’s son challenged||The Kerala High Court on Thursday sought the response of the State government and the Kerala State Chalachitra Academy on a plea against the selected films for the 2019 Kerala State Film Awards. The petition was filed by directors Sathish Babusenon and Shinos A. Rahman and music composer K. Santhosh. The petition alleged that there was malpractice in the selection of film9(Nine) directed by Jenuse Mohammed, son of Kamal, director and chairman of the academy. The entry of the film in the competition section was illegal.
11 September 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Kollam posts 244 new cases||A total of 244 persons from the district, including nine health workers, tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Thursday. While 232 persons contracted the virus through contact, three persons had travelled from Tamil Nadu and West Bengal. Among the health workers who tested positive, five have been working at private hospitals while the remaining four are staff members of government facilities. Kollam Corporation once again reported the highest number of cases with 68 persons testing positive. The district currently has 17,539 persons under observation. 103 recoveries The district also reported 103 recoveries. Fifteen COVID-19 first-line treatment centres (FLTCs) are functioning in the district. Since several cases had been reported from Sasthamcotta, Elampalloor and Vellimon, surveillance would be strengthened in the regions, said Minister J. Mercykutty Amma speaking at a COVID-19 review meeting here on Thursday. She added that considering the spike in new cases, the number of beds at Government Medical College Hospital, Kollam, would be increased. According to the district administration, there has been a considerable drop in new patients from containment zones and at present more contact cases are being reported from families. Kollam Corporation, Karunagappally, Perinad, Perayam and Soorandu are the places that have been reporting the highest number of cases of late while Pavithreswaram, Pathanapuram and Perinadu have the maximum patients without any travel history or known source. Home care It was decided in the meeting to shift the beds from various FLTCs in Kollam taluk with less patients to a new centre near Kollam District Hospital. The Health Department has decided to promote home care of asymptomatic COVID-19 patients while providing them with all needed assistance through tele-consultation. Self-isolation All asymptomatic patients who have self-isolation facility at home apart from the elderly and children can stay home and recuperate, but they should be strictly follow the guidelines. “There is no need to panic if there are COVID-19 patients in the neighbourhood. The infection will be transmitted only through contact and staying at home following the instructions will help contain the spread. Caution and public support are very crucial at this moment,” said the District Medical Officer.
11 September 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||Action council seeks fair probe into death of woman||Ramzi Action Council, formed seeking a fair probe into the death of a 24-year-old from Kottiyam, has demanded the arrest of the family of the accused. Ramzi was found dead at her home on September 3 and the police had arrested her fiancée Harris under various charges, including rape, abetment to suicide, and causing miscarriage. According to her family, Ramzi was in a relationship with Harris for the past eight years and their engagement was held last year. He had also received financial assistance from her family for starting a business, but later decided to marry another girl forcing Ramzi to take the extreme step. Ramzi’s family and the action council alleged that the family of Harris was responsible for her death and were trying to sabotage the investigation. “We want all persons who forced Ramzi to terminate her pregnancy arrested,” said council chairman Mylakkad Sha at a press meet here on Thursday.
11 September 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Jacobites on hunger protest||Geevarghese Mar Coorilos, Metropolitan of the Niranom diocese of the Jacobite Syrian Christian Church, on Thursday called for a referendum in parishes under the Malankara Church to decide on the possession of the places of worship. He was inaugurating a three-day hunger protest organised by the Kottayam diocese of the Church in front of the St. Joseph’s Cathedral, Kottayam. Diocesan metropolitan and secretary of the synod Thomas Mar Timothios presided. Metropolitan Zacharias Maor Philoxinos, Zacharias Mar Polycarpose, and Thomas Mar Alexandrios were present. Diocesan priests, parishioners, representatives of spiritual organisations, members of the diocesan council, church managing committee, working committee, and believers will attend a relay struggle, which will begin at 10 a.m. and end at 5 p.m. on all the three days. Enactment of a legislation for ensuring the rights and freedom of worship of the parishioners is the main demand.
11 September 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||MGU bags patent for polymer-based material||Mahatma Gandhi University, Kottayam, has bagged the patent for developing a material based on polymer compounds which has the capacity to block electromagnetic waves emitted by electronic products, including mobile phones. The novel carbon nano-tube-based polymer composite material, developed by the International and Inter University Centre for Nanoscience and Nanotechnology (IIUCNN), has been invented during a joint research carried out by Sabu Thomas, Vice Chancellor, Nandakumar Kalarikkal, Director of the IIUCNN, and Muhammad Arif. According to the university, the invention of this lightweight material will bring in major changes in the mobile phone manufacturing and allied electronics industry. All electronic gadget, including cell phones, currently use metal to shield electromagnetic waves, while the newly invented material is less thick and much lighter.  Superior to metals “The material, which is a composite of the two polymer interfaces by means of a carbon nano-tube, is superior to metals because of its excellent electrical conductivity and mechanical performance. This can be useful for protecting the electromagnetic field from mobile phones and other communication systems,” said a university statement.
11 September 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Kottayam’s tally is 217||The number of COVID-19 cases in the district continued to rise sharply with 217 testing positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Thursday. Of the fresh cases, 210 persons contracted the virus through local contact. Athirampuzha reported the highest number of 35 cases. Vakathanam panchayat had 22 cases and Karoor panchayat 21 cases. Kottayam municipality reported 14 cases. Cases were also reported from Aymanom, Kurichy and Uzhavoor. With 107 recoveries, the district currently has 1,923 active cases. Meanwhile, the administration declared an industrial unit at Athirampuzha as an institutional cluster.
11 September 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Celebrating 50 years of Chandy as legislator||All India Congress Commitee president Sonia Gandhi will inaugurate a function marking 50 years of former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy as a legislator on September 17. The event, ‘Sukritham, Suvarnam’, organised by the Kottayam District Congress Committee (DCC) will be held at Mamman Mapilai Hall in full compliance with the COVID-19 guidelines. Ms. Gandhi will be attending the event through videoconferencing. Besides Ms. Gandhi, top Congress functionaries including Rahul Gandhi, A.K. Antony, K.C. Venugopal and Mukul Wasnik are slated to attend the function through videoconferencing. The event, to be held on a virtual platform, will be hosted by the organising committee with an extensive online system so that it can be watched live by nearly16 lakh people. Preparations had already begun in all 14 districts at the ward level for Congress and UDF workers to watch the function live, the organisers said. Celebrations in Puthupally, the constituency represented by Mr. Chandy, will begin at 9 a.m.
11 September 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Separate directorate for public health a non-starter||A proposal in the State Health Policy to carve out a separate directorate for public health, which could have helped the government effectively tackle infectious diseases such as COVID-19, is still gathering dust. There is no move to merge health workers and officials in departments for food safety and pollution control under one umbrella to rein in future challenges in public health too, say experts. A senior health official told The Hindu that the plan is to have the directorate of public health to handle works related to prevention and control of diseases and immunisation campaigns and a directorate of clinical services to cover the functioning of hospitals. The Directorate of Medical Education would continue to cover medical education and colleges. These would be under the Director General of Health (Modern Medicine). Though the State Cabinet had approved the policy in January 2019, the directorate is yet to be formed. Health inspectors The government recently brought out five sections within the Department of Local Self-Government under one service and formed a ‘public health and environment wing’ as part of it. However, public health professionals in panchayats such as health inspectors, who are attached to the Directorate of Health Services and perform ground-level duties such as disease control and awareness sessions, were not included within its ambit. As per the 2011 Census, over 50% of the State’s population live in grama panchayat limits. Municipalities and city Corporations have their own health wing though their work is mostly related to overseeing issuance of licences, sanitation, and inspections. A senior community medicine expert from the Government Medical College, Manjeri, points out that merging the public health staff under the Directorate of Health Services, those under municipalities and city Corporations, and the staff attached to the Department of Food Safety and pollution control boards to form a unified public health cadre would help streamline the work right now done by different sections. “The public health cadre should focus on environmental health, waste management, pollution control, food safety, recycling, water quality management, lifestyle disease control, and enforcement of health laws,” he said.  A unified public health cadre will help streamline the work right now done by different sections
11 September 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Call to restore large aircraft operations||The advisory committee for the Calicut International Airport has urged the Ministry of Civil Aviation to restore the operation of wide-bodied aircraft that was suspended following the Air India Express crash on August 7. The order from the Director General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) to suspend the operation had not specifically said whether it was temporary or permanent. Incidentally, the DGCA had banned the operation of wide-bodied aircraft in May 2015 on the basis of the Court of Inquiry report on the Air India Express Boeing 737 crash in Mangaluru in May 2010. Now, Saudia (Saudi Arabian Airlines) and Air India, which were operating wide- bodied flights, have rescheduled their flights to Kochi. C.E. Chakkunny, member of the advisory committee, said the resumption of wide-bodied aircraft operations was necessary as far as passengers from north Kerala were concerned. Air India and Emirates had successfully operated large aircraft for a fairly long period until their operations were suspended earlier, he added.
11 September 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Faculty recruitment process draws criticism||While the Calicut University authorities are planning to start online and offline interviews to select faculty members for various departments within a month, a section of academics has found fault with the whole procedure. The university had earlier issued a notification to appoint 24 professors, 29 associate professors, and 63 assistant professors. However, in the wake of the pandemic-induced restrictions, there was some confusion about the mode of interviews. The Union Ministry of Education on July 23 advised against online interviews for teaching posts. On August 25, the order was revised, saying filling of teaching and non-teaching posts should be deferred until the lockdown was lifted completely. It was reviewed again on September 2 to permit the online recruitment process. The Ministry, however, insisted that “full transparency is to be maintained” and “all eligible candidates are to be given fair and equal opportunity”. Vice Chancellor M.K. Jayaraj told The Hindu that the recruitment would be in line with the guidelines of the University Grants Commission (UGC). “ There will be both online and offline interviews. Candidates who cannot come here should request for the online process. Some of the interview panel members too may have to attend it online. We expect to begin the process within a month,” he said. Meanwhile, P. Rasheed Ahmed, a Syndicate member aligned to the United Democratic Front, accused the authorities of violating norms in the verification of the applications for the teachers’ posts. In a letter to the Vice Chancellor, he said that the decision of a Syndicate sub-committee to accept hard copies of the applications was against the instructions given in the original notification. Mr. Ahmed pointed out that no particular date had been fixed for the completion of the verification of the application. The candidates might not be aware of the last date of verification and might not get to know about the decision to accept hard copies as it had not been circulated in the media, he added.  The decision of a Syndicate sub-committee to accept hard copies of applications was against norms P. Rasheed Ahmed Syndicate member
11 September 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Self-financing colleges facing financial crisis||The Kerala Unaided College Principals’ Council has requested the intervention of the State government in the matter of pending tuition fee payment by a group of students that has put self-financing colleges across the State in jeopardy. Council president Varghese Mathew says a large number of students have not paid the fee for the current semester from June 2020 to October 2020 though online classes and other teaching-learning activities are in full swing for five hours a day as per the government guidelines. “Their excuse is COVID-19 as some of their parents have lost jobs due to the pandemic. But there is another section who have not paid the fee for the previous semester from November 2019 to March 2020. We did not have any pandemic at that time,” Prof. Mathew said adding there were at least a few students who had defaulted their fee for both semesters. There are 958 self-financing colleges in the State under the Kerala, Mahatma Gandhi and Calicut universities. The tuition fee collected from the students is the only mode of income for most of the colleges. The council has requested the Department of Higher Education and the universities to intervene.
11 September 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Active COVID cases cross 2,000-mark in Kozhikode||The number of active COVID-19 cases in Kozhikode district crossed the 2,000-mark on Thursday when 261 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. As many as 2,228 people are undergoing treatment in the district now. A release from the District Medical Officer said that 219 of them had contracted the infection through local transmission. The source was not known in 25 cases. As many as 14 persons had returned from other States and three from abroad. The number of cases through local contact in the Kozhikode Corporation was 41, Kadalundi 37, and Chorod 20. As many as 178 persons recovered from the infection.
11 September 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||Motor Vehicle Inspectors threaten strike||Motor Vehicle Inspectors and senior officers attached to the Motor Vehicles Department (MVD) under the aegis of the Kerala Motor Vehicles Department Gazetted Officers’ Association will to go on a token strike next week in protest against the denial of promotions, cutting of employment benefits, and promoting under-qualified officials as Regional Transport Officers. The officers observed a black day on Wednesday. The officials will now strike work on September 16. A.S. Vinod, general secretary of the association, said in a statement that the officers of the technical wing of the MVD had been subjected to mental torture and unnecessary punitive action even when they were confronted with lack of basic infrastructure facilities in the department. Instances of an Assistant Motor Vehicle Inspector securing just one promotion and retiring after 20 years of service was common, he said.
11 September 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||330 test positive in Malappuram||As many as 330 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Malappuram district on Thursday. While 302 of them were infected through local contact, the source of infection could not be traced in seven cases. Three of those tested positive were health workers. While 12 came from abroad, six came from other States. There were 119 recoveries on Thursday. District Medical Officer K. Sakeena said 2,269 infected persons were currently under treatment at various hospitals. At present, 42,618 people are in quarantine. In Thrissur As many as 300 new COVID-19 cases were reported in the district on Thursday. While there were 1,912 active cases, 83 persons recovered. So far, 6,235 cases have been confirmed. Of the total number of cases, 291 persons contracted the infection through contact. The source of infection in three patients is not known. In Palakkad In Palakkad district, 194 people tested positive on Thursday. While 118 of them were infected through local contact, 12 came from abroad and 29 from other States. The source of infection could not be traced in 34 cases. In Kasaragod As many as 140 COVID-19 cases were reported in Kasaragod on Thursday. Of them, 138 persons contracted the infection through contact, while one each came from abroad and another State. District Medical Officer A.V. Ramdas said 128 persons had tested negative for the virus on Thursday. Meanwhile, 6,284 people are under observation. In Wayanad Ninety-seven persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Wayanad district on Thursday. Of the total number of cases reported on the day, 90 were infected through contact. One case came from abroad and four from other States. The district has so far reported 1,904 positive cases. Of them, 1,512 have recovered, including 10 persons on Thursday.  (With inputs from Palakkad, Thrissur, Kasaragod and Wayanad bureaus)
11 September 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Call for Central probe into elephant death||The death of a full-grown tuskless male elephant in Attappady on Wednesday following the internal injuries suffered from apparent human cruelty has raised questions about the Forest Department’s limitations in investigating the case. Although the Forest Department has registered a case, officials say they would soon hand it over to their counterparts in Tamil Nadu from where the elephant was suspected to have suffered the injury after biting on explosives. ‘Proper probe unlikely’ Senior forest officers requesting anonymity say they do not expect a proper investigation in Tamil Nadu, where more than a dozen similar cases were reported in recent times. They demand that a national agency investigate it. Although the elephant had suffered a severe injury to its tongue and pharynx, the wound in the pharyngeal region had healed following treatment given by a team led by State Forest Veterinary Officer Arun Zacharia on August 22. He says the movements of the elephant in the last four weeks across the Kerala-Tamil Nadu border had drained the three-metre tall animal, nicknamed “bulldozer” by the tribespeople, of its life. In the necropsy, it was found that its kidney had failed and it was extremely anaemic. “We could find myocardial lesions in the heart. Although there were no huge pneumonic changes, pneumonia from aspiration was evident,” says Dr. Zacharia.
11 September 2020||PALAKKAD,KERALA||Complaint against school||A group of parents filed a complaint with the police here on Thursday against Chinmaya Vidyalaya at Thathamangalam, alleging that the school had expelled their children from online class groups for failure to pay the special fee. Nearly 250 students reportedly faced the punitive action from the school authorities for non-payment of special fees. Although the parents had sought an exemption from special fees during the COVID-19 lockdown, the school authorities did not oblige. The school officials could not be reached for their comment.
11 September 2020||Pathanamthitta,KERALA||135 cases in Pathanamthitta||As many as 135 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in the district on Thursday. Of the fresh cases, 103 contracted the virus through local transmission while 26 persons came from other States. The remaining persons are foreign returnees. A 41-year-old man, identified as Nishanth of Kalanjoor, committed suicide while in quarantine.  The person, who returned from Bengaluru earlier this week, was found hanging inside a paid quarantine centre near Ranni. Preliminary reports suggested that the person had exhibited symptoms of mental illness. 32 recover With 32 recoveries during the day, the district currently has 1,122 active cases. A 29-year-old Manakkala native and a 41-year-old woman from Pandalam succumbed to the viral infection. The person from Manakkala had been undergoing treatment at a private hospital in Pandalam for acute diabetes and was shifted to the District General Hospital on September 9. The woman from Pandalam had been undergoing treatment for kidney failure at the Government Medical College Hospital, Kottayam, and was confirmed with the viral infection on September 3. The deaths, however, have not been included on the official list of the government. (Suicide Prevention Helpline: DISHA - 0471-2552056, 1056)
11 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||558 cases in capital||COVID-19 transmission continued unabated in the capital district with 558 more people being diagnosed with the disease on Thursday. Barring three imported cases, as many as 555 cases have been attributed to local transmission. The pandemic has so far claimed 129 lives with two more deaths – those of Parasuvakkal (65-year-old) and Amaravila (58-year-old) natives – being included in the district’s COVID-19 death toll. Among the new cases, 49 cases with unknown sources of infection have been reported from various parts of the district including Chala, Thycaud, Ulloor, Manacaud, Edappazhinji, Vazhuthacaud, Beemapally, and Valiyathura. As many as 483 people tested negative on the day. The district authorities confirmed that the three fishermen who drowned after their boat capsized in the sea off Anchuthengu a day ago had suffered from COVID-19. The bodies were cremated on the premises of the St. Peter’s Forane Church, Anchuthengu, in accordance with the COVID-19 protocol. Village office closed The Ulloor village office was closed on Thursday after an employee tested positive. While the office will resume functioning on September 14, all services can be obtained online or by contacting 0471-2462006, Thiruvananthapuram tahsildar A. Harishchandran said. COVID-19 cases continued to mount in Attingal where three employees of a garment shop and six members of a family contracted the infection. One family member used to work in a textile shop where several employees tested positive a few days ago. Kallikkad grama panchayat also recorded 19 new cases when 83 people were tested on the day. Panic recedes in jail Panic appeared to recede in the facilities of the Prisons Department in Poojappura. The Food of Freedom cafeteria, the prison-run petrol pump, garment store and men’s salon resumed functioning after nearly a month. The Central Jail in Poojappura had recorded 485 COVID-19 cases, and only 48 inmates and a jail official are yet to recover from the disease. While the inmates have been accommodated in a separate block on the prison premises, the officer is undergoing treatment in a hospital. They are all likely to be a subjected to a third round of testing on Monday.
11 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Odisha company to prepare DPR of skywalk||Cuttack-based Arkitechno Consultants (India) Private Limited has been tasked by the government with preparing the Detailed Project Report (DPR) for the proposed skywalk in the capital. The firm won the bid floated by the Kerala State Transport Project (KSTP) for the Public Works Department (PWD). The work for the preparation of the DPR was awarded on Wednesday. The six-metre-wide skywalk, to come up in pillars, will connect Secretariat, Secretariat Annexe, KSRTC bus terminal and Central Railway Station at Thampanoor, entrance of Sree Padmanabhaswamy Temple at East Fort, and end in the Chala market. The proposed skywalk, meant for pedestrians, will be able to accommodate small electric vehicles too. Possible routes Three routes are being considered for the skywalk, including through the Press Road and Housing Board Junction. Consultants and experts of the firm started looking into the three options on Thursday to know the ground realities. Officials involved in the DPR preparation said the skywalk would not affect the alignment of the Light Metro proposed from Pallipuram Technocity via M.G. Road and Thampanoor to Karamana. In fact, officials said, it would merge with the Light Metro alignment that had been prepared. The officials will hold a meeting with the KSTP, PWD and Kerala Rapid Transit Corporation Ltd. officials after looking into all options.  The facility, meant for pedestrians, will accommodate small electric vehicles as well
11 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Painkuni festival begins at Padmanabhaswamy temple||The 10-day Painkuni festival of Sree Padmanabhaswamy Temple, scheduled to commence on March 30 and deferred due to COVID-19 restrictions, began on Thursday. Devotees will not be allowed to witness the rituals inside the temple and participate in Palli Vetta and Arat, usually taken out from the temple through the tarmac of the Thiruvananthapuram international airport to the Shanghumughom beach. Arat at Padmatheertham The Palli Vetta will be held on September 18 night. In view of the restrictions due to the pandemic, the Arat for the ritual immersion of the idols will be from the temple to the Padmatheertham pond. The Travancore Devaswom Board is yet to communicate whether the idols of the three temples under it will reach the Padmatheertham for the Arat. The festival is being held after five months following the advice of temple priest Nedumpilli Tharanallur N.P. Parameswaran Namboodiripad to go ahead with the festival with limited rituals. The forthcoming Alpashi festival is another reason for holding the Painkuni festival. Tantri Tharanallur Satheesan Namboodiripad and Tharanallur Saji Namboodiripad hoisted the flags on Thursday. This was followed by the Mannuneerkoral ritual in the adjacent Mitranandapuram pond at West Fort. Only a few people are attending the rituals in connection with the festival that began earlier this week. The Garuda Vahanas to be used for the Sreebali would be symbolic in view of the physical-distancing norms. Entry of devotees has been restricted through online registration. Public will be allowed to enter the temple only between 9.30 a.m. and 11.15 a.m. and from 5.30 p.m. to 6 p.m. during the festival.
11 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Driving schools in State to reopen on September 14||The Motor Vehicles Department (MVD) has come up with guidelines for commencing driving test for various classes of motorists and for the functioning of driving schools in the State from September 14. Only those who have taken learner’s licence before the lockdown commenced or those who have failed once will be allowed to appear in the driving test from September 14 to October 15. The Regional Transport Officers have been asked to ensure that only 50% of the test held before the lockdown is carried out in the initial phase. The existing online examination for issuing learners licence for motorists will continue. The norms Those coming from containment zones will not be allowed to appear for the driving test. Those appearing for the driving test will have to give declaration from the local body and health authorities that they do not have fever and cough, not coming from a home that have quarantined persons and have not been in quarantine for the last 14 days. No one appearing for the test will be allowed to come to the test ground with escorts from family or friends. Physical distancing norms will have to be followed and officials will have to wear face shield, mask and gloves. Only the candidate and the MVI will be allowed in the vehicle during the time of test. Those appearing for the test will have to carry sanitizer and will have to use it before and after test and will have to wear masks and gloves. For instructors In the case of driving schools, the instructor will have to use face shield, gloves and mask while teaching. The instructors should not hail from a containment zone or from a family where persons are home quarantined by the health authorities.
11 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Despite Onam, GST sees a dip in August||The dip in Goods and Services Tax (GST) revenue in August, a shopping month for Keralites due to Onam, remains a concern for the State even as the Centre is yet to make available Rs. 7,000 crore as GST compensation arrears. In the first 20 days in August, the GST collected in the State was Rs. 598 crore and Integrated GST collected from outside the State was Rs. 733 crore. Compared to the GST revenue of Rs. 1,494 crore in July 2020, the tax revenue in August is short by Rs. 463 crore. The GST revenue was Rs. 1,727 crore in August 2019. As the harvest festival was in the last week of August, the GST revenue from last-minute shopping will be reflected in the figures in October. Tax on petrol, diesel Petrol and high-speed diesel do not come under the purview of GST, but the tax revenue for petrol has fallen from Rs. 269 crore in July to Rs. 260 crore in August while in the case of high-speed diesel it dipped from Rs. 238 crore in July to Rs. 235 crore. The pandemic-induced lockdown, restrictions on travel, and graded movement of public transport mode are the reasons. However, the tax revenue from liquor sales has gone up with it going up from Rs. 744 crore in July to Rs. 823 crore in August. Liquor also does not come under GST. Crisis looming The dip in the GST revenue and the delay on the part of the Centre in providing the GST compensation arrears will put the exchequer in crisis. The State is eligible for GST compensation if the monthly tax revenue falls below Rs. 2,650 crore. The Centre has made it clear that it is not going to stick to the existing formula for disbursing GST compensation arrears to the States. With the deadline fixed by the Centre to reply to the two options to disburse GST compensation arrears getting over, the State is looking forward for the next step by the Union Finance Ministry.
11 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Low pressure in Bay of Bengal by Sept. 13||The attention of weather agencies has once again shifted to the Bay of Bengal region where a low pressure area is expected to take shape by September 13. The India Meteorological Department (IMD) is closely monitoring the situation. The low pressure area is likely to take shape over the westcentral part of the bay off the Andhra Pradesh coast. A low pressure area that formed over the Arabian Sea on September 6 had re-energised the southwest monsoon over Kerala. Rain till Sept. 14 Meanwhile, the Meteorological Department indicated that districts in Kerala can expect isolated heavy rainfall till September 14. The IMD has put northern districts of Malappuram, Kozhikode, Wayanad, Kannur, and Kasaragod on orange alert on Friday given the possibility of isolated heavy to very heavy rainfall. Yellow alert has been issued for Palakkad, Thrissur, Idukki, Ernakulam, Kottayam, and Alappuzha for Friday.
11 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||State urges Railways not to cancel trains||Kerala has asked Railways not to withdraw the intercity Thiruvananthapuram Central-Kozhikode Jan Shatabdi, Thiruvananthapuram Central-Kannur Jan Shatabdi, and Thiruvananthapuram Central-Ernakulam Venad specials from September 12 citing poor patronage. The letter comes amidst Railway Board’s decision to cancel the trains from Saturday. “Running of these trains is essential in this pandemic situation since most of the health workers and officegoers depend on these trains,” Minister in charge of Railways G. Sudhakaran said in a letter to Union Railway Minister Piyush Goyal on Thursday. Mr. Sudhakaran said the poor patronage to the trains was owing to the fewer number of stops and reduced frequency, apart from a shift to other modes of transport. Opening up As per Unlock 4.0, Mr. Sudhakaran said, the Ministry of Railways should start running more trains in Kerala to revive the economy and livelihood of the public. More offices and establishments are now set to open. Additional passenger trains with unreserved coaches and a pair of night trains on all routes should be operated following COVID-19 protocols. Mr. Sudhakaran asked Mr. Goyal to intervene to continue the operation of all the seven special trains that commenced in June and to run additional trains in the State.
11 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||The Hindu’s home expo gets good response||With a wide array of options on offer, The Hindu Print cum Virtual Home Expo has proved to be the right platform for those fantasising about their dream abode. As much as 23 site visits and more than 950 quality enquiries across Kerala, in the expo which is to conclude on September 12, testify people’s interest in genuine and novel ideas when it comes to building their homes. Over 100 properties are on display from 20 leading builders across the State in the expo which started on August 17. The event presented by the State Bank of India has ideas for housing with prices ranging from Rs. 35 lakh to Rs. 3.5 crore. From budget homes to luxury apartments and bungalows, the expo covers it all. Prospective buyers are provided an opportunity for site visits as well as a meeting with the builders as part of the expo. K. Srikant, member, Kerala General Council, Confederation of Real Estate Developers Association of India (CREDAI), says the online home expo gains more relevance in the digital age and is a new experience for buyers and sellers. According to Jayachandran V.S., president, CREDAI Trivandrum, a slowdown in the construction industry would affect crores of people. Realising this, the government has announced financial packages. The association of The Hindu with the SBI is the right combination because of the trust people have on both of them. Mrigendra Lal Das, Chief General Manager, SBI Local Head Office, Kerala, affirms how the national bank’s new home loan policies would help people realise their dreams of owning a house. People are looking for convenient living spaces and an expo of this kind would give them effective and feasible ideas, Mr. Das says. For details and registration, visit the website www.thehinduhomeexpo.in or call at 7510393649/7907355184. Enquiries may also be mailed to girish.kr@thehindu.co.in.
11 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Sale of vegetables||Vegetables grown by farmers from Perunkadavila here will be available at Vazhuthacaud every Friday. Mayor K. Sreekumar will inaugurate the initiative of the Agriculture Department near Government GHSS, Cotton Hill, at 2 p.m. on Friday. Residents’ associations can book vegetables by calling 9447005998, 9496197435.
11 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Chennithala seeks probe into bridge collapse||Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala has moved the Central Vigilance Commission (CVC) seeking a thorough investigation into the collapse of a portion of the bridge under construction at Muzhapilangad in Kannur as part of the Mahe bypass project. In a letter to the CVC, Mr. Chennithala, who had visited the site after the accident, said the project was mired in corruption. “Unless a thorough probe is conducted and corrective steps taken, the lives of thousands of travellers along the route will be jeopardised,” he said.
11 September 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||NIMS gets nod for RT-PCR testing||NIMS Medicity has received approval from the Indian Council of Medical Research for testing for SARS-CoV-2 using Real Time RT-PCR Open system. The testing commenced on Thursday. Open RT-PCR, along with the other highly sophisticated facilities at NIMS Centre for Advanced Biotechnology, is expected to pave way for more intensive studies in the area of ‘post-COVID complications’ research at NIMS Medicity, an official release said here.
11 September 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Multigym for women inaugurated||Mayor K. Sreekumar inaugurated a multigym for women and an anganwadi building in the Ponnumangalam ward on Thursday. The facilities were constructed at a cost of Rs. 25 lakh. Deputy Mayor Rakhi Ravikumar was present.
11 September 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||‘Prana Air for Care’ launched||The Government Medical College Hospital, Thrissur, has introduced a project – Prana Air for Care - to reach oxygen supply to all in-patient beds. The project, the first of its kind in the State, has been implemented with people’s participation. The project was implemented with an objective to give oxygen for all COVID-19 patients. People who are willing can be part of the project by donating their share to it. In the initial phase, oxygen supply will be set up for 600 beds. Each unit can be sponsored by donating Rs. 12,000. Oxygen supply has to be arranged for 1,450 beds in the hospital. So far, donation has been received for 221 units. Donations can be sent to: Principal, Government Medical College, Thrissur; Current account No: 57 02 48 46 396; IFSC Code: SBIN 0014682; branch: KUHS SBI For further details, contact 0487 2472111.
11 September 2020||September 11 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Festival’s favourites||
11 September 2020||September 11 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Rescue act||
11 September 2020||September 11 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||High on merriment||
11 September 2020||September 11 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Ritual uninterrupted||
11 September 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Number of APECET applicants goes down||Even as the authorities are all set to conduct the Andhra Pradesh Engineering Common Entrance Test (APECET) on September 14 in strict adherence to the COVID-19 protocols, the number of applicants this year saw a decline by 2,567 when compared to that of last year. “As many as 37,167 candidates have applied for the test till the last date of application on September 5 this time. The number was 39,734 last year,” said a release issued by APECET Convenor P. R. Bhanu Murthy. Exam schedule The test will be held in two sessions at 79 centres in all districts of Andhra Pradesh and Hyderabad. The test for agriculture engineering, BSc (Mathematics), biotechnology, ceramic technology, civil engineering, chemical engineering, computer science engineering, electrical and electronics engineering will be conducted from 9 a.m. to 12 noon. The test for electronics and communication engineering, electronics and instrumentation engineering, mechanical engineering, mining engineering, metallurgical engineering, and pharmacy will be held between 3 p.m. and 6 p.m. Mr. Bhanu Murthy said calculators, cellphones or any other electronic gadget will not be permitted into the examination hall. The candidates must bring mask, sanitiser, water bottle, pen, hall ticket and ID card. All candidates must submit a self-declaration form printed on the back of the hall tickets. Candidates who have tested positive for coronavirus should submit their test reports in advance and a special room will be arranged for them. In Anantapur district, 744 candidates will write the test in the first session while 733 will appear for the examination in the second session at the six centres.
11 September 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Treasury staffer case goes to ACB||The sensational case of a Treasury employee of Anantapur hiding large amounts of cash, land documents, silver and gold ornaments along with three weapons (guns) in the house of his car driver’s father-in-law has been transferred to the Anti-Corruption Bureau. The Anantapur police had seized eight trunk boxes containing all these valuables from a colony in Bukkarayasamudram on the city outskirts on August 19 in an overnight operation. While the report was sent to Director-General of Police Gautam Sawang, it has now been handed over to the ACB. Currently Tirupati ACB Deputy Superintendent of Police V. Alla Baksh is the in-charge DSP for Anantapur ACB also and this case will be investigated by his team. All material is in the safe custody of the police and it would be handed over to the ACB officials soon.
11 September 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two die, two battling for life as lorry runs over them||Two women died and two persons sustained grievous injuries in a road accident involving an overloaded autorickshaw, a stationary van and a speeding container in the city on Thursday afternoon. The autorickshaw was ferrying reportedly 14 people, all daily wagers, from a village near Rapthadu to Vadiyampeta. It hit a stationary van and fell on its side. Even before the passengers could get out, a container lorry coming in the same direction ran over them. Two women, identified as Sulochana (32) and Swathi (30), died on the spot. The police rushed four injured persons to the Government General Hospital. Two of the injured were battling for their life, said a police officer. The daily wagers, all residents of Vadiyampeta, were returning to their villager after working in an agriculture field when the accident occurred. The lorry, after mowing down the labourers, sped away. However, the police intercepted the vehicle about 10 km from the accident spot.
11 September 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||RTC to ramp up services from Chittoor to Karnataka||With the lifting of curbs on travel imposed in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic during the Unlock 4.0, the Andhra Pradesh State Road Transport Corporation (APSRTC), Tirupati region, is gearing up to ply more services from Chittoor district to Karnataka. According to officials, plans are afoot to bring 50% of its fleet into operation by the next week. “Since the Unlock 4.0 began, around 420 buses have come into operation in Chittoor district and there has been a satisfactory jump in the occupancy ratio from 20 % to 35%,” RTC Deputy Chief Traffic Manager (Chittoor) M. Bhaskar told The Hindu.  Even as the passenger services to Telangana and Tamil Nadu is yet to resume as per the COVID-19 guidelines, the response to the services to Karnataka is encouraging. “Apart from Bengaluru, we are plying buses to other cities in Karnataka such as Hospet and Hubli. By the next week, we are confident of running more services,” said Mr. Bhaskar. The RTC officials attributed the sudden increase in the passenger traffic in the region to the lifting of lockdowns in the limits of municipal corporations and municipalities in Chittoor district. “Now that the travelling is allowed till late in the evenings, there has been a gradual surge in the passenger traffic,” explained Mr. Bhaskar. The RTC, Tirupati region, which incurred heavy losses during the lockdown, has decided to focus on the cargo services within the State. Since the lockdown, the region was losing a revenue of more than Rs. 1.5 crore a day. Focus on cargo services “The focus is on the cargo services. We are operating seven exclusive cargo vehicles from the depots of Madanapalle, Kuppam, Palamaner, Chittoor and Tirupati to various destinations . The regular parcel services in the passenger vehicles will also continue,” said Mr. Bhaskar.
11 September 2020||ELURU,ANDHRA PRADESH||Girl meets mother after 21 years||Their joy knew no bounds when Gadi Bala Durga was reunited with her mother, A. Ramana, after 21 years. They got separated when the sick mother handed over her 21-day-old baby to a couple for care-taking. The girl now works as a computer operator in the APSRTC and, in a strange twist of fate, it was a colleague who spotted their common features and helped them reunite. Allampilli Ramana of Kothapeta in the town delivered a baby girl in 1999. “As I fell sick and became bedridden, I handed over my 21-day-old child to a couple, Gadi Ramakrishna and Neelamma, who named her Bala Durga. After three years, Ramakrishna’s family had shifted to another place and we lost contact,” Ms. Ramana recalled. The Women Development and Child Welfare (WD&CW) Director Krithika Shukla complimented the district Project Director and the District Child Protection Unit (DCPU) staff, foster parents and donors who had helped raise the child and supported her education. “Bala Durga’s interest in studies and determination made her complete her graduation, facing many odds. We will help her to pursue law course, as per her wish,” Ms. Shukla told The Hindu . Many ordeals Bala Durga’s foster parents died when she was 10 years old and she moved to their relatives’ place at Pothunuru village in West Godavari district where she studied up to ninth class in the local government school, said West Godavari district WD&CW Project Director (PD) K. Vijaya Kumari. District Child Protection Officer (DCPO) Ch. Surya Chakra Veni who tracked the case said, as the family had stopped her education and sent the girl to forests to graze the sheep, Bala Durga ran away from home. She was rescued by an NGO and the WD&CW Department had admitted her in Bala Sadan. “After completing the 10th class, a journalist, G. Nagaraja, supported my education in S.K.S.D. Mahila Kalasala at Tanuku where I studied CEC in Inter and B.Com (Computers),” Bala Durga said. “Recently, I got a job as a computer operator in the APSRTC, where an employee identified me with my features and took me to my family. My mother recognised me after 21 years and hugged me,” Bala Durga said. “We will discuss with experts and hand over Bala Durga to her family by following the due procedure,” Krithika Shukla said.
11 September 2020||K. UmashankerCHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Herbal decoction, a big hit in rural Chittoor||“Herbal decoction” is the new buzzword among several families in rural areas of Chittoor after COVID-19 positive cases in the district crossed the 46,000-mark with over 500 casualties by Thursday. People in rural mandals of the district have taken to the decoction made of the commonly available ingredients in the kitchen, coupled with easily available herbs either in the market or found elsewhere in the rural areas. The ingredients of the herbal decoction, popularly known as “dhaniyala kashayam”, include coriander seeds, pepper, ginger, turmeric powder, cloves and cinnamon, while Tulasi leaves are added for flavour. Some even add some traditional herbs. Though not directly considered a medicine for COVID, this drink is indisputably considered a viable immunity booster. Yesupadam (65), a Siddha and Ayurveda practitioner of Rajula Kandriga village of Nagalapuram mandal, has been guiding people in preparing the herbal decoction in their kitchen itself. During the last one month, Yesupadam and his daughter, Priya (28), have been visiting the rural areas in Nagalapuram, Pichatur, Satyavedu and Varadaiahpalem mandals, holding awareness camps on the importance of the decoction as an immunity booster. Every day, 50 litres of decoction is prepared at the Bhairava Ashram, run as a rehabilitation center for the sick and aging canines by Yesupadam and his family at Rajula Kandriga village, to be distributed free among the public, mostly auto-drivers, farmers of various villages on their way to fields, and general public at market places. Multiple benefits “At this hour of COVID-19 pandemic, consuming this immunity booster will also generate a sense of confidence among people, apart from helping them fight a number of general ailments such as cold, fever, asthma and digestive problems. Similarly, a number of COVID-19 patients, after getting discharged, are guided to prepare the decoction at their houses twice a day,” Mr. Yesupadam said. The father-daughter duo guides families in raising medicinal plants in their courtyards. “A majority of the herbs we use for several ailments are collected from the nearby Nagalapuram hills and small jungles on the Chittoor-Tamil Nadu border,” Mr. Yesupadam said. On this flipside, the duo doesn’t miss the opportunity to promote the COVID-19 guidelines among public, particularly face mask, social distancing and hand wash.
11 September 2020||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||SCR makes inroads into new territory with fly ash||The first-ever fly ash rake from the India Cements’ plant at Chilamkur near Yerraguntla in Kadapa district left for its destination at Vishnupuram near Miryalaguda in Telangana on Thursday. With this, the South Central Railways (SCR) has succeeded in making inroads into a territory which was earlier dependent heavily on roadways. Fly ash is an input used by cement companies for manufacturing PCC (Portland Cement Concrete), which disposes of the substance in an environment-friendly way. The newly-formed Business Development Unit (BDU) of the Guntakal division brought more business into its freight basket by explaining the prospective clients about the benefits of using the rail mode. Tariff concession It was in August 2020 that the Railway Board had introduced a policy rebate of 40% concession on the Normal Tariff Rates (NTR) for freight customers loading fly ash either in bagged or loose condition through open wagons. Mutually beneficial The BDU seized the opportunity by convincing its existing clientele in making use of the rail network. The first rake laden with fly ash that chugged out on Thursday made use of the tariff rebate. The move is seen as a win-win situation as it benefits the client in the form of reduced tariff and churns more revenue for the railways, apart from providing an eco-friendly way of transporting fly ash. Pat from GM SCR General Manager Gajanan Mallya complimented the Guntakal division team for initiating this new stream of traffic. He also suggested to other zonal and divisional BDUs to focus on tapping new business in freight.
11 September 2020||KADAPA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Kadapa ward volunteers seek police protection||In the wake of the rise in the attacks by unruly mobs, the employees and volunteers attached to ward secretariats in the district staged a demonstration here on Thursday. They appealed to the police to provide them adequate protection against such incident. In a representation submitted to Deputy Superintendent of Police (Kadapa Town) U. Suryanarayana on Thursday, a group of ward volunteers attributed the recent attacks on them to the leaders of the ruling party. Recalling specific instances, the ward volunteers lamented that they were being targeted for merely rendering service to people. They said that it would be very difficult to discharge their duties in such a hostile environment and appealed to the police to act swiftly on their representation.
11 September 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||NGT appoints team to study pollution caused by ONGC, GAIL||The National Green Tribunal (Southern Zone-Chennai) has constituted a six-member joint committee to study the air, water and groundwater pollution caused by the activities of the Oil and Natural Gas Corporation (ONGC) and the Gas Authority of India Limited (GAIL) in the Krishna-Godavari basin in East and West Godavari districts of Andhra Pradesh. Justice K. Ramakrishnan and expert member Saibal Dasgupta heard a petition filed by Venkatapati Raja Yenumula of East Godavari district on September 8 through online, and constituted the joint committee comprising a senior officer from MoEF&CC (Regional office-Chennai); senior officer from Central Pollution Control Board, Chennai; senior officer as deputed by Chairman, AP Pollution Control Board; District Collectors of East and West Godavari districts, and a petroleum engineering expert from Andhra University, Visakhapatnam. The committee will inspect the Krishna-Godavari basin in the two districts and submit a factual as well as action taken report. It has has been told to submit the report by November 17. “The Committee has been directed to go into the question as to whether there was any air, water, sound and soil pollution caused on account of the activities of the ONGC and GAIL in these areas; whether they have committed any violation of Environment clearance and Coastal Regulatory Zone clearance granted and, if so, what is the impact of those on environment and the nature of damage caused to the environment and assess the compensation accordingly,” the order stated. Air, water quality test The committee has also been directed to conduct Ambient Air Quality Test, ground water and quality of water test in water bodies and the sea and check if there is any contamination has been caused in the areas in question. The committee was told to ascertain as to whether there was any damage caused to the residents of the locality on the account of any of the violation committed by the companies and that would also be taken into consideration while assessing the environmental compensation to be recovered from them.
11 September 2020||KURNOOL,ANDHRA PRADESH||Policeman dies as weapon misfires||A police head constable posted on guard duty at the Andhra Pradesh Special Police Deputy Inspector General of Police’s office in Kurnool died on Thursday due to misfire of his weapon, a 7.62-mm Ishapore Self-Loading Rifle (SLR). The Head Constable, Solomon Raj (50), has been identified as a 1992-batch employee. He is survived by wife, a son, and a daughter. He was a native of Vaddmanu village in Nandikotkur mandal in the district. While his son is studying 10th standard, the daughter is pursuing a degree course. The fellow constables said that it was a routine for all of them to clean their weapons early in the morning and Solomon Raj’s weapn misfiring was an unfortunate incident.
11 September 2020||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||16 more deaths push toll in south Andhra districts to 720||There is no respite for south coastal Andhra region as 16 more patients, including nine in Nellore district, succumbed to coronavirus during the last 24 hours. As many as 2,209 people, including 1,386 in Prakasam district, were tested positive during the period. The single-day spike in Prakasam was the second highest in the State after East Godavari. The district has been registering more than 1,000 infections each day during this week. The combined death toll in the two districts has gone up to 720, with Nellore district accounting for 369 and Prakasam 351 deaths, said a health bulletin released by the State government on Thursday night. Recovery count However, the only solace was that 2,487 patients, including 997 in Prakasam district, were discharged from various COVID-19 facilities on recovery during the period. With 1,490 people being recovered in the last 24 hours, Nellore witnessed a high recovery rate. Exclusive facility for police personnel As many as 35, 285 of the 43,207 patients have been recovered from the infection till date. Meanwhile, Nellore Collector K.V.N. Chakradhar Babu inaugurated a five-bed COVID care centre exclusively for the police personnel at the Police Training Centre at Chemudugunta. He lauded the services of the police personnel who risked their lives while enforcing the lockdown norms. Already, 14 beds have been reserved for the women staff, said Nellore Superintendent of Police Bhaskar Bhushan. The new COVID care centre, the 20th in the district, has 25 beds equipped with oxygen facility. The asymptomatic cases would be treated with yoga and meditation, along with the medical regimen.
11 September 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ryots on a warpath against metering of farm pumpsets||Farmers’ organisations have decided to take their protest against the introduction of metering system for the agricultural pumpsets to New Delhi, alleging that the Centre is hell-bent on replacing the free power scheme meant for ryots with the Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) on the pretext of reforms. Addressing farmers here on Thursday, All India Kisan Sabha national vice-president Ravula Venkaiah said massive protests would be organised at Jantar Mantar in the national capital on September 14 against the DBT scheme. Centre blamed “The Centre is planning to give a push to the DBT scheme in the next fiscal. Measuring power consumed by farmers for farm pumpsets is unnecessary,” he said. Mr. Venkaiah claimed that the DBT scheme was nothing but an attempt to gradually dilute the free power supply being enjoyed by the farmers after a long agitation, adding that the farmers would oppose tooth and nail the attempts by the electricity department staff to install meters in the state. All India Kisan Sangarsh Coordination Committee Prakasam district convenor Ch. Ranga Rao said the State government, if it wanted, could assess the power consumed by pumpsets at the sub-station level, not at the level of individual farmers. Aadhaar details “There is no question of farmers giving details of their Aadhaar cards and land holdings to the electricity staff,” he said. “We are planning to hold protests in-front of electricity sub-stations and at the mandal level from September 15, said Andhra Pradesh Rythu Sangam Prakasam district secretary Vadde Hanuma Reddy. Attempts made in the past by the government to install meters for farm pumpsets had come a cropper, he said and wanted Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy to realise that it was on the poll plank of free power to farmers, Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy had come to power in the undivided Andhra Pradesh. He urged Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy not to comply with the electricity reforms mooted by the Centre. Telugu Desam Party farmers’ wing district president K. Venkaiah also said that farmers owed the free power scheme to former Chief Minister N.T. Rama Rao who was against metering of farm pumpsets. Action plan “An action plan will be chalked out by farmers’ organiations in the State cutting across the party lines on September 15 to oppose the DBT scheme, he said.
11 September 2020||ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||Inter-State liquor racket busted||The Prakasam police busted an inter-State liquor racket and arrested four persons, including one from Telangana, near Maddipadu in Prakasam district on Thursday. Liquor worth Rs. 7 lakh, being transported from Hyderabad to Nellore, was seized from the four persons, Ongole Deputy Superintendent of Police K.V.V.N.V. Prasad told reporters here on Thursday night. On a tip-off, a police party, led by Ongole Rural Police Circle Inspector P. Subba Rao laid in wait on the arterial Chennai-Kolkata highway. A mini-truck carrying onions which was closely followed by a car was asked to stop. But the two vehicles tried to speed away on seeing the police. After a hot chase, the four smugglers were nabbed by Maddipadu sub-Inspector Firoja Fatima and other personnel near the Gundlapalli Growth Centre. In all, 720 bottles of 750 ml liquor and 960 bottles of 180 ml liquor were seized from them. The arrested were P. Nageswara Rao (42) from Khammam in Telangana and P. Jaganmohan Rao (38), B. Babu Rao (30), both from Padalakuru near Nellore and C.Chandramouli (42) from Nellore city. A case was registered.
11 September 2020||RAJAMAHENDRAVARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Will step up stir against attacks on temples: Somu||BJP State president Somu Veerraju on Thursday said a memorandum would be submitted on the burning of the temple chariot at Antarvedi in East Godavari district, to Governor Biswa Bhusan Harichandan on Saturday. Earlier in the day, leaders of the BJP and the JSP staged an one-hour protest in their respective houses demanding speedy investigation into the September 6 incident at Antarvedi. TTD funds Later, addressing the media here, Mr. Veerraju said, “The BJP is determined to intensify the agitation against the attacks on Hindu temples. We will also up the ante against the attempts being made by the State government to divert the funds of the Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams (TTD) for the implementation of welfare schemes.” “ The TTD should not be a rehabilitation centre for political leaders in the future,” said Mr. Veerraju.
11 September 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Protests erupt over Antarvedi temple fire||The opposition parties has accused the State government of dealing the burning of chariot at Lakshmi Narasimha Swamy temple at Antarvedi with an indifferent attitude. Leaders of the BJP and Jana Sena Party staged joint demonstrations at various places in the city on Thursday. BJP State secretary G. Bhanuprakash Reddy, spokesperson Samanchi Srinivas and Yuva Morcha State president Ramesh Naidu alleged that the State government was ‘playing with the sentiments of the Hindus’ in the State. Judicial probe sought “There has been a rise in the attacks on religious institutions in the State during the YSRCP regime. The Endowments Minister is saying the fire at Antravedi temple is a handiwork of a mentally challenged person. We don’t have confidence on this government. Only a probe by a High Court judge into the incident will reveal the truth,” said Mr. Bhanuprakash Reddy. During another protest, BJP leader Saikam Jayachandra Reddy and Jana Sena Tirupati constituency in-charge K. Kiran Rayal accused the State government of deliberately targeting the Hindu places of worship. “Even as almost a week has passed after the incident, the government is yet to nab the culprits. Given the delay, we suspect that the government is not showing the due seriousness about the incident,” they said.  Fixing responsibility Meanwhile, TDP leader M. Sugunamma demanded that the government take the moral responsibility for the incident. “We smell a conspiracy behind the temple fire incident. The State government is trying to make a mentally-challenged person a scapegoat in this entire episode,” she said.
11 September 2020||TIRUPATI,ANDHRA PRADESH||Appointed APP||The State government has appointed noted advocate Chevireddy Sridevi as Additional Public Prosecutor (APP) for the court of Additional Assistant Session Judge, Tirupati. Principal Secretary Kumar Vishwajeet has issued orders to this effect. Ms. Sridevi has two decades of standing. She served APSRTC as its standing counsel in the past. The tenure of the post is for three years.
11 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||FP dealers wait for disbursement of commission on free rice supplied||About 30,000 fair price (FP) shop dealers in the State have been waiting for their commission towards distribution of free rice since June. The State and Central governments have supplied free rice to the card-holders in view of the COVID-19 pandemic, but the dealers have not yet been paid commission till date. According to information, the dealer network serves more than 1.47 crore ration card-holders in the State through 28,354 FP shops. The Central government has extended an additional allocation 5 kg rice per person per month under the Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana (PMGKY) to all the beneficiaries covered under the Targeted Public Distribution System (TPDS), Antyodaya Anna Yojana (AAY) ration cards, and Priority Household (PHH) ration cards under the National Food Security Act (NFSA), 2013. The Central government has been extending the facility since March 29. The State government has extended a similar facility. So far, rice has been distributed in 10 phases — five spells by the Central government and five spells by the State government. Now, the 11th phase is under way. But the dealers have not been paid the commission since June. The government has to pay Rs. 38.66 crore per month to the dealers. In two spells, the State government has credited the commission through the Supply Chain Management (SCM) into the accounts. The dealers, however, say that the system is not useful, and wanted the government to credit the amount into their bank accounts directly. “Payments through the SCM is not beneficial as it is not possible to draw money. The government has Aadhaar and account details of every dealer,” says A.P. Ration Dealers’ Welfare Association president M. Venkat Rao. “The issue has been taken to the notice of the higher-ups in the A.P. Civil Supplies Corporation and the Civil Supplies Department,” he says. “Circulars were issued on July 20 and August 28. But the orders are hardly implemented in letter and spirit. The commission has been credited only to about 10,000 dealers,” he says. When contacted, Civil Supplies Director Dilli Rao says the process of crediting the commission into the banks accounts has already started and payments are also being made. “There are some issues such as missing Aadhaar number and bank account details. In some cases, real dealers are not running the shops. So, there is a delay in such cases. Regarding payment of commission by the Centre, the State government has to take a decision,” he says.
11 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID centre fire: patients’ bills missing, mobiles were off, allege kin||The medical bills and the receipts for the payments made were missing from the hotel-turned-COVID care centre here following the fire mishap that killed 10 people, allege the kin of some patients. They demand an inquiry into the alleged destruction of evidence in the case. Ten persons died in the centre at Hotel Swarna Palace run by the Ramesh Cardiac and Multispeciality Hospitals on August 9. The kin told The Hindu that there was no intimation to them from either the hospital or the hotel management on the fire mishap. “My brother suffered breathing problems and spoke to the hospital staff around 5.12 a.m. but later his phone remained switched off and the bills kept in the almirah were missing,” said the relative of a deceased patient. The kin of a woman patient too made the same allegations. “Doctors said that my mother died of suffocation in the fire mishap. Except the bills, all her other belongings were intact in the room,” her son said. It is also their common allegation that there was no response from the Ramesh Hospitals when they enquired about their dear ones, after the mishap. “We called up the hospital several times but there was no response. The government should inquire into the missing of the bills and destruction of evidence,” a family demanded.
11 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Why delay in distribution of house sites, asks Alapati||Senior TDP leader Alapati Rajendra Prasad has advised the State government to stop making baseless allegations against the Opposition parties and start distributing house sites to the poor. Addressing the media here on Thursday, Mr. Prasad said that the house sites issue was stuck in the court due to the government’s incompetence. The courts had issued a stay only on 4,000 acres out of the 40,000 acres proposed to be distributed, he said, and added that the government owed an explanation as to why it was causing needless delay in the distribution of the remaining extent. Stating that the government had no commitment, Mr. Prasad said it was because of the “indefensible and untenable” policies the YSRCP government was facing reverses in the courts. Its G.O. on allowing poor families to sell their sites after five years also faced rough weather. Just like the Amaravati capital issue, the YSRCP government was making all sorts of illegal policies in each and every programme, which was eventually drawing adverse orders from the courts, he observed. The TDP leader accused the government of using the house sites programme as a means to allow ruling YSRCP leaders to resort to corruption.
11 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP to highlight YSRCP govt. ‘failures’ in Parliament||The Telugu Desam Parliamentary Party (TDPP) has decided to raise six key issues, including the State government’s failures in respect of attacks on places of worship and attempts to sell property of Tirumala Tirupati Devasthanams, in the 18-day Parliament session. TDP national president N. Chandrababu Naidu held an online TDPP meeting on Thursday. The meeting decided to raise the issue of burning of chariots at two temples in two districts. The attempts to weaken and rob the institutions such as MANSAS Trust also need to be exposed, the meeting felt. Mr. Naidu said that under the YSRCP regime, every place of worship had come under attack which included TTD, Srisailam Mallikarjuna Swamy Temple, Kanipakam Vinayaka Temple, Srikalahasti Temple, Vijayawada Kanaka Durga Temple, Simhachalam Appanna Temple, Antarvedi Temple etc. The torching of chariots at Antarvedi Lakshminarasimha Swamy Temple and Nellore Konda Bitragunta Prasanna Venkateswara Swamy Temple were highly condemnable. Other religion propagation was taken up on TTD bus tickets, he pointed out. Mr. Naidu stressed on the need for the party MPs to question the government on the atrocities on Dalits and tribal people, false cases against BC and minority leaders and deterioration of law and order. Capital The ongoing atrocities on weaker and backward sections should be complained to the Heads of Constitutional institutions in Delhi, he said. The TDP chief said that the three Capitals issue should be raised in the Parliament while the Central Government should be asked to intervene and resolve the Capital problem by making the AP Government to honour the agreements reached with the Amaravati farmers.
11 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||KGBV admission: intimation sent to selected students||Students, who have been selected in the first phase for admission in the 171 Intermediate Kasturba Gandhi Balika Vidyalayas (KGBVs) by the Samagra Shiksha wing of the Education Department, should report to the special officers at their respective KGBVs between September 11 and September 18. In a statement released on Wednesday, Samagra Shiksha State Project Director K. Vetri Selvi said the lists of the selected students have been sent to respective KGBVs and information has also been sent to the mobile phones of the selected girls. The students should carry their Aadhar card, transfer certificate, study certificate, SSC pass short memo and other relevant certificates with them. The list of the selected students would be displayed on the website and also on the notice board of their respective schools. Students can make enquiries by calling 9441270099 or 9494383617.
11 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Need to produce global legal professionals, says High Court CJ||It is important to have new law schools to provide holistic legal education and to prepare global legal professionals, said Chief Justice of Andhra Pradesh High Court Jitendra Kumar Maheswari. The Chief Justice was speaking after virtually inaugurating VIT-AP School of Law (VSL) on Thursday. He appreciated the management of the VIT for its initiative of starting a law school in Andhra Pradesh. High Court Judges C. Praveen Kumar and T. Rajani, who inaugurated the Legal Aid Clinic and Moot Court Hall, underscored the importance of clinical legal education and training for students of law. They said students should take legal profession seriously and start practising in litigation, along with other opportunities available in the present times. The Principal District and Sessions Judge of Guntur district inaugurated the Law School Library. Vice-president, VIT University G.V. Selvam, said the competitive world today needed global legal professionals and expressed hope that the VIT Law School would live up to everybody's expectations. Vice-Chancellor D. Subhakar explained in detail about the facilities available in the university while Registrar C.L.V. Sivakumar thanked the guests for sharing their time with students. Besides students and parents, people from legal fraternity participated in the event.
11 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Teachers demand transfers, promotions||Leaders of the Andhra Pradesh Teachers’ Federation on Wednesday demanded that the government initiate the process of transfers and promotions for teachers. In a statement, federation president K. Bhanumurthy and general secretary P. Panduranga Varaprasad said teacher transfers were pending for last three years. Last year, transfers were given to other government employees, but teachers were left out of the process. Pointing out that the Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy and Education Miniser A. Suresh had assured them that transfers would be effected by July, but it had not been implemented, they said the government should complete the process by the times schools reopen. They said teacher promotions were stopped eight months ago without specifying any reason. A teacher had the privilege of a promotion just once or twice in his entire career and hundreds of them had retired this year without enjoying this privilege. They said the government should initiate immediate steps to ensure justice to the teaching fraternity.
11 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Chief Minister keen on strengthening RBKs, PACs||Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy has directed the officials concerned to take necessary steps for strengthening Rythu Bharosa Kendras (RBKs) and Primary Agricultural Cooperative Credit Societies (PACs) and study the pros and cons of setting up Janata Bazaars at warehouses. He ordered that the farm inputs -- seeds, fertilizers and pesticides -- sold by RBKs should be of top quality. Addressing a review meeting on RBKs on Thursday, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said Janata Bazaars should facilitate the sale of various crops and e-cropping makes it easy to pay insurance premium for the crops and compensation in case of damage and in ensuring remunerative prices. The focus should be on doubling the farmers' income, he exhorted the officials. The Chief Minister said the government signed MoUs with Amul and other companies for providing employment opportunities to women. Commenting on the installation of meters for agriculture power connections, Mr. Jagan Mohan Reddy said it was essential to supply quality power to farmers. The money would be directly credited to farmers' bank accounts, he pointed out. Agriculture Minister K. Kanna Babu, Agriculture Mission vice-chairman M.V.S. Nagi Reddy, Special Chief Secretary Poonam Malakondaiah and Agriculture and Marketing Special Commissioner P.S. Pradyumna were among those present.
11 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Viswanatha Satyanarayana an embodiment of Indian culture, traditions: Venkaiah||Vice-President M. Venkaiah Naidu has said that preserving and protecting the mother tongue, Indian culture, values and the environment will be the real tribute one could pay to the Telugu literary legend Viswanatha Satyanarayana. Virtually inaugurating the 125th birth anniversary celebrations of Kavi Samrat Viswanatha Satyanarayana, organised by Viswanatha Sahitya Peetham, Mr. Naidu described the literary genius as an embodiment of Indian culture and traditions. Stating that Viswanatha Satyanarayana remains the first writer to impart a true Teluguness to the Ramayana, he recalled that Ramayana Kalpavruksham , the seminal work of Viswanatha had fetched him the Jnanpith Award. Through his works, he had highlighted the importance of imparting learning in the mother tongue, preserving culture and protecting the nature, said the Vice-President. Observing that imparting primary education in mother tongue would help in emotional and intellectual development of children, he asserted: “Children can learn education in a holistic manner when culture, language and traditions are integrated.” Education policy Pointing out that the New Education Policy-2020 has given priority to integrated education, the Vice-President stressed that the NEP-2020, at the same time, was designed to equip the students with skills and knowledge of international standards to meet the challenges of the 21st century. The Vice-President also quoted Viswanatha as saying that with the maturity one gets from education in mother tongue, one can learn any language. He said Viswanatha’s literary canvas was large comprising novels, critical works, poems, epics, plays, songs and verses, among others. Many leading Telugu literary personalities drew their inspiration from Viswanatha Satyanarayana, he added. He said that Viswanatha’s works probably attracted the maximum research and study by young writers. Former Deputy Speaker of Andhra Pradesh Assembly Mandali Budha Prasad, spiritual preacher Samavedam Shanmukha Sarma, president of Viswanatha Sahitya Peetham Viswanatha Satyanarayana, and other personalities attended the webinar.
11 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Poster on science contest released||Krishna District Education Officer (DEO) M.V. Rajya Lakshmi released a poster of the INSPIRE (Innovation in Science Pursuit for Inspired Research) Awards- MANAK (Million Minds Augmenting National Aspirations and Knowledge) at her camp office on Thursday. The INSPIRE scheme is a flagship programme of the Department of Science and Technology (DST) executed in collaboration with the National Innovative Foundation (NIF) to motivate students in the age group of 10-15 years and studying in classes 6 to 10. Last year, students of Krishna district bagged 701 awards and received cash prizes worth Rs. 10,000. The DEO appreciated the team work of the District Science Centre and others to encourage schoolchildren to participate in the programme. The objective of the programme is to target one million original ideas/innovations rooted in science and societal applications to foster a culture of creativity and innovative thinking among schoolchildren, said Ms. Rajya Lakshmi adding that it was an online contest and under the scheme schools can nominate five best original ideas/innovations of students through till Sept.30.
11 September 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Centre’s nod sought for augmenting infra at Kakinada anchorage port||Minister for Industries and Commerce, IT and Skill Development Mekapati Goutham Reddy on Thursday requested Union Minister of State for Shipping and Chemicals and Fertilizers Mansukh L. Mandaviya to give an early approval for the augmentation of infrastructure at the Kakinada anchorage port, which was estimated to cost Rs. 100 crore, under the Sagarmala programme. In a meeting with Mr. Mandaviya in New Delhi, Mr. Goutham Reddy also sought road connectivity to the proposed Bhavanapadu, Machilipatnam, Ramayapatnam and Kakinada SEZ ports as a part of the road development component of the Bharatmala Pariyojana. He also requested the Union Minister to extend financial support for the construction of coastal cargo berths at eight fishing harbours proposed to be built by the A.P. government. Mr. Goutham Reddy discussed the establishment of the bulk drug manufacturing park and building the skill ecosystem in the State with Union Minister of State for Finance Anurag Singh Thakur. He invited Mr. Thakur to visit the State and have an interaction with the entrepreneurs. Digital India programme The Minister called on the Secretary, Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology, Ajay Sawhney. They deliberated on scaling up the Digital India initiative. Mr. Reddy sought Mr. Sawhney’s help in the establishment of a data centre in the State and another electronics manufacturing cluster, and financial support for the e-Governance projects.
11 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||CETs get under way||After the delay following the postponement of the Common Entrance Tests (CETs) on account of the prevailing COVID-19 pandemic, the APCETs - 2020 finally started on Thursday. In a statement, Andhra Pradesh State Council of Higher Education Secretary B. Sudheer Prem Kumar said the first day of the first examination, A.P. Integrated Common Entrance Test (APICET), was a smooth affair. The test would be conducted on Friday also in two sessions. He said, out of the total 16,270 candidates registered for the examination in the morning session, 12,761 attended (78.4%). In the afternoon session, out of the total number of 16,233 registered candidates only 12,863 (79.2%) wrote the test.
11 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID leads to surge in cloud services usage||The COVID pandemic and its impact on businesses has necessitated large, medium and small enterprises to revisit their operating models by adapting digital technology so that they can sustain post-pandemic. As a result, tech majors such as IBM have been witnessing a surge in usage of their cloud and AI services by several enterprises across the country, as they realign existing systems to reduce the impact of any such situations in the future on them. In an interaction with The Hindu , IBM, Indian and South Asia vice president (sales) Prativa Mohapatra said the focus of every business now was on the agility to adjust to the new business models as well as cost structures. The way how governments work, businesses operate was getting reshaped, she said. “Not many saw this (pandemic) coming in terms of having majority of the workforce work from home and the period. However, technology has come as a solution. As our large enterprises revisit their IT spending, there is surge towards cloud-based technology. Both in the private and government sector, everyone is looking at using the newer tech,” she said. Service teams IBM has service teams that can manage infrastructure on and off the cloud. These teams also provide services, solutions and also infrastructure, she said. IBM offers Cloud computing infrastructure as a service (Cloud IaaS) model. For MSEs which are large in number in the country, IBM provides a platform where they could learn about AI, cloud, data and apply them to their businesses, she said. IBM had opened up 11 of its cloud services for free to ease the burden of businesses across the globe. The cloud offerings include AI, data, security, integration, remote learning and more, all served via IBM's public cloud, she said. Talks on with A.P. govt. “Discussions with Andhra Pradesh and Telangana governments are going on about various projects. We have already helped Andhra Pradesh with AI chat box on COVID-19 which was embedded into the government’s portal. Andhra Pradesh is one of few governments to have such chat boxes,” she said. Chief Digital Officer and Director-Digital Sales and Commercial Ajay Mittal says COVID has sensitised business owners to reprioritise IT to continue to run businesses effectively. “For most of the medium and small businesses (SMBs), transition is no more a bottom up approach. IBM offers products as well as services. A significant number of consumers use IBM servers, database and security products besides software as a service,” Mr. Ajay says. Manufacturing companies are really in need for solutions and recently IBM has partnered with Andhra Paper Limited, to provide end-to-end solutions including SAP consulting and implementation, he added. “Traditionally SMBs work with three to four companies to buy software, implement it and manage. IBM is capable of doing all of them and also provide expertise,” he added.
11 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Krishna sees biggest spike in COVID infections||Krishna district has reported its biggest single-day spike with 545 new infections reported on Thursday. Also, for the first time the tally crossed 500. The district continues to have lowest number of infections at 19,959 in the State. Its death toll is 330 and seven new deaths were reported in the past day. The district also continues to be on the top with highest death rate of 1.65% among the districts. The district has 431 COVID containment clusters, and 23 were added on Thursday. There are 3,051 active cases which are 15% of the total cases.
11 September 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP objects to YSRCP leaders’ ‘intemperate language’||TDP spokesperson Divya Vani has objected to the “unpalatable and unparliamentary language” being used by the Ministers and YSRCP MLAs against the Opposition leaders. “Instead of taking criticism in a constructive manner, they are making objectionable comments,” Ms. Divya Vani told the media here on Thursday. “The Ministers are losing patience and slipping into depression in the face of increasing public backlash on almost all the issues. The average voter is wondering whether he or she has elected insane persons to rule the State,” Ms. Divya Vani said. Snipe at Kodali Civil Supplies Minister Kodali Sri Venkateswara Rao seemed to have lost all balance, the TDP leader alleged. MLA Vallabhaneni Vamsi had threatened to drag Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy’s wife Bharati to the court when he was in the TDP, she said. “But now, he is making objectionable comments against the Opposition leaders,” Ms. Divya Vani observed. “The YSRCP is trying to take credit for the achievements made by the TDP government headed by N. Chandrababu Naidu. The Ministers are bragging about the efforts of their leadership in bringing the KIA Motors to the State. It was Mr. Naidu who brought industries to the Sri City SEZ. He was also the one who took the initiative on the Kanaka Durga flyover. But the YSRCP leaders are claiming credit for the projects,” she said.
11 September 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||Report sought on damage caused by lift scheme||A two-judge bench of the National Green Tribunal (NGT), headed by its chairperson Justice Adarsh Kumar Goel and comprising judicial member Justice S.P. Wangdi, directed that a committee of the Central and AP Pollution Control Boards, AP State Environment Impact Assessment Authority and East Godavari District Collector submit a report on the extent of damage caused by the Purushothapatnam Lift Irrigation Scheme (PLIS) and the compensation payable to those affected within six months, and listed the matter for April 12, 2021. It was hearing arguments on the legality of the scheme in Seethanagaram mandal of East Godavari district, vis-a-vis the Environmental Clearance to be obtained as per the Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) Notification. ‘Clearances needed’ The bench observed that EIA and environmental clearance were necessary as per the 2006 EIA Notification because the project has potential impact on the environment and it is not merely for water supply but also involves irrigation. The project proponent (Government of Andhra Pradesh) should, therefore, ensure compliance with the statutory clearances before going ahead with the project. The petitioners’ advocate Sravan Kumar said the project involved the diversion of the flow of Godavari river into Yeleru reservoir for which a NOC was to be obtained from the Polavaram project authorities.
11 September 2020||Visakhapatnam,ANDHRA PRADESH||Jute mill workers unhappy with compensation package||The employees of Chittivalasa Jute Mills and trade unions are conflicted over the compensation package announced for them by the government, as they feel that they are still not getting their due. Tourism Minister Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao had recently announced that the management of Chittivalasa Jute Mill has agreed to pay Rs. 25 crore compensation to the workers by December this year. As per the package, Rs. 11 crore will be paid in October, Rs. 7 crore in November and the remaining Rs. 7 crore in December. Speaking to The Hindu , Ch. Narasinga Rao, State Secretariat Member of the CPI(M), said that in 2009, a lockout was imposed in the mill. The jute mill, which was established in 1924, was one of the oldest and most profitable mills and the lockout was declared illegal by the court, he said. At that time, there were close to 4,072 employees and 667 apprentices, and in 2010, the court had ordered payment of wages from August 20, 2009 to April 30, 2010, an amount that works out to Rs. 33.33 crore, he said. “From the date of the lockout till today, around 2,100 people have retired and over 600 have died, and we demand that the compensation should be based on Payment of Wages Act of 1936, which works out close to Rs. 7 lakh per worker. The total compensation amount works out to Rs. 106.53 crore in 2011, which in today’s value would be Rs. 223 crore,” said an employee of the jute mill. R. Narasinga Rao of CITU, Chittivalasa Jute Mills, said that the mill never suffered losses and was a labour-intensive, environment-friendly green industry. Instead of closing it down and paying paltry compensation to the workers, the government should revive and restart it, as people from Bhimili, Padmanabham, Anandapuram and Bhogapuram have always depended on it, he said. Land value The Chittivalasa Jute Mill was set up during British rule in 1924, and several workers had taken part in independence struggles. Two were also killed during that period in police firing, it is learnt. After the ownership of the mill changed hands post independence, it became a profitable unit and there is still a large demand for jute bags and accessories, said Mr. Ch. Narasinga Rao. “The mill was set up on 70 acres of land, which is now prime real estate in Bhimili. The value of the land is close to Rs. 700 crore, and the management settling the issue by paying a paltry Rs. 25 crore is not acceptable. We demand that it be revived or adequate compensation be paid,” said the CPI(M) leader.
11 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Attacks’ on temples in State draw condemnation||The temple chariot fire at Antarvedi in East Godavari district, and the indifference being displayed by the YSR Congress Party government over the issue, has hurt the sentiments of Hindus, Bharatiya Janata Party MLC P.V.N. Madhav said on Thursday. A protest was organised by the BJP at its party office here on Thursday. Former MP Kambhapati Haribabu, former MLA P. Vishnu Kumar Raju and Parliamentary District president M. Raveendranath Reddy participated in the meeting. Mr. Madhav said that four temple chariots were gutted in different incidents during the last one year in the State, and alleged that the Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy government was dismissing all of them as ‘stray incidents’ or ‘acts committed by lunatics’. “Idols were desecrated at a temple at Pithapuram in the past. We demand a new chariot for the temple at Antarvedi and prevention of encroachment of temple lands. We also demand the release of those arrested during protests at Antarvedi,” Mr. Madhav said. Meanwhile, the AP Sadhu Parishad demanded the resignation of Endowments Minister Vellampalli Srinivas for his failure to check the growing attacks on Hindu places of worship. Parishad president Srinivasananda Saraswathi alleged that attacks took place on 27 Hindu institutions after the YSRCP came to power in the State, and claimed lands belonging to temples were being encroached upon but the government is remaining a mute spectator. He condemned the arrest of Hindu religious leaders who went to stage a protest at Antarvedi. He also found fault with the government for encroachment of lands belonging to the Simhachalam temple and alleged propagation of other religions at temples in the State.
11 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||VMRDA opens up some parks after six months||The hilltop park of Kailasagiri was thrown open to tourists on Thursday after being closed for six months, after the State Government ordered the Visakhapatnam Metropolitan Region Development Authority (VMRDA) to open up the parks under its control. Footfalls, however, remained low with only a little over 300 people visiting Kailasagiri on the first day of its reopening. The park, which was earlier open from 8.30 a.m. till 8.30 p.m., will now open at 10 a.m. and close at 5 p.m. Timings will be increased gradually, officials said. Visitors to the park are being told to keep their masks on at all times. The toy train and ropeway at the hill-top park, both of which are popular tourist attractions, are yet to be restarted. Along with Kailasagiri, the VMRDA also opened up Tenneti Park and YSR City Central Park. Tenneti Park was packed with visitors in the evening. The parking lot was almost full as locals made a beeline to the park that offers great views of the bay and the city’s coastline. Committee formed A committee was formed by VMRDA officials to study the feasibility of allowing visitors to museums in the city. VMRDA secretary Ganesh Kumar said that the committee will submit a report to the VMRDA Commissioner. The sites will be opened after a review meeting, he said. Tourist spots which are under the APTDC have already resumed operations.
11 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two killed, 3 injured in separate accidents||Two persons in a car died after crashing into a tree while negotiating a sharp bend near Agraharam area in Nathavaram mandal in the district, in the wee hours of Thursday. The deceased were identified as Srinivasa Rao (31) and Hanuman Sai (27), both residents of Nathavaram mandal. Nathavaram police said that the bodies have been shifted to hospital for post-mortem. In another incident, a private bus heading to Visakhapatnam from Chennai fell off a bridge near Dharmavaram area under S. Rayavaram police station limits on Thursday midnight. Police said that there were only three persons – the driver, cleaner and another person in the bus. The three persons were shifted to KGH.
11 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||With 414 new cases, tally rises to 43,148 in district||As many as 414 new COVID-19 cases were reported in the last 24 hours, taking the total number of confirmed cases to 43,148 in Visakhapatnam district on Thursday, as per a health bulletin released by COVID-19 Special Officer and Andhra Medical College Principal P.V. Sudhakar. Four more persons succumbed to the virus on Thursday, taking the death toll in the district to 310. Meanwhile, 480 people who were undergoing treatment at various COVID-19 hospitals, care centres or in home isolation recovered from the disease. As per the bulletin, the number of active cases in the district stands at 5,507 while the number of recoveries is 37,331. The number of very active clusters rose to 118 from 116 on Thursday, while the active and dormant clusters are 55 and 553 respectively. As many as 192 clusters were already denotified by the district administration.
11 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Youth held for ‘peddling drugs’ in city||The Arilova police arrested a 27-year-old youth who was allegedly selling drugs near Tenneti Park at Visakhapatnam city on Thursday. The accused was identified as Saripalli Varma Raju (26), a resident of Lawson’s Bay Colony and a native of Nakkapalli mandal. Police allegedly seized five-and-a-half LSD blots, 200 milligrams of MDMA, 199.9 grams of marijuana, rolling sheets, mobile phone, and a motorcycle from the possession of the accused. According to Inspector of Arilova police station, T. Emmanuel Raju, based on a tip-off, police along with officials of the City Task Force (CTF) camped near Tenneti Park area at around 6 p.m. on Wednesday. Varma Raju allegedly tried to escape but was caught. Upon checking, police seized two LSD blots from him. The accused confessed that he was about to sell the LSD to some students for Rs. 2,000. Police said that some more drugs were seized from his restaurant near Jodugullapalem after conducting checks. Police are investigating where the accused had procured the drugs from, and whether there are any more persons involved in the drug peddling.
11 September 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Heavy rain likely in next few days||Heavy rainfall is likely to occur over north and south-coastal A.P., Rayalaseema and Yanam on September 11 and 12. A low pressure area is likely to form over the west-central Bay of Bengal off Andhra Pradesh coast around September 13. Thunderstorm along with lightning and heavy rainfall is likely to occur over the State as a result. Thunderstorms are expected to occur over the State on September 13 as well. Active monsoon The southwest monsoon has been active over Rayalaseema. Rain occurred at isolated places over coastal A.P. and Yanam and at many places over Rayalaseema. The chief amount of rainfall (in cm) received during the last 24 hours, ending at 8.30 a.m. on Thursday are: Parvathipuram (Vizianagaram) 6, Komarada (Vizianagaram) 6, and Vepada (Vizianagaram) 4 in coastal Andhra Pradesh.
11 September 2020||VIZIANAGARAM/SRIKAKULAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||BJP, JSP leaders urge Centre to order probe||Accusing the YSRCP government of trying to consolidate its minority vote bank while hurting the sentiments of Hindus in the State, the BJP and Jana Sena Party have urged the Centre to order a probe into the Antravedi temple fire incident in East Godavari district. BJP Vizianagaram district president Reddi Pavani and State treasurer Pakalpati Sanyasi Raju on Thursday alleged that burning of chariot had hurt the sentiments of the Hindus. Jana Sena leader Palavalasa Yashaswini sought immediate action against the culprits. “The Antarvedi temple fire was not an accident. It was orchestrated with ill motive,” she said. Earlier in the day, the leaders staged a protest at the BJP office in Vizianagaram district. BJP leaders in Srikakulam including district president Attada Ravibabji and Pudi Tirupati Rao were taken into custody by the police when they wanted to stage a protest near the RTC complex over the incident.
11 September 2020||September 11 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘19.7% population in nine districts exposed to COVID’||Commissioner of Health and Family Welfare Department Katamneni Bhaskar has said that the sero surveillance conducted in nine districts in the second phase suggested that 19.7% of the population contracted the virus and developed antibodies. Addressing a a press conference here on Thursday, Mr. Bhaskar revealed the details of the result of the study which would be useful in making plans for improving medical infrastructure and understanding the spread of the virus. In the second and most recent phase of the study, about 5,000 persons in each of nine districts were tested for antibodies. The estimated population infected by the virus is as follows: Vizianagaram (30.6%), Kurnool (28.1%), Srikakulam (21.5%), Chittoor (20.8%), Visakhpatnam (20.7%), Kadapa (19.3%), Guntur (18.3%). West Godavari (12.3%) and Prakasam (17.6%). The survey was conducted between August 26 and 31. The overall prevalence of the infections in these nine districts was 19.7%, Mr. Bhaskar said. In the first phase, 3,750 samples in each of Krishna, East Godavari, Anantapur and Kurnool were tested for antibodies between August 5 and 15. It was estimated that 21.7% population in Krishna, 16.7% population in Anantapur, 14.4% in East Godavari and 8.2% in Nellore were infected. He said more studies would be conducted periodically for better management of COVID pandemic.
11 September 2020||September 11 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||For a smooth ride||
11 September 2020||September 11 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||New travel plans||
11 September 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Collector suspends two sarpanches||The district administration cracked the whip on two women sarpanches by suspending them for six months on charges of alleged dereliction of duties. Those temporarily suspended include Susheela, sarpanch, Seetharampuram, Mulakalapalli mandal, and Sujatha, sarpanch, Mangapet, Sujatha Nagar mandal. Following written complaints and an inquiry by the Panchayat Raj Department divisional level officials, Collector M V Reddy on Wednesday issued orders suspending them as per Section 37 (5) of the Telangana Panchayat Raj (TPR) Act, 2018. Action has been initiated against the two sarpanches for allegedly violating the relevant provisions of the TPR Act, official sources added.
11 September 2020||Bhongir,TELANGANA||Digital water level recorders installed||District Collector Anita Ramachandran started digital water level recording system for all piezometric wells in Yadadri-Bhuvanagiri, as part of the National Hydrology Project (NHP) on Thursday. The NHP aims to improve the quality of information on water resources so that its assessment and planning would strengthen management institutions and professionals. With the sensors and the telemetry readings through the new system, water levels in the 39 piezometer or groundwater observation wells in the 17 mandals can be monitored real-time. The first installation was made at the electrical sub-station. Ms. Ramachandran said the new system, replacing the manual method, effectively reduces the time and also records readings more precisely. District Groundwater Officer Jyothi Kumar and Zilla Parishad chairman CEO Krishna Reddy and others participated in the event.  The new system, replacing the manual method, reduces time and records readings more precisely.   Anita Ramachandran, Collector.
11 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Lack of separate wards at OGH jeopardising lives||Lack of separate wards for General Surgery and Orthopaedics departments at Osmania General Hospital (OGH) is putting lives at risk at multiple levels. Junior doctors of OGH said that patients suspected of COVID-19 are admitted in the General Medicine department. Currently, patients in General Medicine department and pre-operative patients in Orthopaedics department are admitted in the same ward. When a person with minor fracture is admitted in the ward along with COVID suspects, there is a chance for him and other patients to get the infection if anyone is carrying the virus. “There have been 20 such cases. Patients who needed surgery for a fracture were negative for coronavirus before admission, and tested positive before surgery. They had to be shifted to Gandhi Hospital for isolation,” said president of Telangana Junior Doctors’ Association (TJUDA), Osmania Medical College unit, Dr. P Rohith. However, the problem does not end there. Junior doctors from the Orthopaedics department said that when a patient with fracture is not operated on for two to three weeks, the bone starts to grow and fractured ends of the bone do not align leading to malunion. “We did get such cases of malunion. When we operated on them, we had to break the malunioned bones leading to excess loss of blood and then perform the surgery,” Dr. Rohith said. Junior doctors from the General Surgery department demanded separate wards, and oxygen ports in Acute Surgical Care (ASC) ward where patients requiring emergency care are admitted. “Currently, there are four to five oxygen ports in the 15-bed ASC ward but we need ports in all beds. Besides, only three monitors, which display vitals, are available instead of 15,” said a PG student from the General Surgery department Dr. Vaibhav Thobbi. He said that while there were four wards for male patients and two for female patients admitted under their department, only one each for male and female patients is allotted now. The doctors said that when elective surgeries resume, there will be no space to admit patients.  There have been 20 such cases. Patients who needed surgery for a fracture were negative for coronavirus before admission, and tested positive before surgery. They had to be shifted to Gandhi Hospital for isolation. Dr. P Rohith President of TJUDA, OMC unit
11 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Monsoon plan in place at RGIA||The bountiful rains in recent months sure is good news for farmers and general public as there will be sufficient water for agriculture and drinking needs. GMR Hyderabad International Airport, which is just about trying to get its mojo back after the lockdown, has its own challenges during the rainy season. It is quite a task to keep the airport functional during heavy rains and just before the monsoon, an 'annual pre-monsoon preparedness check' was done in a collaborative and precise manner involving all departments. Work includes checking on roof leakages, water stagnation, drain blockages, flooding etc., to prevent or minimise the impact on any operational part of the airport. Rigorous inspections are done as the Rajiv Gandhi International Airport (RGIA) during the pre-COVID-era was handling close to 60,000 passengers and around 550 air traffic movements daily. Now, it is 20,000 passengers and 200 plus aircraft in the aftermath of the shutdown and limited operations, said official sources. Airside, where aircraft land, take-off, manoeuvre and park, terminal building, where  passenger travel processing takes place, and landside, the forecourt of departures and arrivals, and airport approach road are the key places. Technical heads of these wings work round the clock on shifts to provide technical and engineering support to plan out the necessary repairs for the season. Among the key personnel is K. Padmaja, planner of engineering and technical services. "I track the monsoons and take note of the rains of the previous years to help in formation of a robust actionable plan. Monsoons are unpredictable so we plan in advance site surveys with other teams and coordinate resources management of men, machinery and material," she says, the daughter of a farmer, who passed out of the GMRIT Rajam College in Srikakulam. Her colleague Vasant chips in: "We inspect runways, taxiways, aprons and other roads as also buildings, drains on both airside and landside. We have to plug leakages in the beginning itself and have a zero tolerance towards any deficit found." The main runway of 4,260 metres is capable of handling the biggest aircraft like the A380 and a secondary runway of 3,707 metres gets a thorough check round the clock and inspections are doubled during monsoon with about 380 persons exclusively scanning it. "We have an online application, 'One Direct', to monitor maintenance and inspection issues flagged by the airport community. It can also track the status of the snag and resolution on a real time," he adds. "We have to go the extra mile to check and clear clogging in storm water drains running through the entire airport. We are working for maintenance of a national asset and for the service of our passengers. This is the reason that, so far, our airport has not faced any challenge in any inclement weather – let alone the monsoons,” explains Mohd. Barkath Ali, associate manager. With COVID-19, focus is also on "individual health and hygiene". "Teams are told daily about precautionary measures to be taken by every individual whether they’re at home or in workplace,” said official sources.
11 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||State may reduce age limit for old-age pensions: Errabelli||The State government is actively working on reducing the age limit for availing of old-age pensions from 65 to 57. Survey has been ordered for ascertaining the number of new beneficiaries in this regard. Reports from major parts of the State have already been obtained and the government is waiting for information pertaining to certain municipal corporations and municipalities, Panchayat Raj Minister Errabelli Dayakar Rao told the Legislative Assembly. Survey work Replying to queries during the Question Hour on Thursday, he said the survey work for ascertaining the number of beneficiaries had been hampered because of the novel Coronavirus (COVID-19) pandemic. The process is expected to be completed once the intensity of the virus comes down, he said. The decision to reduce the age limit for old-age pension follows an assurance given by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao ahead of the previous Assembly elections. An estimated 6.6 lakh people are expected to benefit from the decision once it is implemented, and officials concerned are actively working out the financial impact of the decision on the State exchequer. As of now, 38.32 lakh beneficiaries are availing the social security pensions under the Aasara scheme and the government had spent Rs. 31,902.91 crore on the scheme since its launch in the financial year 2014-15. The government made budgetary allocation of Rs. 11,725 crore for the Aasara social security pensions during the current year, amounting to an expenditure of around Rs. 977 crore a month and so far, Rs. 3,952 crore had been released for the scheme. The magnitude of the scheme taken up by the government after formation of Telangana could be seen from the fact that allocation for social security pensions in Telangana region in the erstwhile united Andhra Pradesh was to the tune of Rs. 800 crore while the same has been enhanced to Rs. 11,725 crore at present. Centre contribution Asked about the claims of the BJP leaders that the Central government is bearing major chunk of the expenditure, the Minister said the Centre’s contribution for the scheme is a meagre Rs. 210 crore, just 1.8% of the total expenditure incurred by the State government. To another query, he said Telangana is the only State releasing funds to local bodies on par with the grants announced by the XV Finance Commission. While the finance panel announced release of Rs. 154 crore a month, the State is contributing an equal amount as its share, he added.
11 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||‘Finalise deal to run more buses to AP’||The Telangana State Road Transport Corporation Employees Union on Thursday said that it has written to Chief Minister K Chandrasekhar Rao to take the initiative to finalise the agreement between State transport undertakings of Telangana and Andhra Pradesh. The trade union urged the TSRTC to take up running buses 50,000 km on interstate routes between the two, and sought financial assistance to procure 130 buses to ply on them. TSRTC Employees Union General Secretary K Raji Reddy, in statement, reiterated that there were deliberations between the TSRTC and Andhra Pradesh State Transport Corporation on interstate bus services on the number of kilometres to be operated on long distance routes between the two States. While the APSRTC was operating 2.63 lakh km, the TSRTC was operating 1.53 lakh km. Mr Reddy said that a proposal to enhance a running of 50,000 km by the TSRTC should be accepted. This, he said, would require 130 bus services. He stated that long distance routes on which buses, such Garuda Plus, ply are generally profitable and usually see an occupancy ratio of 80%. Mr Reddy said that a delay in an agreement between the STUs has led to the entry of private bus operators on to these profitable routes, even as he pressed for a quick resolution of the issue. In a separate development, the TSRTC EU requested the transport juggernaut to stop deductions per the Staff Retirement Benefit Scheme (SRBS) for those who have completed 30 years of service. Mr Reddy said that despite workers completing 30 years in service, these deductions continue to be made, which is in violation of the of SRBS bylaws.
11 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Spell stand on holding exams online: HC||The Telangana High Court on Thursday sought to know from State government if it was feasible for it to hold exams of final year post-graduate and under-graduate courses online. Hearing two PIL pleas on conducting online exams for final year UG and PG students, the HC directed Advocate General B.S. Prasad to secure stand of the government on the matter. Responding to queries raised by a bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy, the AG said that students have to write essay-type answers in annual examinations of UG and PG courses. Since questions would be mostly of objective type in entrance tests, they could be conducted online. In case of questions requiring essay-type answers, conducting online exams would not be possible, he informed the bench. He said that government would take opinion of State Council of Higher Education on the matter and would inform of its decision on the matter to the court. Counsel for one of the petitioners C. Damoder Reddy told the court that several students had gone to their villages in the districts. Even private and government hostels were shut. In this backdrop, it would be a struggle for the students to come to Hyderabad from their remote places and physically write exams, the lawyer said. When UG and PG annual exams were deferred during initial stages of COVID-19, there were around 12,000 Coronavirus positive cases in the State. Presently, the figure reached 1.5 lakh. In such situation, online exams would be a better option in the interest of all sections, he argued. The AG said the government was prepared to conduct exams physically in compliance with COVID-19 guidelines. However, the bench said a student coming from Adilabad district would find it difficult to stay in Hyderabad for a week to write the exams. With COVID-19 cases going up, the students would risk their lives even if they stayed in hotels, the bench said. The petitions were posted for Sept. 14.
11 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Probe into disbursal of benefits to workers||Allegations about irregularities of serious kind in disbursal of benefits under the Telangana Building & Other Construction Workers Welfare Board have spurred the Labour department into ordering an inquiry in 11 districts. Acting upon an alert, Secretary and CEO of the board, with permission from the Commissioner of Labour, has issued orders designating inquiry officers in Khammam, Warangal (Rural), Warangal (Urban), Karimnagar, Nalgonda, Mahabubnagar, Kothagudem, Mahabubabad, Jangaon, Siddipet, and Suryapet districts, to investigate disbursal of benefits. ‘The details’ As per the details shared by confidential sources, the board has received complaints against two Labour department officials in Warangal district, who, allegedly in collusion with Mee Seva centres, were creating fake identity cards and other documents in the name of deceased persons to siphon off the board’s funds. The modus operandi involved identification of the deceased through newspaper reports and obituaries and striking deals with their kin for sharing the benefits. Fake registrations would be created through the Mee Seva centres in the name of the deceased, with previous dates. In order to facilitate this, a set of pre-drawn demand drafts were kept ready, to be attached with the registration documents. The documents were then used to claim funds under the Accidental Death Relief and Natural Death Relief allowed as statutory benefits to the kin of deceased construction labourers. Allegations were made that funds to the tune of Rs. 25-Rs. 30 crore had been misused through 300 accidental deaths and 500 natural deaths, in Warangal district alone. 3,500 claims Receiving an alert about the irregularities, board officials pored over the disbursal details, and found that the claims and amount disbursed under the two heads between June, 2018, and December, 2019, in the 11 districts were higher than those from other districts. According to the details available, close to 600 claims amounting to Rs. 35 crore had been settled pertaining to accidental deaths in Warangal (Urban), Khammam, Mahabubabad and Suryapet districts. Claims of natural death for the benefits were more than 3,500 from all the 11 districts, involving close to Rs. 31 crore. A joint commissioner level official has been appointed for conducting discreet inquiry into the allegations and submit a report to the Labour Commissioner, and the board. Verification More recently, joint and deputy commissioner level officials were deputed for each of the 11 districts in the State for conducting thorough verification of the claim files and connected documents, and of the genuineness of the claimants. They have been asked to submit a report within six weeks, starting from their appointment on August 20.
11 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Revanth meets NGT panel members||Member of Parliament A. Revanth Reddy has lambasted the State government for planning to construct the new secretariat complex within the buffer zone of the Hussainsagar lake. Speaking to the media after submitting a representation to the committee constituted by the National Green Tribunal here on Thursday, Mr. Reddy cited High Court judgement of 2001, against new constructions in FTL and buffer zones of the lake. He alleged that the government has erased city maps before 2006 in order to have its way. However, the British Library in Secunderabad has the old map, he said, and demanded that the FTL and buffer zones should be demarcated afresh based on the map. He claimed that the lake extended from Raj Bhavan up to Mint Compound and Amrita Castle Hotel as per the maps from 1920. Castigating Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao, Mr. Reddy said the former resorted to misuse of power, and demolished the Secretariat in collusion with Chief Secretary, and DGP, in order to satisfy his superstition. He also questioned escalation of Secretariat construction cost from Rs. 400 crore to Rs. 700 crore. Meanwhile, the committee comprising senior scientist from the Central Pollution Control Board, senior officials from from Regional office of Ministry of Environment and Forests, Telangana State Wet Land Authority, State Pollution Control Board and a Professor dealing with environmental engineering from Indian Institute of Technology, Hyderabad, inspected the Secretariat’s location and held a meeting later at Aranya Bhavan, the Forest Department’s headquarters. Sources informed that they also heard the officials from the Roads & Buildings and Irrigation departments during the meeting. The committee’s brief is to inspect the area in question and submit a factual report about precautions being taken during demolition work and disposal of the debris collected.quest
11 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Set up isolation centres in rural areas, says Eatala||Health Minister Eatala Rajender, on Thursday, instructed officials to focus on opening government isolation centres in villages, with COVID cases increasing constantly in the rural areas. The move is an effort to accommodate COVID patients for whom home isolation is not possible. At a review meeting held here on Thursday, he told the officials to arrange all required facilities such as medicines and disposables in such isolation centres. He stated that about 15,000 COVID patients would require hospitalisation for every one lakh cases and arrangements were in place to provide treatment to about 10,000 in government hospitals and another 5,000 in private hospitals. He also asked the officials to utilise the 100 ambulances gifted by several politicians and others as part of the ‘Gift a Smile’ programme taken up on Minister K.T. Rama Rao’s birthday, a couple of months back. The Minister instructed officials to focus on healthcare services for the treatment of other diseases also, particularly seasonal ones. In the wake of increasing complaints of non-functional or defunct medical equipment in government hospitals, the Minister asked the officials to prepare a detailed report on the equipment available hospital-wise and their status and also appoint staff for their regular maintenance. Mr. Rajender also reviewed the supply of oxygen to COVID patients in government hospitals, including the decision to establish liquid oxygen tanks at 22 hospitals. The officials explained to the Minister that liquid oxygen tanks were fully functional at Osmania, Gandhi, MGM, NIMS, Adilabad RIMS and Nizamabad General hospitals and their arrangement in King Koti, TIMS and Mahabugnagar General hospitals was completed recently. Establishment of the facility would be completed in Siddipet and Karimnagar hospitals within a week and at the remaining places they would be completed over the next three months, officials informed the Minister.
11 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||2,081 organs gave new lease of life since 2013||The Jeevandan Cadaver Transplantation Programme has witnessed as many 769 donations translating into 2,081 organs since 2013. According to data, a bulk of these organs comprise kidneys (1,211), followed by livers (729) and hearts (102). This year saw as many as 102 organ donations, of which 56 were kidneys. According to a press release issued on Thursday, the kin of a 21-year-old youth, who succumbed to injuries after a road accident, agreed to donating his organs. The donor, identified as Komire Naveen, who was a resident of Gowreddipeta village in Peddapalli district, met with a road accident on August 31. He was rushed to a private hospital and later moved to Yashoda Hospitals, Secunderabad branch, for treatment. However, he was declared brain-dead on September 8. After a Jeevandan coordinator counselled his parents, they consented to donate his organs. Five organs, including two kidneys, a liver and two corneas were donated. Jeevandan expressed gratitude to the family of Mr. Naveen for having saved lives of those in need of organ transplantation.
11 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Time spent near home up by 15% in last 2 months||The Janata Curfew on March 22 and the subsequent lockdown to stall the spread of COVID-19 pandemic has had a big impact in the country. How the lockdown has disrupted life has been revealed by mobility data that tracked cellphones in the country. Cellphone mobility data over the past few months shows a sharp -45% decline in time spent by citizens in Hyderabad in workplaces. The anonymised data released by Google shows that the time spent near residential premises has gone up by 15% between July and September. Another mobility data of driving behaviour shows that the city is back to near-normalcy with a 2% higher usage of vehicles on September 7 than on January 13 much before the COVID-19 lockdown. The mobility data has been released to aid and guide public health policy as it reveals behaviour that might help policy makers. The data has been segmented into retail and recreation, supermarket and pharmacy, parks, public transport, workplaces and residential areas. The baseline for the data is just before the outbreak of the pandemic and declaration of lockdown in the country. The biggest swing in the driving data shows that between April and May, there was 80% decline in usage of vehicles and is now gradually improving. The biggest impact in Hyderabad has been a -75% dip in visits to parks, plazas and public spaces. While parks have remained shuttered in Hyderabad, citizens have been using roads and other open spaces for recreational purposes. The under-construction suspension bridge over Durgam Cheruvu has become a favourite haunt as the KBR Park has remained closed. While time spent in pharmacies and supermarkets showed a 4% uptick in Telangana, it has remained -3% in Hyderabad as citizens are still wary of visiting supermarkets. It is the dip in public transport that shows how the lockdown has impacted life. Usage of public transport dipped by -32% in Telangana, but in Hyderabad it was -55%. The Hyderabad Metro was off rails till September 7, while there is no date for resumption of city services of Telangana State Road Transport Corporation, which resumed its district services in the last week of May.
11 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Efforts on to set up a medical college in each district||The State government is continuing its efforts to ensure that one medical college each is set up in all the districts across the State. The decision to set up medical colleges was taken by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao in view of the anticipated shortage of doctors and other medical staff. The government is also actively working on bringing in major reforms in the health sector to ensure that efficient healthcare services are within the reach of the common man, Health Minister Eatala Rajender told the Legislative Assembly on Thursday. Replying to queries during the Question Hour, the Minister said that while the governments in the erstwhile united State neglected the repeated requests for strengthening the medical infrastructure, including new hospitals, six new institutions were set up after the formation of a separate State. Steps had been taken to increase the number of seats in medical colleges by augmenting the infrastructure and other facilities required. While the government had set up around 200 basti dawakhanas with permission accorded to 150 more, IT Minister K.T. Rama Rao is working to ensure spending of corporate social responsibility funds for putting in place key equipment like CT scans in government hospitals. Replying to a query, he said that the State government had sought the Central government’s consent for setting up a medical college in Medak district headquarters in line with an assurance given by Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao. Work on the institution would commence once the Centre gives its nod. To a question on staff shortage, he said that steps had been initiated to remove the bottlenecks in the recruitment of staff. The government had notified recruitment of 10,000 staff at different levels, of which 4,000 had already been recruited. In addition, more than 5,000 staff had been recruited since the incidence of COVID-19 and steps would be initiated to recruit 11,000 more staff once the COVID issue is resolved.  State notified recruitment of 10,000 staff at different levels, of which 4,000 had already been recruited.   Eatala Rajender, Health Minister.
11 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Ensure police don’t threaten lawyer couple, HC tells DGP||Telangana High Court on Thursday instructed the Director General of Police to ensure that lawyer couple P.V. Nagamani and Gattu Vaman Rao were not threatened by any police officer. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy ordered the DGP not to call them to any police station. A lawyer practising at HC, Ms. Nagamani wrote a letter to the Chief Justice earlier stating that a person Sheelam Rangaiah died in the custody of Manthani police station of Ramagundam Police Commissionerate. The HC took up the letters as PIL petition and issued notices to the government. Subsequently, the bench directed Hyderabad Police Commissioner Anjani Kumar to inquire into the alleged custodial death. On this June 19, Mr. Anjani Kumar presented his report to the HC. The report was kept under the custody of HC Registrar General. Ms. Nagamani was permitted to take notes of the report so that she could file a counter affidavit. The lawyer complained to the HC that the police started harassing her and husband at their native place of Manthani and in Hyderabad since HC permitted her to file the counter affidavit over the inquiry report. She charged that her husband Gattau Vaman Rao, also a lawyer, was implicated in a false case at Basanthnagar police station of Ramagundam commissionerate. She told the court that police department threatened her over phone that her life and lives of her children and husband would be in danger if she filed counter affidavit over Hyderabad Police Commissioner’s report on ‘custodial death’.
11 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Cong. for white paper on funds for COVID||Stating that Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao gave no clarity in his statement in the Legislative Assembly on Wednesday, the Telangana Congress demanded a white paper on money spent to combat coronavirus. TPCC treasurer Gudur Narayana Reddy said, “Despite COVID cases reaching nearly 1.5 lakh mark and death toll touching almost thousand a day, the CM failed to give a clarity on how the government has acted so far or how it plans to prevent further damage. His statement was vague.” “The CM’s statement that Rs. 4,500 crore have been earmarked for COVID looks absurd when families are selling their assets to pay bills in private hospitals. Why is the CM reluctant to include COVID treatment under Aarogyasri when thousands are getting admitted in hospitals? He is not spending money from his pocket but from taxes paid by people,” he said. Mr. Reddy said apart from including COVID treatment under Aarogyasri scheme, the government should also reimburse the amount poor people had already spent for treatment of COVID in private hospitals so far. He also demanded that a white paper be published giving details of funds received under CMRF for combating coronavirus and how they were spent. “CM’s negligence is proving too costly for people of Telangana and he should realise that people’s lives are more precious,” he claimed.
11 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Task force to rein in private hospitals meets||The three-member task force constituted by the State government to monitor private hospitals in treating and charging COVID patients met for the first on Thursday. Chief Secretary Somesh Kumar held the meeting with the three members of the task force. The panel is mandated to submit reports to the government from time to time on whether private hospitals are charging as per the stipulated rates for COVID treatment and whether safety protocols are being adhered to. According to the GO issued on Wednesday, IAS officers Rahul Bojja, Sarfaraz Ahmad and D. Divya are the three members. The Terms of Reference (ToR) of the task force are to verify whether the maximum rates stipulated by the government are being adhered to by private hospitals and whether COVID treatment and safety protocols are being adhered to by them. The task force would submit its report to the Chief Secretary from time to time and would get the necessary technical assistance from Health, Medical and Family Welfare departments. The panel was formed in the wake of increasing criticism by Opposition parties and other people’s organisations that private hospitals were fleecing COVID patients by charging exorbitant rates for every service. The issue had come up in the State Assembly on Wednesday and CM K. Chandrasekhar Rao assured the House that government would make efforts to make private hospitals fall in line.
11 September 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||‘Honour C. R. Rao with Bharat Ratna’||Speakers urged the government to honour renowned statistician C.R. Rao with Bharat Ratna while narrating his contributions in the field of statistics. The webinar was organised by C.R.Rao Advanced Institute of Mathematics, Statistics and Computer Science on “Contributions of Prof.C.R.Rao for Statistics” during his birth centenary celebrations. A documentary was also screened, highlighting the achievements of the living legend to start the proceedings. The celebrations were inaugurated by Prof. D.N.Reddy, Director, CR Rao AIMSCS in the virtual presence of Dr. C. Rangarajan ,President, C.R. Rao Society and Dr. Vijay K. Saraswat, Chairman, Governing Council. The chief guest, V.R. Panchamukhi, Chairman, The Indian Econometric Society Trust, New Delhi shared his experiences and appealed to the government to confer Bharath Ratna on C. R. Rao. Prof. S.B.Rao, Former Director, CR Rao AIMSCS and direct student of Prof Rao shared his experiences while Dr. R. B. Barman, former Chairman, National Statistical Commission delivered the lecture on “Role of Statistics in Economic Development”. Prof. Ashis Sengupta, Applied Statistics Unit, Indian Statistical Institute, Kolkata delivered lecture on applications and contributions of Prof.C.R.Rao while Prof. C. Raghavendra Rao of University of Hyderabad delivered lecture on “Statistical Thinking”. U. Yugandhar, Chief Executive welcomed while Prof. B.L.S. PrakasaRao, INSA Senior Scientist also spoke.
11 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Car dealer directed to make refund||Concorde Motors was directed to refund Rs. 40,000 and pay a compensation of Rs. 25,000 to an Army employee who bought a car from them after a consumer forum noted that it had failed to return an amount which was paid in excess. The District Consumer Disputes Redressal Forum – I at Hyderabad was dealing with a complaint filed by Janakiram K, a resident of Mamidipally in Nizamabad district. Excess payment The complainant stated that he bought a TATA Tiago XZ from Concorde Motors (India) Limited in Khairatabad. On November 3, 2018, he paid Rs. 5,19,999 of which Rs. 4 lakh was a loan. He stated that an excess payment of Rs. 40,000 was made. After the car was delivered, the complainant sought a refund of this amount. The respondent stated that it would do so as soon as possible. On April 19, 2019, the complainant received correspondence from TATA Motors Ltd, who is the second respondent, stating that records do not reflect an excess payment. The complainant stated that this excess amount was subsidy which he should receive for the purchase of the vehicle given the fact that he is an Army employee. The forum noted that while Concorde Motors remained ex parte, TATA Motors, for their part, denied any allegation of unfair trade practices. Concorde Motors is one of its dealers and explained it does not deal with customers with sale of its products. The car purchase was a bipartite agreement between the complainant and Concorde Motors. The forum stated that the payment receipt of Rs. 65,000 from Canteen Stores, Department of Defence and cash receipt for Rs. 40,000 as balance establish the complainant’s purchase. The forum said Concorde Motors in an email expressed regret for the delay in returning the Rs. 40,000. “In this mail also opposite party No.1 tendered apology to the complainant for causing delay in refunding the amount. The forum found merit in TATA Motor’s stand and it dismissed the complaint against it. It directed Concorde Motors to refund Rs. 40,000 and pay a compensation of Rs. 25,000 and Rs. 5,000 towards costs.
11 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Firm unveils Covipro device||A device rolled out by a Hyderabad firm to record temperature of the users, besides serving as an automatic hand sanitiser as well as UV disinfectant machine for various articles, has been installed at the Telangana Assembly premises. Covipro, the device, is a kiosk-based solution that also takes photograph of the users and sends out alerts if the temperature is abnormal, said Rajashekar Papolu, Managing Director of Brihaspathi Technologies.
11 September 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Medak Additional Collector remanded||Medak district Additional Collector Gaddam Nagesh and four others, who were arrested on charge of involvement in a bribery case, were remanded in judicial custody for 14 days on Thursday. Along with the Additional Collector, Narsapur Revenue Divisional Officer (RDO) B. Aruna Reddy, Chilpiched Tahsildar Abdul Sattar, a Junior Assistant Waseem Ahmed and a private person Kola Jeevan Goud were arrested by the Anti-Corruption Bureau (ACB) on the charge of demanding Rs. 1.12 crore from a person in a matter related to land records. The arrested persons were brought to Anti-Corruption Bureau office in the morning. After completion of proceedings relating to their questioning, they were presented before the Special Judge for Anti-Corruption Bureau Cases at his residence. The judge remanded them in judicial custody till September 24. All of them were lodged in Chanchalguda prison.
11 September 2020||hyderabad,TELANGANA||IPE conference on urban living||Institute of Public Enterprise, Hyderabad, in collaboration with ActionAid Association, India, Urban Action School-ActionAid, World Urban Campaign, Urban Synergies Group, Australia, is organising an international conference on September 15 and 16 on a virtual platform. Details can be had on 9652960250 or on email ‘laxmi_k@ipeindia.org’.
11 September 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Glowing tributes paid to Chakali Ilamma||Glowing tributes were paid to Chakali Ilamma, the valiant fighter of the historical Telangana Peasants’ Armed Struggle of 1946-51, on her 35th death anniversary, at various meetings organised by the AIDWA and a host of other organisations in the district on Thursday. At a meeting held at the AIDWA district office here, the speakers hailed her as a fearless warrior, who mobilised the oppressed people mainly the farmers, agricultural labourers and other toiling masses, during the valiant armed struggle against the feudal forces. In a separate meeting held at Manchikanti Bhavan, the activists of the DYFI paid floral tributes to the portrait of Ilamma. Meanwhile, the CPI (M) district committee has lined up a slew of commemorative events to observe the Telangana Peasants’ Armed Struggle (1946-51) across the district till September 17. In a statement, the party district secretary N Nageswara Rao said the cadres of the party and its frontal organisations will hold meetings at the ‘Telangana armed struggle’ martyrs’ memorials in various villages in conformity to the COVID-19 safety norms. An online public meeting will be held on September 17. The CPI (M) Polit Bureau member Brinda Karat will address the virtual meeting, he said. He alleged that the “fascist forces” were trying to misinterpret the historical facts and create a wedge among people on “communal lines” with narrow political machinations.
11 September 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||2,515 candidates appear for TS-EAMCET||A total of 2,515 candidates appeared for the engineering stream exam of the TS-EAMCET-2020 held in eight designated test centres - six in Khammam town and two in Suryapet district’s Kodad town under the Khammam regional centre limits. As many as 295 candidates were absent in the eight examination centres. The SR&BGNR Government Degree and PG College Principal KSS Ratna Prasad, who is the TS-EAMCET Khammam regional coordinator, oversaw the smooth conduct of the exam in the regional centre limits. The TS-EAMCET engineering stream exam will be held on September 11 and 14 for the remaining registered candidates as per the stipulated COVID-19 safety protocols.
11 September 2020||MEDAK,TELANGANA||Good Samaritans join hands to rescue distressed family||On the fateful day of September 3, life turned upside down for the family of Jinka Narayana and Seshamma of Daulapur in Papannapet mandal. Their two sons — 11-year-old Ramcharan and 7-year-old Narasimhulu — are studying fifth and second classes respectively in the government primary school located in the village. On that night they were sleeping in the verandah along with family members. Around midnight Ramcharan woke up from sleep due to uneasiness and started vomiting. His parents observed a snake moving nearby and killed it. Then shifted Ramcharan to a government hospital and as his condition became serious doctors suggested shifting him to Hyderabad. He died on his way to the hospital near Toopran. The next day, September 4, while Narayana and Seshamma were making arrangements for the last rites of Ramcharan in the village, Narasimhulu too became giddy and started vomiting. Observing this, some teachers and relatives immediately shifted him to the area hospital at Medak where he was administered a strong dose of anti-venom and suggested to be shifted to Hyderabad. He was admitted in Suraksha Hospital where he was kept in intensive care unit (ICU) for four days and was discharged on Wednesday, September 9. As Narayana’s family is poor, B. Naveen Kanth, headmaster of the primary school, decided to bail the family out and posted the need for financial assistance to the family. Many philanthropists responded positively and contributed their mite. A total of Rs. 96,683 was donated by different persons, out of which Rs. 50,000 was handed over to the family while the remaining was extended to them at their house on Thursday. “As the family was very poor we decided to help them and posted their condition in our WhatsApp groups,” Mr. Naveen Kanth told The Hindu .
11 September 2020||R. Avadhani,TELANGANA||Despite rains, many villages in Sangareddy lack water||Despite heavy rains in the district, the people of Muktapur village in Nagalgidda mandal are suffering due to lack of water. They are reportedly fetching water from the nearby fields as water is not being pumped to the Mission Bhagiratha tank that was erected in the village. Similar, are the conditions at Terpol village in Kondapur mandal. The residents are unable to get water as borewells have not yet been recharged completely. In Kondapur mandal the groundwater level stood at 39.42 metres while it was 18.51 metres last year. During last year the rainfall registered here was 386.8 mm while the normal rainfall for the year is 802 mm. The officials assessed the rainfall as normal. As a result, more than 20 borewells spread across the village are not yielding sufficient water. The villagers are being supplied water through tankers though there is a Mission Bhagiratha water tank standing tall in the village. Lack of expected increase in groundwater levels in the district was attributed to insufficient flows to Singur reservoir from the catchment area. This has resulted in officials finding it difficult to supply drinking water to more than 150 villages in Narayanakhed, Jarasangam, Raikod, Jinnaram, Pulak, Gummadidala, Andol, Munipally and Hatnoora mandals. Officials feel that they need at least 6 tmcft water storage in Singur to supply water from Mission Bhagiratha. Singur was not filled completely with 29.75 tmcft water. “For the past three years we are not getting sufficient rains or inflows to Singur. We are expecting this year that there will be rains and we can get required 6 tmcft of water which will allow us to take up the water supply to the entire district,” said an officer.  “We are expecting rains this year so that we can get required 6 tmcft of water in Singur which will allow us to take up water supply to the entire district. An official
11 September 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||One killed in blast at industrial unit||A technician was killed on the spot while another suffered injuries injuries in a blast that took place at an industry at Pashamylaram under BDL Banur police station limits. According to Circle Inspector E. Ram Reddy, a boiler blast in the industry resulted in the death of senior operator Ramakrishna, 40, on the spot. Another worker Mallesham escaped with minor injuries. Police registered a case and are investigating.
11 September 2020||September 11 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Championing a cause||
11 September 2020||September 11 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Manacled to safety||
11 September 2020||September 11 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Two colleagues found dead||A 35-year-old man and a 21-year-old woman, both hearing- and speech-impaired, were found dead at Palem village here on Thursday. They were identified as Shaik Masthanvali and Ashwini, residents of Hyderabad, where they were colleagues at an e-commerce business. They were said to be in love. Self-immolation was suspected, police said.  (Suicide prevention helpline, Roshni: +91-4066202000 or 66661117)
11 September 2020||New Delhi,||Capital records highest virus cases and tests for second day||With a record number of COVID-19 tests being done, the Capital on Thursday witnessed the highest number of daily cases with 4,308 people tested positive in the past 24 hours, according to a health bulletin released by the Delhi government. The total number of cases stood at 2,05,482. This is the second day in a row Delhi is recording the highest number of cases and tests. A total of 58,340 COVID-19 tests were done in the past 24 hours, which is the highest since the virus outbreak. In July, the average daily tests were around 20,000 and it was even lesser in June when the highest number of cases till today — 3,947 — was reported on June 23. Positivity rate Though the number of cases has gone up, the positivity rate was 7.3%, (percentage of people testing positive for every 100 tests done) which is the lowest in September. Also, 28 more deaths have been reported, taking the total number of deaths to 4,666. Of the total cases, 1,75,400 people have recovered and there are 25,416 active cases. Of the total 14,228 beds available for COVID-19 treatment in the city, 8,453 (59.4%) were vacant, as per government data on Thursday. Also, 56.7% of ventilators have been occupied, according to official data. Also, the number of containment zones in the city jumped to 1,272, which is the highest till now. Plasma therapy Health Minister Satyendar Jain on Thursday said that the Delhi government will continue with plasma therapy to fight COVID-19. A study funded by the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has found that use of convalescent plasma therapy in COVID-19 patients does not help in reducing mortality or progression to severe COVID-19, PTI had reported on Tuesday. “The ICMR did not say that there is no benefit [of using plasma therapy]. When a person is on a ventilator, then maybe there is no benefit, before that there is benefit of plasma therapy. There are three stages in ICU and earlier, it was said that there was no benefit of using it in Stage 3. But there is a huge benefit in using it in Stage 1 and 2,” Mr. Jain said on Thursday. He said that all districts have been given directions to conduct COVID-19 tests in densely populated areas in the city. “Any ID proof is needed [for testing]. I think everyone in Delhi has an Aadhaar card. In the country also, how many people are there, all of them have an Aadhaar card,” he said.
11 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Stage II of resumption of Delhi metro services to kick in today||Ridership on the Delhi metro network was 84,841 till 7.30 p.m. on Thursday, with the first stage of graded resumption of services coming to an end. The second stage of graded resumption will kick in on Friday Under the last phase of Stage 1 resumption, the Red, Violet and Green Lines became operational. In the first four hours of operations – between 7 a.m. and 11 a.m. – the Yellow Line connecting Samaypur Badli to Huda City Centre saw the maximum footfall with a ridership of over 29,656. It was followed by the Blue Line – running from Dwarka Sector 21 to Noida Electronic City and Vaishali – with a ridership of over 31,234. The nearly 30-km Green Line, which connects Kirti Nagar/Inderlok to Bahadurgarh, saw the least footfall with a ridership of 3,564. The second stage of graded resumption on Friday will see Magenta Line (Janakpuri West to Botanical Gardens) and Grey Line (Dwarka to Najafgarh) becoming operational. Extension of timimgs Timings will also get extended to 12 hours a day – between 7 a.m. and 1 p.m. and from 4 p.m. to 10 p.m. Delhi metro officials said that 26 trains making around 318 trips will be pressed into service on the Magenta Line and 2 trains making 135 trips will be run on the approximately 4-km-long Grey Line on the first day of its resumption. The resumption of operations on the Magenta Line, which runs till Botanical Gardens, will also facilitate commuters to avail the Noida-Greater Aqua Line after interchanging trains to the Blue Line. With the Rapid Metro, Gurugram and Noida-Greater Noida Aqua Line being operational since Monday, the nearly 400-km-long Delhi metro network will become fully operational from Saturday, with services available throughout the day.
11 September 2020||New Delhi,||BJP is sending notices for demolition of slums: AAP||The Aam Aadmi Party on Thursday said that the Central government has started pasting notices outside many slums, notifying that their houses will be demolished. The party said that it will approach the Supreme Court against it if needed. “The BJP is pasting these notices outside houses in slums across Delhi. These notices are against humanity, against the Constitution, against the right to live. I want to tell the BJP that till Arvind Kejriwal is alive, not even one family’s house will be allowed to be demolished,” AAP national spokesperson Raghav Chadha said while addressing a press conference. “The slum dwellers should not worry because CM Kejriwal, who is your elder brother, will not allow any displacement of the slum dwellers in the city,” he added. ‘Illegal’ notices Terming the notices as “illegal”, Mr. Chadha said that the party will approach the Supreme Court against them if needed and also protest on the streets. Mr. Chadha also alleged that it was a conspiracy by the BJP and demolishing a person’s house without giving an alternative accommodation was against the law. “Today I want to expose the BJP and challenge them. I have with me various notices served by the BJP-ruled Central government. One such notice which was put at various houses of the slum dwellers of the Tughlakabad area noted that they have to evacuate their house by September 11. After this, their houses will be demolished. At the same time in some other areas, notices were issued which noted that by September 14 the slum dwellers will need to evacuate their houses,” the AAP leader said.  The slum dwellers should not worry because CM Kejriwal, who is your elder brother, will not allow any displacement of the slum dwellers in the city  Raghav Chadha AAP national spokesperson
11 September 2020||New Delhi,||‘Allot vacant houses to slum dwellers’||The Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) on Thursday asked the Aam Aadmi Party (AAP) to “stop the drama” of tearing government notices and allot vacant houses to slum dwellers with immediate effect. If the Delhi government demolishes the slums located near the railway tracks, Leader of the Opposition in the Delhi Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri warned that the BJP karyakartas will then shift the residents to the vacant houses available with the Delhi government. “The Congress and Aam Aadmi Party government have fooled the people in the slums in the name of pucca houses for the last 15 years and six years respectively,” Mr. Bidhuri alleged. “If the Pradhan Mantri Awas Yojana had been implemented in Delhi, people would have got pucca houses by now, but the Delhi government cheated the slum dwellers by not doing so,” he alleged. ‘No work done yet’ Even after taking Rs. 11.25 crore from the Railways to rehabilitate slums, the Delhi government did not work to this end, he alleged. The BJP, Mr. Bidhuri said, stands with the slum dwellers and will not allow any injustice to happen to them.
11 September 2020||New Delhi,||Tahir Hussain’s plea challenging remand infructuous, ED tells HC||The Enforcement Directorate has informed the Delhi High Court on Thursday that the plea by suspended AAP councillor Tahir Hussain challenging his three-day remand in a money laundering case related to the north-east Delhi riots has become ‘infructuous’ as he has been sent to judicial custody now. The ED said Mr. Hussain’s plea need not be heard now as he has been handed over to the Tihar jail authorities on expiry of his three-day ED custody. The submission came on Mr. Hussain’s plea seeking to set aside the remand order of September 7, passed by a trial court and a direction to the ED to immediately send him to Tihar jail. Additional Solicitor General S.V. Raju, representing the ED, said the trial court’s September 7 order clearly says that the accused be handed over to Tihar jail authorities on September 10, and the agency has complied with the direction. Mr. Hussain’s counsel opposed the submission of ED and said he is on the point of law and his prayer is to set aside the trial court’s order. Justice Yogesh Khanna posted the case for hearing on November 24. The ED was probing the allegation that Mr. Hussain and his linked persons laundered about Rs. 1.10 crore funds by using purported shell or dummy companies to fuel the protests against the Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) and the riots. Mr. Hussain’s counsel challenged the trial court’s extension of remand order on the ground that the 15-day period for grant of police custody has to begin from the date of formal arrest, that is, August 20 and thus, further extension of police remand is not permissible in law. “Trial Court has erred in deciding the abovesaid application. It is held by the Supreme Court of India in a catena of judgments that 15 days period for grant of police custody has to begin from the date of formal arrest i.e 20.08.2020 and thus, further extension of police remand is not permissible in law,” his petition stated.
11 September 2020||New Delhi,||Absconding man held for sale and encroachment of government land||A 56-year-old man, who had been absconding since 2011, was arrested for his alleged involvement in a conspiracy of facilitating the sale and encroachment of government land on which 38 flats were constructed, the police said on Thursday. They said accused Diler Singh, a resident of Chhatarpur village, was arrested by the Economic Offences Wing of the Delhi Police. He wasproduced before the court, police said, adding that further investigation is in progress. A case was registered on a complaint of the then Principal Secretary-cum-Divisional Commissioner, GNCT, New Delhi, the police said. According to the police, the complainant reported that an unauthorised apartment block in the name of ‘Neelakanth Apartment’ came up on the evacuee property bearing number 152 to 154 in Chhatarpur village, and flats have been sold to general public. The apartment has been built on Government Land (Compensation Pool Property) bearing plot number 152 to 154, and private land bearing plot number 151 and 108 in Chhatarpur village. Joint Commissioner of Police (EOW) O.P Mishra said that during investigation, it emerged that the accused person got executed the sale documents of two plots – number 151 and 108 in Chhatarpur village – using forced documents. Plot no. 151 was owned by his aunt Pritam Kaur and plot no. 108 was owned by Bola Singh, the father of Diler Singh and Kulwant Singh. Mr. Diler is the nephew of Ms. Pritam and the real brother of Mr. Kulwant residing at plot no.150, he said. Builder occupied plots Mr. Diler on the strength of forged GPA purportedly executed by Ms. Pritam sold plot no. 151 to Rajesh Dhir and further transferred to builders without any demarcation of the properties. Taking benefit of non-demarcation, the alleged builders occupied the adjacent plots – no. 152-154 – illegally and constructed apartments and sold to the general public, the officer said. Two other accused persons, namely Jagbir Singh and Ganesh Kumar, who sold the flats and executed sale documents in favour of buyers have already been arrested in the cas  During investigation, it emerged that the accused person got executed the sale documents of two plots in Chhatarpur village using forced documents O.P Mishra Joint Commissioner of Police (EOW)
11 September 2020||New Delhi,||Two held for duping businessmen||Two friends were arrested for allegedly cheating businessmen on the pretext of offering extra money in exchange of white money, the police said on Thursday. The accused have been identified as Anuj (27), a resident of Sonipat in Haryana, and Vikram (29), a resident of Panipat in Haryana, they said. On July 13, property dealer Yogesh Bansal filed a complaint at Patel Nagar police station where he alleged that his friend Mukesh Gupta had introduced him to one Anuj through a local property dealer, Karan, on June 21, said a senior police officer. Anuj had claimed that he was in need of Rs. 8 lakh in white money for a property deal and offered Rs. 9 lakh in cash, the complainant said, adding that he had agreed to the deal. On July 1, Anuj called Mukesh and said that he was sending his younger brother with Rs. 9 lakh and told him to collect it after transferring Rs. 8 lakh to his account, the officer said. Thereafter, three persons met Mukesh at a petrol pump near Shadipur flyover where accused Vikram introduced himself as Anuj’s younger brother. Vikram counted Rs. 8,50,000 before Mukesh in his car and said that Rs. 2 lakh was kept in the boot space of the car, the police said. Mukesh counted the money and confirmed the complainant about the cash, following which the complainant made two transactions of Rs. 3,99,886 and Rs. 3,99,980, they said. After the money was transferred, Mukesh asked Vikram to give the cash. Vikram took him behind the car where he pushed him and fled the spot along with his accomplices, they said. During investigation, it was revealed that the accused were operating in Delhi and also duped other businessmen with the same modus operandi. The police took Karan into confidence who called Anuj on Wednesday and told him that there was another customer who wanted to exchange cash. “Anuj agreed and he was called to Rajender Nagar. Thereafter, the police laid a trap and apprehended Anuj and Vikram,” Deputy Commissioner of Police (Central) Sanjay Bhatia said. A total of Rs. 7,99,000, one car and mobile phones of both the accused were recovered, the police said. Interrogation revealed that both are close friends. Karan had come in contact with Anuj a few months ago when he arranged a rental room in Rajender Nagar for Anuj, Mr. Bhatia said. Manhunt on Karan, being a resident of west Patel Nagar, could arrange businessmen for their deals, the police said, adding that efforts are being made to arrest the other accused.
11 September 2020||New Delhi,||Govt. revokes school’s permission to hike fees||Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Thursday said the Delhi government had revoked permission granted to a city school to change its fee structure and said that private schools cannot increase fees. Mr. Sisodia, who also holds the Education portfolio, while addressing a press conference, announced the withdrawal of earlier permission granted to the Sanskriti School and said that the Arvind Kejriwal government will “not bow down to any pressure”. “The Chief Minister and I have already received multiple complaints from parents regarding Sanskriti School doubling its fee. The school increased its fees by almost 75% which is unacceptable. Therefore, after consultation with CM Arvind Kejriwal, we are revoking the order issued for Sanskriti School regarding increasing the fee,” the Minister said. Lapses in system According to Mr. Sisodia lapses were found in the school’s functioning. Under the system called GAAP, it is necessary to follow a special system of accounting and audit but the school did not follow it, he said. Also, he said, there was no need to increase the fees as the school already had a surplus amount gained during 2017-18, due to which their proposal to increase the fee was rejected by the government. “During the same year, we directed this school to pay the teachers under the Seventh Pay Commission from the surplus amount and not to put this burden on the students. But the school did not comply with this order,” the Minister said. “A school gets permission for establishment only if it has a three-month salary fix-deposit for the staff. Therefore, now the demand to increase the fees is unreasonable because that amount has already been deposited as a fixed deposit since the inception of the school,” he said.
11 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Four in police net for stealing luxury cars in city||Four persons have been arrested for allegedly stealing luxury cars, the police said on Thursday. Deputy Commissioner of Police (South) Atul Thakur said that the accused have been identified as Mohd Sajid (35), Sonu (37), Akash Rathore (26) and Munna (55). The police said that theft of an SUV was reported from Chhatarpur Enclave on September 3. During investigation, the police found a CCTV footage, which showed the accused coming in an autorickshaw, stealing the car and escaping within minutes. With the help of human intelligence, the auto driver, identified as Akash Rathore, was found. At his instance, the accused were arrested. A total of 11 cars, including five luxury cars, duplicate keys, toolkits and other accessories were recovered from the possession of the accused, the police said. During interrogation, the accused told the police that they used to steal cars on demand made by people from Bihar’s Buxar. The police said that the auto driver used to take photos of cars in the area and send to Sajid in Bihar who directed them as to which car to steal.
11 September 2020||New Delhi,||Govt. working in collusion with private schools: BJP||The Bharatiya Janata Party alleged here on Thursday that the way the Delhi government was “ignoring the arbitrariness of private schools” showed that it was in collusion with them. Names removed Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta alleged that private schools are removing the names of children from online classes and removing their parents from WhatsApp groups when they are unable to pay fees, even after government directives against increasing fees. “The instructions issued by the Delhi government for private schools are also a kind of publicity stunt like other such instructions,” Mr. Gupta alleged. “The order is meant to show the people of that the Delhi government is addressing their problems but in reality, the Delhi government is busy filling its pocket in collusion with private schools,” he also alleged. Mr. Gupta said the Delhi government did not acknowledge issues related to the economic situation of the students’ parents, impacting their ability to pay for the education of their children. Give time to pay The Delhi BJP demanded that the Delhi government control “the increasing arbitrariness of private schools” regarding fees with immediate effect and direct the schools to give time to parents to pay.  The instructions issued by the Delhi government for private schools are also a kind of publicity stunt  Adesh Gupta Delhi BJP president
11 September 2020||New Delhi,||Monsoon to last longer in Delhi, withdrawal in early October: IMD||Monsoon is likely to stay longer in the national capital and start withdrawing only in the “initial days of October”, an India Meteorological Department official said on Thursday. “According to the extended range forecast, monsoon showers will continue till September end. The withdrawal is likely to happen in the initial days of October,” said Kuldeep Srivastava, the head of the IMD’s regional forecasting centre. Earlier this year, the Met department revised the date for the withdrawal of monsoon from Delhi from September 21 to September 25. “The IMD revised the withdrawal date considering the trend in the last 20-25 years,” Mr. Srivastava said. He said that light to moderate rain is possible in Northwest India from September 15. Till then, mostly dry weather will prevail in Delhi. The air quality index is also expected to remain in ‘satisfactory’ and ‘moderate’ categories due to a longer monsoon, he also said.
11 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Youth arrested for raping four-year-old||A four-year-old girl was allegedly raped by her neighbour in Shahdara’s Mansarovar Park on Wednesday, the police said on Thursday. The accused has been arrested, they said. A police officer privy to the case said that the PCR received a call on Wednesday afternoon regarding an incident of sexual assault. When the police reached the spot, it was revealed that the neighbour – a 25-year-old daily-wage labourer – had committed the crime, they said. During probe, the police found that the girl was alone at home when the accused spotted her and raped her. The parents, both labourers, were at work at the time. A case under Section 376 of the Indian Penal Code and under sections of Prevention of Children from Sexual Offences Act was registered and the accused was arrested. The victim’s medical examination was conducted. Further investigation is under way, the police added.
11 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Husband arrested for killing woman||A 21-year-old woman was strangulated to death allegedly by her husband in outer Delhi’s Mundka on Thursday morning. The accused has been arrested, the police said. Additional Deputy Commissioner of Police (Outer) Sudhanshu Dhama said that the accused has been identified as Majid, a 21-year-old labourer and a resident of labour camp in Bakkarwala. Police said that a call was received at 10 a.m. at Mundka police station regarding the death of a woman. When they reached the spot, victim Shabila Khatoon was found dead. It was found that her husband Majid was absconding. With the help of human intelligence, he was later arrested. The accused told the police that he suspected his wife of having an extramarital affair. A case under IPC Section 302 has been filed and a probe is on, the police said.
11 September 2020||New Delhi,||DU to write to foreign varsities on admissions||Delhi University on Thursday announced that it would write to foreign universities on a case-by-case basis to allow students, who are waiting for their marksheets after the open book exam, to be provisionally admitted. Following a Delhi High Court order, the university has made this a one-time provision. Students requiring their final results to get admission at foreign universities will now have to send in special requests carrying the name of the programme, college and university they are applying, along with their examination roll number and other details.
11 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||DDA, CSC tie up to help residents of illegal colonies||The Delhi Development Authority (DDA) on Thursday said that it had tied up with Common Service Centres (CSC) in a bid to facilitate residents of unauthorised colonies complete the registration process for grant of ownership rights. Four DDA processing centres were made operational for the scheme in Pitampura, Dwarka, Hauz Khas and Lakshmi Nagar, the urban body said, while adding that three other centres will be made operational over the next 15 days. 26,705 applications According to the latest data provided by the land-owning agency, 26,705 applications were received by the DDA on its online portal while 1,348 residents had been granted the ownership rights. Additionally, a total of 1,342 applications had been rejected for not meeting the policy regulations. “In addition to DDA’s 28 help desks, residents of unauthorised colonies in Delhi can now also walk into their nearest CSC to apply for ownership rights to property or to file replies to the deficiency memos issued. Necessary training to the personnel have been provided by the DDA to enable them to effectively support the citizens in availing the benefits of the scheme,” a DDA official said. Officials added that while residents can complete the registration portal online by themselves, those who need assistance can approach the CSCs.
11 September 2020||New Delhi,||Basic living condition in night shelters below satisfactory: DSLSA tells HC||The Delhi State Legal Services Authority on Thursday informed the High Court that basic living conditions were “below satisfactory” in the night shelters run in the Capital by the urban shelter improvement board. The DSLSA said the shelters lacked sanitisers, masks, basic first aid, bedding and there was shortage of washrooms and lack of hygiene.PTI
11 September 2020||New Delhi,||Nikhil- sisodia||Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia on Thursday met representatives of hoteliers and restaurant owners and heard their demands and assured them of necessary help during these difficult times. Mr. Sisodia also said that while different activities have begun during the unlock phase, everyone has to take precautions to fight the pandemic. He suggested that we need innovative ideas which ensures safety as well as help in revenue generation.
11 September 2020||Akola,||Two govt. staffers caught taking bribe||Two government employees were arrested on Thursday for allegedly demanding and accepting a bribe of Rs. 15,000 for approving a leave application in Maharashtra’s Akola city, an official said. Based on a complaint, a team from the Anti-Corruption Bureau nabbed Barshitakli Panchayat Samiti’s block development officer Gopal Rajaram Bonde (56) and junior clerk Anant Tulshiram Rathod (39) from Khetan Nagar area, the official said on Thursday. Mr. Bonde and Mr. Rathod had allegedly demanded and accepted a bribe of Rs. 15,000 from the complainant for passing his leave application, he said, adding that a probe is under way in the case.
11 September 2020||Bhopal,||Most calls on M.P. mental health helpline relate to COVID-19: NHM||Most residents of Madhya Pradesh dialling the mental health helpline of the National Health Mission (NHM) and most contacted through proactive callings reported COVID-19-related stress and anxiety or depression. During the unlocking, people were finding it difficult to come to terms with how the pandemic had altered their lives, said Saloni Sidana, Additional Mission Director, NHM State unit. From April 2, when the helpline was set up, until September 7, more than half of the identified problems through 4,398 calls received related to COVID-19, whereas proactive callings to patients and those quarantined revealed stress and anxiety relating to the pandemic among 2,620 persons, while depression among 107. “Initially, people reported higher levels of anxiety while being locked up in their homes. They were anxious about their jobs and families. The scenario shifted after the lockdown when people began entering a more depressing phase, mostly owing to lost jobs and salaries. Adjusting to the new normal is challenging for many,” explained Dr. Sidana. Madhya Pradesh has so far reported two deaths by suicide of patients, and none by health workers, also contacted by counsellors of the helpline. At the Jabalpur-based Netaji Subhash Chandra Bose Medical College and Hospital, one patient reportedly died by suicide on September 4, while two others reportedly attempted it last month. In a bid to do away with anxiety surrounding the pandemic, the college is now organising live interactions between patients and families.  In case of distress, call the helpline on 18002330175 or 08046110007.
11 September 2020||Bhubaneswar,||Two SOG personnel killed in Odisha||Two personnel of Odisha police’s Special Operation Group (SOG), a special force raised to combat left-wing extremists, died of the injuries they sustained in a gunfight between security forces and CPI (Maoist) cadres in the bordering areas of Kandhamal-Kalahandi districts, police said. The exchange of fire left five CPI (Maoist) cadres, four women and a man, dead, police said. The two SOG personnel were identified as Sudhir Kumar Tudu and Debasis Sethy. While Tudu hailed from Sanbhadua village under Suliapada police station in Mayurbhanj district, Sethy was from Angapada village under Rajkishornagar police station limit of Angul district. On the basis of reliable intelligence input, an operation was launched by the Kalahandi police in Madan Ramput area on Tuesday. The SOG and the District Voluntary Force (DVF), a special constabulary unit of the State Police, participated in the operation. According to Kalahandi Superintendent of Police Battula Gangadhar, there could be around 40 to 50 ultras in the forest. It was suspected that the cadres belonged to the Kalahandi-Kandhamal-Boudh-Nayagarh division of the CPI (Maoist). Security forces have seized huge cache of weapons. The SOG was created in 2004 to combat the CPI (Maoist), which was dominating many areas in Odisha. Over the years, the force has tasted many operational successes.  157 rebels killed According to the proceeding of the last meeting of the Unified Command, 157 Maoists have been killed in SOG’s operations from 2010. In the same period, 1,438 have been arrested. In July last, the SOG and the DVF bravely confronted left rebels in Kandhamal. On July 5, four left-wing extremists were killed near Tumudibandh area of Kandhamal.
11 September 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Haryana farmers protest against farm ordinance||Farmers and commission agents (arthiyas) on Thursday held a rally in Haryana’s Kurukshetra against the Centre’s recently promulgated agriculture-related ordinances, even as the police attempted to stop them from reaching the venue amid COVID-19 restrictions. As the protesters marched towards the rally venue in Piplis’ grain market and blocked National Highway- 44, disrupting vehicular traffic for a few hours, the police used mild force to disperse them. Kurukshetra administration had issued prohibitory orders under Section 144 Cr.PC in Pipli to prevent gathering of more than four people. The police said no permission was given for the rally and necessary legal action will be taken against the participants. The rally was organised on a call given by the Bhartiya Kisan Union (BKU) and the Congress had announced its support to the agitation. Several farmers and commission agents, who were on their way to participate in the State-level rally, were stopped by the police at their respective districts on account of the COVID-19 pandemic. Congress leaders, including Bhupinder Singh Hooda, Randeep Singh Surjewala and Kumari Selja, condemned the use of “force” against the farmers, accusing the police of resorting to “lathi-charge’’.
11 September 2020||Chandigarh,||Include Punjabi as official language in J&K: Akali Dal||The Shiromani Akali Dal (SAD) on Thursday announced that the party will raise the issue of including Punjabi as one of the official languages in the Union Territory of Jammu and Kashmir. The Union Cabinet had recently approved a Bill to include Kashmiri, Dogri and Hindi as official languages in the newly-created Union Territory. The Centre’s move of not including Punjabi as one of the official languages has invited sharp criticism from political parties in Punjab, including from the SAD, the BJP’s long-standing alliance partner. Sukhbir Singh Badal, former Deputy Chief Minister and SAD president, said the party has decided to take up the issue of restoration of Punjabi as an official language in Jammu and Kashmir with Prime Minister Narendra Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah. “Besides, we will take up the issue in Parliament as well,” he said, adding that a decision regarding this was taken at a high-level meeting of the party. Mr. Badal said there was widespread resentment at the discriminatory manner in which Punjabi had been excluded.
11 September 2020||Gandhinagar,||India putting up well-planned fight against COVID-19: Shah||Terming COVDI-19 an unprecedented challenge, Union Home Minister Amit Shah on Thursday said India is putting up a well-planned fight against the pandemic under Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s leadership. The BJP leader asked people to take necessary precautions until a vaccine is found, while inaugurating the ground-breaking ceremony for various projects worth Rs. 134 crore in his constituency Gandhinagar, via video-conferencing. The projects include renovation of gardens, widening of internal roads, addition of classrooms in two schools, and widening of Pethapur-Nardipur road. Though COVID-19 has slowed the pace of developmental works in Gandhinagar, it won’t be able to hold back Gujarat or India for long, said Mr. Shah, who just recovered from the virus. “When I visited Gandhinagar for the first time after assuming charge as Home Minister, I told the people of my constituency that it will be my priority to see that Gandhinagar remains on top among other constituencies in terms of development. We will definitely regain our pace under the leadership of PM Narendra Modi,” he said. Mr. Shah also praised the Gujarat government and Chief Minister Vijay Rupani for their efforts in containing the virus. “Gujarat’s situation has improved in comparison to the initial phase when cases were on the rise. Now, the mortality rate has also come down and a significant number of patients are recovering as well,” Mr. Shah said. But our fight is far from over yet, he said, adding that spreading public awareness is the only solution until a vaccine is invented.
11 September 2020||Ghaziabad,||7 die after drinking ‘spurious’ liquor in Baghpat and Meerut||Seven people died in Baghpat and Meerut in 24 hours under mysterious circumstances. While the locals claimed they died after drinking spurious liquor, the local administration said prima facie no evidence of hooch had been found. Four people died on Wednesday in Chamrawal village of Baghpat while one passed away on Thursday morning. Two persons died in the neighbouring Mirpur Jakheda village Jaani area which falls in Meerut district. The family members of the four who died on Wednesday cremated their kin on Wednesday itself. Mohanlal, brother of Shyamlal, told reporters that his brother died on Thursday morning. “We drank a pouch each on Wednesday morning and night. When his condition deteriorated, we took him to a local doctor who declared him dead.” Another local Mahesh claimed that all theses deaths had happened after drinking spurious liquor which was available in the village.  Cremation stopped When the news of a possible hooch tragedy spread, District Magistrate Shakuntala Gautam rushed to the village with officials and stopped the cremation of Shyamlal. “It took us one hour to convince the family that without post mortem no charge could be proved. Usually, in such cases, people don’t cremate their dead and demand action,” she said. R.K. Tandon, Chief Medical Officer, Baghpat, said the post mortem report was inconclusive. “In such cases, the viscera report is crucial. We have preserved the viscera and it is being sent for investigation to the Agra lab,” he said. Ms. Gautam said nobody had approached the police to register a case in this regard. “It has emerged that all of them were habitual drinkers and at least two of them were suffering from other ailments as well. The families of two of the deceased have provided empty pouches of the country-made liquor. We have sent them for testing. Leaving nothing to chance, a team comprising the additional district magistrate, additional superintendent of police and excise officials are carrying out a thorough search of the area,” she added. On possible spurt in the illegal liquor business considering the Panchayat elections are round the corner, she said, the administration had carried out an operation to recover illegal liquor.  Two friends dead In a related incident, two daily wage workers died in Mirpur Jakheda village of Meerut on Wednesday. The family members of Pawan and Jagpal said the two were friends and bought liquor from a man who is doing illegal liquor business in the village. District Excise Officer Alok Kumar said prima facie it was not a case of spurious liquor.
11 September 2020||GURUGRAM,||Man accuses family of attack owing to his religion||A 28-year-old man has accused a family in Panipat of attacking him owing to his religious identity without provocation and severing his right hand with a saw machine. The family, on the other hand, has accused him of abducting and sexually assaulting their seven-year-old child. Separate FIRs have been registered in the two cases on the same day at different police stations, a fortnight after the incident. Severed hand Ikhlaque, a resident of Uttar Pradesh’s Saharanpur, in a FIR, said that he had come to Panipat on August 23 in search of work. He had walked to a park near railway tracks in Kishanpura. Around 1.30 a.m., he went to a house near the railway track to ask for drinking water. But the men in the house pulled him inside, beat him up and severed his right hand with a saw machine, the FIR stated. The FIR does not mention that he was targeted for his religion, but Ikhlaque’s brother Ikram, speaking to The Hindu over phone, alleged that the men severed his arm because he had inscribed the holy “786” on it. He said his brother told the police about this, but the police omitted it from the FIR. He also said that the said incident took place around 10.30 p.m. Dumped on tracks According to the FIR, the family dumped him on the railway tracks. He informed his relatives using a mobile phone of a passerby around 5 a.m. when he gained consciousness. He was then taken to a Civil Hospital and later referred to PGIMS, Rohtak. The FIR was lodged on September 7 after he was declared fit for statement. The Government Railway Police registered a zero FIR and later transferred it to Chandni Bagh police station. Station House Officer GRP Panipat, sub-inspector Raj Kumar said the statement of Ikhlaque was recorded in the presence of his brother Ikram and bears their signatures. Managed to escape The family, in a separate FIR, said that Ikhaque abducted their child while they were asleep in the backyard of their house on August 23 night and was caught red-handed sexually assaulting him at a park nearby. The FIR said the man managed to escape and ran towards the railway tracks. The FIR was registered at Chandni Bagh police station. Chandni Bagh SHO inspector Ankit Kumar said investigation so far had suggested that the child had gone missing on August 23 night and the family had an altercation with Ikhlaque. The child has also recorded his statement before the magistrate making similar allegations. “We are investigating as to how Ikhlaque sustained the injuries. He was found on the railway tracks and it could be an accident,” said Mr. Kumar.  The men severed his [my brother’s] arm because he had inscribed the holy “786” on it. My brother told the police about this, but the police omitted it from the FIR Ikram Ikhlaque’s brother
11 September 2020||Guwahati,||Opposition grows in Tripura to large-scale Bru refugee enclaves||A coordination body of non-Bru people in Tripura has opposed the large-scale settlement of Bru refugees across seven sites. The locations straddle two subdivisions of the State’s northern region adjoining Mizoram. The Joint Movement Committee (JMC) comprising the Bengali-dominated Nagarik Suraksha Mancha and the Tripura Mizo Convention said the State government’s move to settle 4,900 Bru families in Kanchanpur and Panisagar subdivisions of North Tripura district would have “negative social, cultural, political, environmental and ecological impacts”. Opposing the move, the committee said it would not deviate from its stand that Kanchanpur and Panisagar subdivisions can at most accommodate 500 Bru refugee families in areas the JMC had proposed for maintaining social balance. It demanded equitable distribution of the refugees across all districts of Tripura instead of turning North Tripura district into Bru ghettos. The JMC made its position clear in a memorandum submitted to the State’s Chief Secretary Manoj Kumar via Chandni Chandran, the sub-divisional magistrate of Kanchanpur Subdivision on September 9. “We would like to re-emphasise that in principle we are not against the quadrilateral Bru settlement agreement signed in New Delhi on January 16, 2020. However, we are still maintaining our logical stand that equitable distribution of families in all the districts and subdivisions (of Tripura) is critically important to avoid negative social, cultural, political, environmental and ecological impacts it can have on our Kanchanpur Subdivision,” JMC convenor Susanta Bikas Barua said. “We, therefore, maintain our stand that a maximum of 500 families be settled in Kanchanpur and Panisagar Subdivisions in the specific places that we have mentioned in our previous proposal (on July 21),” JMC chairman Zairemthiama Pachuau said.  Seven sites According to a July 31 memo issued by North Tripura District Magistrate Raval H. Kumar to the District Forest Officer, groups of 1,000 Bru families are to be settled in forest areas of Manu-Chailengta, Gachirampara, Anandabazar and Bhandarimpara-Pushparampara. Three other sites are to accommodate 300 families each. More than 40,000 Brus — also called Reangs — have been living in relief camps in Tripura since 1997 after escaping ethnic violence in Mizoram. About 7,000 refugees returned to Mizoram in nine phases of repatriation till November 30, 2019.
11 September 2020||Guwahati,||NHRC update sought on 5 anti-CAA stir deaths||Assam Lok Sabha member Gaurav Gogoi has sought an update from the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) on the death of five people during the violent anti-Citizenship (Amendment) Act (CAA) protests in the State. In a letter to NHRC chairperson H.L. Dattu on September 9, Mr. Gogoi said he wanted to know about the steps taken by the rights body to “find out the truth behind the killing of five young, unarmed protesters in the police firing during the spontaneous street protest against the CAA” across the State in December 2019. The five who died were schoolboy Sam Stafford, Dipanjal Das, Abdul Alim, Ishwar Nayak and Dwijendra Panging. The State people did not accept the CAA because it violated the Assam Accord and made the National Register of Citizens (NRC) toothless, said the Congress MPfrom Kaliabar.  ‘Act unconstitutional’ “Further, the Act is unconstitutional as it violates the basic structure of the Indian Constitution and is against Articles 14 and 21,” said Mr. Gogoi, also a member of the Standing Committee on Finance. The CAA seeks to grant Indian citizenship to non-Muslims, who allegedly fled religious persecution in Afghanistan, Bangladesh and Pakistan till December 31, 2014. Various groups representing indigenous communities in Assamsay the Act makes a mockery of the Assam Accord of 1985 that set the midnight of March 24, 1971, as the cut-off date for detecting, detaining and deporting “illegal migrants”. The NRC was updated in Assam on the basis of this date.
11 September 2020||JAIPUR,||Infant with rare disorders being treated in Jaipur||In a first-of-its-kind case, a 45-day-old child diagnosed with a combination of two rare genetic disorders is being treated with an enzyme replacement therapy (ERT) at the State government-run J.K. Lon Children's Hospital here. The newborn boy, hailing from Agra, was brought with the complaint of fast breathing and decreased movements of lower limbs. The infant is suffering from lysosomal storage disorder, also know as Pompe disease, and spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) type-1. While Pompe disease is a rare inborn error of metabolism, SMA-1 is a disorder affecting the nervous system. Ashok Gupta, in-charge of the hospital’s Rare Diseases Centre, said here on Thursday that this might be the first-ever instance of a child suffering simultaneously from two rare genetic diseases.
11 September 2020||Mumbai,||‘Assess e-learning for specially-abled students’||The Bombay High Court on Thursday directed the district social welfare authorities across Maharashtra to assess the digital education programme for specially-abled students amid theCOVID-19 pandemic. A Bench headed by Chief Justice Dipankar Datta directed district social welfare officers to pay “surprise visits” over the next two weeks to centres that were providing digital education to such students, and to assess how the system was fairing and if there were any deficiencies. The Bench was hearing a public interest litigation filed by an NGO, through advocate Uday Warunjikar, seeking relief for specially-abled school and college students during the unlock phase. The Maharashtra government had submitted an affidavit in the High Court last month stating that it had started e-learning under the Centre’s Diksha platform for the specially-abled. The State submitted that it had set up e-learning centres from where teachers could impart virtual lessons and that there was also a mobile application through which students can access them. However, on Thursday, advocate Warunjikar told the court that at least 70% of disabled students in the State lived in rural areas, where they were facing problems of poor internet connectivity. The teachers have not been trained to conduct virtual classes for specially-abled students, he said. At this, the Bench said district officers would conduct the surprise checks and if they find something lacking at these e-learning centres, assistance must be provided. The court directed the district social welfare officers to submit their assessment report to the joint secretary of the social justice and special assistance department. The joint secretary, in turn, will file an affidavit in the High Court giving details of the reports received. The court said all stakeholders must make “sincere efforts to impart online education” to such students. The Bench also directed the Union government and the National Council of Educational Research and Training to file their responses to the plea in two weeks.
11 September 2020||Mumbai,||Sena targets Fadnavis over CAG report on Jalyukt Shivar||Latching onto the Comptroller and Auditor General’s (CAG) adverse remarks about the Jalyukt Shivar scheme rolled out by the previous Devendra Fadnavis-led government, the ruling Shiv Sena on Thursday asked whether he will do some introspection now. The Jalyukt Shivar scheme had little impact in achieving water neutrality and increasing groundwater level, and its execution was characterised by lack of transparency, the CAG said in its report, which was tabled in the Legislative Assembly on Tuesday. A sum of Rs. 9,633.75 crore was spent on the scheme, a flagship programme of the Fadnavis government (2014-19) that sought to make Maharashtra a drought-free State, the CAG said. The now scrapped project involved deepening and widening of streams, construction of cement and earthen stop dams, undertaking work on nullahs and digging of farm ponds. Referring to the findings, the Sena said any scheme is good on paper, but the real question is about its transparent and effective implementation. “When there is a problem [with such implementation of a scheme], then the rant about it [the scheme] turns out to be hollow and expenses superfluous,” the Sena said in an editorial in party mouthpieceSaamana. “Precisely this is what happened in the case of Jalyukt Shivar scheme,” the Sena, which was part of the Fadnavis government, said. Had the implementation of the scheme been effective, water sufficiency would have been achieved in parts of the State in the real sense. But it did not happen, the Uddhav Thackeray-led party said. “The real question is whether those who released high the balloon of the Jalyukt [Shivar] will introspect now as to why its burst,” the party said, without naming Mr. Fadnavis. Experts had criticised the scheme during the previous regime. But Mr. Fadnavis and others dismissed the criticism terming it political and wrong, the editorial added. “Now the CAG itself has put a question mark on the scheme’s success. What do those who tom-tommed about the scheme have to say about it now?” the Sena said in the editorial.  Now the CAG itself has put a question mark on the scheme’s success. What do those who tom-tommed about it have to say about it? Saamanaeditorial
11 September 2020||Mumbai,||HC suggests passes for lawyers to travel on locals||The Bombay High Court on Thursday suggested that the Maharashtra government issue passes to lawyers to commute to work. A Division Bench of Chief Justice Dipankar Datta and Justice G.S. Kulkarni was hearing a public interest litigation filed by advocate Chirag Chanani and others through advocate Shyam Devani. The petition said the services rendered by advocates are essential and they should be allowed to travel by special local trains. The Chief Justice said, “The State government must think about issuing daily passes or some such system to permit lawyers who have physical hearings on a given day to use trains on that day to reach the High Court.” The Bench said a pass system can be started and if that works, authorities can implement a similar system for the lower courts. The Chief Justice said four physical courtrooms are now open, but judges have informed him that they don’t have enough matters because lawyers are not coming to court. The court said, “If physical hearings are not successful, then we will have to revert to virtual hearings. But how long can we do that? Gradually, we have to open up.” Advocate General Ashutosh Kumbhakoni said the State will consider the court’s suggestion of issuing passes to lawyers to travel and revert in two weeks.
11 September 2020||Navi Mumbai,||PMC deputy mayor, five RPI(A) workers booked||The New Panvel police have booked Jagdish Gaikwad, deputy mayor of Panvel Municipal Corporation, and five workers of the Republican Party of India (Athawale), RPI (A), for violating lockdown rules and holding a protest along with 150 people outside the police station on Wednesday. Mr. Gaikwad and the RPI(A) workers were protesting the CIDCO’s demolition of the Keru Mata caves at the Navi Mumbai International Airport site through a controlled blast on Monday. Locals in Waghavli Wada had converted the caves into a temple. “The demolition hurt our religious feelings. It was an archaeological site which needed to be protected,” Mr Gaikwad said. Mahesh Khare, State secretary, RPI(A), said, “The demolition was carried out late in the night. We had requested authorities to shift the temple site, but our sentiments were not respected.” Mr. Gaikwad said that he has proof from the archeology department that the caves were built 2,500 years ago, replicating the rock-cut Buddhist caves in Aurangabad district. Priya Ratambe, public relations officer, CIDCO, said the demolition was carried out in adherence to rules and with approval from villagers. “The villagers had shifted the idols of Keru Mata,” Ms Ratambe said. The New Panvel police have issued notices to the six who have been booked.
11 September 2020||Pune,||Two COVID-19 positive inmates escape from prison in Pune||The Pune City Police are on the lookout for two COVID-19 positive prisoners who broke out from a temporary prison near Yerwada jail on Thursday morning. The two — identified as Anil Vetal, a resident of Bhima Koregaon; and Vishal Kharat, a resident of Nigdi in the Pimpri-Chinchwad area — had been arrested for rioting and attempt to murder. The Shikrapur police had arrested Vetal in a case of assault and robbery, while Kharat had been caught by the Chikhli police for attempted homicide. Both were on the first floor of the temporary jail on expiry of their respective police custody and recently tested positive. Sources said they escaped sometime after Wednesday midnight. The police has appealed to people to inform them on the whereabouts of the two as they could be potential spreaders of COVID-19 Pune has witnessed at least four such incidents since lockdown in March. In July, five undertrials lodged in a government hostel, which had been converted into a temporary prison, near Yerwada escaped.However, the police traced and arrested all five. Mayor tests positive Mumbai Mayor Kishori Pednekar on Thursday said she has tested positive for COVID-19. Ms. Pednekar said her rapid antigen test returned positive, but she is asymptomatic. “As I don’t have any symptoms I have home quarantined myself as per the doctors’ advice,” she said in a tweet.
11 September 2020||Pune,||Raju Shetti moved to Pune from Kolhapur for treatment||Swabhimani Shetkari Sanghatana (SSS) chief Raju Shetti, who recently tested positive for COVID-19, was moved to Pune from Kolhapur for treatment after he experienced breathing problems and ill-health. Mr. Shetti, a noted farmers’ leader and a former two-time MP from Hatkanangale in Kolhapur, was rushed to the city’s Deenanath Mangeshkar hospital on Wednesday in a cardiac ambulance. Reassuring his supporters on Thursday, he said he was stable and would be kept under observation of doctors for the next week. Speaking to The Hindu , he said he had first undergone a test on September 1 after one of his close aides had tested positive. “At the time, my swab test result had returned negative. However, a few days later, on September 4, I started feeling unwell and had fever. A high-resolution computed tomography thorax screening revealed the virus had infected my lungs. After consulting with doctors, I decided to quarantine myself at home as I felt it would help save a critical care bed for someone whose condition was worse than mine,” he said. His wife and son, too, tested positive and are quarantined at home. However, Mr. Shetti’s health deteriorated by September 8, following which doctors advised the SSS leader to quickly move to Pune. A cardiac ambulance from neighbouring Sangli district shifted him to Pune. “All tests were done as soon as I was admitted here [Deenanath Mangeshkar hospital]. I am suffering from a number of comorbidities. I was given oxygen and doctors started a course of remdesivir as well… I am feeling better now,” he said. Since the past month, the SSS under Mr. Shetti has been agitating across Maharashtra for increased prices for dairy farmers who have been hit hard by the lockdown. All through August, Mr. Shetti and his SSS activists have staged agitations in Satara, Solapur, Ahmednagar and Baramati among other places, demanding that the State government announce a subsidy of Rs. 5 per litre of milk while urging the Centre to stop importing milk powder when thousands of tonnes generated by local farmers were lying unutilised. “At least 20-25 of my supporters have tested positive… however, we had no option but to stage these protests given that the smaller dairy farmers were in dire economic straits,” Mr. Shetti said. Kolhapur district, which has emerged as one of the virus hotbeds in western Maharashtra, has been reporting an average 1,000 fresh cases since the beginning of September. The district has more than 10,000 active cases and recorded over 850 deaths, with the scourge of the virus sparing neither citizen, bureaucrat or politician. Besides Mr. Shetti, the Shiv Sena MP for Kolhapur, Sanjay Mandlik had tested positive. Congress MLA Ruturaj Patil had also tested positive this month. The drastic spike in cases brought on by the alarming spread of the contagion has compelled authorities in Kolhapur and neighbouring Sangli district’s to call for a 10-day Janata curfew.
11 September 2020||September 11 2020 00:00 IST,||No entry||
11 September 2020||Washington,||Trump admits he played down virus||President Donald Trump admits he tried to minimise the seriousness of the threat from COVID-19 at the outset of the pandemic in audio recordings released on Wednesday from interviews with veteran U.S. journalist Bob Woodward. “I wanted to always play it down,” Mr. Trump said in an interview with Mr. Woodward on March 19, according to a CNN preview of the book Rage , due to be published September 15. “I still like playing it down, because I don't want to create a panic,” he said in the conversation with Mr. Woodward, which was recorded. In another recorded interview, on February 7, he told Mr. Woodward the virus “goes through the air” — despite repeatedly mocking people who wear masks, in the weeks and months after. It took until July before the President was seen publicly wearing a mask. Coming eight weeks before the November 3 presidential election, the revelations add new pressure on Mr. Trump. Opinion polls show around two thirds of Americans disapprove of his handling of the virus and he has often been accused of minimising the crisis in order to try and boost his re-election chances. Speaking to reporters at the White House, Mr. Trump denounced the book as “another political hit job” and said if he'd downplayed COVID-19 it was to prevent a “frenzy”. “I don't want people to be frightened,” he said. “I'm not going to drive this country or the world into a frenzy,” he said. “We have to show leadership and the last thing you want to do is create a panic.” He slammed Mr. Woodward for doing “hit jobs with everybody” and said he “probably, almost definitely won’t read it because I don’t have time to read it.” Fresh ammunition However, Rage will give fresh ammunition to the Democrats arguing that Mr. Trump failed to prepare Americans for the severity of the coronavirus outbreak or to lead them into a proper response. In the interviews with Mr. Woodward, Mr. Trump made clear he'd understood at the outset that the virus was “deadly stuff” — far more dangerous than the ordinary flu. In public, however, Mr. Trump repeatedly told Americans during the initial weeks at the start of 2020 that the virus wasn't dangerous and would “disappear” by itself. “He knew how deadly it was,” Democratic presidential challenger Joe Biden said while campaigning in Michigan. “He lied to the American people. He knowingly and willingly lied about the threat it posed to the country for months.” “It was a life and death betrayal of the American people,” Mr. Biden added. “It's disgusting,” Mr. Biden later told CNN. “Think about it. Think about what he did not do.” But there was support for Mr. Trump from the highly respected infectious diseases expert Anthony Fauci, who has consistently told the public that the coronavirus requires a tough response — even when the President appeared to be saying something different. “I don't recall anything that was any gross distortion in things that I spoke to him about,” he told Fox News. Mr. Trump was keen to stop the country from getting “down and out,” Mr. Fauci said.
11 September 2020||SACRAMENTO,||California wildfires growing bigger||When it comes to California wildfires, it now takes days, not decades, to produce what had been seen as a once-in-a-lifetime occurrence. Last weekend, a fire burning in California’s Sierra National Forest exploded in size, trapping hundreds of Labor Day holiday campers who could only be rescued by helicopters that made a series of white-knuckle flights into the smoke. Fire officials said they’d never seen a fire move so fast in forestland — 24 km in a day. On Wednesday, a wildfire in Plumas National Forest northeast of San Francisco spread 40 km in a day and devoured an estimated 1,036 sq. km. In between those events, a massive fire in Monterey County doubled in size overnight, trapping 14 firefighters who had to deploy their emergency shelters; one was critically injured. They are only the latest examples of what a half-dozen fire experts agreed is more extreme fire behaviour driven by drought and warming temperatures they attribute to climate change. Among the most concerning developments is that fast-moving wildfires leave less time for warnings or evacuations. A prime example is the so-called Creek Fire in Sierra National Forest near Yosemite National Park, which exploded through miles of drought- and beetle-killed timber, moving so fast that it trapped hundreds of campers. "When you have a fire run 15 miles in one day, in one afternoon, there’s no model that can predict that,” U.S. Forest Service forester Steve Lohr said. “The fires are behaving in such a way that we’ve not seen.” California already has seen a record 10,100 sq. km burn and it’s only now is entering what traditionally is the most dangerous time for fires. Labor Day weekend brought record-breaking temperatures across the state that exacerbated what already are drought conditions in a large swath of the state.
11 September 2020||Lesbos Island,||Greece races to shelter migrants after camp fire||Thousands of asylum seekers on the Greek island of Lesbos languished on roadsides on Thursday, homeless and hungry after the country’s largest camp burned down, with local officials stonewalling government efforts to create new temporary shelters. Desperate families, many with young children, spent a second night out in the open, many without tents or even basic bedding. “We’ve lost everything, we were abandoned, without food, water or medicine,” said Fatma Al-Hani, a Syrian woman who barely had time to grab her identity papers before the flames engulfed the camp. Some of the bleary-eyed homeless had to trek to the nearest villages for water and other supplies, AFP TV footage showed. The fire on Tuesday at Moria camp, Greece’s most notorious migrant facility, sent thousands fleeing for safety. Gaelle Koukanee, a 21-year-old pregnant Congolese refugee, said the police had fired tear gas to extinguish the fire. “We have children, old people, disabled among us. Why this lack of humanity,” she asked, seeking shelter from the beating sun under an olive tree. Germany and France on Thursday agreed on an initiative for EU states to share out some 400 minors from the camp, a source close to the talks told AFP. The minors were flown out of the island overnight and rehoused in “safe” facilities in northern Greece. But the Greek government had bigger problems close at hand, with local authorities resisting plans to temporarily set up campsites for the homeless. “We don’t want another camp, and we will oppose any construction work. We’ve faced this situation for five years, it’s time for others to bear this burden,” Vangelis Violatzis, a municipal leader, said.
11 September 2020||BEIRUT,||A month after explosion, huge blaze at Beirut port||A large fire erupted at Beirut port on Thursday, sending a huge column of smoke over the Lebanese capital weeks after a massive blast devastated the port and surrounding residential area. The blaze began in the shattered duty free zone of the port, prompting some residents to flee the city still traumatised by last month’s explosion which followed a port fire. “For sure we were scared, it’s only been a month since the explosion that destroyed Beirut. We saw the same thing happening again,” 53-year-old Andre Muarbes said as some districts of the capital were shrouded by a cloud of black smoke. A military source said early indications suggested the blaze started when cooking oil in the port area caught fire and spread to stores of tyres. At one point, live television footage showed flames licking up near a pile of tires in a smashed warehouse. Army helicopters dropped water on the fire, as firefighters battled the blaze on the ground. There were no immediate reports of injuries. Michel Najjar, public works minister in the outgoing government which resigned in the wake of the blast, told Lebanon's MTV the fire had been brought under control, saying initial indications suggested the blaze was sparked by repair work at the port. The August 4 blast killed about 190 people.
11 September 2020||Washington,||‘Russia likely behind Navalny poisoning’||U.S. Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said on Wednesday there was a strong chance Russian opposition leader Alexei Navalny’s poisoning was ordered by senior officials in Moscow. “I think people all around the world see this kind of activity for what it is,” Mr. Pompeo said in a radio interview. “And when they see the effort to poison a dissident, and they recognise that there is a substantial chance that this actually came from senior Russian officials, I think this is not good for the Russian people,” he told conservative host Ben Shapiro. Mr. Navalny, the most visible critic of President Vladimir Putin within Russia, fell violently ill last month as he took a flight in Siberia. He was flown for treatment to Germany, where doctors said he was poisoned. Mr. Pompeo reiterated that the U.S. and its European allies all wanted Russia to “hold those responsible for this accountable” and said Washington would also try to identify the perpetrators. “It’s something that we’ll take a look at, we’ll evaluate, and we’ll make sure we do our part to do whatever we can to reduce the risk that things like this happen again.” Russia denies link Russia condemned as unacceptable the statement by Mr. Pompeo. “We consider unacceptable any direct or indirect suggestions that Russian officials were involved in this,” Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said. Mr. Pompeo’s remarks come despite President Donald Trump’s comment last week that he had seen no proof that Mr. Navalny was poisoned.
11 September 2020||London,||U.K. holds crisis talks with EU as Pelosi warns on Brexit Bill||Britain held emergency talks with the European Union on Thursday, facing warnings of legal action over a new Brexit Bill and a threatening reminder of its obligations to Northern Ireland from leading U.S. Democrat Nancy Pelosi. Warnings redoubled too within the ranks of the governing Conservative party as former Prime Mnister John Major, who helped lay the foundations for Northern Irish peace in the 1990s, said his successor Boris Johnson risked trashing the U.K.’s global reputation. “If we lose our reputation for honouring the promises we make, we will have lost something beyond price that may never be regained,” Major said, after the government conceded that the proposed new legislation would breach an EU withdrawal treaty in the countdown to a full Brexit divorce. European Commission Vice-President Maros Sefcovic headed to London demanding “clarifications” over the new U.K. Internal Market Bill. “I came here to express serious concerns the European Union has over the proposed bill,” Mr. Sefcovic told reporters before starting the meeting with his counterpart on a UK-EU joint committee, Michael Gove. The Bill would give British Ministers unilateral powers to regulate trade among England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland, once the force of EU law expires after a post-Brexit transition period at the end of this year. But under the EU withdrawal treaty, Britain is meant to liaise with Brussels on arrangements for Northern Ireland, which will have the UK’s only land border with the EU, and where 30 years of bloodshed ended with a peace deal in 1998. Legal options EU diplomats have ridiculed Downing Street’s argument that the EU treaty was written “at pace” and contained problems relating to a protocol on Northern Ireland. More immediately, the EU’s executive commission circulated a paper setting out legal options against London, including recourse to the European Court of Justice.
11 September 2020||London,||Vaccine still possible this year: AstraZeneca||Drugs giant AstraZeneca on Thursday said a COVID-19 vaccine could still be available by as early as the end of the year, despite a randomised clinical trial being paused. “We could still have a vaccine by the end of this year, early next year,” the U.K.-based company’s chief executive Pascal Soriot said in comments at a media event. AstraZeneca announced on Wednesday it had “voluntarily paused” its trial of a drug developed alongside Oxford University after a U.K. volunteer developed an unexplained illness. An independent committee was drafted in to review safety but the company said it was a “routine action” designed to maintain the integrity of the trials. “We will be guided by this committee as to when the trials could restart, so that we can continue our work at the earliest opportunity,” Mr. Soriot said in a statement. AstraZeneca’s vaccine candidate is one of nine around the world currently in late-stage Phase 3 trials. In the U.S., the company began enrolling 30,000 volunteers across dozens of sites on August 31, and smaller groups are being tested in Brazil and elsewhere in South America. The vaccine, called AZD1222, uses a weakened version of a common cold-causing adenovirus engineered to code for the spike protein that the novel coronavirus uses to invade cells. After vaccination, this protein is produced inside the human body, which primes the immune system to attack the coronavirus if the person is later infected. The director of U.K. scientific research charity the Wellcome Trust, Jeremy Farrar, said there were often pauses in vaccine trials.
11 September 2020||Beijing,||China slams U.S. order revoking student visas||China accused Washington of “political persecution and racial discrimination” on Thursday, after the U.S. confirmed it had revoked the visas of more than 1,000 Chinese students under an order by President Donald Trump that accused some of espionage. Mr. Trump declared in May that some Chinese nationals officially in the United States for study have stolen intellectual property and helped modernise China’s military, as tensions between the two countries soar on multiple fronts. China’s Foreign Ministry hit back on Thursday, saying the U.S. should “immediately stop using all kinds of pretexts to restrict and suppress Chinese students in the U.S. for no reason.” “This is outright political persecution and racial discrimination. It seriously violates the human rights of these Chinese students,” said foreign ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian at a press conference on Monday. He said that China reserved the right to “further respond”. The U.S. State Department offered its first figures on the effects of Mr. Trump’s order on Wednesday, saying more than 1,000 visas from students and researchers had been revoked. “The high-risk graduate students and research scholars made ineligible under this proclamation represent a small subset of the total number of Chinese students and scholars coming to the U.S.,” a State Department spokeswoman said.
11 September 2020||MULTAN,||Pak. Christian sentenced to death for blasphemy||A Pakistani court sentenced a Christian man to death after finding him guilty of blasphemy for insulting Islam’s Prophet Muhammad in text messages he sent to a Muslim co-worker in 2013, a defence lawyer said on Thursday. Saiful Malook said his client, 37-year-old Asif Pervaiz, was convicted and sentenced this week in the eastern city of Lahore. It was the latest example of the Islamic nation’s strict upholding of blasphemy laws. Mr. Malook said the court rejected Pervaiz’s denial of the charges and he plans to appeal. Mr. Pervaiz was accused of blasphemy by Muhammad Saeed Khokher, a supervisor in a hosiery factory where Pervaiz worked. During his trial, Pervaiz claimed he was accused after he refused to convert to Islam. Prosecutors, however, submitted evidence that Mr. Pervaiz sent text messages to Khokher that contain insulting remarks against the Prophet, according to a court document. Mr. Khokher in his testimony denied pressuring Mr. Pervaiz to change his religion. Under Pakistan’s blasphemy laws, anyone accused of insulting Islam or religious figures can be sentenced to death if found guilty. The latest development comes weeks after a Pakistani man killed an American, Tahir Naseem, inside a courtroom in Peshawar, where he was on trial for blasphemy. Naseem had been arrested two years ago after he allegedly declared himself Islam’s prophet.
11 September 2020||LAHORE,||12 held after woman raped in Lahore||Pakistani police on Thursday detained 12 people for questioning after two armed men allegedly gang-raped a mother in front of her children after her car went out on a deserted highway, police said. The arrests were made following the overnight incident near the eastern city of Lahore, in which the men also stole cash and jewellery from the woman before fleeing. None of the 12 was thought to be an assailant, police said. The attack drew widespread condemnation on social media with some activists demanding those involved be hanged in public. Musarrat Cheema, a spokesperson in the Punjab province, said raids were being conducted to trace and arrest the culprits.
11 September 2020||DR Congo,||Bunia, DR Congo, Sept 10, 2020 (AFP) -||Fifty-eight people have been killed in the eastern DR Congo province of Ituri, the province’s Interior Minister said on Thursday, attributing the massacres to a notorious militia Allied Democratic Forces (ADF).AFP
11 September 2020||September 11 2020 00:00 IST,||How much is too much when collecting data for planning?||On Independence Day, Prime Minister Narendra Modi announced the launch of the National Digital Health Mission (NDHM) under which “every Indian will get a Health ID card.” He said: “Every time you visit a doctor or a pharmacy, everything will be logged in this card.” The NDMH seeks to create an ecosystem under which health records will be digitised. The government has clarified that this would be voluntary, data will be stored locally, and only anonymised data will be shared upwards. In a conversation moderated by Varghese K. George , A.R. Nanda and Venkat Srinivasan discuss whether real-time capturing of demographic data and broad health indicators of the population will lead to benefits that outweigh the perceived and real risks of erosion of privacy. Edited excerpts: Mr. Srinivasan, how can technology transform data collection and analysis? Venkat Srinivasan:You can’t think of data without technology. This is digital data. And of course, it is important to recognise privacy issues. But the only way, I think, we need to think about this is [how it can] transform health outcomes, access and care, and not [in terms of] separate data alone. Use of this data with technology, I think, is the real intent of this policy. As you know, in the U.S., we’ve had this electronic health records initiative for a while. So, technology can, if used properly, dramatically transform healthcare at all levels. Technology can’t work without data. So, it can be at the population level, it can be at the individual health level. At the population level, it can be used effectively to control the outbreak of a pandemic. At the individual level, you have several levels of benefits. In India, millions of people don’t have access to quality healthcare. The silver lining is that the government has allowed for digital health, which allows a lot more people access. I’m sure that will happen over time. Mr. Nanda, what problems do we face when it comes to demographic and health data? In terms of sampling, frequency, accuracy, range... A.R. Nanda:We face problems in all these areas. Sampling size, sampling errors, non-sampling errors, how frequently we collect data. Cost is a big factor in addressing these questions. The use of technology is the cheapest and easiest way forward, in collection of data, monitoring the quality. The problems are daunting, but nothing that cannot be solved. In your career as a demographer and a planner, did you ever wish the technology had been better? ARN:Yes. I have been associated with the Indian Census since the 1970s. It used to take years before Census data and family health survey data could be tabulated. By the 1990s technology came to our help, starting with early mainframe models. Now it is far smoother. Mr. Srinivasan what can technology do for collecting data, keeping it safe, and using it for the public good, which was impossible a decade ago? VS:You have nicely framed it in those three buckets. Technology is the only solution. It is an excellent solution on the collection side. We can expand the sample [size] at low cost. Computing devices that can use ‘store and forward’ type architecture [can overcome] connectivity challenges. But the quality of the data is where I think the biggest advances will be felt because you can control it through many methods such as pattern matching and looking for trends, all real-time. On the privacy and security side you hear daily reports of hacking. There are several ways of making technology more robust — create levels of anonymisation, make it much harder for somebody to figure out who you are. AI algorithms can protect data and prevent theft. But [that] has to be complemented with a legal framework that acts as a deterrent for anybody who is caught stealing or misusing personal health data. It must be independent of any political machinery. So, possibly, create an independent commission, like the Election Commission. Mr. Nanda, the Personal Data Protection Bill is currently before Parliament but it has been criticised for the sweeping powers it gives to state agencies. Are we still a long way from a reassuring legal framework? ARN:We have some legal framework for protecting Census and other survey data, but the problem is that organisations that handle these are not strictly independent regulatory authorities. For example, the Census Commissioner of India has the power under the Indian Census Act to say no — I had said no to governments —  but I also think an independent commission is needed. Do you fear vindictive action by state agencies or other private agencies who might be able to access data for political, economic or ideological reasons? ARN:That’s a risk. But at the same time, you have to see what you call the public good. You have a law, may be put it in the Constitution. You’re suggesting that we go beyond a mere law and have a constitutionally empowered regulatory authority? ARN:Yes. How is this conflict between privacy and public good handled in the U.S. with regard to data, Mr. Srinivasan? VS:We have the Health Information Protection Act (HIPA), which is being enforced quite effectively. We have similar concerns across the spectrum. Recently, there was a very controversial idea of declaring your citizenship in the Census. The data are also encrypted, but nothing is hack-proof. But the regulatory framework is very important. How is private data used for analysis and policymaking? VS:In policymaking, the use of data is increasing but it is not extensive. For instance, the response to the pandemic. We use electronic health records at the population level and individual level all of a sudden now. A much greater amount of information sharing has happened. All of a sudden, hospitals are talking to each other. And they’re all sharing information not only on individual patients but on incidents. With anonymised data, people have less of an issue but in some cases it may not be anonymised — for instance, in contact tracing. When you go beyond health, we have other interesting issues in this public health crisis, policy issues — pensions, loans that were given to businesses. The issue is these policy interventions are all based on data that are not real-time. There is a 10-year interval between two Censuses. The decennial Census has been around for more than 130 years now. This time it is being disrupted by the pandemic. Can’t we have a real-time capture of demographic data? ARN:That is a distinct possibility. Some countries, such as Germany, have already gone into that. To get there, we have to improve the system of our birth and death and marriage registration and registration of other statistics. This has improved, but only in urban areas, and not to the level where you can say that you can make the data usable and also won’t have to go for the same data to the Census. But we must also remember that there are other types of data which are also collected in the Census regarding culture, language, economy, but yes, we don’t need that every 10 years. That could be collected at longer intervals. Mr. Srinivasan, is it possible and desirable to collect at least basic demographic data on a real-time basis rather than wait for 10 years? VS:Totally. In fact, it is not going to be very expensive. Technology costs have come down so dramatically, and you have such a large penetration of mobile phones in India. Individuals will have to be willing to report and that’s really where I suspect India’s challenge might lie. For this, it is important that they see a personal benefit. You can introduce a lot of intelligent algorithms that detect the quality at the source. When you think about intelligent algorithms, I’m a total proponent of traceable technologies. And traceability here implies that you should be able to understand exactly what happened at the individual level in the use of the technology. If you can afford to do that, that will get the game more acceptability. It may seem trivial, but I think it’s critical. We are discussing finding a balance between individual privacy and promoting innovation and efficiency. Now, at what level of specificity and granularity in data could that balance be optimally achieved? How much is too much and how much is too little when it comes to data? ARN:That’s a real problem. In a census as well as in the big demographic surveys, health surveys, we have this compromise. The smallest area level is the village. More sensitive data and what involves the question of quality  are shared only at the broader units such as the State or district level. Technology could make data capture and analysis possible in smaller units but at the same time, one has to be very judicious doing that. We need an independent agency outside of the government to take these decisions. Consent and anonymisation are the key words often used to reassure sceptics. Is it all good as long we adhere to these two principles? VS:Both are very important, though, to me, they are elementary. You must have that, but you do need a stronger, autonomous regulatory framework. It is also potentially possible that you separate this into two categories. One is census. And your question is relevant on how granular you get, how you protect data, and again, you can use technology to separate different layers as necessary. There are things you need to be more sensitive about, more judicious, and so maybe you have layers, maybe three layers of access. You have one layer that many people can access; that’s completely at a population level. Another layer is only some people that you know, and so on. And their informed consent and anonymisation are important. The ability of an individual to have their health records to be stored digitally at a centralised location and access it across the country could be separate from this. But I think you can have a different set of protocols and permit. For that, all that is technologically possible, but I think you need a strong set of laws like this HIPA compliance.   VKG:We do have a consensus that technology can do a world of good in delivering health, education and other development outcomes, but one has to be very careful and judicious in its deployment, and there should be an independent and robust regulatory mechanism to oversee that process.  Technology could make data capture and analysis possible in smaller units but at the same time, one has to be very judicious doing that. We need an independent agency outside of the government to take these decisions. A.R. Nanda
11 September 2020||September 11 2020 00:00 IST,||An agriculture-led revival as flawed claim||A rather confident statement heard in the midst of India’s COVID-19-induced economic slowdown is this: “Agriculture will lead India’s economic revival”. But how valid is this claim put forward by government spokespersons and some observers? Four major arguments are offered. First, India’s food grain production in 2019-20 was 3.7% higher than in 2018-19. The procurement of rabi wheat in 2020-21 was 12.6% higher than in 2019-20. These indicate, it is argued, resilience in the agricultural sector. Second, food inflation in the Q1 of 2020-21, at 9.2%, was higher than in the previous year due to “sustained demand for food”. This shows a shift of terms of trade in favour of agriculture. Third, the area under kharif sowing in 2020-21 was 14% higher than in 2019-20. Higher kharif sowing was accompanied by higher tractor and fertilizer sales, which bodes well for economic recovery. Fourth, the government’s economic package for agriculture — as part of the Rs. 20-lakh crore Atmanirbhar Bharat package — will further position agriculture as the engine of revival. Let us now consider each of the above claims. Rabi procurement During the lockdown, State governments in many northern States put in considerable efforts to ensure that procurement did not suffer. As a result, procurement of rabi wheat was higher in 2020-21. However, this claim hides more than it reveals. As per official data, only 13.5% of paddy farmers and 16.2% of wheat farmers in India sell their harvest to a procurement agency at an assured Minimum Support Price (MSP). The rest sell their output to private traders at prices lower than MSP. One should, then, be looking not at procurement but market arrivals. I compared total market arrivals of 15 major crops in India between March 15 and June 30 in 2019 and 2020. The market arrivals of all the 15 crops were lower in 2020 than in 2019. It was only in paddy, lentil, tomato and banana that market arrivals in 2020 constituted more than 75% of market arrivals in 2019. In wheat, barley, potato, cauliflower, cabbage and lady’s finger, market arrivals in 2020 were between 50% and 75% of market arrivals in 2019. For gram, pigeon pea, onion, peas and mango, market arrivals in 2020 were less than half of market arrivals in 2019. In wheat, the most important rabi crop, only 61.6% of the arrivals in 2019 was recorded in 2020. Thus, the most important problem faced by farmers during the lockdown was the loss of markets, stemming from the disruption in supply chains, closure of mandis and a fall in consumer food demand. Farmers suffered major loss of incomes, and higher procurement was hardly alleviating. In addition, there were major losses in the milk, meat and poultry sectors; industry associations estimate the total loss for the poultry industry at Rs. 25,000 crore. Inflation and prices Inflation rates estimated using consumer price indices are not representative of farmer’s prices. Inflation was largely due to disruptions in supply chains and rise in trader margins. I examined the wholesale market prices for 15 agricultural commodities between March 15 and June 30, 2020. Prices of most crops declined. For example, average paddy prices were about Rs. 1,730 per quintal on March 23, but Rs. 1,691 per quintal on June 30. Average wheat prices were Rs. 2,045 per quintal on April 1, but Rs. 1,865 per quintal on June 30. A moderate uptick in prices was visible in a few vegetables, but not before June 2020. The dark side of higher rural inflation in India is that small and marginal farmers are not net sellers, but net buyers of food. So, it was not just that farmer’s prices fell; most were also forced to pay more for food purchases. There is also strong evidence from small sample surveys that rural households reduced food purchases during the lockdown. Thus, the claims that higher rural inflation benefited farmers, and that it was due to higher food demand, are misplaced. Higher kharif sowing There is no surprise in the growth of kharif sowings in 2020. Given that rabi incomes fell during the lockdown, many rural households may have returned to farming or intensified farming for food- and income-security. Lakhs of migrant workers returned to their villages from urban areas. They may have taken up agriculture in previously fallow or uncultivated lands. Data on monthly employment released by the Centre for Monitoring Indian Economy (CMIE) show that the number of persons employed as “farmers” in June and July 2019 were 11.2 crore and 11.4 crore, respectively. But in June and July 2020, these numbers rose to 13 crore and 12.6 crore, respectively. These are indicators of distress, not prosperity. It is no cause for celebration also because the rural unemployment rates rose sharply in 2020, to 22.8% (April), 21.1% (May) and 9.5% (June). Even in August 2020, rural unemployment rates were higher than in February 2020 or August 2019. Trickle from package Agriculture contributes only about 15% to India’s Gross Value Added (GVA). Thus, even if agriculture grows by 4%, it is likely to contribute only 0.6 percentage points to GVA growth. To contribute a full one percentage point to GVA growth, agriculture will have to grow by 6%, which is unlikely in 2020-21. This is not to deny a potential rise in demand from higher rabi procurement, higher kharif sowing and flow of cheap credit, which together appear to have resulted in higher purchase of tractors and fertilizers. But the counteracting tendencies in rural areas — i.e., lower crop prices, lower market arrivals and higher unemployment — would overwhelm these “green shoots”. Rural expectations were high when the Atmanirbhar Bharat package was announced. However, the details were disappointing. Total fresh spending for agriculture in the package is a trickle: less than Rs. 5,000 crore. The rest are schemes already included in the past Budgets, announcements with no financial outgo or liquidity/loan measures routed through banks. The package also failed to provide financial support to farmers. PM-KISAN, or Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi, is hardly an ideal scheme. But instead of frontloading the instalments of PM-KISAN, the government should have doubled the payments to farmers from Rs. 6,000 a year to Rs. 12,000 a year. Instead of raising the minimum support price (MSP) for kharif paddy by Rs. 53 per quintal (which, actually, was the lowest rise in over a decade), or cotton by Rs. 260 per quintal, the government should have set all MSPs at 150% of the C2 cost (comprehensive cost) of production. Instead of a moratorium on loan repayments, the government should have waived the interest on loans taken by farmers in 2019 and 2020. Instead of vague loan-based schemes in animal husbandry, the government should have announced a package of direct assistance for the crisis-ridden poultry and meat sectors amounting to at least Rs. 20,000 crore. Instead of loan-based schemes to support private investment in dairy, the government should have arranged direct financial assistance to small milk producers, for whom milk prices have literally plummeted. In all, the government’s strategy appears to be to squeeze farmers without investing in agriculture or rural employment. Such an approach would not just fail; it would also be counterproductive. Rural incomes will remain depressed, and push the economy further into a vicious cycle of poor demand, low prices and low growth. The government should discard its role as a passive observer, and decisively intervene in rural India with a substantial fiscal stimulus. The earlier the better as delays would only compound mistakes. R. Ramakumar is NABARD Chair Professor, Tata Institute of Social Sciences, Mumbai
11 September 2020||September 11 2020 00:00 IST,||The great greying of China||China’s one child policy (OCP) was conceived by Senior Leader Deng Xiaoping in 1979 to seek popular support for the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) after Mao’s disastrous ‘Great Leap Forward’ and ‘Cultural Revolution’ (which led to the death of about 60-65 million people). Prof. David Lampton, an American sinologist, has observed that Deng was worried that “if the party did not produce significant gains in per capita income, it would lose what little legitimacy” it had retained. Policy fallout The results of the one child policy have been disastrous. Average birth rate in China has fallen to 1.6 births per woman (National Bureau of Statistics of China) in 2017, though the unofficial figures put it as low as 1.05 (the United States: 1.77, India: 2.24) and much less than the population replacement rate of 2.1. Fewer children were born and of them, fewer were females (given China’s preference for boys like in some other countries). Research by Prof. Yi Fuxian (2019) at the University of Wisconsin-Madison, U.S., reveals that the proportion of China’s population aged above 65 years would increase from 10% in 2010 to 32.6% in 2050 (corresponding figures for India are 5.6% and 14.2% and the U.S. 14.6% and 23.2%). Its labour force (ages 20-64) will reduce from about a billion in 2017 to 787 million by 2050. Thus, China will be a country dominated progressively by older people in the coming years. Despite the raising of the limit to two children in 2016, the number of newborns has not improved and slipped to the pre-2016 level. The one child policy has changed China’s child-bearing attitudes for the worse as many young couples do not want to have two babies for economic and lifestyle reasons. Prof. Fuxian has affirmed that China’s population has started contracting from 2018 onwards; local authorities in China bloat the births and school enrolment figures to seek more funds from the central government. If China can stabilise its fertility rate at 1.2, its population will fall to 1.07 billion in 2050 and 480 million by 2100. The implications The aging population will have a multi-dimensional impact. China will need huge expenditures on health, social welfare and pensions; its savings rate will decline; a fall in the number of young people will lead to a decline in manufacturing, exports, and also mean lower revenues for government. With its annual per capita income at $10,000, increasing population of older people and slowing economic growth rates, China will get old before reaching the levels of rich countries like the United States, Singapore, Japan and others. China’s armed forces are already struggling as many one child policy children are often misfit for fighting in tougher conditions. Will the population decline create a richer society in China? Japanese economist Prof. Hisakazu Kato, says, using Japan’s experience, that it is unlikely as a smaller population reduces intellectual exchanges among diverse human groups, reducing chances of the emergence of great innovators. Developed countries have reduced the impact of declining population by raising the total factor productivity (TFP) growth (ratio of output versus cost of inputs per hourly basis). China has already availed its rapid TFP growth by shifting its large population of migrant workers from agriculture to manufacturing and reforms in state-owned enterprises, housing and other sectors (China’s TFP grew by 5% annually in 1980s, 7% during 1991-95, 4% from 1995 to 2010 and 2% from 2010-2015, before declining to lower levels afterwards). Three factors are considered critical for increasing the TFP: market reforms, improvement of governance and scaling of human skills in manufacturing and services. Many economists have argued that faster rates of TFP growth are associated with rapid and liberal economic reforms. In China’s case, while President Xi has talked of market reforms and increasing consumption, there has been little progress on the ground on issues such as opening of services such as banking, insurance, education or the establishment of an independent legal system for the enforcement of contracts or a creative education system. Post-2008, China’s economic growth has been driven progressively by higher government investment which has created unproductive assets in many cases, i.e., overcapacity in metals, cement and other industries, empty apartment complexes, or rarely used infrastructure such as metro networks, oil pipelines and ports. Absolute control China has never ranked very high in governance indicators of international organisations such as the World Bank; in 2016, it was in 68th percentile for ‘government effectiveness’ and 77th in the annual Corruption Perceptions Index of Transparency International (2017). Instead of giving representation to new interest groups such as industrialists, micro, small and medium enterprises (MSMEs), professionals, media and academics, Mr. Xi has moved in the direction of curbing any dissent and establishing absolute control over Chinese society. In improvement of China’s human resources, there are big variations in high school pass rates of urban (90%) and rural children (24%). Considering that about 40% of China’s population still lives in rural areas, this huge gap will be an inhibiting factor in raising TFP. In the last 70 years, only 15 countries have managed to climb from middle to high income status, e.g. Singapore, South Korea, Taiwan, others and all of them had skilled their workforces with three quarters or more of their working population having completed high school. Under Mr. Xi, China is not moving in the direction of reforms incorporated by developed countries, but evolving its own agenda mainly focused on administrative and bureaucratic improvements concomitantly enhancing party’s control over the economy. Even many Chinese economists are doubtful if Mr. Xi’s plans for augmenting TFP and high economic growth through induction of emerging technologies such as 5G, artificial intelligence or rapid urbanisation will succeed in the absence of much-needed reforms in economy, governance and the education system. Also, unlike the past, China will face a hostile external environment in the coming years as a reaction to Mr. Xi’s unfair and aggressive policies, which will further constrain cooperation in new technologies. In this background, a more likely scenario is that China’s economic growth will stutter and decline as the impact of aging gets more pronounced in the coming years. Yogesh Gupta is a former Ambassador
11 September 2020||September 11 2020 00:00 IST,||A deepening rift||The current slanging match between actor Kangana Ranaut and the Shiv Sena leadership is the most visible example of the underlying antagonism between the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) and the Shiv Sena. The fact that the Union Home Ministry has provided Ms. Ranaut with Y plus security has convinced many that she is acting as a surrogate for the BJP. Ms. Ranaut’s remarks comparing Mumbai to Pakistan-occupied Kashmir and the Maharashtra government to the Taliban, and leading Shiv Sena figures threatening her against returning to Mumbai, and the Sena-controlled Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) demolishing parts of her office premises demonstrate how deep this rift has become. Split in alliance The uneasy alliance between the BJP and the Shiv Sena came under strain following the last Assembly election in which the BJP won close to twice the number of seats compared to the Shiv Sena. It refused to relinquish its claim to the Chief Minister’s position as the senior partner in the coalition. This was a blow in particular to the Thackerays who had hoped that one of them or their nominee would become the Chief Minister. Government formation may have been the immediate cause of the split but the falling out between the two parties was inevitable because of their inherent contradictions. It was a miracle that these contradictions did not lead to a break-up much earlier. Their commitment to the ideology of Hindutva, which had acted as the glue that kept their alliance intact, while superficially similar was fundamentally different. At the base of these contradictions lay the fact that while the BJP is a party with national ambitions, the Shiv Sena is a regional party confined to Maharashtra and drew its principal inspiration from a ‘sons of the soil’ ideology. It started as an anti-south Indian movement but then morphed first into a movement against all non-Maharashtrian immigrants, especially from U.P. and Bihar, and then into an anti-Muslim one influenced by the rise of Hindutva and drawing inspiration from Shivaji’s campaign against the Mughals. The Shiv Sena’s adoption of Hindutva facilitated its tie-up with the BJP and paved the way for a political alliance. However, the inherent contradictions between the BJP and Shiv Sena continued to persist. The Shiv Sena was primarily interested in reviving the past glory of the Marathas and increasing employment opportunities for theMarathi manus, while the BJP’s basic goal was consolidating the Hindu vote behind itself across the nation. The BJP’s national aspirations could only be fulfilled if it kept its base in the Hindi heartland intact. The Shiv Sena’s periodic anti-north Indian eruptions could put this goal in jeopardy. The Sena on its part could not abjure its ‘sons of the soil’ ideology without running the risk of losing its base, especially among the Marathas. Hold on Maratha constituency This has become more imperative for the Shiv Sena as its hold on the Maratha constituency is already under challenge by the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) that garnered almost as many seats in the last elections as the Shiv Sena. The two may be coalition partners now but there is no guarantee that this relationship will last, especially since they compete for the same caste base. Thus, one cannot rule out a falling out between the two before the next Assembly election. Therefore, the Shiv Sena cannot renounce its role as the standard bearer of Marathi honour lest the NCP or breakaway factions of the Shiv Sena itself outflank it on this score. The contradictory impulses of the the BJP and Shiv Sena are clearly on display in the Kangana Ranaut case where both Ms. Ranaut and the BMC appear to be merely pawns of the two parties. Therefore, it would not be wrong to predict that the estrangement between them has now reached a point of no return displaying clearly their fundamentally conflicting goals. Mohammed Ayoob is University Distinguished Professor Emeritus of International Relations, Michigan State University
11 September 2020||September 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Drawdown in Iraq||The U.S.’s decision to cut troops in Iraq is both a relief and a challenge to the Iraqi government. It is a relief because public opinion in Iraq is increasingly against the continuing presence of U.S. troops in the country, particularly after the assassination of Iranian General Qassem Soleimani in Baghdad in January. Iraqi lawmakers passed a non-binding resolution after the assassination, asking the government to oust the Americans. The new government of Prime Minister Mustafa al-Kadhimi has stated that it does not want U.S. troops in combat operations. But he has asked for training services and other assistance. Now that the U.S. is cutting troops from 5,200 to 3,000, Mr. Kadhimi could argue that his government is committed to seeing the full withdrawal of the U.S. troops. It is a challenge because the U.S. troops had played a key role in the war against the Islamic State (IS), and with the drawdown, the Iraqi forces would have to share a greater burden in the fight against jihadists. The American political leadership has long wanted to pull troops out of Iraq. President Barack Obama had set a timetable for the pull back and withdrew most troops by 2011, but he had to send thousands of soldiers back to Iraq after the rise of the IS. President Trump promised to end the “endless wars” during his campaign. Now that the IS has been driven out of the major population centres of Iraq, he could claim victory and draw down troops. While the U.S.’s decision is part of the Trump administration’s larger policy of bringing back American troops home, the local factors cannot be overlooked. The U.S. found it increasingly difficult to station a large number of troops in Iraq. At the height of the war, the U.S. had over 1,50,000 troops in Iraq. But in recent years, it found stationing even 10,000 troops risky. This is partly because of the hostile political environment and partly due to the growing influence of Iran and Shia militias in Iraq. In January, the U.S. killed Soleimani after Shia militias attacked American troops. Iran retaliated by launching ballistic missile attacks on a U.S. air base in Iraq, injuring some 100 American soldiers, while the Shia militias continued attacking U.S. troops. In March, three of the coalition troops, two of them Americans, were killed in such an attack. Since then, the U.S. has repositioned troops, and the drawdown will reduce risks of such confrontations in the future. While the Americans leave, the Iraqi government should be careful of not letting any security vacuum being filled by jihadist groups. Though the IS has been driven underground, at least 10,000 IS fighters are still active in Iraq, according to UN assessments. The sectarian policies of the Nouri Al-Maliki government, coupled with the security vacuum left by the U.S. withdrawal in 2011, allowed Al-Qaeda in Iraq, with battle experience from the civil war-stricken Syria, to exploit Sunni resentment in northern Iraq and build the IS. The Iraqi government should not allow history to repeat itself.
11 September 2020||September 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Something rotten||A young talented Bollywood actor tragically ended his life on June 14. But the events that followed Sushant Singh Rajput’s death by suicide have been even more shocking. On full display in the subsequent weeks were some of the worst regressive traits of Indian society, from misogyny, invasion of privacy, voyeuristic glee to a collective loss of clarity. All hell broke loose soon after his family accused the 34-year-old actor’s girlfriend Rhea Chakraborty, 28, of foul play; the grief-stricken father said she had poisoned his son and filed an FIR charging Rhea with ‘abetment to suicide’, a crime punishable by up to 10 years in prison. A section of the media pounced on Rhea, terming her a gold digger, and handed out instant verdicts in the newsroom. Anchors appeared to have little time to discuss India’s crossing four million COVID-19 cases, the 23.9% GDP contraction or the heightened border tensions. That Sushant hailed from poll-bound Bihar added a political dimension impossible to ignore. The actor, reported to have been suffering from depression, lived in Mumbai, which is now ruled by estranged Bharatiya Janata Party partner, the Shiv Sena, together with the Nationalist Congress Party and Congress, and his demise has become political fodder crossing limits of decency, drawing in other Bollywood celebrities. Three top government agencies, the Enforcement Directorate, the Central Bureau of Investigation and the Narcotics Control Bureau grilled Rhea for days. The NCB finally arrested her on September 8 linking her to a drugs case in Sushant’s death probe. Rhea has denied any wrongdoing, telling the media that she didn’t speak after Sushant’s passing away out of grief and respect for him. Whether Rhea has committed a crime the law will decide, but as she and her family fight this battle, the spotlight is firmly on Indian society and its deeply entrenched prejudices. Women’s rights activists have spoken up against the demonisation of Rhea, and how gender, the clothes she wore, the undefined relationship she had with the actor, all played a role. What is perhaps more disturbing is that many women, far from empathising with a girl who lost her boyfriend in such circumstances, have been quick to pronounce Rhea guilty of any number of wrongdoings. That people could erupt with joy at her arrest on charges not directly related to the death is an indication that vague demands of justice for Sushant have played out as a blood sport. A mob that seems to find its voice through TV anchors and social media appears to have overruled ideas of justice, fairness and even the law. It is important that India’s criminal justice system delivers justice in this case.
11 September 2020||September 11 2020 00:00 IST,||The daily difficulties in collecting COVID-19 data||Everyday, past midnight, I compile data on the number of samples tested for COVID-19 and the total number of positive cases recorded till date in India. However, the job at hand is always incomplete. Data from Telangana and Tripura and the Indian Council of Medical Research’s daily bulletin are released only the next morning. The data help us track the response of the States to the pandemic, and are used as part of the State tracker on COVID-19 on The Hindu ’s website as well as to churn out data stories for print. I started compiling COVID-19 data in late March when the pandemic in India was still at a nascent stage. It was clear by then that testing was crucial in identifying and isolating those who were infected, to control the spread of the virus. Hence, it became necessary to track how States fared on the testing front. But this was not easy. The initial struggle was to identify the online sources. States disseminated data in about four different ways. States such as Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Madhya Pradesh published their daily bulletins on their Health Department websites or as press releases on their Information and Public Relations Department website. Others such as Rajasthan, Odisha and Gujarat updated their numbers on their State health dashboards. The daily bulletins of some States such as Maharashtra, Assam and Bihar were uploaded on Twitter by the State Health Departments. Uttar Pradesh’s bulletin is circulated only among a select group of people in touch with health officials of the State, who then put out the data in the public domain. While most States today have a dedicated web portal for COVID-19 where bulletins are issued, is it frustrating that there is no standard format for publication of data. There are differences in the details provided by the States too. For example, when the Delhi government was questioned by the Delhi High Court for using very few RT-PCR tests and ramping up rapid antigen detection tests, we decided to do a story. Our aim was to record the share of antigen tests across States to check whether they exceeded the number of RT-PCR tests. We found that only some States published data on the different tests being conducted. We had to contend with data from these States even though most have taken recourse to rapid antigen testing lately. While ICMR publishes only bare-bones information on testing, the Union Health Ministry’s data publications too leave a lot to be desired. The Health Ministry website had district-wise data on cases and deaths. However, the data was in a state of disarray. There was no time stamp on the data. Nor were the numbers archived, which meant we had to use Internet archival tools to access the previous day’s data. We also found data with errors (different district spellings, States having cases not attributed to any district, etc.). District-wise data have now been removed from the Ministry website. If we are to tackle this pandemic effectively, information is the key. Administrations should strive to be transparent. A standard set of guidelines which explain the kind of information given should govern bulletins which are published at the State level. This is bound to benefit not just citizens but epidemiologists and health experts whose research will help us find the means to end this pandemic. And I look forward to a good night’s sleep.
11 September 2020||September 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Indian labour abroad (From an Editorial)||India won the esteem of the ancient world as the land of light and learning, in the glorious days of her pristine power and prosperity by sending her children abroad as the sacred messengers of her divine culture and religion. But it may well be said of her at the present day that, as a nation that has fallen from her proud position of yore to that of the helot and the menial, since many of her children are now reduced to the pitiable condition of seeking foreign lands in search of food and other necessaries of life. Thanks to the steady impoverishment of the country under alien rule and the loss of employment to many among the masses by the decay of indigenous industries, India has been turned into a profitable field for recruiting cheap labour to the European planter and capitalist, engaged in the exploitation of the adjoining lands. The consequences of this menial type of national expansion into foreign lands is injurious alike to the prestige, and welfare, of moral as well as material, of the individuals going and the nations sending them out. Nor is the treatment meted to these Indians in the countries they are invited for labour, in any way consistent with our national honour and self-respect.
11 September 2020||September 11 2020 00:00 IST,||A moribund zoo||Will animals prefer the Museum or the Zoo? Given the choice, they would glady prefer the former. This was the poignant remark made by a visitor who went around the Zoo last week. What was once one of the main attractions of the City (Madras) is now in a neglected condition. “If they are not dumb, the animals will speak volumes about the deplorable conditions in which they are kept,” said another visitor. Most of the animals which are few by any standard, with weather-beaten looks and emaciated bodies, are sleepy and inactive. Lack of natural habitat and proper upkeep, suitable feeding and attention, are evident from the manner in which the animals are looked after. This makes the visitor think it will be only a matter of time before the animals languish and finally find their resting place in the Museum. Dingy cages, emitting a foul smell from rotting mutton pieces strewn all over, repel anyone who tries to have a close look at the wild animals. Very rarely do the lions, tigers and leopards roar to delight the spectators.
11 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Fuel offtake dips most since April||India’s fuel demand in August posted its biggest decline since April as local lockdowns put the brakes on economic activity and transportation, official data showed on Thursday. Petroleum product sales fell to 14.39 million tonnes in August, down 7.5% over the previous month, and about 16% from a year earlier, data from the oil ministry’s Petroleum Planning and Analysis Cell (PPAC) showed. Decline extends The decline in August was the sixth consecutive year-on-year slide. Fuel demand had slumped by a record 48.6% in April to 9.4 million tonnes as the government imposed a nationwide lockdown in an attempt to curb the spread of the novel coronavirus. It recovered in the subsequent two months, but has been falling again since July, on a monthly basis. Sale of diesel, the most consumed fuel in the country, fell 12% to 4.84 million tonnes in August, from 5.51 million tonnes in the previous month. On an annual basis, the demand for diesel declined by 20.7%. Petrol sales fell 7.4% year-on-year to 2.38 million tonnes, although it rose 5.3% from 2.26 million tonnes in July as commuters preferred driving to using public transportation. LPG sales were down 5% year-on-year to 2.2 million tonnes, while kerosene demand fell 43% to 1,32,000 tonnes. Month-on-month, the sale was almost flat. Industry sources said reaching pre-COVID-19 sales may take at least 3-4 months. Demand recovery There is likely to be a pick-up in demand with the onset of the festive season in October-November, but reaching pre-COVID-19 levels would not be before the new year, they said. Oil Minister Dharmendra Pradhan had previously stated that sales would return to normal by festival season but the local lockdowns being imposed in several States has prolonged the return to normalcy. Naphtha sales at 1.07 million tonnes was down 16% over July demand. It was over 24% lower than the consumption of 1.4 million tonnes in August 2019.
11 September 2020||MUMBAI,||Upstream aluminium units working at full capacity: Birla||Post restart of operations after the COVID-19-related shutdown, all upstream aluminium plants of Hindalco Industries are operating at almost full capacity, said Kumar Mangalam Birla, chairman. The aluminium downstream plants were operating at partial capacity and copper facilities were ramping up to optimal levels, Mr. Birla said at the company’s AGM. He said Hindalco would continue to strengthen its balance sheet with growth strategies and by generating positive free cash flows. “The pandemic has had an unprecedented impact on economic activity... and employment,” he said. “Given the fog of uncertainty all around, it is hard to be prescient in these times with respect to the extent of the economic contraction, and pace of recovery,” he added. “Despite this slump in Q1, activity levels are gradually normalising,” he said. He said export demand remained stable and continued to offset subdued domestic market conditions. Mr. Birla said the company’s broad strategy to reduce its exposure to London Metal Exchange (LME) price fluctuations and increasing the share of downstream, value-added products across businesses was playing out well. Meanwhile, the board recommended 100% dividend.
11 September 2020||Chennai,||IT urges remote-enabling labour law tweaks||The IT-BPM industry has sought revisions in labour laws for enabling remote delivery of services such as those facilitated by work-from-home and part-time professionals. “We would like to tap into the talent pool that comprises millennials, retired professionals and women with post-secondary education, who can devote 3-4 hours to work every day,” Keshav Murugesh, past chairman of Nasscom and global CEO of business process management (BPM) firm WNS, said in an interview. “This can bring in more than 110 million women with degrees, who are not currently part of the workforce,” he added. “The industry has made a formal representation to relevant officials in government,” he said, adding that the officials had agreed to look into all aspects of the labour policy. “Government should embrace treatment based on pay,” he said. “Employees drawing salary above a certain threshold should be treated as supervisory staff,” he added. For example, the salary of an IT professional earning Rs. 15 lakh per year was higher than a traditional supervisor’s pay. “But the professional is treated as a ‘workman’ under the Industrial Disputes Act. The recommendation is to bring a salary ceiling of Rs. 5 lakh per annum while determining the status of ‘workmen’. The laws relating to overtime and shifts must not be made applicable to those earning above this threshold.” The industry has also recommended that it be exempted from contributing to PF, ESIC or Workmen Compensation for those working part-time or while studying. “The industry anyway protects healthcare insurance at its cost. Any person committing less than 30 hours of work per week should be deemed part-time.” This, he said, would allow the sector to employ more ‘homemakers’ and students who are time-constrained by multiple responsibilities. Retrenchment norms Among the industry’s recommendations to the government is the simplification of retrenchment norms. “Philippines has a floating status concept, where an employee is not made redundant but is on a ‘no work-no pay’ status,” he pointed out. “He or she is still covered from a health insurance perspective and is also free to find another job,” Mr. Murugesh added.
11 September 2020||HYDERABAD,||‘General, health insurers can issue e-documents’||Insurance regulator IRDAI has permitted general and health insurers to issue policy documents in electronic format. The regulator also allowed them to dispense with the requirement of getting customer’s wet signature on the proposal form. Valid through March 31, 2021, the exemption from issuing policy document and copy of the proposal in physical form will, however, be subject to insurers complying with certain requirements. The regulator said the exemptions will apply to all health, motor, fire insurance (covering dwellings and/or contents issued to individuals), package insurance (issued to individuals) and all miscellaneous policies issued to individuals where the sum insured does not exceed Rs. 5 crore. “Wherever policyholders demand physical version of the policy document/copy of the proposal, the same shall be made available,” the regulator said. “It is definitely a positive step considering the current pandemic situation and the challenges in issuing physical policy documents or proposal forms,” said Gurdeep Singh Batra, Head — Retail Underwriting, Bajaj Allianz General Insurance.
11 September 2020||KOCHI,||‘Immunity booster’ tag drives exports of spices||The $3-billion spices export business has found an unlikely ally in COVID-19 as the pandemic appears to have added a new sheen to the export of spices considered to boost immunity. “Export of spices like ginger, turmeric, coriander and cumin has shown a considerable increase during April-July this year compared to the same period last year,” D. Sathiyan, secretary of the Spices Board, said here on Wednesday. The increased demand was seen in big markets like the U.S. and Europe, he said. Demand from other countries such as Bangladesh, Morocco, Iran, Malaysia, China and Pakistan is also showing encouraging signs. A communication from the Spices Board earlier this year had said that the spice which showed the most promise in 2019-20 was ginger, which registered an increase of 178% in volume of exports and 129% in value at 50,410 tonnes and Rs. 449 crore respectively. Spices export business crossed the $3-billion mark during 2019-20 for the first time with 10% growth in value, even though the overall exports from the country showed a decrease of 5% for the whole of 2019-20.
11 September 2020||MUMBAI,||Crisil now sees GDP shrinking 9% in FY21||Crisil Research on Friday said India’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP) would shrink 9% in FY21, wider than its May estimate of a 5% contraction. This rate of fall has not been seen since the 1950s, it added. “With the pandemic’s peak not yet in sight and the government not providing adequate direct fiscal support, the downside risks to our earlier forecast have materialised,” Crisil Research said. “If the pandemic were to peak out in September-October, GDP growth could move into mildly positive territory towards the end of this fiscal... But the risks to our outlook remain tilted to the downside till such time a vaccine is found and mass produced,” it said.
11 September 2020||mumbai,||Yes Bank pays Rs. 50,000-cr. dues to RBI||Yes Bank has fully repaid the Rs. 50,000 crore provided by RBI as a special liquidity facility (SLF) amid the crises faced by the lender earlier this year, its chairman Sunil Mehta said. He further said FY21 will be a year of transition for the bank, which has just come out of an unprecedented Rs. 10,000 crore bailout led by SBI after setbacks received under the founding team. The government and the RBI had replaced the entire board of the lender in March and also stopped depositors from accessing their funds for a few days. “I am pleased to report that the bank has fully repaid SLF of Rs. 50,000 crore to the RBI on September 8, well before the due date,” Mr. Mehta told shareholders at the bank’s AGM.
11 September 2020||New Delhi,||RIL’s mkt valuation crosses USD 200 bn; First Indian firm to do so||Shares of Reliance Industries Ltd. (RIL) closed over 7% higher, helping its market valuation cross the $200-billion mark and become the first domestic firm to achieve the milestone. The stock rose by 7.1% to close at Rs. 2,314.65 on the BSE. During the day, media reports surfaced that RIL was offering to sell a roughly $20 billion stake in its retail business to Amazon.com Inc.PTI
11 September 2020||New York,||Medvedev, Thiem cruise||Third seed Daniil Medvedev continued his march towards a first Grand Slam title on Wednesday powering into the U.S. Open semifinals with a clinical 7-6(6), 6-3, 7-6(5) victory over childhood friend Andrey Rublev. The first Russian duo in the quarterfinals at a Grand Slam since Igor Andreev and Nikolay Davydenko at Roland Garros in 2007, Medvedev showed no hesitation during a ruthless, controlled display that sends him through to the last four without dropping a set. No player in the Open Era has won the U.S. Open men’s title without dropping a set. With Roger Federer and Rafa Nadal missing, and top seed Novak Djokovic having been disqualified for hitting a line judge with a ball, Medvedev showed why he is now the bookmakers’ favourite to win in New York. He will face second seed Dominic Thiem, who put in a sublime performance to dismantle Australian Alex de Minaur’s challenge during a 6-1, 6-2, 6-4 victory. The 27-year-old Thiem is the highest seed surviving at Flushing Meadows. In the women’s section, a confident Victoria Azarenka overpowered Elise Mertens 6-1, 6-0 Wednesday to advance to the semifinals where she will face a familiar rival in Serena Williams, who won their encounters here in 2012 and 2013. Domination Azarenka, smiling and bobbing her head along to music being played during changeovers, spread the court with 21 winners to dominate 16th seed Mertens in their first career meeting. Azarenka, who won her first title in four years at the Western & Southern Open last month, said she is appreciating her time on the court more than ever. “I don’t think I have ever enjoyed tennis, to be quite honest,” she said. “I felt that it was a job and something you were meant to do. Winning, you enjoy it. Losing, I was so upset and for a couple of days “I couldn’t function normally. Now nothing bothers me. I can say I am feeling the moment.” Serena holds an 18-4 lead in their matchups, winning their most recent match at Indian Wells last year. “Can it get any better?” Azarenka said about the semifinal showdown. “It’s an amazing opportunity to play against a champion, somebody who I respect a lot and is my friend.” Serena fights back Serena, seeded third, came from a set down to overcome unseeded Bulgarian Tsvetana Pironkova and keep alive her bid for a 24th Grand Slam title. Her comeback included two astonishing shots with her left hand that contributed to winning points. “At that point I was fighting so hard. I was just trying to do everything I can whether righty or lefty,” she said.
11 September 2020||KOLKATA,||Expert group to ensure all measures are satisfactory: WADA||The World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA) on Thursday said its Laboratory Expert Group (LabEG) would thoroughly examine National Dope Testing Laboratory’s (NDTL’s) compliance and will need to satisfy itself before giving its recommendation. “As outlined in our media release of July 21, during the period of suspension, if the laboratory satisfies WADA’s LabEG in meeting the stated requirements, it may apply for reinstatement prior to the expiry of the six-month suspension period,” WADA said in an email response to The Hindu . “Accordingly, the LabEG is currently reviewing the responses and corrective actions provided by the NDTL. In the coming days, it is expected that the LabEG will have a clearer view of the corrective actions implemented by the laboratory. “If all are deemed satisfactory by the experts, the next step will be a site audit of the laboratory to ensure all measures have been put in place satisfactorily. The timing of such a site visit would depend on the latest situation regarding COVID-19 restrictions and the ability of WADA experts to travel to New Delhi in person to conduct the audit,” said the statement. The Union Sports Minister Kiren Rijiju recently claimed that NDTL “stands fully compliant with all requirements” and requested WADA to lift its suspension.
11 September 2020||HYDERABAD,||DSF’s gesture to football coaches||Mumbai-based Dream Sports Foundation has lent a helping hand to the football coaches from the city who have lost their jobs because of the pandemic. As part of its ‘Back on Track’ initiative, 11 coaches have been given Rs. 4000 each and eight more from the districts will get the amount transferred to their account. 20 coaches have been identified in coordination with MARS Football Academy and the Sports Coaching Foundation (Masab Tank) here. Former international Aleem Khan and K. Sai Baba, general secretary of SCF, gave away the incentive and mementos to the coaches.
11 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||Ammunition to be made available for home training||Union Sports Minister Kiren Rijiju has ordered that ammunition be made available for elite, developmental and Khelo India shooters across the country to train at home. Rijiju made the decision after an interaction with shooters during a visit to the Dr. Karni Singh Shooting Range in Tughlakabad on Wednesday. Elite shooters usually buy ammunition specific to their equipment. However, this has not been possible for most during the pandemic. In addition to addressing the shooters' requirements in the short term, the Sports Minister and the government are also looking beyond the Tokyo Olympics. “It is important that athletes, especially the probables for the 2024 and 2028 Olympics, get a chance to continue their training. Many of them practise in their home range and facilities near their homes. Athletes can collect whatever they need from the Dr. Karni Singh Range and other accredited academies and continue their sporting activities,” the minister said in a statement. Commonwealth Games champion Anish Bhanwala, who got to talk to Rijiju at the range, said, “If we get ammunition and practice at a range closer to our homes, it will not just ensure our safety during COVID times, but also allow us to devote more time to training.” Asian skeet champion and world record holder Angad Vir Bajwa had run out of his stock of ammunition before the Sports Authority of India (SAI) rescued the situation and ensured he could continue to train at his home range in Chandigarh. “I got ammunition from SAI last month. So, I am good till November. I am regularly chatting with my coach Tore Brovold. I am planning with him on how much to shoot and train, so as to peak during the Olympics, which is crucial,” said Angad Bajwa.
11 September 2020||Coimbatore,||INRC likely to resume in November||After COVID-19 applied the brakes on the Indian National Rally Championship (INRC) earlier this year, its promoter, the Champions Yacht Club (CYC), is working hard to kickstart the season in November. Back-to-back rounds in Arunachal Pradesh and Coimbatore followed by events in Hampi and Bengaluru have been proposed and the calendar has been sent to the Rally Commission for approval. “We are in constant touch with the organisers and the competitors. They are all eager for the season to begin as much as I am. It’s only a matter of time as the recovery rate from the virus is good,” said Vamsi Merla, Director, CYC. “The Central Sports Minister (Kiren Rijiju) has been very kind to help us with the show in his region. We will be doubly sure that everybody is safe from this virus threat with proper medical facilities,” added Merla, who expects more than 50 competitors for the event in Arunachal. FMSCI nod The last two rounds in Karnataka will be held in 2021 and the FMSCI, it is said, has given the nod for extending the season into January 2021. FMSCI President J. Prithiviraj, who is also the Secretary of the Coimbatore Auto Sports Club, said the city was ready to host the double-header for the first time. “We will be happy to host back-to-back rounds for the same discipline. This system is happening internationally these days and it will be good if we follow the same,” he said.
11 September 2020||Abu Dhabi,||Will miss the energy of Eden Gardens: Karthik||Kolkata Knight Riders (KKR) captain Dinesh Karthik on Wednesday said his side would miss the fans who bring in massive energy during IPL matches at the iconic Eden Gardens. “We will be missing our fans this year and the energy of Eden Gardens. We wanted to communicate directly with KKR fans, and wanted to convey what they mean to us. We do understand that they can’t be here in person with us, but they will be in our heart,” Karthik said here while launching a campaign titled Tu Fan Nahi Toofan Hai! With West Bengal hit by the double blow of Cyclone Amphan and the COVID-19 pandemic, Karthik said the season would be more for the people of the state. “This year, it’s not so much for us. We’re playing for you all. We want to put a smile on their faces through our cricket. If we play the right brand of cricket, I’m sure it will put a smile on every KKR fan out there.” KKR’s Kuldeep Yadav, who will be representing the team for the seventh season, said: “This year we want to win the title for our fans. They have given us so much love over the years, and this year even when they aren’t with us, we can feel their support and energy.” KKR CEO and MD Venky Mysore said: “For KKR, our biggest strength is our fans. The players have always been inspired by the unwavering dedication of our fans who support the team in highs and lows.”
11 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||AFC Cup not to be held this year||The AFC executive committee on Thursday accepted the recommendation to cancel this year’s AFC Cup, the AFC Solidarity Cup and the AFC Futsal Club Championship due to complexities created by COVID-19. The virtual meeting chaired by AFC president Shaikh Salman bin Ebrahim Al Khalifa, agreed that difficulty in coordinating the five zones and completing inter-zone matches of the AFC Cup constituted a force majeure event leading to the cancellation. Chennai City FC was India’s representative in the AFC Cup, which had been suspended since March along with the AFC Champions League, the continent’s premier club tournament. The Champions League, however, would resume on September 14 for the West Zone group stage in Qatar. The East Zone matches would be played between November 15-December 13 with the final to be played as a single match in the West Zone on December 19. Groups A-D are part of the West region while Groups E-H belong to the East. The EC also confirmed the postponement of U-16 and U-19 championships, scheduled for Bahrain and Uzbekistan, to early 2021. The Solidarity Cup will be held in 2024 and Futsal Club Championship in 2021.
11 September 2020||HYDERABAD,||Thomas and Uber Cups camp cancelled||The Badminton Association of India has cancelled the preparatory camp for the Thomas and Uber Cups to be held in Denmark from October 3. “With the standard protocol and seven days of mandatory quarantine not ending before September 17, the initial scheduled date of team selection, it was decided to cancel the preparatory camp and the Indian team selection was conducted by the six-member selection committee today,” BAI general secretary Ajay Singhania said in a statement on Thursday. The Thomas Cup squad will be helmed by K. Srikanth, while P.V. Sindhu will lead the challenge for the Uber Cup. The selected players have been asked to submit fitness certificates by September 17 and have been advised to train on their own and keep BAI updated on their regular fitness and training status.  The teams: Thomas Cup: K. Srikanth, P. Kashyap, Lakshya Sen, Subhankar Dey, Siril Verma, Manu Attri, B. Sumeeth Reddy, M.R. Arjun, Dhruv Kapila, and G. Krishna Prasad.   Uber Cup: P.V. Sindhu, Saina Nehwal, Aakarshi Kashyap, Malvika Bansod, Ashwini Ponnappa, N. Sikki Reddy, D. Pooja, Sanjana Santosh, Poorvisha S. Ram, and J. Meghana.   Denmark Open (Oct. 13-16) and Denmark Masters (Oct. 20-25): Srikanth, Lakshya, Sindhu, Saina, Ashwini, and Sikki Reddy .
11 September 2020||DUBAI,||I believe CSK has a great chance, says Watson||The experience and quality of Chennai Super Kings’ battle-hardened players should see the team through in the upcoming IPL, feels veteran all-rounder Shane Watson. “Having an experienced team means your players have more understanding of being able to get their skills to execute under pressure from game one,” Watson said on Nabeel Hashmi’s YouTube show. Hashmi is the head of player acquisitions at the Quetta Gladiators, Watson’s team in the Pakistan Super League. The Australian added, “that is why we believe we’ve got a great chance of having a great year because of the quality of players and the experience we’ve got. We’ve got more chance of not making many mistakes trying to get up to speed as quickly as we possibly can.”  “I’ve sort of been away playing T20 tournaments on and off for the last four years or so,” he said. “I have more of an understanding (now) but still it’s a challenge to be able to get your skills up.” Watson also praised CSK’s “world class” leadership group for backing him during an up-and-down season the last time around. “The 2018 season was one of my better seasons, it wasn’t just the final (where Watson made a match-winning century). But last year, certainly CSK stuck with me through thick and thin.”  Just them backing me, knowing my next few good innings were around the corner, was amazing
11 September 2020||London,||Vettel inks deal with Racing Point||Four-time Formula One champion Sebastian Vettel will drive for Racing Point starting next season. The team, which will be renamed Aston Martin, announced the move on Thursday, a day after driver Sergio Perez said he was on his way out. The team said Vettel has signed for the 2021 season and beyond but did not reveal the length of the contract. “The signing of Sebastian is a statement of the team’s ambition to establish itself as one of the most competitive names in the sport,” the team said in a statement. “As a four-time world champion, he brings a fresh mindset to the team.”
11 September 2020||Bengaluru,||Dravid releases ‘Eye Opener’||The autobiography of G.K. Mahantesh, President of the Cricket Association for the Blind in India (CABI) and President of World Blind Cricket (WBC), was released by former India captain Rahul Dravid on Thursday. The book — titled ‘Eye Opener’, and written by Mahantesh and veteran cricket journalist Satish Viswanathan — follows the story of visually challenged Mahantesh. Apart from his long association with blind cricket, Mahantesh is also the Founder Managing Trustee of Samarthanam Trust for the Disabled. In a virtual conference, Dravid said, “It is a great story of what can be achieved if you have an extraordinary vision. “Mahantesh has made a difference to the lives of many through blind cricket and the Samarthanam Trust.” Dravid recalled his association as the brand ambassador of the Blind T20 World Cup. “It is easy to organise a big event like the IPL, as it is backed by unlimited resources. But this was not the case with the Blind World Cup. It required extraordinary vision and courage from Mahantesh and CABI to organise an event with limited finances,” Dravid said. Mahantesh said that he did not consider being visually challenged as a hurdle, but as motivation to help others with similar disabilities. Mahantesh was happy that the autobiography, published by Notion Press, could be released on the birthday of the late S.P. Nagesh, his close friend and Co-Founder of Samarthanam. Viswanathan stated that he spent considerable time with Mahantesh to get a full view of his life. “It took me to a new world,” Viswanathan said. Mahantesh's mentor K.R. Rajendra and Subu Kota, president of Samarthanam USA, were also part of the virtual launch.
11 September 2020||KOLKATA,||JFC ropes in Eze||Jamsedpur FC has made its sixth foreign signing by drafting in the Nigerian national team defender Stephen Eze. The 26-year-old Eze, who has represented the national team 13 times since his debut in 2016, was a prominent member of the Super Eagles side that finished runner-up in the African Nations Championship in 2018. Standing at an imposing 6’6”, Eze has played the previous three seasons with Lokomotiv Plovidiv in the Bulgarian top division. With Plovidiv, he won the Bulgarian Cup in the 2018-19 season and also represented it in the Europa League (2019-20).
11 September 2020||September 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Business as usual||
11 September 2020||MUGELLO,||Paying tribute||Ferrari goes into this weekend’s Tuscan Grand Prix, an event created to celebrate the team’s 1,000th Formula One race, denying it is in crisis and hoping an expected switch to a dark red retro livery will lift the spirits, deliver some points and ensure a party to remember. After two disappointing and pointless races at Spa-Francorchamps and Monza, the sport’s first visit to the beautiful Ferrari-owned Mugello circuit in the rolling Tuscan hills marks the team’s achievement in being the first to enter 1,000 World Championship Grands Prix. To highlight the landmark, Charles Leclerc and departing four-time World champion Sebastian Vettel will drive SF1000 cars painted a darker red — to stir memories of the team’s F1 debut at the 1950 Monaco Grand Prix, the second race the first championship season. “It is an important race for us, the 1,000th Grand Prix,” admitted team boss Mattia Binotto. “It is a different type of circuit to Spa and Monza so I think it will be important to understand our level of competitiveness at such a circuit. “It’s a very hard season, but it’s by facing up to difficulties like these that you get stronger. We must look ahead and build for the future. Having said that, we will give our all at Mugello.” Ferrari slumped to sixth in the constructors’ championship last Sunday when Vettel — who will move to Aston Martin next season — suffered a brake failure after six laps and Leclerc crashed out at high speed. Binotto, who has kept his cool despite a maelstrom of emotions around him, said: “I think we were not in a crisis last time (after Belgium) and I can confirm that is not the case now (after Italy). “It was a bad day, especially with reliability issues, the worst conclusion to a weekend, but it is important to look forward and become stronger.” Ferrari will be backed by 2,880 members of the official Ferrari Supporters Club this weekend, marking the first time this year that any fans have attended a race due to the Covid-19 restrictions. The double failure at Monza confirmed the team’s first double-blank in successive races since 2009 and it desperately needs to avoid another and prevent its own party falling flat.
11 September 2020||NEW DELHI,||BCCI’s ACU arrives in UAE||Preventing corrupt approaches through social media will be the focus of BCCI’s Anti-Corruption Unit (ACU) in the upcoming IPL, ahead of which the watchdog will educate players through video-counselling rather than physical sessions. An eight-member BCCI team, led by Ajit Singh, landed in Dubai on Tuesday and is in the middle of their six-day quarantine. The ACU will be speaking to all the eight teams separately and the sessions will be more useful for the younger players who are not exposed to international cricket and the glamour of IPL. The established players are already aware of the ACU protocols. “This time there will be video counselling and it won’t done on one to one basis. We can do it in a group as well as individual basis depending on what is possible and we will do it one by one (with all teams). “We have also hired sports integrity agencies. We will use their help in bet monitoring activities.”
11 September 2020||September 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Scenes from CSK camp||Faf
11 September 2020||September 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Andal echoes Krishna||In the Gita, chapter 6, verse 9, Lord Krishna tells Arjuna that a certain state of mind is essential for the practice of yoga. One must treat everyone alike. Whether someone is well disposed towards us (suhrt), or a friend (mitra); whether someone is indifferent to us (udaaseenah) or is by nature neither friendly nor unfriendly towards us (madyasthah); whether someone hates us (dveshyah) or is a relative (bandhusuh); whether someone follows the Sastras (sadhusuh); whether someone is a sinful (paapesu) — one must view them all alike. If one does so, that means one’s mind has been conditioned to practise yoga. This is in continuation of what Bhagavan says in the previous verse, where He states that a karma yogi treats a piece of clay and gold alike — sama loshta asma kanchanah. While seeing gold and mud alike is difficult enough for most of us, it is even more difficult for one to see friend and foe alike. So, from treating all material objects the same way, we must progress to the next and more difficult stage of not differentiating between people, said V. Sowmyanarayanan in a discourse. The Bhagavad Gita guides us towards moksha by showing us the pitfalls and hurdles that a person who seeks moksha faces. In chapter two, the Lord says that he who meditates on Him is freed from likes and dislikes. Such a person achieves control over his senses, and his sins will be destroyed. Andal in her Maayanai pasuram reminds us of the Lord’s assurance to us. She says that if we offer flowers to Damodara, and sing His praises, our sins will be burnt (theeyinil doosaagum). In Oruthi maganai pirandu pasuram, Andal goes a step further and says not only will our sorrows vanish, but eternal joy will be ours if we worship Krishna.
11 September 2020||September 11 2020 06:25 IST,||Sudoku - September 11, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
11 September 2020||September 11 2020 00:00 IST,||What’s new in chips?||If you still think potato chips are the only mindless fun food with a crunch, you are in for a rude shock. Not only are they old news, their successors carrot and beetroot are also part of the mainstream now. Chips made of sweet potatoes are the new happening finger foods, along with a few others. While you are still recovering from this shock, brace yourself for another one. Recipes for chips made of carrot, beetroot and okra are dominating discussions at various food platforms on Facebook. Yes, people are willingly whipping them up at home, instead of frying some good old potato. Also strange but true — karela (bitter gourd) chips don’t seem to go out of fashion. Debatable? Make a quick visit to the local ‘hot chips’ vendor: he is sure to settle it, and throw in a few more lesser-known, regional old favourites into the bargain for you. The West might have discovered kale chips that made it to food trends a couple of years ago, but Indians have been gorging palak papdi chaat for as long as we have known the joys of havingchaat. Kale chips can be healthy and fancy, but they can never match the joy of munching on jackfruit chips from Kerala. The lockdown has forced parents to look at healthy yet crisp and crunchy options. That said, zucchini chips are here to stay and the humble begun bhaja have been rediscovered as aubergine fritters served with copious amounts of Parmesan cheese (the writer sadly shakes her head but tries not to judge). The possibilities are endless, says chef Vikas Khanna, “I make chips out of cauliflower, beets, carrot, turnip, garlic and mushroom.” Here are some simple recipes to try at home:  Okra chips: “Chuck the pan and oil,” said baker and teacher Arundati Rao on her Instagram story during lockdown. She urged everyone to try bhindi or okra (or ladies’ finger, take your pick of name) in the oven as she spoke about eating healthy and tasty food at the same time. She elaborates over the phone, “Slit bhindi diagonally. Lay them out and let them sit under the fan for about 20 minutes. Add salt and spices and drizzle some oil. Finally, dust or toss them with some besan or gram flour. Line a baking tray with parchment paper and spread the bhindi on it without overlapping. Pop them in the oven for 15-20 minutes at about 200 degrees Celsius (temperature varies from oven to oven). If required, let them sit for some more time. Take it out, let it cool, and your okra crisps will be done.  Aubergine chips : This is an absolute delight if you are a fan of brinjal (or baingan or aubergine — again, take your pick of name). The trick here is to find the right aubergine. Pick the long ones instead of the fat short brinjal. Bengaluru-based corporate chef at Windmills Crafts, Mandaar Sukhtankar, says, “Cut them into thin slices and give them a good salt water bath. Pat dry in a clean towel or kitchen tissue, making sure there is no water left. Mix corn flour and flour in a bowl (1 cup flour with 11/12 tablespoons of corn flour), add little salt and chilli powder. Add water little by little to avoid making the batter too runny. Once done dip a finger, if the batter forms a light fine coat on your finger evenly, then it is perfect for the sliced aubergines to be dipped. Heat oil in a pan and fry them until crisp. Let it cool and serve with Parmesan cheese.”  Raw banana chips : This is Navi Mumbai-based home chef Chandrima Sarkar’s favourite. “To make raw banana chips wash, peel and make thin slices of raw banana. Do not add salt yet. Heat oil in a kadai; I use mustard oil. Let the oil come to the smoking point. Add the slices without crowding thekadai, crowding will not let the chips become crisp. Fry on high flame for about two-three minutes, sprinkle salt then reduce flame and continue to dry until it gets crisp. Let it cool down and enjoy with a simple meal of dal-rice.”  Zucchini chips : Winner of Masterchef India Season Six Abinas Nayak says from Hyderabad, “Zucchini chips are increasingly replacing potato chips as a side at food trucks in the West. They are good to eat and don’t make you miss the potato while munching on them. Zucchini chips are, however, batter fried and are best when fried with potato flour. My favourite, however, is baby kumro (pumpkin) chips. We leave the skin on and make fine thin slices, then batter fry it. It is an absolute delight when served with cholar dal (split Bengal gram dal) and bhaat (steamed rice).”  Bitter gourd chips : This is a favourite in many homes in south India. Chennai-based chef Sri Bala says, “To make karela chips, slice them fine. In a bowl mix one tablespoon each of besan , rice and corn flour. Add salt, dry spices like coriander, cumin, chilli powder. Addkarelaslices and toss well, making sure every slice is well coated with the dry mix. Fry in oil until crisp. Let it cool and store in an airtight container.”   It’s bananas Indians are not the only ones fond of banana chips and fritters. Twice-fried raw plantains, called tostones, are also a popular treat in Puerto Rico and in other Caribbean cuisines.
11 September 2020||September 11 2020 00:00 IST,||The taste of memory||Though Ambat Kunjikutty Amma is no more, her presence as family matriarch can be felt in every page of Kaipunyam – A Gift of Magical Flavours , a digital book of family recipes and food-related memories. What started as a lockdown activity by the descendants of her five daughters and four sons — granddaughters, great granddaughters and daughters-in-law of each generation — to keep in touch with each other, turned out to be a labour of love. Compiled as a culinary memoir, the book criss-crosses cities, countries and continents as family members scattered across the globe chipped in with memories relived. While some wrote in, the others told their food stories. The genesis of these, spanning generations, lies in a stately house in Chittur, Palakkad, called Janaki Vilas, named after Kunjikutty Amma’s mother Janaki Amma. Widowed at 28, Kunjikutty Amma raised her children there. She passed away in 1959. The family house is the focus of the food memories. As much as the compilation is about food, it is also about love — for mother, father, sibling and the in-laws too. The 21 chapters span memories from over 50 years ago, from the simply-named ‘mom’s sambar ’, chicken curry, pappada vada and  Gurkhali chutney to tomato fried egg. The latter is the contribution of Qingdi Huang, who is married to one of Kunjikutty Amma’s great grandsons. The editing and illustrations are by the female members. This is not the Ambat family’s first lockdown project: earlier, in May-June, the women had worked on a music-dance video, a virtual compilation, in which they showcased their skills. The compilation resulted in a WhatsApp group — Rocking Family — exclusively for the women of the family, formed by Malaysia-based Vineetha Panicker. The cookbook originated from conversations in the group. ‘Great way to connect’ Rathi Menon, retired head of department (Malayalam), St. Xavier’s College, Aluva, suggested they compile the recipes. She is married to one of Kunjikutty Amma’s grandsons. “Hers was an initiative that proved to be a great way to connect with each other as well,” note the editors and sisters, Sudha Prabhakar and Usha Menon. The entire book, cover to cover, is the work of the women of the family. The youngest of the lot, Bharati Rohit and Anjali Narendra, illustrated the front and back covers respectively. At 17, Anjali is the youngest to be part of the project. Seventy five-year-old Kamala Pillai rediscovered her passion for painting when she illustrated a chapter. Each chapter is accompanied by a photograph of the contributor with their mother or mother-in-law whose recipes are in it.      For Qingdi, who is of Chinese descent, contributing to this book was an acknowledgement of the love and affection her husband’s family has shown her. Qingdi says, “I have fond memories of the first time I met Sandeep’s family. Although I was quite nervous, their warmth made me feel instantly at ease. For me, becoming part of the family was very natural, as they welcomed me with open arms. Although the time we spent together in person was short, we always shared laughs, long conversations, and I wish I could learn more of Amma’s cooking.” Qingdi’s recipe is a dish her grandmother used to cook. She also cooks Indian food such as sambar , idli , dosa , chutney, and fish curry too. The family is so buoyed by the response for the book that they are planning to bring it out in the print form.
11 September 2020||September 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Magic of Nature||You don’t know Kayal? Are you for real? Waking up to shake things up, She will pour the world and drink it up.  “Our story here takes its birth,   On lovely little planet earth...”  Many children are growing up without a meaningful connection to Nature. Their world? A concrete jungle. Their environment? Man-made. Where does clean water come from? Cans! Fresh air? Air conditioners!  Kayal the Formidable aims to reconnect one with Nature — the magical wonders of plants, animals and life around us. Kayal will empower readers with awareness, kindness and knowledge. Catchy verses, funny pictures and quirky characters will enthral readers. The book focuses on Nature, simple living and the power of questioning. The story is refreshingly narrated in verses and coupled with vibrant illustrations. Kayal, along with her accomplice Mani, takes you on a riveting adventure along the country side.
11 September 2020||September 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Ghosts use Facebook Getting in touch with Nana||“Do you think ghosts do Facebook?” Maya asked Rocky, her childhood friend and neighbour, as she swung in the park in front of their homes in Space Housing Complex. Rocky’s face paled. Why did Maya always ask difficult questions? “Ghosts can do anything they want,” replied Rocky, more scared about giving Maya a wrong answer than writing one in his test. “But Maya, whose ghost do you want to communicate with?” Maya brought the swing to a screeching halt right in front of Rocky’s face.“Nana’s!” “You mean your Nana!” asked Rocky. “Who died last month? He’s become a ghost?” “Mummy keeps saying Nana is watching over me. Now think,” Maya poked Rocky’s forehead with her finger, “Only if Nana’s a ghost, can he watch me, isn’t it?” “But why would Nana do Facebook when he can appear anywhere he wants?” Maya slapped her forehead. “Now, if a ghost suddenly appeared out of nowhere, that would scare people. But a ghost with a Facebook page would be cool!” Age no bar “Do you think I can send Nana a friend request?” “I think so,” Rocky whispered. “But you’re too young to do Facebook?” “Don’t worry about that!” Maya leapt off the swing and ran home, screaming. “What’s all the noise, Maya?” Mrs. Sharma, Maya’s mother, asked from inside the kitchen. “Can I open a Facebook account?” Normally, Maya’s puppy eyes worked with her busy mother. But this wasn’t about another hour at City Centre’s Time Zone. “This is the 100th time you’ve asked me, Maya, in the past month. It’s still no! Ten-year-olds cannot do Facebook!” her mother cut open the packet of paneer  with an angry jerk. “And why Facebook? “Rocky says we could send Nana a friend request all the way to heaven,” replied Maya, her eyes sparkling. “That Rocky!” her mother threw her hands up. Pieces of paneer landed on the kitchen counter and fell on Fuzz, their pet cat. Fuzz, who was scrounging for food, shot out of the kitchen window. “First aliens. Now ghosts. Rocky and his wacky ideas! I must talk to his mother about this.” Maya’s mother and Mrs. Ghosh, Rocky’s mother, were good friends. “It’s okay, mummy. It’s a no. Please don’t tell aunty Ghosh anything.” Maya knew if Rocky’s mother came to know about this, she would stop Rocky’s computer access and that would be the end of Maya’s plan.  To be continued...   But why would Nana do Facebook when he could appear anywhere he wants?
11 September 2020||September 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Battle for the pot of nectar||Story so far: The snakes demand amrit as the price for Vinata’s freedom and Garuda sets out to get it for them.  As Garuda flew towards the celestial city, the devas sensed that something was wrong. The king of gods, Indra, rushed to his guru Brihaspati and asked, “Why are there so any bad omens?” Brihaspati answered, “It is Garuda; he is coming for the pot of amrit.” Indra was nervous; he knew that Garuda would have replaced him if Sage Kashyapa had not intervened. The god began to plan: the pot of amrit would be placed in the centre of a spiked metal wheel with two snakes under it. This would be surrounded by a wall of fire, outside which a 1,000 armed devas would be the first line of defence. Defenceless devas When Garuda appeared, he had increased his size to massive proportions. He flapped his wings hard, raising up a huge dust storm. By the time Vayu blew that away, Garuda had pounced on the devas. Picking them up in his talons and beak, he flung them all away. None of their weapons had any effect. When he saw the circle of flames, he assumed a form with a 1,000 faces and filled all his mouths with water, with which he put out the fire. The pot was sitting right in the centre of the spiked revolving wheel. Shrinking himself to a tiny form, Garuda crawled under the wheel. When the snakes attacked him, he killed them and snatched the pot of nectar. He began to grow to his normal size, bursting the wheel into splinters. Garuda began the journey back to Kadru’s palace to give the nectar to the snakes. “He didn’t even think of drinking the nectar himself,” thought Lord Vishnu, who had been watching the war with the devas, admiringly. He called out, “Garuda, stop!” Garuda immediately stopped and bowed to him. “I am very pleased with you,” said Vishnu. “I will grant you two boons.” Garuda’s first request was to be immortal and free from disease, which was granted. For the second, he asked, “I wish to be above you.” Lord Vishnu smiled and said, “Make yourself small.” Surprised, Garuda shrunk himself. Vishnu held out staff that was as tall as himself. “Now sit on the top.” When Garuda obeyed, he said, “Now, you are above me.” Garuda laughed and climbed down. “I would like to grant you a boon too, my lord,” he said. “Then be my vehicle and carry me everywhere,” requested Vishnu. Garuda agreed but said, “I will give this nectar to the snakes, free my mother, and then come back to you.” Lord Vishnu blessed him and sent him on his way.  (To be continued)   The pot was placed in the centre of a spiked metal wheel with two snakes under it.
11 September 2020||September 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Learning for all||“Oh Bhola! Good to see you today. So, which standard are you studying in now?” Rahul asked, hardly looking away from his laptop screen. “Fourth standard,” Bhola answered. His hesitation was palpable. “Hmmm... you must also be having your online classes these days since schools are closed due to this Corona crisis,” said Rahul. Chanda, who was mopping the floor, answered for Bhola, “Who can afford such a costly smartphone where he can see his teacher on the other side? And who will bear the cost for Internet to attend such classes?” Rahul noticed Bhola, silently sitting in a corner with his head bent low. “I am sure there are cheap smartphones available in the market,” Rahul replied, trying to boost his spirits. Expenses mount “Rahul bhaiya , what you consider cheap is far beyond our means. That money will give our family food for a few months. I hardly make ends meet after working in four houses including yours. It is difficult to arrange for rent and food, and everything else gets consumed in his school fee,” Chanda could hardly control her tears before she started mopping the floor once again. Suddenly, Rahul’s mom entered the room and offered Bhola a plate with few cookies and bananas. “Come on, Bhola, have something and then we can discuss your studies,” Mrs. Sharma consoled him. “Why can’t you spend some of your free time teaching Bhola?” Mrs. Sharma asked Rahul. “Yes, that should be fine,” replied Rahul, feeling important. Helping hand The next day, when Bhola returned with his mom, he looked happy. Rahul started going through the textbooks and worked hard with Bhola for the next few days. But, he could not miss the obvious anxiety in Bhola’s eyes. “If there is anything you want to share, please don’t hesitate, Bhola. Even if it is a complaint,” Rahul said, trying to be as friendly as possible. “I hope you will not get annoyed,” said Bhola slowly. “Oh! Not even a bit. You should think of me as your elder brother,” Rahul comforted him. “You teach well and I am able to understand everything too. But, my friends told me that every 15 days there are tests. The answers are supposed to be sent to the teachers through WhatsApp,” Bhola’s words tumbled over each other. “Oh! That means your studies will remain incomplete without a smartphone,” Rahul realised. Bhola was in tears now, “Bhaiya, then my year at school will get wasted.” Rahul immediately went to his mom, “Can’t we arrange for a smartphone for Bhola?” “But smartphones don’t come cheap,” Mrs. Sharma replied. “Then, I don’t need that wrist watch you had promised me for my birthday,” Rahul said, trying to sound reasonable. “But you have been insisting that we get you that watch for many months,” she replied. “If Bhola is unable to continue his year at school, then that watch will not give me any happiness. It will always remind me that a child had to abandon his education due to lack of money,” Rahul replied, feeling sad. He left the room with a heavy heart. A surprise When Rahul’s dad returned from office, Rahul was teaching Bhola. Mr. Sharma handed Rahul a box wrapped in a glowing wrapper. “What is this, Dad?” Rahul asked curiously. “You can check for yourself,” Mr. Sharma replied. Rahul immediately removed the packing and noticed a smartphone in a box. “Is it for Bhola?” Rahul asked, with a gleam in his eyes. His father nodded. “Hey Bhola, check out your new mobile,” Rahul said, as he unpacked the brand new mobile and handed it to him. Rahul was expecting an ecstatic dance from Bhola; instead Bhola hugged him tightly and his tears soaked Rahul’s shirt.  “ It is difficult to arrange for rent and food, and everything else gets consumed in his school fee”
11 September 2020||September 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Quarantine minus the canine||So, the big news is that my entire family is under a two-week home quarantine. Nope, none of us have COVID-19; but the didi who works in our house — well, actually her brother got it. Which sucks. I feel bad for him, I really do. And I hope he gets well soon. But because of him, we are under the worst kind of lockdown — one with no W! So, we can’t leave our house for the next two weeks, which means we can’t take W down for all his walks. (One person helpfully suggested we take him down in the morning at 4.00a.m. How would YOU like to be woken up at 4 .00a.m. to go the bathroom? Plus, do you think dogs pee only once a day? Do YOU pee only once a day? No, right? Then, don’t expect my dog to). Anyway, we left W at the kennel on Sunday, and it sucked. At first, W thought we were going on a drive or something, so he was super excited. Then, when we pulled up at the kennel, he KNEW where we were, hid under the car seat and refused to come out. W is not a big dog but, what he lacks in size, he sure does make up for in will power. Watchdog alert Some people think dogs are not very smart, but that’s just not true. Dogs can be trained to work with the police to sniff out bombs and find clues. They act as guides to people with visual impairments and can even act as a form of therapy for when you’re feeling down and out. I’m not sure W would be any good at the jobs above. He can only sniff out treats, not clues; when we walk him, he likes to drag us all over the place. So, I don’t think he’d be a good seeing-eye dog. However, I can vouch that he’s a great therapy dog — nothing makes me feel better than cuddling up to W, when I’m having a sucky day. So, I’m not sure how I’m going to get through two weeks of home quarantine without him. Unlike lockdown one, there’s online school this time and we can’t go down to play or meet our friends. My parents are super excited because they think we should use this time to complete all our pending assignments. That’s terrifying because, if I stacked up my backlog of homework one on top of the other, it would be as tall as the Kanchenjunga. And you know what’s even worse? I can’t even say ‘My dog ate my homework’. W, come home soon!  W is not a big dog, but what he lacks in size, he sure does make up for in will power.
11 September 2020||September 11 2020 00:00 IST,||When Fall begins||This month began on a bright note, with a full moon on September 2 known to early Native American tribes as the Corn Moon. This was because corn is harvested around this time. We have two meteor showers this month: Epsilon Perseids on September 7 and Alpha Aurigids on September 23. The second, visible late in the evening, has been known to leave luminous smoke trails in the night sky. Mars, which is currently in the constellation of Pisces, can be seen rising in the east as soon as it is fully dark. It will brighten through the month and will turn reddish thereafter.  Neptune at Opposition: The giant blue planet will be at its closest approach to Earth on September 11, and its face will be fully illuminated by the Sun. It will be brighter than at any other time of the year and visible all night long. This is the best time to view and photograph Neptune. Due to its extreme distance from Earth, it will only appear as a tiny blue dot in all but the most powerful telescopes.  Venus and Moon sizzle: September 14 sees a close approach between the Moon and Venus. As it is nearing the New Moon phase, Earth’s satellite will not outshine this bright planet. It’ll be hard to miss this pair.  New Moon: The Moon will located on the same side of the Earth as the Sun, and will not be visible in the night sky on September 17. This is the best time to observe faint objects such as galaxies and star clusters because there is no moonlight to interfere.  Comet 88P/Howell: You will need a telescope to see this comet, which will be closest to Earth and appear at its brightest on the night of September 17. Thereafter, till September 26, it will be on it way to the Sun when it reaches perihelion. From there, it will start moving away and dimming.  September Equinox: This is the month of the Autumn Equinox in the northern hemisphere as the Sun crosses the equator and heads south. The Sun will shine directly on the equator on September 22 and there will be nearly equal amounts of day and night throughout the world. This is also the first day of Fall (Autumn Equinox) in the Northern Hemisphere and the first day of spring (Vernal Equinox) in the Southern Hemisphere.  Three to tango: On September 25, during pre-dawn and the evening hours, you’ll get a chance to spot our Solar System’s two gas giants close to each other and to the moon. First Jupiter and then Saturn will make a close approach with the Moon.
11 September 2020||September 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Life amid ice and seals||April 15 : I looked at my sleepy cubs — Amaruq and Amka. They were four months old, time i took them hunting . Besides, I had been starving for the past four months, living off my fat. I nudged them awake. Though a bit reluctant at first, Amaruq, the more high-spirited of the two, was soon wide awake. His sister Amka meekly followed him. So, today, they actually took their first step into the outside world. It was very warm. Was it summer already? Where had all that greenery appeared from? And I even saw half-a-dozen caribou grazing on the grass. A strange sight indeed. The cubs tried to mimic them but soon realised grass was unpalatable and spat it out. And there were a lot of humans about too, walking in and out of some pink, rectangular structures.I felt uncomfortable and intimidated. I thought it best that all three of us made a hasty retreat back into the den.  April 16 : Intense hunger drove all three of us out of the den again. I had to show my babies how we can walk on the sea ice and smell out seals. As we were passing by the pink man-made structures, the strong smell of dead seal meat wafted to our nostrils. Dead seals inside those pink buildings? Lindjak, the know-all Snowy Owl saw my puzzled look. “That’s the Polar Bear Feeding Station. Humans are serving dead seal meat to you polar bears,” she informed. “Why don’t you make the most of it?” I felt most indignant. Why should we depend on humans for food? All our ancestors have always used the clever strategy of hunting seal from the ice sheets floating on the sea, using stealth and muscle power. “You won’t be able to hunt anymore, there is no sea ice out there,” hooted out Lindjak. Lindjak was right. There was no sea ice at all. What a rude shock. Feeling flustered and hot after our walk, we had to lay down and rest.  April 17 : Something woke me up with a start. Instinctively, I smelt danger. It was Goshtu, the Arctic Fox. She was evilly eying my babes, her mouth drooling. “Don’t you dare lay your filthy paws on my cubs!” I roared. I did manage to scare away Goshtu, but she would return, I was sure. And I was feeling so weak with starvation, I wouldn’t be able to fight back. My mind buzzed with all kinds of thoughts. Maybe I should leave the cubs at the feeding station. They won’t have to starve any more. On the other hand, I would be making them lose their independence; they would never learn to hunt for themselves. Finally, I let my mind rule over my heart. I led them back to the feeding station.  April 18 : I am back at the sea, willing the ice to freeze once again. Then, I can catch all the seals to satiate my gnawing hunger. And perhaps, I could fetch Amaruq and Amka from the feeding station. But would they want to return to the wild, having tasted an easier life?
11 September 2020||September 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Tumultuous treasure hunt||Movie: Duck Tales the Movie: Treasure of the Lost Lamp (1990)  Genre: Animated fantasy adventure Scrooge McDuck — Donald Duck’s uncle — travels to the Middle East in search of a long-lost treasure belonging to the legendary thief Collie Baba. Scrooge is accompanied by his nephews Huey, Dewey and Louie, Webby Vanderquack, and Launchpad McQuack. They are guided by a local thief Dijon, who happens to be working for the evil sorcerer Merlock, who traps them inside a pyramid. . A chaotic misadventure follows, in which Merlock runs away with the treasure. Scrooge and gang return empty-handed except for a lamp, from which a genie is accidentally released. . But, Merlock finds out about the lamp. Mishaps ensue — Scrooge loses all his fortune to Dijon, Merlock turns Scrooge’s house into a floating fortress, and Scrooge almost runs out of three wishes. Will the lamp and the world be saved? What becomes of the genie? Does Scrooge get his fortune and house back? Trivia: The movie is based on the animated television series DuckTales , and was initially visualised as a five-part episode for the TV series. In the film’s opening credits, the title’s typeface is similar to that of the Indiana Jones films. This was meant as a tribute. In fact, a character dressed as Indiana Jones can be spotted in one of the scenes. This was the first Walt Disney film released in theatres that was animated by the Television Animation division and not by Disney’s Feature Animation division.
11 September 2020||September 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Let there be light||Across  1. Light reflects off this surface (6) 4. Earth's source of light (3) 6. Radiation just outside the visible spectrum (8) 7. Gas that glows (4) 9. Light hued (4) 10. Light behaves like a wave and a _____ (8) 14. ____scope lets you see distant objects (4) 15. The study of light (6) 16. When the light is weak (3) 17. The absence of light (4)  Down  1. Shines at night (4) 2. A ___bow has seven colours (4) 3. When light bends as it passes through two media (10) 4. To focus a light beam (7) 5. Requires a sharp eye to thread a _____ (6) 8. Technology that can scan text from an image, abbr. (3) 10. Use a camera to generate this (5) 11. Corrective eye surgery using laser (5) 12. Radiance (4) 13. Earthen lamp (4)
11 September 2020||September 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Let the world know how curious you are||How was paper invented?  Paper was first invented in China. The credit goes to Cai Lun, an official in the court of the Han dynasty. He most likely used a mix of mulberry bark, hemp and cloth rags, which were soaked in water and crushed to a pulp. This was then squeezed dry and rolled into thin sheets and dried. Earlier, the Ancient Egyptians used a form of paper made from papyrus. However Lun is responsible for inventing the process of making paper as we know it today.   How is the moon visible during the day?  Seeing the moon during the day depends on how bright its light is — which is the sun’s light reflecting off the surface the moon — and the earth’s rotation. To be visible during the day, the moon needs to be above the horizon, which it is on an average for 12 hours a day. And some part of this coincides with daylight from the sun — producing a daytime moon. It’s not all that rare. It happens almost every day except close to new moon or full moon.
11 September 2020||September 11 2020 00:00 IST,||The owls and the dog||A pair of owls were searching for a safe place to build their nest. The male selected a place on a big banyan tree, in the backyard of a farmer’s house. But the female did not like the place because she saw the farmer’s pet dog lurking in the backyard. She said, “That this is not a safe place to build our new nest.” The male convinced the female owl to build their nest there. The female said, “Fine, but if anything goes wrong, we will change the place.” They built their new nest in the big banyan tree and soon the female laid eggs that hatched into three baby owlets. One day, the adult owls went out for searching food. Little did they know that right after they went, a snake came there to feast on their owlets. Fortunately the dog saw the snake and barked so loudly that the farmer came running out. He spotted the snake and shooed it away. When the owls returned they saw the farmer with a huge stick and the snake slithering away. They soon realised what had happened and thanked their stars for choosing this place and thanked the dog for saving their owlets.  Deeksitha , V, Spectrum Life School, Namakkal, Tamil Nadu
11 September 2020||September 11 2020 00:00 IST,||GARFIELD||
11 September 2020||September 11 2020 00:00 IST,||SUDOKU||
11 September 2020||September 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Sweetest songs of saddest thought||The demise of music composer S. Mohinder (1925-2020) last Sunday evoked the presence of melancholy in our lives. One of our last links to the golden era of Hindi and Punjabi film music, Mohinder’s plaintive melody ‘Guzara hua zamana aata nahin dobara, hafiz khuda tumhara’ is emblematic of the times we are living in. Composed in 1956 for Shirin Farhad , the song, tenderly sung by Lata Mangeshkar, continues to linger, though many would have forgotten its context in the film. In a way, perhaps, it reflects the personal pain of the composer and the lyricist. Both Mohinder and Tanvir Naqvi had to bear the pain of Partition. A young Mohinder was advised to board the Frontier Mail from Lahore to Bombay if he wanted to save his life. He had a singing assignment at AIR and a ticket for Lyllpur, his home town, in his hand, but destiny willed otherwise. As a Raagi singer The son of a policeman, Mohinder spent his days as a Raagi singer in the Dadar gurudwara, his childhood training in Shabad kirtan and the time spent with Pt. Ram Das of Benaras helping him survive. In a television interview, Mohinder once lamented that he had spent all his life yearning for the 20 years he spent in undivided Punjab. The images of singing Shabad in Nankana Sahib and playing hockey in Lyllpur haunted him. Fluent in Urdu and Punjabi, it took him time to learn Hindi. Similarly, when circumstances forced progressive Naqvi to shift to the newborn Pakistan in 1950, he kept coming back but things were no longer the same. It is said that Naqvi was called by K. Asif to write the songs for Mughal-e-Azam and the lyricist did write one, but by then Naushad had formed a formidable team with Shakeel Budayuni and didn’t want to change it. It is another matter that before Partition, Naushad had combined with Naqvi to give a string of hit songs in Anmol Ghadi , including the timeless ‘Awaaz de kahaan hai, duniya meri jawaan hai.’ Madhubala production, Naqvi forged a bond with Mohinder. Together, they did many films. Naqvi was married to Noor Jehan’s sister Eidan Bai. Mohinder once said he was invited by Noor Jehan to compose music for a Pakistani film. But even before Mohinder could respond, war broke out. When he came to Bombay, it was Suraiya, who had heard Mohinder sing in Lahore, who helped him find a toehold in the film industry with Nili (1950) . Nili failed at the box office but the music flourished. Old-timers still swoon to Suraiya’s ‘Ulfat ka adhura afsana, kuch bhul gaye kuch yaad bhi hai.’ Written by Surjit Sethi, it is a wistful number, like his first song with Lata Mangeshkar, ‘Hum dil ki kahani kya kehte, kuch keh na sake kuch keh bhi gaye’ composed for Shaadi Ki Raat (1950). Bond with Naqvi Starting with Naata , a A master of rhythm, Mohinder composed songs for a rainbow of situations but the melodies that evoked a tinge of sadness were the ones that survived. Who can forget Rafi’s ‘Tera kaam hai jalna parwane, chahe shama jale ya na jale’ from Papi (1953). Written by Rajendra Krishna, it is said that Mohinder originally composed it for Filmistan’s Anarkali, but when circumstances forced him to leave the project, he offered it to Chandulal Shah of Ranjit Studios. As luck would have it, Papi tanked while Anarkali was the biggest hit of the year. Mohinder commanded respect and continued to deliver good music but could not make it to the top rung, dominated by Naushad, S.D. Burman, C. Ramachandra and O.P. Nayyar. But what Mohinder missed in Hindi films, he more than made up in Punjabi cinema, where he delivered a string of big hits. His compositions for the Prithviraj Kapoor-starrer Nanak naam jahaz hai (1969) won him the National Award for Best Music, despite stiff competition from S.D. Burman’s Aradh a na.  In the 1970s, as Hindi film music changed track from the music of the heart to the music of the legs, as Mohinder would say, he gradually lost interest and in the early 1980s migrated to the U.S.  In a television interview, Mohinder once lamented that he had spent all his life yearning for the 20 years he spent in undivided Punjab
11 September 2020||September 11 2020 00:00 IST,||The class of Lalgudi||A consummate performer rarely makes a good teacher, each requiring different skill sets. Imparting knowledge requires customising instruction and ‘coming down’ to each student’s level, simultaneously motivating and, above all, demystifying what seems opaque and shrouded. Lalgudi Jayaraman, whose 90th birth anniversary falls on September 17, embodied all these qualities, making him a notable exception in Carnatic music. His legacy is carried forward by not only his children G.J.R. Krishnan and Vijayalakshmi, but several others who are active performers and/ or adept teachers themselves. Jayaraman’s advanced pedagogy was particularly noticeable in how he incorporated manodharma into every class (unlike most teachers who insist on several kritis being mastered before initiating the first kalpanaswaram). Vocalist Saketharaman recalls singing kalpanaswarams for ‘Maha Ganapatim’ in Nattai in his first class, at the age of nine. Unique approach Maragatham Ramaswamy, an award-winning Virginia-based teacher, learned the violin briefly from Jayaraman in the 1970s. “Ending kalpanaswaram sequences can be onerous for beginners. He came up with the unique approach of asking students to write down and practise various endings of their own in different counts – 6s and 4s, for example – then to remove one note from each, making the ‘harder’ odd-numbered endings easier to concretise.” Vocalist and teacher Vidya Subramanian, who joined Jayaraman as a 12-year-old, adds, “Every round had to finish in that particular ending, even if something else came to talam. He was teaching us to be in total control.” He made the abstract alapana easier to grapple with by pictorialising it as a narrated story, comparing and contrasting ‘pidis’ with allied ragas to avoid any accidental veering, explaining which phrases would work and which wouldn’t, and referencing kritis. Some students were given detailed templates in swaram format, which they could write down. The underlying meaning Jayaraman taught the meaning of all songs, with the instruction that niraval be done only with suitable lines that made sense by themselves. He preferred the phrase ‘sanchari bhava’ as one was not merely filling but rather infusing the selected line with different shades of the raga sensibly. Harikatha exponent Vishakha Hari says, “In ‘paluku palukulaku tene’ in the Kharaharapriya song ‘Rama nee samanamevaru’, he would add the word ‘sodharulu’ at the end — to make clear who was uttering the honeyed words. The melody had to befit the word’s meaning too — ‘tene’ here should ideally sound like dripping honey.” Pallavis and layam were part of class, removing the anxiety both frequently elicit. Students had to compose pallavis as homework. In group classes, each attempted the other’s pallavis with niraval and tri-kalam, which he corrected and refined. Lyrics were sacrosanct, and students who learnt an instrument too were taught through vocals. “Only after we learned the lyrics could we play it on the instrument,” says violinist Vittal Ramamurthy. He and Padma Shankar, another violinist, explain that Jayaraman opened their eyes to the soundscape. “Earlier, I could not imagine using certain fingers for certain ragas — the grammar shackled me. He broke it down, showing me how to ‘take a photo with the ear’,” says Padma. Vittal agrees, “He demonstrated that while the notes might be the same for some ragas, how we play them would be very different.” If a student struggled, notation was used to clarify the phrase. S.P. Ramh, vocalist and vainika, would notate many pieces himself. For others, either Jayaraman would write it or ask them to copy it down. Teachers always ask students to listen to the recordings of masters, but exactly what one should listen for is frequently unclear. Jayaraman would play concert recordings in class, encouraging students to identify notable aspects while guiding them. Riddles and puzzles, kite-making and telling jokes were part of class — he wanted to expand the mind to receive the nuances of music. Ramh remembers listening to ghazals and Hindustani music in class. There were excursions to other towns, beach visits on full-moon nights and magic shows. Maragatham and Vidya recollect Jayaraman’s own beautiful line drawings, particularly of elephants. The maestro appreciated all art forms and was a constant learner. In minute detail He took keen interest in his students’ careers. Vittal recollects his AIR audition and how Jayaraman trained him for success. He would analyse their concerts in the minutest detail; with criticism always coming first but appreciation unfailingly conveyed. Says Padma Shankar, “He had more belief in us than we often did in ourselves.” Jayaraman taught his students concert ethics, advising violinists not to show up co-artiste(s) on an off day and advising vocalists to keep their accompanists informed if anything unconventional was being planned. Says Ramh, “Sir would ask us to analyse our own performance as a third party and insisted we take notes of every mistake or it would literally be ‘gone with the wind’, he said.” Jayaraman gave his all to students and expected the same from them. Vittal Ramamurthy says, “It always had to be 100%. The question of 99% did not exist.” From punctuality to hand-holding to academic rigour, Lalgudi Jayaraman demonstrated total commitment to every aspect of holistic teaching.  The author writes on classical    music and musicians.   Riddles and puzzles, kite-making and telling jokes were part of class — he wanted to expand the mind to receive the nuances of music
11 September 2020||September 11 2020 00:00 IST,||An unusual concert theme||Kanebua Pratishthan of Sangli, Maharashtra, recently streamed an unusual three-hour concert titled ‘Das Thaat,’ comprising 10 raags from the 10 ‘thaats’ or groups that Hindustani music is currently divided into. The ‘thaat’ system was formulated in the early decades of the 20th century by Pt. Bhatkhande. However, some musicians do not follow this system as they feel it is neither comprehensive nor logical. Thus, Kafi thaat includes diverse raags such as Shuddha Sarang, Miyan Malhar, Pilu and Nayaki Kanhra. (Earlier groupings listed out the six main raags and raags with the same characteristic note phrases as wives, children, male or female). In beautiful voice The first singer at the concert, Raghunandan Panshikar, disciple of Vidushi Kishori Amonkar, presented his guru’s signature raag, Bhoop or Bhupali. The composition ‘Sahela re’ is her creation. Starting in madhya laya, Raghunandan created a nostalgic mood, systematically taking the raag forward; the taans towards the end of the concert were reassuringly familiar. His excellent open voice with its hint of gravelly undertones is truly a pleasure to listen to. Surprisingly, the second piece was a morning raag, Ramkali, sung by Manjusha Patil, disciple of Pt. Kanebua and now, Pt. Ulhas Kashalkar. The khayal, again in teen taal ‘Un sung laagi’ has been immortalised by the iconic Ustad Faiyaz of the Agra gharana, and Manjusha presented characteristic Agra gharana bol baant sequences. Later, unable to resist the temptation to render her characteristic double speed taans, she as usual did not fail to enthral. There is a lovely ringing clarity in her voice which comes into its own in the high notes. Morning raags The next raag Jaunpuri, again a morning raag from Asavari thaat, was sung with expertise by Aarti Ankalikar-Tikekar, disciple of Pt. Vasantrao Kulkarni, Pt. Dinkar Kaikini and Vidushi Kishori Amonkar. The bandish ‘Ree main na janoo’ composed by Pt. Shankar Abhyankar was set in Rupak taal, again in madhya laya. The senior most in the trio, Aarti effortlessly etched out the raag. Her music is a skilful amalgamation of all her teachers’ influences, and creditably it’s hard to discern which gharana (Gwalior Agra or Jaipur) has predominance. Her second piece was in Ek taal, ‘Bhanak sunni aavan ki,’ composed by Jagannathbua Purohit ‘Gunidas’). The next three raags sung in the same sequence by the artistes were Hamsadhwani (‘Ganapat vighan hare’), Marwa (‘Ho gunijan mel’, Ek taal) and Kafi. Aarti’s tappa, ‘Madho Mukund Murari’, composed by her guru Pt. Dinkar Kaikani in Kafi, was sung with mastery. Hearing a tappa in Hindi rather than Punjabi was welcome. She followed it up with a delightful Thumri, ‘Aaj kaisi braj mein dhoom machaayi’. The final set of raags started again with a morning raag — Raghunandan sang a tarana in madhya laya, ek taal in Mian ki Todi, which perhaps lacked the majesty it would have had if sung in dhrut. Manjusha excelled in her Thumri in Khamach; the required bhaav and theraav most appealing. Aarti reverted to a beautifully rendered khayal in Puriya Dhanashri, in Jhaptaal, then a self-composed tarana in Aarra chautaal, ending in the ever-popular ‘Paayaliya jhanaka’. Raag for all times Bhairavi, the sada suhagin raag (it can be sung at any time) was rendered in three different ways; Raghunandan sang a bhajan, Manjusha a thumri (‘Baaju band khul khul jaaye’) and Aarti fittingly concluded with a tarana, again composed by Pt. Dinkar Kaikini. Bhairavi is dedicated to Devi and the tarana had an ode to the goddess. While the attempt to present something different was truly laudable, it was bewildering even for a seasoned listener to hear such brief presentations, one after the other, mostly in madhya laya. They were without the expected adherence to the time theory of raag presentation. Streaming each concert as a separate piece, instead of as a three-hour presentation, would have allowed the audience to hear what they wanted to, and in the order they liked. What made the concerts interesting to younger listeners was interspersing them with anecdotal information about the raags. The accompanists were the same throughout. Rohit Majumdar on the tabla and Tanmay Deochake on the harmonium. The concert was shot in a beautiful traditional wada outside Pune; the wood-panelled room, with wide windows overlooking leafy green trees made for an unusual visual treat, without the usual backdrop with sponsors’ names. The Delhi-based author writes on classical music.  Streaming each concert as a separate piece, instead of as a three-hour presentation, would have allowed the audience to hear what they wanted to, and in the order they liked
11 September 2020||September 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Baba vs. Baba||A new web series on MX Player opens with the usual disclaimer in English about it being a work of fiction, bearing no resemblance to anyone in real life, etc. A little later, another disclaimer follows, in Hindi. This is called sa-vinayanivedani or humble plea. It translates roughly as: “We respect all religious leaders and their institutions. All established and popular religious sects and their ideologies are part of our national legacy and we are proud of them. However, sometimes, some members of this glorious heritage exploit innocent believers and malign the name of the real worship-worthy and honourable religious leaders and their great works. The fictional tale of Aashram tries to look at this subject.” The disclaimer is unusual but unsurprising, coming as it does from the seasoned stables of Prakash Jha. Jha is known for his realistic portrayal of India’s socio-political scenario that is incisive while being sensitive. Having delivered hits like Mrityudand (1997), Gangaajal (2003), and Raajneeti (2010), Jha knows to be politically correct even while taking pot-shots, and one can trust his experienced hands to fittingly tackle a subject as explosive as religion. This avowal of faith in the beginning is his best defence before proceeding to question it. Mahesh Bhatt, however, doesn’t quite pull it off. His new film Sadak 2 , which released recently on Disney+ Hotstar, also tries to pick on the dark side of religion but seems to have failed, getting the lowest-ever IMDb rankings for a Bollywood film. Despite a formidable cast that includes Sanjay Dutt, Alia Bhatt, Aditya Roy Kapur, Pooja Bhatt, Jisshu Sengupta and Makarand Deshpande, Sadak 2 is being panned by viewers and critics alike. Having watched it, it is hard to disagree with the reviews. It is indeed an insufferable film that may well spell the end of the directorial ‘sadak’ for Bhatt. That said, one must try to understand why a thespian like Bhatt — who swore off direction two decades ago — chose to return to the chair with a film like Sadak 2 . Except for a short note on Instagram (now deleted) shared by his daughter Pooja, an otherwise vocal Bhatt has stayed resolutely quiet about the film. But if Twitter is anything to go by, one infers that Bhatt is feeling philosophically inclined and this film is one way in which he attempts to address timeless questions about god, faith and life. Balancing act Bhatt picks the path of anti-superstition activism to approach these questions, a dangerous path that has cost some thinkers their lives, but he does so with unbelievable naïveté. He throws in a bunch of issues like mental health, death, grief, and relationships into the mix, but the central track is that of a ‘fake baba’ who is in cahoots with a rich, villainous industrialist trying to kill the activist protagonist. Gyaan Prakash is supposed to be some kind of modern cult leader in the film, but is modelled after those over-the-top tantriks from 1980s Bollywood. His character, his followers, his wardrobe are all black with no nuance and no attempt to understand the many layers to religion and faith. It’s no surprise that Bhatt was charged with hurting religious sentiments when the film’s trailer was released. Jha, on the other hand, understands this many-headed hydra for what it is. Granted that a web series accords him a lot more time, but Jha has a proven ability to handle complex subjects with style. In Aashram , he builds a robust narrative of the social conditions that allow institutionalised sects to thrive. Against the backdrop of rampant caste discrimination in Punjab, where Dalits must seek permission even to walk the streets of privileged caste localities, he tells the story of a faith leader, who is hailed as ‘gareebon waale baba’. This Baba Nirala, played ably by Bobby Deol, is far more believable than Bhatt’s Gyaan Prakash. He is crafted as a saviour figure for the marginalised castes, who provides them with not just free food, lodging, hospitals, education and jobs but also with dignity. It is not hard to understand why the poor and oppressed might want to latch on to a figure like Nirala and invest all their faith and fortune in him. The second layer points in a different, darker direction. From bribes and illegal land deals to kidnapping, drugs, rapes, and even murders, everything occurs in the dark underbelly of Nirala’s world. The parallels between Jha’s central character and the convicted Dera Sacha Sauda leader, Gurmeet Ram Rahim Singh, are apparent, and the series is not without its moments of drama. But Jha must be lauded for never losing sight of the fundamental workings of faith. He takes pains to explain why millions of people continue to support leaders of various sects across religions despite the exposés, lies and the acts of crime committed in the name of faith. He shows how these places are not just religious centres but often the last resort for many, who must allow their faith to be blind in order to simply survive. It is this insight into the frailty of the human condition that makes Aashram such a compelling story while Sadak 2 never paints with anything but the broadest of brush strokes. As with life, so with art — the truth lies between the lines.  The author is a culture writer and an Interfaith Studies scholar.       Mahesh Bhatt picks the path of anti-superstition activism but Jha, on the other hand, understands this many-headed hydra for what it is
11 September 2020||September 11 2020 00:00 IST,||The Vidushaka is back||A nonagenarian, Koodiyattam exponent P.K.G. Nambiar still has the energy and passion to come up with something new. He has achieved the near-impossible by scripting a one-act play, since the strict structure of the art form and its dialogue in Sanskrit sloka format make it difficult to move beyond the conventional repertoire. The play titled ‘Chyavana Sukanyangam’ is based on the Mahabhagavatam. Spread over seven scenes, it is the story of the union of sage Chyavana and Sukanya, the daughter of king Saryathi.  “It is the result of four years of assiduous efforts,” said PKG (as he is referred to) during his ‘navathy’ (90th birthday) celebrations on March 1 this year at his birthplace Ottappalam. Explaining the story and the varied stages of its composition, he said, “First, I began with slokas that were most suitable for Nangiarkoothu; then I thought I would add a few slokas for the Vidushaka and counter slokas for him. Finally, what emerged was a full-fledged Koodiyattam play with all the necessary ingredients.” The Aattaprakaram or acting manual was ready and he even had a cast in mind but the lockdown brought the entire project to a halt. PKG is, however, optimistic about the play being staged soon. Interest in Sanskrit PKG’s love for Sanskrit can be traced to his urge to imitate his father, the late Koodiyattam artiste Guru Mani Madhava Chakyar. Sensing his son’s interest in the language, Madhava Chakyar sent him for Sanskrit classes to gurus Sankaran Nambuthiripad, Kalakkath Raman Nambiar, Meledath Damodaran Nambiar and K. Sankaran Nair. Mani Madhava Chakyar was known for his revolutionary moves. He was the first Chakyar to stage a performance outside the precincts of a temple and also outside Kerala. Breaking conventions, he trained his two sons — P.K. Narayanan Nambiar and P.K.G. Nambiar in the theatre form. While the older brother is an authority on mizhavu, the younger one specialised in the role of Vidushaka in Koodiyattam. The trio went on to stage plays throughout the country, starting with Chennai in 1962 at the invitation of Sanskrit scholar and musicologist Dr. V. Raghavan. The added advantage of PKG being assigned the role of Vidushaka was his command over Hindi (the only character on the Koodiyattam stage with the freedom to speak another language is the Vidushaka). When he along with his father Madhava Chakyar performed at the Benaras Hindu University, PKG’s impeccable Hindi impressed Vice-Chancellor Bhagavathy, who commented, “We are listening to such chaste Hindi for the first time from a South Indian; I think we have to take lessons from him.” Incidentally, PKG was a Hindi teacher in NSS High School, Ottappalam, for 36 years. Given his exceptional wit and humour, his solo performances were much sought after in North India. Small wonder that his book on Vidushaka appeared in Hindi first and was published by Sangeet Natak Akademi, New Delhi. It was only later that the Kerala Sahithya Akademi published the Malayalam version. Replete with anecdotes PKG’s new play offers ample scope for abhinaya. The Vidushaka has a pivotal role. According to the story, Chyavana is surrounded by an ant hill during his intense penance in a forest. Only his two glowing eyes are visible. Sukanya pierces the eyes out of curiosity. Though the sage does not curse her, people across the country develop breathing problem due to her action. To atone for the sin, Sukanya marries the sage. Ashwini Devathas, the divine physicians, put her through a test to check her faithfulness to her aged and ordinary looking husband. When she emerges successful, they make a herbal medicine that transforms the sage to a handsome young man. The Ayurvedic medicine Chyavanaprasam derives its name from this story. An artiste with exceptional literary skills, PKG has also translated into Hindi his father’s monumental work, Natyakalpadhrumam , an authentic text on Koodiyattam. He has been honoured by the Kerala Sangeetha Nataka Akademi and Sangeet Natak Akademi, New Delhi.  The writer and culture critic   is a trained musician.   The added advantage of PKG being assigned the role of Vidushaka was his command over Hindi
11 September 2020||September 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Call of Kottichetham||During the lockdown, dancer Methil Devika has been working on new themes and fresh interpretations of old themes. In some of these, shared on social media, she has brought interesting perspectives into the vocabulary of classical dance. A recent such share, an excerpt from a piece titled ‘Kottichetham,’ has created a ripple of interest. Performed by Devika and Dr. Arun Azeez, the video is an excerpt from the Tamil epic Silappathikaram. “Written by Ilango Adigal, Kottichetam is believed to have been danced by the Parayur Chakyan of the Chera court for the king and the queen,” explains Devika. “The Chera King had just emerged victorious from a battle and the image of the king and the queen together inspired him to dance this piece.” Dance of Siva and Uma Kottichetham is considered the dance of Siva and Uma. During the dance, Siva’s eyes blaze and his matted locks are tossed around, but Uma is the picture of composure. “The lines point to the Ardhanareeswara concept and talk of the swirl of energy between the masculine and the feminine within one self and not two persons,” she says. Set to music by the late Kavalam Narayana Panicker and Kavalam Srikumar in Champa tala, a tala native to Kerala’s art forms, Kottichetham was actually choreographed by Devika a decade ago. Then, in January this year, when Devika conducted a dance workshop for international students, Kottichetham was one of the pieces she taught. One of the participants was Melbourne-based ENT surgeon Dr. Azeez. “Almost 32 years ago, Arun had bagged first prize for Mohiniyattom in the Kerala State Youth Festival competition. Now a busy doctor, the workshop caught his attention and he decided to explore Mohiniyattom again. “I was amazed to find him getting quickly into the groove. He picked up the steps in six days,” says Devika. During the workshop, television director Rajesh Kadamba visited her in Palakkad. Seeing the dance, Rajesh wanted to archive it. Despite Devika’s initial reluctance, Arun too wanted it recorded since he wasn’t sure when he would return to India. Now, with travel at a standstill, Devika feels it was a good idea it was done. This is the video that has been shared. Pleased with the reception, Devika says the experience has opened a new path for her and she plans to explore the dynamics of the form for male dancers. “I am working on other pieces that suit the male energy for the dance form. I feel it will push the boundaries of Mohiniyattom,” she says. Although Devika choreographed ‘Kottichetham’ for a solo and has also danced it as such at various venues, the dynamics of the duet came as a pleasant surprise. “We improvised a lot but it came out well,” she says. This particular part of the Tamil epic is not very familiar with many practitioners of music and dance. “According to anthropologists, Parayur Kootu Chakyan must be from the present-day Paravur. The Chera king in those parts may have inspired the Chakyan to come up with this piece. Kavalam sir had told me that ‘Kottichetham’ meant a dance accompanied by the clapping of hands. Later, I happened to read that it also signifies a moment when the feminine and the masculine entities cannot be distinguished despite their dualities. That is the other interpretation of Kottichetham.” An old offering When she narrated the background and performed it in Chendamangalam, near Paravur, one of the priests told her of an offering in some Siva temples that involved clapping and laughter. “Known as ‘Kottum Chiriyum,’ it was performed only by women,” she says, and the priest said her recital reminded him of it. Kottichetham has been performed by other dancers as well, including the famous Kanak Rele. “But each person has approached it from a different perspective. In this case, it is the duet that changed the entire presentation,” says Devika. Devika, quite rightly, believes that certain portions of the dance need to be improved upon. “For me, Ardhanareeswara is not half-male and half-female. That is more an artist’s impression. More than two people dancing, I felt it points to the presence of the male and female in every person.” Devika sees the dance as an interaction of energies within oneself. “You have to be in union with yourself to be in the same bandwidth as another person who is also in union with himself/ herself. Only then the Ardhanareeswara concept achieves fullness.”  Written by Ilango Adigal, Kottichetam is believed to have been danced by the Parayur Chakyan of the Chera court for the king and queen
11 September 2020||September 11 2020 00:00 IST,||For the love of language||One day in a year (August 3) is dedicated to the celebration of Sanskrit, but at Sudharma this ancient language is celebrated everyday. The Mysuru-based Sanskrit newspaper completes five decades this year. To mark this milestone, a series of 50 lectures on music, literature and art has been organised. Titled ‘Sudharma Upanyasa’, it is being streamed on YouTube over the past 15 Sundays at 5 p.m. Thirty five more lectures are in the pipeline. Online edition “This year is special to us because keeping Sudharma going for the past 50 years, with little support from the government, has not been easy,” says K.V. Sampath Kumar, who succeeded his father, K.N. Varadaraja Iyengar, as editor. He now runs the paper along with his wife Jayalakshmi K.S. “To keep pace with the changing times, we launched our e-paper in 2009. It has a readership of 1.5 lakh across 106 countries, including Pakistan, Israel, Nigeria, Australia, America and Sri Lanka. The print edition has a subscription of nearly 4,000. We send the newspaper by post to our readers across India,” says Sampath Kumar. This year turned out to be special for the couple for one more reason, as Sampath Kumar and Jayalakshmi were jointly selected for the Padma Shri. “We are grateful to my father who decided to start a Sanskrit daily. He felt that a newspaper can help the common man get familiar with the language, which has otherwise remained restricted to vidwans and locked in the Vedas and granthas.” Before launching Sudharma , Varadaraja Iyengar started Srikaanta Samskriti Sangha for girls in 1963. He then started the Samskruta Paatashala in 1967. “In the mid-1970s, when my father was nominated to the Sanskrit Advisory Committee, New Delhi, he proposed ‘Sanskrit Vaarte’ (news) in All India Radio, which was accepted, with I.K. Gujral, the then Minister of Information and Broadcasting seconding it. Now, we have two Sanskrit bulletins in Akashavani,” says Sampath Kumar. Business against odds The passion with which Varadaraja Iyengar started Sudharma is the reason why, despite financial problems, Sampath Kumar did not want to shut it down. “Today Sudharma is the world’s only Sanskrit daily. I promised my father that I would continue his pet project. I owe my Padma Award to him.” . After his father’s demise in 1990, both Sampath Kumar and Jayalakshmi took charge. While Sampath Kumar, 64, is a Commerce graduate with a ‘Sahitya’ in Sanskrit, Jayalakshmi has done her Masters in the language. “ Sudharma’s readers belong to Sanskrit vidyapeethas, academies, Kendriya Vidyalayas and state public libraries,” says Sampath Kumar. Researchers based in in London and Israel get in touch with the couple for their study of Sanskrit. Says Jayalakshmi, “Many foreign scholars come to Mysuru every year to enhance their knowledge. It is up to the vidwans and educational authorities to see that Sanskrit reaches the students. If job opportunities are made available, it would encourage them to learn the language,” she says. Sanskrit roots are part of several Indian and foreign languages, Jayalakshmi points out, and says that Sudharma reaches the14 Sanskrit universities in Germany. Sanskrit is present in music, dance and works of literature, she says.  Sudharma still struggles to stay afloat. The paper, with its mix of political, civic, sports and culture coverage, functions with donations from individuals, Sanskrit professors, scholars and corporates. “Prof. H.V. Nagaraja Rao, who has a doctorate in Sanskrit, has been supporting Sudharma since the day it was launched. His editorials are considered thought-provoking. We also have other vidwans writing for the cause of Sanskrit,” says Sampath Kumar. “We incur a monthly expenditure of Rs. 50,000 towards salaries, which is taken care of by generous donors. I bear the printing expenses.”  Sudharma also brings out monthly and anniversary specials. While book releases are a common feature, the dance-drama ‘Dashaavatara Vaibhava’ was staged at the newspaper’s silver jubilee celebration and Sudharma Dini Darshini is their annual calendar. They used to hold the Sanskrit Book exhibition till a decade ago, which attracted visitors from around the world. “We were planning to publish compositions in Sanskrit with their meanings to mark our golden jubilee. But we had to postpone it because of the pandemic,” says Sampath Kumar.  The writer is a Bengaluru-based         freelance journalist.    My father decided to start a Sanskrit daily as he felt that a newspaper can help the common man get familiar with the language Sampath Kumar
11 September 2020||September 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Dance of nature||As the Colorado Fine Arts Association (CFAA) prepares to host ‘Prakriti’, the second edition of the annual South Asian Classical Dance Festival in Denver, founder Ajay Menon says, “We had to adapt quickly to the changing environment and organise virtual performances.” Explaining the aim behind this mega festival, which starts September 19, he adds, “While Bollywood dance is big in North America, Indian classical dance shows are still not popular. So, we wanted to do something to showcase the rich cultural heritage of India and South Asia.” Wide repertoire This year, more than 50 dancers from 10 countries will perform 10 dance forms. The festival is not ticketed, and the plenary sessions will feature senior artistes Alarmel Valli and Priyadarsini Govind. CFAA started work on the theme of the 2020 edition at the end of last year’s festival. Last year’s theme was ‘Bhoomi,’ with the focus on the challenges of climate change. The lockdown has been both good and bad. While the fest had to go online, Ajay says, “We also decided to expand the line-up as there were no travel and boarding expenses.” The curatorial effort, according to Ajay, has been to present diverse styles and artistes from different countries, especially those who could not be accommodated in earlier years due to financial and logistic constraints. “We reached out to artistes across India and the U.S. We also have artistes from Singapore, Canada, Trinidad, France and the UAE.” This edition also offers a platform to up-and-coming classical dancers from North America. “Though we wanted to include Kandyan and Kathakali performaces, we couldn’t due to logistics issues. Hope we can incorporate whatever we miss out this time in the third edition,” says Ajay.
11 September 2020||September 11 2020 00:00 IST,||To father, with love||To celebrate the 90th birth anniversary of their father and guru, GJR Krishnan and Vijayalakshmi have organised a set of events that began last month, with disciples from across the globe posting tribute videos. The musical tribute series will culminate on September 15. “It was extremely emotional to watch these videos. We got to know so many aspects of our father through the anecdotes shared by his many students,” say the siblings. On September 17, vocalist Sriram Parashuram will present a lec-dem on the Lalgudi bani. The grand finale of Lalgudi ’90 will be on September 20 (5 p.m.), a three-hour event that will have well-known dancers and musicians offering tributes. It will be hosted on the YouTube channel, Lalgudi Jayaraman - God of Violin. The programme is supported by the Ministry of Culture, Government of India, and South Zone Cultural Centre, Thanjavur. Krishnan and Vijayalakshmi have partnered with Kalakendra for the event. Veteran violinist Lalgudi Srimathi Brahmanandam, the maestro’s sister, will inaugurate the event. The invocation, ‘Thiththikkum kanivagaiyum’, a nottu swara composition of Jayaraman’s father and guru V.R. Gopala Iyer, will be performed by Sudha Raja’s Sargam Choir. Sharada Ramanathan, director of Sringaram, will relive her experiences of working with Jayaraman, who was the film’s music director. Dancers Rama Vaidyanathan, Sheejith Krishna and Mythili Prakash will present ‘Mallari Reimagined’, a track from the movie. A unique thematic concert of the maestro, held in 1973 and featuring compositions in raga Thodi, will be released. Vidwans Umayalpuram Sivaraman and Vikku Vinayakram, who were accompanists at the concert, will share their views. The concert will be available for purchase on Swati Sanskriti website and Amazon. The Lalgudi family, with Krishnan, Vijayalakshmi, their cousin Anuradha Sridhar and her son Arjun Srinivasan on the violin; and Shriram Brahmanandam and his son Arun Shriram on the mridangam will present a varnam composed by Jayaraman. Harikatha exponent Vishakha Hari will present a talk on her guru. Carnatic and Hindustani exponents also come together to present ‘The Thillana’ (produced by Girish Gopalakrishnan and co-produced by Milaap). Bharatanatyam dancer and guru Rhadha will speak about her production ‘Jaya Jaya Devi,’ the music for which was composed by Jayaraman. The mangalam, from this production, will be rendered by Sikkil Gurucharan, Gayathri Girish and Aishwarya Vidya Raghunath accompanied by M. Balachander on the mridangam.
11 September 2020||September 11 2020 00:00 IST,||From folk to classical||Shree khol has a special status among the many highly developed percussion instruments of Bengal such as maddal, Bangla dhol, dhak and more. Albeit a variant of mridangam, deeply associated with the Vaishnavite cult of the North Eastern belt, its name sets it apart from the Assamese and Manipuri varieties and lends a stamp of Bengal. The word shree khol has a philosophical meaning, according to Ashok Kumar Chattopadhyay, researcher and filmmaker, who describes it as ‘The Divine Percussion’ in the title of his documentary on this intriguing instrument. After more than five centuries, the shree khol is striving to venture out of its haloed, kirtan-related niche. Says Chattopadhyay, “Initially, it was called khol (literally meaning the outer surface of an emptied object), maybe because the clay drum is hollow from inside. Entirely covered with thread or leather-strips, it seems to represent the hollowness of life, entangled in worldly bonds. Later the word Shree (denoting Lakshmi or Radha or rich aesthetics) was prefixed. This gave it an auspicious and spiritual aura.” According to the scriptures, percussive drums were categorised into three or Tri-pushkara. Urdhwaka is the upward-facing drum, held vertically, such as the ancient dundubhi or modern tabla; Aankika is the two-faced drum placed on the lap horizontally like dholak and pakhawaj, while Aalingyaka are the embraced ones such as shree khol. All bi-facial drums are also classified by shape, and shree khol comes under the gopuchch or cow’s tail variety due to its narrow right face and broad left face. According to historians, shree khol was reinstated to its high pedestal when, around the medieval era, the socio-cultural upheaval in the country gave rise to the Bhakti Movement and Chaitanya Mahaprabhu (15th century) founded Gaudiya Vaishnavism and popularised naamkirtans in eastern India. Hoards of people followed Mahaprabhu, euphorically singing kirtans and dancing. A strap would hold the shree khol in place around the player’s neck as he accompanied Namavali or Padaavali Kirtan singers. A dash of classicism Renowned Bangla Kirtan exponent Suman Bhattacharya talks of how the Padaavali Kirtan takes the classical (prabandh, dhrupad), semi-classical (raag pradhaan, tappa) and Bengali folk (baul, bhatiyali) genres under its umbrella. And so, a vast repertoire of talas are played on the shree khol, which has its own specific bol-baani (mnemonics) suited for all three different tempos. “There are 108 varieties of talas, of which around 80 are still in use in our Paala-Kirtan sessions. Moreover, such sessions are invariably preceded by a ritual called khol-mangal . A day before the Paala begins, the shree khol is placed on a platform and worshipped.” The Kirtan maestro, accompanied by his fellow musicians, is an excellent multilingual narrator, classical singer, and graceful dancer. Yet, kirtan is relegated to the ‘folk’ category, as is shree khol, even though it is widely played with compositions of the five most famous Bangla poets (the Pancha Kavi), and with Shyamasangeet, Bangla folk and devotional songs. Finally, with the efforts of Hare Krishna Halder, shree khol is now being seen on the concert platform across the globe as a classical instrument with authentic bol. Finding a platform Eminent shree khol exponent Gopal Burman has gone one step ahead. Despite knowing its limited opportunities, he learnt the shree khol under Guru Sanatan Saha. Encouraged by his father to be a thinking and path-breaking soloist, he also learnt from tabla player Guru Shankar Ghosh about bol-elaboration. Ghosh encouraged him to find a platform for shree khol solo concerts. Burman went on to play solo and participate in rhythm ensembles in India and abroad with several veteran players of tabla, pakhawaj and mridangam, among others. He switched to copper or fibre shree khol for ease of travel although he admits that “clay offers the best tonal quality”. Says Burman, “I had to unshackle the art and increase the vocabulary of shree khol to match the technique, speed and expertise of my celebrated co-artistes because one cannot drag artistic expressions down for the sake of traditionalism.” Thanks to his banker’s job, Burman could afford to take up this cause, but “urban youngsters are still very wary” to learn the instrument, he says. Meanwhile, the shree khol continues to go places.  The writer is a music critic and musicologist.   Entirely covered with thread or leather-strips, it seems to represent the hollowness of life, entangled in worldly bonds   Entirely covered with thread or leather-strips, it seems to represent the hollowness of life, entangled in worldly bonds
11 September 2020||September 11 2020 00:00 IST,||The story of Tyagaraja’s favourite sishya||As classical music instruction has gone virtual, one is reminded of saint-poet Tyagaraja’s favourite sishya, Aakumadugu Manambuchavadi Venkatasubbayya (1797-1862), who defined the essence of gurukulavasam. The son of Tyagaraja’s paternal aunt, he followed his master like a shadow, helping him in every way, including writing the sahitya of his compositions on palm leaves. Venkata’s mother, Bagirathi, was also musically talented while his father, Sivaramakrishnayya, was a priest. His devotion to Tyagaraja can be compared to Raja Raja Varma, the unsung younger brother of the celebrated Raja Ravi Varma. Raja was always at his cheta ’s (brother) service, helping even in his painting work. Raja also kept a diary, which became the authentic source of Ravi Varma’s life. If Tyagaraja is known for his Rama bhakti, Manambuchavadi Venkatasubbayya is remembered for his guru bhakti. He spent every moment singing the glory of his guru, his life and work. Tyagaraja’s family hailed from Kakarla but moved to Tiruvarur. His father, Rama Brahmam, poet and harikatha exponent, sent Tyagaraja to Guru Sonti Venkataramanayya for a 16-year gurukulavasam. Tyagaraja was named after Tiruvarur Tyagaraja Swami. An amazing coincidence is that Tyagaraja seems to have plotted to make Tiruvarur, one of the Sapta Vidanga kshetrams, the birthplace of the music Trinity. The Tiruvarur temple itself is a great centre of art and culture, which promoted nagaswaram, music and dance. The large houses of the Trinity are a stone’s throw from each other and close to the temple known for the sacred Pushkarani, Kamalalayam. I remember performing a concert for the ‘Theppam’ (float festival) at the Kamalalayam tank. The ambience heightened the joy of singing — sounds of rippling water, cool breeze and the huge float moving in circles around the central mandapam of the water tank. The prefix ‘Manambuchavadi’ in Venkatasubbayya’s name was an old suburb in Thanjavur. It was originally known as ‘mahar nombu chavadi’. Multiple talents Venkata was adept at playing the violin and composing too. His Hamsadhwani varnam ‘Jalajaksha’ is still rendered by musicians. The mudra for his kritis was ‘Venkatesa’. The same mudra was used by his disciple, the inimitable Patnam Subramania Iyer, who was also known as ‘Begada’ Subramania Iyer because of his expertise in singing the raga. This has led to some confusion over which one of the two composed ‘Danyudevvado’ in Malayamarutham. In the same raga, Venkata composed the plaintive ‘Janmamendhuku,’ a lesser-known kriti. In the raga Devagandhari, Venkata composed an elaborate kriti on Tyagaraja — ‘Swamiki sari everana vathsu,’ asking if there was anyone to equal Tyagaraja in his music. He goes on to say that Tyagaraja completely dedicated himself to music, without the diversions of wealth or other men’s wives (‘para dhana Kanthaamanulaku’); he composed divine music to attain moksha at the feet of his beloved Rama. The fond sishya composed several kritis in Abhogi, Pravala Jyothi and Kuthukalam. He also composed a ‘navaratna malika’. But more than all this, Venkatasubbayya propagated his guru’s kritis and core musical values to disciples like Patnam Subramania Iyer, Maha Vaidyanatha Iyer (both excellent composers), Panchapakesan (grandson of Tyagaraja), flautist Sarabha Sastri, ‘fiddle’ Venkoba Rao and Lavani Venkata Rao (who composed a 72 melakarta kriti in Marathi, a forerunner to Maha Vaidyanatha Iyer’s 72 melaraga malika). Other disciples were Sivaramakrishnaiyer, Dharma Dikshithar, Susarla Dakshinamurthy and Veenai Dharmayya. Bridge between ages Venkatasubbayya seems to have been a bridge between the old and the new composers. Patnam Subramania Iyer taught Mysore Vasudevachar. The latter was so enamoured by the music that when Iyer visited Mysore at the behest of the Maharaja, a great art patron, the young Vasudeva accompanied him back to Tiruvaiyaru and trained under Patnam Subramanya Iyer in the gurukulavasam. Like his guru, Vasudevachar gained immense recognition for his composing skills. Patnam Subramania Iyer also taught the legendary Tiger Varadachari, M.S. Ramaswamy, and others. Sarabha Sastri, also a composer, trained Tirupayanam Panchapakesa Iyer, who went on to become a formidable harikatha exponent and flautist. Tyagaraja’s musical legacy lived on through his disciples. Patnam Subramanya Iyer trained Ramanathapuram ‘Poochi’ Srinivasa Iyengar, who trained Ariyakudi Ramanuja Iyengar; hailed as the Pitamaha, who set the modern concert pattern, which is still in practice after more than seven decades. Manambuchavadi Venkatasubbayya’s biggest guru dakshina to Tyagaraja was preparing this line-up of great musicians and composers, who have enriched Carnatic music with their expertise.  The writer is a senior Carnatic vocalist and musicologist.
11 September 2020||September 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Online violin class||Well-known violinist Kumaresh recently launched an interactive online learning programme, ‘Bowing with Fiddling Monk’. The programme includes understanding the instrument, its history and technique. The programme is open to advanced students as well as beginners. Those who discontinued learning the instrument and wish to resume can also join. For details, log on to www.kumaresh.in.
11 September 2020||September 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Learn digital tools||The National Centre for the Performing Arts (NCPA) will host an online workshop — ‘The Convergence of Digitization and the Arts’ — as part of its initiative on ancillary skill development for the artiste community. The Zoom session is on September 12 at 3.30 p.m. The workshop will introduce artistes to platforms, processes and means for online engagement. Kathak dancer Keerthi Kumar will present the first session on conducting virtual classrooms, online performances, conferences and seminars. From home acoustics and lighting system settings to re-modelling teaching methodologies for the digital medium, the workshop will cover a number of significant aspects. For registration visit www.ncpamumbai.com or mailncpamusicworkshops@gmail.com
11 September 2020||September 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Naada Inbam’s concert series||Chennai-based Naada Inbam will present ‘Digital Kutcheris’ from September 14 to 16 at 6.15 p.m. The series begins with a concert by Bharat Sundar with Parur Ananthakrishnan on the violin, Trivandrum Balaji on the mridangam and K.V. Gopalakrishnan on the ganjira. Amritha Murali will perform on September 15. The accompanists are R.K. Shriram Kumar (violin), K. Arunprakash (mridangam), N. Guruprasad (ghatam) and Anirudh Athreya (ganjira). On the last day, flautist J.A. Jayanth (flute) will perform with B. Ananthakrishnan (violin) and Sai Giridhar-Vijay Natesan (mridangam).
11 September 2020||September 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Tribute to a veteran singer||Lalitha Bhanu, a veteran Carnatic vocalist, passed away recently. One of the senior-most disciples of Musiri Subramania Iyer, she later trained under T.K. Govinda Rao and Mani Krishnaswamy. She also learnt several kritis from musician and composer Papanasam Sivan. Lalitha had her initial lessons in music from K.R. Kumaraswamy, (K.R. Kedaranathan’s brother) and then joined the Swati Tirunal College of Music, Thiruvananthapuram, to learn several kritis and padams from Semmangudi Srinivasa Iyer, who was then the Principal. She was the daughter of Narayana Bhagavatar, a renowned violinist and an asthana vidwan at the Travancore and Mysore palaces. Lalitha Bhanu was a regular performer on AIR. She was also a playback singer for Malayalam and Tamil films in the 1950s. She was conferred the ‘Ghanabooshanam Lalitha’ title for the Malayalam film Ponkathir . In Tamil, she has sung in films such as Manthiri Kumari , En Thangai and Ponmudi . She worked with some of the best music composers of the time including G. Ramanathan, C.V. Subbaraman and K.V. Mahadevan. In the Telugu film Chandraharam, Lalitha sang a song composed by the legendary Ghantasala.
11 September 2020||September 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Mishap waiting to happen||
