11 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Pilots gave ATC no indication of danger||The final conversation between the air traffic controller (ATC) and one of the pilots of the Air India Express flight 1344 that crashed last week in Kozhikode, Kerala, did not indicate any sign of danger, according to a senior official of the Ministry of Civil Aviation. “The last words were a regular transmission, one that a pilot has during a normal runway approach,” the government source told The Hindu on condition of anonymity. ATCs can’t distinguish whether the voice from the cockpit is of the pilot-in-command or the junior pilot. “The ATC established Instrument Landing System (guided landing during low visibility). Following which the pilot sought landing clearance, which was provided. After this, visibility, surface and wind speed conditions were provided to the pilot, which were all acknowledged by him,” the official said. There was no hint of either stress or doubt in the pilot’s voice, which ATCs can often detect. Seconds later, however, the aircraft overshot the runway, broke into three parts leading to the death of 19 persons on board, including the two pilots — Captain Deepak Vasant Sathe and co-pilot Akhilesh Kumar. The Air India Express flight was repatriating Indians from Dubai under the Vande Bharat Mission. The last words from the cockpit are an important preliminary evidence, but in the case of Friday’s crash, this has proven to be a yet another puzzle investigators will be trying to analyse. Speaking to The Hindu , the chief investigator of the crash also expressed his surprise at the limited number of casualties. “The death toll of 18 is tragic. But considering the massive damage to the aircraft, which broke into three pieces, it is surprising that we did not see higher casualties,” Director General of Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau, Group Captain Aurobindo Handa, told The Hindu . ‘Speed saved lives’ Asked what possible reasons kept the number of casualties low, he replied, “Providence; but also the manner in which all the local residents rushed to rescue and retrieve injured passengers from inside the plane. The fire personnel of the airport too played a major role, and along with the residents pulled out and rescued passengers from the crashed plane. Everyone reached the site within minutes and this was 200% responsible for restricting the number of casualties.” Group Captain Handa had accompanied Minister of State for Civil Aviation Hardeep Puri to the accident site on Saturday and has the black box in his custody.  Attempting to stave off criticism on the safety of the Calicut International Airport, Mr. Puri tweeted on Monday that the airport does not need any equipment used to arrest the speed of aircraft.
11 August 2020||Kochi,||Burden of COVID-19 treatment continues to be on govt. hospitals||While the price fixed by the State government for COVID treatment applies to private hospitals empanelled under the Karunya Arogya Suraksha Padhathi (KASP), a government healthcare scheme, or those that get themselves empanelled temporarily for COVID treatment, most private hospitals in Ernakulam district are not yet empanelled. After the State government allowed private hospitals to get themselves temporarily empanelled and fast-tracked the process last month in the wake of a surge in the number of COVID-19 patients, six hospitals in the district have registered for the process. As per a government order issued last month, the price fixed by the government for COVID treatment will be applicable to private hospitals under the KASP and for patients referred by the government to private hospitals. If they choose to, a non-KASP patient can get treated at a private hospital at rates prescribed by the hospital. For the price cap to be applicable, the private hospital would either have to be empanelled under the KASP or apply for temporary empanelment for COVID treatment only, said Dr. Mathews Numpelil, district programme manager, National Health Mission. “Six hospitals have come forward for temporary empanelment under the COVID-19 package,which would allow even non-KASP patients referred from a government hospital to a private one, to be treated at rates fixed under the package,” said a district official with the State Health Agency. Under the new fast-tracked process, hospitals can, with minimum documents, get themselves empanelled for three months that can later be extended. “But the hospitals that have shown interest so far are smaller ones that might only be able to treat patients of up to Category B,” the official said. From Rs. 2,300 for a general ward, the rates fixed for COVID treatment go up to Rs. 11,500 for an ICU with a ventilator. “About 11 major private hospitals in the district have agreed to treat COVID patients. But these hospitals are not completely on board with the KASP rates,” said Snehil Kumar Singh, Sub Collector. A total of 14 private hospitals are currently empanelled, nine of which are eye care hospitals. There are 4,60,744 people availing of benefits under the KASP health care scheme. “Invariably, most private hospitals that have expressed their willingness to treat COVID patients will get empanelled, since these rates were finalised after discussion with the Kerala Private Hospitals’ Association,” said Joseph Benaven, association general secretary. “Unfortunately, a lot of existing empanelled hospitals have got pending payments under the KASP,” he said. Including the smaller institutions, some 74 hospitals have agreed to treat COVID patients, the Sub Collector said.
11 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Pinarayi asks Centre to lift cap on SDRF spending||The State government on Monday requested the Centre to lift the 25% limit on the utilisation of the State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF). Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said the removal of the cap on SDRF spending would help State governments fight COVID-19 with better financial resources at hand. Mr. Vijayan had made a case for State governments at a videoconference chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. His counterparts in Maharashtra, Karnataka, Assam, Bihar, and Uttar Pradesh were present. The rains had caused severe havoc in the States that attended the top-level conference. Mr. Vijayan said widespread testing and quarantine had severely stressed the resources of State governments, which had seen a shortfall in revenue due to reduced economic activity caused by the protracted lockdown. Resources stretched The floods had further exacerbated the dire financial situation faced by States. Mr. Vijayan said he hoped the Centre would provide sufficient resources to help the States tide over the crisis. He told Mr. Modi that Kerala would present a detailed report on rain havoc to the Centre soon. Mr. Modi told Chief Ministers that the Centre would harness the latest technology to predict weather patterns more accurately. The Union Ministry of Water Resources, the Indian Meteorological Department, and the National Remote Sensing Centre would work in tandem to predict the weather accurately. Mr. Vijayan told Mr. Modi that Kerala could cushion the severity of the monsoon by de-silting rivers, moving people from flood-prone localities and opening relief camps . However, repeated floods since 2018 had taxed the State severely. The current rain spell had caused extensive damage to crops, houses, and infrastructure in Kottayam, Pathanamthitta, Alappuzha, Ernakulam, Wayanad, and Idukki districts. Currently, the government has accommodated 22,830 people in 6,967 relief camps across the State.
11 August 2020||New Delhi,||Shah Faesal steps down as JKPM leader, quits politics||Bureaucrat-turned-politician Shah Faesal, who is in detention since last year, has said that he is “deeply hurt” by the way he was branded an “anti-national”. Mr. Faesal, who stepped down as Jammu and Kashmir People’s Movement (JKPM) leader on Monday, told The Hindu that his politics ended before it could even start. Mr. Faesal, a topper of the 2010 civil services examination, was detained at the Delhi airport on August 14, 2019, after the Centre passed two pieces of legislation to read down Article 370 of the Constitution in J&K and bifurcate the State into Union Territories. J&K has been under Central rule since June 2018. Mr. Faesal continued to be under detention at the MLA Hostel in Srinagar and after being released on June 3, he had been under “house arrest” at his residence. ‘Want to move on’ “I want to move on in life and do something productive. My politics ended before it could start. But I have learnt my lesson. Some of my utterances were problematic. But not anymore,” he said in a written statement to The Hindu . On Monday, Mr. Faesal dropped all references to the JKPM party from his Twitter handle and deleted all posts. “I do not want to talk about things I have no power to change. As a member of IAS I have been a stakeholder in the future of this country. I deeply value that connection. I am deeply hurt by the way I was branded as an anti-national,” he said. Mr. Faesal floated JKPM party in February 2019. He resigned from the IAS in 2019 but it was not accepted by the government, which initiated disciplinary proceedings against him for his tweets posted in 2018. “I don’t know where will I go from here. But I know that there is so much to be done in the education sector, in health, poverty alleviation, energy security, and I must not waste my life by remaining stuck in the past,” he said.
11 August 2020||Kolkata,||West Bengal tally nears 1 lakh with 2,905 new COVID-19 cases||West Bengal recorded 2,905 new COVID-19 cases on Monday, pushing its case tally to 98,459. The State also reported 41 more fatalities, taking its death toll to 2,100. Of the latest deaths, 14 were reported from Kolkata and 12 from North 24 Parganas district. Among the victims, three were doctors. So far, 19 doctors have succumbed to the virus in the State. Of the total cases, 26,031 are active, while the State’s recovery rate stands at 71.43%. A total of 26,297 samples were tested in the State in the past 24 hours.  The West Bengal Doctors’ Forum said, “The fraternity is losing precious members every day. These deaths are extremely damaging to the morale of medical professionals on the frontline of the fight against COVID-19.” A senior State Health Department official said 20.79% of the COVID-19 victims so far were aged 61 years and above. The official said victims in the 61-75 age group were found to have comorbidties such as hypertension, diabetes, renal disease, cancer, and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Of the victims, 14.18% were over 75 years, and 6.61% belonged to the 61-75 age group.   Senior physician Dr. Syamasis Bandyopadhyay said, “Age is definitely a factor, as the body’s immune system tends to weaken as people grow old, which, in turn, affects their ability to combat a disease. Moreover, they are also fighting multiple age-related ailments like diabetes, hypertension, coronary artery disease, renal failure and more. That is why the COVID-19 death rate is comparatively higher among the older population.” The State health official said 1,822 patients in State died due to comorbidities and COVID-19 in these cases were “incidental”. The official said among the male victims, 25.48% had hypertension, 20.27% were diabetic, and 21.49% were suffering from chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Of the female victims, 25.56% had hypertension, 24.44% were suffering from chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and 20.23% were diabetic.  The deaths of doctors are damaging to the morale of medical professionals on the frontline West Bengal Doctors’ Forum
11 August 2020||Mumbai,||BMC begins second phase of sero-surveillance in Mumbai||The Brihanmumbai Municipal Corporation (BMC) started the second phase of its sero-surveillance study on Monday to assess the spread of COVID-19. The survey will cover F-North (Dadar, Matunga and Dharavi), M West (Deonar and Govandi) and R North (Dahisar) wards. A similar study was conducted in these wards last month, a BMC official said. “The sero-surveillance study will give an insight into the spread of COVID-19 and development of antibodies in infected people. If everything goes as per the plan, the survey is expected to be completed in 12 days,” additional municipal commissioner Suresh Kakani said. The sero survey conducted in the first half of July showed that 57% of the slum population and 16% of non-slum residents in the three wards had developed antibodies. It showed a high proportion of asymptomatic COVID-19 infections in the city. A total of 6,936 samples out of an estimated 8,870 residents were collected from the three wards. The BMC has also decided to conduct a study to assess the efficacy of an artificial intelligence-based technology, which claims to detect the presence of the novel coronavirus within half a minute, a senior BMC official said. The ‘non-invasive voice sample analysis’ claims to detect the infection by analysing the sound waves of patients. “This technology is in the initial stage and its results need to be cross-checked. Therefore, we have decided to conduct this study,” said Mr. Kakani. He said the biggest advantage of the technology is that it is a non-invasive test without side effects. “Compared to the other existing tests, the non-invasive voice sample analysis test is cheaper and produces results within 30 seconds,” another BMC official said. Mr. Kakani said the study will be conducted on 2,000 patients admitted at a jumbo COVID-19 facility in Goregaon. If the technology proves successful, officials hope that it will be useful for detecting asymptomatic people at crowded places like airports, malls, theatres, bus stands and railway stations. “This artificial intelligence-based technology has been developed by an Israeli firm,” an official said, adding that the test can be conducted using smartphones, tablets or computers.
11 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||New industrial policy promises accountability in land allotment||Sustainable development, leg-up to MSMEs and women entrepreneurs, and accountability in land allotment are the key takeaways of the ‘Industrial Development Policy 2020-23’ that was unveiled by Minister for Industries and Commerce Mekapati Goutham Reddy and A.P. Industrial Infrastructure Corporation (APIIC) chairperson R.K. Roja on Monday. ‘YSR AP One’ The new policy promises replacement of the existing ‘lease and buy’ option in the APIIC land policy with ‘lease plus buy’ model with low upfront payment and choice to purchase land after 10 years of successful operations. It also proposes establishment of a multi-faceted business enablement centre ‘YSR AP One’, which would acts as a one-stop resource and support centre for industries. Another significant intervention necessitated by the recent string of industrial accidents is to permit the establishment of hazardous industries and those manufacturing bulk drugs (active pharmaceutical ingredients) only in designated parks having a proper mechanism for environment protection. MSMEs get a boost “The due priority has been given to extending all possible support to the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) which has borne the brunt of the economic downturn triggered by the COVID pandemic,” said Mr. Goutham Reddy after unveiling the policy. The new policy also intends to allot industrial plots only after all pre-clearances (including environmental impact assessment) are obtained to facilitate fast set-up and risk-free operations. Incentives Adequate incentives will be extended to MSMEs and the SGST would be reimbursed for five years for medium, large and mega industries contingent upon employment creation. Besides, 16.2% and 6% of the APIIC plots would be reserved for the SC and ST entrepreneurs respectively. Mr. Goutham Reddy said that the APIIC, A.P. Economic Development Board (APEDB), A.P. Trade Promotion Corporation, A.P. Industrial Development Corporation and MSME Corporation would be restructured as per the changed industrial scenario. Further, the APIIC has been tasked with the development of multi-sector or sector-specific industrial parks in the notified industrial zones on the basis of categories of industries permitted, raw material and skills availability, market assessment and external infrastructure and connectivity. Special purpose vehicles would be floated for meeting the water requirement of industries. Special Chief Secretaries R. Karikal Valaven (industries), Poonam Malakondaiah (agriculture) and G. Anantha Ramu (skill development and training), and others were present.
11 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||3 hospital staff held for fire at private COVID care centre||The Governorpet police, investigating the fire accident in a private COVID care centre, run by Ramesh Hospitals, arrested three of their staff on Monday, holding them responsible for the incident. The police arrested Ramesh Hospitals general manager Kurapathi Sudarshan, chief operating officer Kodali Rajagopal Rao and COVID care centre coordinating manager Pallabothu Venkatesh. The arrested would be produced in the court and the role of other accused is being probed, police said. The inquiry committee appointed by Krishna District Collector A.Md. Imtiaz to probe into the reasons for the accident at Hotel Swarna Palace, visited the hotel-cum-private COVID care centre on Monday. Ten persons were killed and 20 suffered injuries when fire broke out in the private COVID care centre, run by Ramesh Hospitals in the hotel, on Sunday. Apart from lapses in fire safety in the COVID care centre, the committee would inquire into different aspects including the safety norms, admission of patients, discharge, fee collected from the patients, lease agreement between the hospitals and the hotel management and other issues. The police and fire personnel visited the hotel on Monday and conducted ‘Panchanama’. They collected samples from the spot, which would be sent to the laboratory. Police reportedly seized some important documents, hard discs and other equipment from the private COVID care centre.
11 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||It will not be a ‘zero academic year’, officials tell House panel||The Centre will not allow this to be a “zero academic year” without any teaching or examinations, Higher Education Secretary Amit Khare told the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Human Resource Development on Monday, according to a member of the panel. Speaking at a webinar later in the evening, Education Minister Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank said a decision on physical reopening of schools and colleges is likely within 10 to 15 days after discussions with educational institutions, State governments, and the Health and Home Ministries. The Committee held the meeting under the chairmanship of BJP MP Vinay P. Sahasrabuddhe on “Preparedness of School, Higher and Technical Education sectors during COVID-19 pandemic”. Fewer than 20 MPs attended, according to sources at the meeting. States to decide Several members raised the question of reopening of schools. According to the sources, the Education Ministry officials told them that the reopening comes under the purview of the State governments, who can take a call after assessing the local spread of the pandemic. Citing an example, the officials said 400 Kendriya Vidyalayas are in red zones. “Mr. Khare told us that the government will not allow a zero academic year, where there will be no instruction and no examination. This is appreciable,” one of the members said. Given that schools have been shut since mid-March, much of the teaching and instruction have been done through digital methods. The Ministry made a presentation on the state of digital education, with a State-wise documentation of the innovative ways being used to reach out to students, such as the integrated voice recording system used in Andhra Pradesh.
11 August 2020||New Delhi,||Truce in Cong. after Pilot meets Rahul||The All India Congress Committee (AICC) on Monday announced the setting up of a three-member committee to address the issue of dissident MLAs in Rajasthan. The decision came after rebel Congress leader Sachin Pilot held discussions with former party chief Rahul Gandhi and party general secretary Priyanka Gandhi Vadra in a meeting that stretched over two-and-a-half hours. The meeting, the first between Mr. Gandhi and Mr. Pilot since the Rajasthan crisis erupted in early July, comes just fours days ahead of the crucial August 14 session of the State Assembly. Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot is expected to prove his majority on the floor of the House during the session. The Congress expects to sail through a confidence vote if it is held when the Assembly meets. Later on Monday evening, Mr. Pilot and his supporters met Ms. Vadra, senior leader Ahmed Patel and general secretary (Organisation) K.C. Venugopal. “We had some issues that we wanted to highlighted. I raised some issues, be it the notice from Special Operations Group or the style of functioning and I have been saying from the beginning that the issues are based on principles and we raised them before the party,” Mr. Pilot told mediapersons after the meeting. “During this entire episode, lots of things were said about us and I was also surprised to hear some personal comments. We should exercise restraint as there is no place for personal attacks in politics. All of us worked hard for five years to form the government and all of us are stakeholders… We are happy to be be assured that all the issues would be addressed in a time bound manner,” he added and denied that he ever acted against the Congress.
11 August 2020||HYDERABAD,||Eatala: Take over 50% beds of overcharging private hospitals||Telangana Health Minister Eatala Rajender has directed officials to prepare plans to take over 50% of beds in all private hospitals, including ICU beds, and to offer treatment as per government terms, if the managements of the private hospitals do not mend their ways regarding COVID-19 treatment charges. The directions were issued at a review meeting with Health officials held in Hyderabad on Monday. Show-cause notices were issued to all private hospitals in Hyderabad as complaints were received against almost all of them. Mr. Rajender has directed a committee to be formed to look into the response to the show-cause notices, and to take action against erring hospitals. The State government on June 15 issued a government order announcing the maximum rates chargeable by private hospitals for various services provided by them for COVID-19 treatment. The charges range between Rs. 4,000 to Rs. 9,000 per day depending on the ward and if ventilator support is provided. Some services were excluded such as charges for high-end medicines such as immunoglobulins. The State Health department has announced a WhatsApp number 9154 147 0960, or 104 to lodge complaints against private hospitals. However, large number of people complained that private hospitals are charging exorbitant amounts for COVID-19 treatment. A total of 1,039 complaints were lodged through the WhatsApp number. The complaints includes (a) Excessive billing, (b) Money collected without issuing bills, (c) Patient admitted only if Rs. 3 lakh to Rs. 4 lakh was paid in advance (d) Insurance policies, credit cards not being accepted, among others. The issues and action taken against private hospitals was discussed at a meeting with Central Team, who suggested harsher measures, under Epidemics Diseases Act, to be taken against private hospitals if need be, the Minister said.
11 August 2020||CHENNAI,||T.N. police warned of jihadi propaganda to launch attacks||The Tamil Nadu police are working on laying a meticulous security blanket over the State after intelligence agencies warned of possible attacks by religious fundamentalists, targeting VIPs, vital installations and public gatherings in the run-up to the Independence Day celebrations. Central agencies have warned of plans by extremist outfits to attack security establishments in the Union Territories of Jammu & Kashmir and Ladakh. Police sources said intelligence officials had warned that pan-Islamist terror outfits, particularly the Islamic State and the al-Qaeda in the Indian Subcontinent (AQIS), were engaging gullible youth through online ‘jihadi’ propaganda and inciting them to launch lone-wolf attacks in their respective countries. While reaching out to such youth and sympathisers through a secure online platform, the suspects were making efforts to recruit cadre in different States, including Tamil Nadu, to carry out their agenda. There was a specific input that some members of the Lashkar-e-Taiba were planning ‘fidayeen’ attacks on VIPs. Other extremist organisations were also conspiring to target sensitive installations and areas of public gathering in a bid to disturb communal harmony, sources said. Sleeper cells The arrests of some religious fundamentalists had raised suspicions of the existence of more sleeper cells with sinister design to indulge in unlawful activities. Referring to the arrests of around 20 terror suspects by the NIA last year, the intelligence alert said there was information that youth belonging to a particular religion were being radicalised through social media networks towards the ideology of a banned organisation. Law enforcement agencies were acting on inputs that extremists had entered or were trying to enter the country through the coastline of Tamil Nadu and Kerala from Sri Lanka and the Maldives, with the intention of carrying out terror attacks on places of worship, foreign establishments and areas of public congregation like malls. Fragile situation In view of the fragile communal situation, a comprehensive scheme was being devised to ensure heightened security arrangements at vulnerable places. Besides stationing ‘Quick Reaction Teams’ and ‘Snipers’ at vantage points, adequate armed security personnel, including a sizeable number of plainclothes personnel, would be deployed on bandobust duty before and during the Independence Day celebrations across the State, sources said. “As part of the elaborate security plan, special teams are being formed to conduct checks in isolated buildings on the city/town outskirts. Coastal and inter-state/district borders have been strengthened with additional manpower. Members of Coastal Vigilance Committees have been sensitised to the threat perception and asked to alert the local police in case they come across suspicious persons or activities,” a senior police official told The Hindu on Monday.
11 August 2020||Kolkata,||When the postman rings with cash||The postal department’s new service of delivering money home — with the postman acting as a human ATM — has turned out to be a big hit countrywide, with more than one lakh transactions being recorded across India on a daily basis, according to a top official. The service began shortly before the COVID-19-forced lockdown was imposed in late March but back then the number of transactions merely stood at double digits. Relief for the elderly Its demand soared in the following weeks, when people were stranded at home but needed cash to buy essentials. This free service allows people to withdraw — through the postman — up to Rs. 10,000 at a time from any of their Aadhaar-linked bank accounts. The postman carries a portable biometric device to match fingerprints. All a person needs to do is to use the Postinfo app or simply call the local post office or spot the postman. Every postman typically carries Rs. 50,000-Rs. 60,000 in cash and in case he runs out of money, he can deliver the following day. Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, West Bengal and Tamil Nadu are among the States where this service has turned out to be most popular, with more and more of the elderly and people living in rural areas availing of it. “The post office has always been a cash distribution leader and this work comes naturally to us, only that we are now using the digital platform,” Amitabh Singh, Postmaster General (Kolkata Circle), told The Hindu . According to Mr. Singh, West Bengal alone records, on an average, about 10,000 transactions a day, and on certain days the number climbs to even 20,000. Facing limitations The service has been catching on at a time when the postal department itself is facing limitations due to the spread of COVID-19 and the series of lockdowns. “Attendance has been hit, and we are outsourcing staff for loading and unloading of mail bags, driving of parcel vans and sorting of mails,” Mr. Singh said. Despite the limitations, the department carried out a special delivery of rakhis in all districts. It has also been reaching monthly pension to those eligible during the lockdown period, he added.
11 August 2020||Kolkata,||18-year-old shot dead by BSF over alleged cattle smuggling||An 18-year-old man was allegedly shot dead by the Border Security Force (BSF) in West Bengal’s Cooch Behar district on suspicion of being involved in cattle smuggling. The incident occurred at Balarbhut in Toofangunj subdivision late on Sunday night. Angry villagers held a blockade and prevented the police from recovering the body of Sahinur Haque, who died of bullet injuries. The villagers attacked an ambulance and demanded an impartial probe. The blockade was lifted after the police intervened. The villagers said the youth had nothing to do with cattle smuggling and the incident occurred far from the international border. ‘Acted in self-defence’ BSF officials said their personnel opened fire in self-defence. “A herd of about 50 cattle was seized from smugglers. When the personnel were returning to the border outpost with the cattle, they were attacked,” a BSF official said.
11 August 2020||August 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Monsoon fishing||
11 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,||Land rates likely to go up||As part of its efforts to shore up revenues which plummeted due to COVID-19 crisis, the government is contemplating increasing the land rates by 10% to 30% where there is a huge mismatch between the prevailing market rate and the registration value. This is to achieve the much-needed market value correction and to protect the avenues for revenue generation in a balanced manner, according to an official release. The government almost got no revenue from the sale of land and related transactions from the end of March to the first week of May. Focus has since been laid on the need for revising the land rates, especially in the urban areas.
11 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||New undersea cable to boost Net speed in Andaman||Prime Minister Narendra Modi on Monday launched an undersea optical fibre cable connecting the Andaman and Nicobar Islands with the mainland that would provide residents of the Union Territory high-speed Internet connection. The Prime Minister had laid the foundation stone for the 2,300-km-long submarine optical fibre cable project connecting Chennai and the Andaman and Nicobar Islands on December 30, 2018. At the launch held through videoconference, Mr. Modi said that providing better and cheap connectivity to the people of the Andaman & Nicobar Islands was the responsibility of the country. He added that the government was committed to developing “national security-linked border areas and island states”. The Indian Ocean and the Andaman & Nicobar Islands had been important centres for trade and strategic cooperation. The Andaman & Nicobar Islands had an important role to play in India’s “Act East” policy, he said. Projects under way Mr. Modi said several projects were under way, including enhancement of the capacity of the Port Blair airport; new airports at Diglipur, Car Nicobar and Campbell Bay; and passenger terminals at Swaraj Dweep, Shaheed Dweep and Long Island. The islands would be developed as a hub of “port- led development” as they were located at a competitive distance from many ports. Mr. Modi said as the country moved towards self-reliance and established itself as an important player in the global supply and value chain, it was important to improve the network of waterways and ports.
11 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Crash probe zeroes in on pilot’s actions||The Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau’s inquiry into the air crash at Calicut airport is zeroing in on why the pilot of the Boeing 737 aircraft avoided Runway 28 despite all clearances and why he later missed the touchdown at Runway 10 while landing. While the investigation team is continuing its close look into the crash site and the wreckage of the aircraft and collecting all information from aviation stake-holders, efforts are on to recover transcripts from the black box that has been shifted to the Director General of Civil Aviation’s lab in Delhi. The transcripts from the black box, comprising the flight data recorder (FDR) and the cockpit voice recorder, will give investigators the real picture as the FDR records airspeed, altitude, vertical acceleration and fuel flow.
11 August 2020||Palghar,||No charge sheet filed, 28 get bail in Palghar lynching case||A local court on Monday granted default bail to 28 accused in the Palghar lynching case as no charge sheet was filed against them within 90 days. Dahanu Judicial Magistrate First Class M.V. Jawle ordered their release on bail. “The accused were arrested as part of the first two FIRs relating to murder and attempt to murder filed in the case,” counsel Amrut Adhikari said. However, 18 accused will be taken into custody again as their names figure in the third charge sheet relating to obstructing police, rioting and attempt to murder filed against them on Friday. A total of 154 people have been arrested so far. On April 16, two religious leaders — Sushil Giri Maharaj (35) and Maharaj Kalpavrikshgiri (70) — and their driver, Nilesh Telgane (35), were lynched by a mob on suspicion of being child lifters while passing through Gadchinchale village in Palghar. They were travelling from Kandivali to attend the last rites of a Hindu spiritual leader, Ramgiri Maharaj, who had died at Surat in Gujarat.
11 August 2020||New Delhi,||DU exams: students fret over technical snags||The first phase of online open book examination for final-year students at Delhi Uni-versity took place on Monday with scores of students complaining about technical issues. Some of them found it difficult to upload the answer scripts on the DU portal.
11 August 2020||New Delhi,||707 fresh COVID-19 cases reported in Delhi||Only 707 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Delhi in the past 24 hours as the number of daily tests dropped by 48.5% compared to the average of the last three days. The total number of cases stood at 1,46,134.
11 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Sushant death being politicised, Rhea tells SC||The death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput was being politicised in the wake of the Bihar elections through sensationalism in the media, actor Rhea Chakaraborty told the Supreme Court on Monday. She said she was being made a scapegoat.
11 August 2020||CHENNAI,||Gyms reopen across State after five months||Gymnasiums across Tamil Nadu reopened on Monday after a gap of five months, with a lot of restrictions in place to prevent the spread of COVID-19. With this, the fitness industry, which was on the verge of collapse, is expected to be on the road to recovery.
11 August 2020||HUBBALLI,||455 patients discharged in Belagavi district||While Belagavi and Dharwad districts continued to register more number of COVID-19 positive cases, the number of patients getting discharged from hospitals after treatment is also simultaneously increasing. On Monday, Belagavi recorded 235 positive cases and 455 patients discharged. In Dharwad, 196 positive cases were recorded and 91 patients were discharged. With two deaths on Monday, the toll in Belagavi has risen to 94. In Dharwad, six more deaths were recorded taking the toll to 193. Meanwhile, Davangere recorded 158 positive cases and nine deaths. Bagalkot recorded 149 cases, Vijayapura 129, Gadag 114 cases and one death, Chitradurga 98 cases and two deaths, Haveri 80 cases and one death and Uttara Kannada 59 cases.
11 August 2020||Bengaluru,||Yediyurappa discharged from hospital||Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa was discharged from Manipal Hospitals on Monday evening after winning the fight against COVID-19. He has been advised home quarantine.
11 August 2020||Bengaluru,||BBMP coffers are close to empty||The coffers of the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) are near empty. Civic chief N. Manjunath Prasad informed the council on Monday that the accounts had just Rs. 68 crore.
11 August 2020||Bengaluru,||Karnataka seeks special assistance of Rs. 4,000 cr.||Flood-hit Karnataka has sought a special financial aid of Rs. 4,000 crore from the Centre to handle relief and rehabilitation measures. In addition to this, the State has also appealed for the release of the second instalment of Rs. 395 crore towards the State Disaster Response Fund for immediate relief measures.
11 August 2020||CHENNAI,||Gyms reopen across State after five months||Gymnasiums across Tamil Nadu reopened on Monday after a gap of five months, with a lot of restrictions in place to prevent the spread of COVID-19. With this, the fitness industry, which was on the verge of collapse, is expected to be on the road to recovery.
11 August 2020||CHENNAI,||All 9.39 lakh students pass Class X exams||All 9.39 lakh Class X students, who were supposed to take the SSLC exams in March, have been declared ‘passed’ by the Directorate of Government Examinations.
11 August 2020||CHENNAI,||Tamil Nadu records 5,914 fresh COVID-19 cases||Tamil Nadu on Monday crossed three lakh COVID-19 cases, with the addition of 5,914 fresh cases. The death toll in the State crossed the 5,000-mark with the addition of 114 fatalities. Chennai recorded 976 new cases and 25 deaths.
11 August 2020||HYDERABAD,||4,267 new positive cases, 114 dead in Karnataka||In Karnataka, 114 COVID-19 deaths and 4,267 new cases were reported, raising the overall toll to 3,312 on Monday. Andhra Pradesh reported 7,665 new infections and 80 more deaths in the 24 hours ended Monday morning. There were over 10,000 cases per day for six days. The number of samples tested too came down to 46,999 in the past day compared to over 60,000 tests for six consecutive days earlier. The positivity rate of tests in the past day was 16%, similar to the rate in the previous days. The number of samples tested was 25,34,304. The overall positivity rate increased to 9.29%. The tally of infections mounted to 2,35,525 and the death toll to 2,116. The number of recoveries went up as 6,924 more patients recovered. Currently, 87,773 patients were under treatment. East Godavari again reported the highest daily case spike at 1,235 cases, besides four deaths, followed by Kurnool with 883 cases and six deaths, West Godavari (722 cases, 9 deaths), Anantapur (631, 5), Guntur (621, 10), Visakhapatnam (620, 5), Vizianagaram (574, 5), Nellore (511, 5), Chittoor (479, 6), Prakasam (450, 11), Kadapa (439, 7), Srikakulam (354, 7) and Krishna (146, 0). Kerala reported 1,184 new cases and 784 recoveries on Monday. Of these 1,005 were locally acquired infections, including those of 41 health-care workers. Cases with no epidemiological link went up to 114. The Health Department recorded seven more deaths, taking the official toll to 115. The new deaths were reported from Ernakulam, Malappuram, Thiruvananthapuram, Kasaragod, Wayanad and Kozhikode. The cumulative cases stood at 35,515, and 12,737 were under hospital treatment. After remaining at the top, reporting the maximum number of new cases daily for one month, Thiruvananthapuram was overtaken by Malappuram, with 255 new cases on Monday, of which 222 were locally acquired infections. Thiruvananthapuram reported 200 cases, 191 of local origin. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said health protocols were being satisfactorily implemented in all northern districts. He said a Neighbourhood Watch programme would keep an eye on COVID-19 spread in the community.  A total of 5,914 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in Tamil Nadu taking the tally to 53,099 cases on Monday, while 6,037 persons were discharged. As of Monday the number of those discharged was 2,44,675. The tally of total positive cases in the State was 3,02,815. The northern districts of Tiruvallur, Kancheepuram and Cuddalore, continued to witness a big daily rise in infection. Five deaths and 483 fresh positive cases were recorded in Chengalpattu; in Kancheepuram, three persons died and 310 new cases were identified. Tiruvallur recorded 399 new cases and four deaths. Among the southern districts Theni with 357 new cases and five deaths; and Kanyakumari with 205 cases and seven deaths, were the major contributors. In Madurai 100 new cases were identified and five deaths reported, the Directorate of Public Health said.  (With inputs from Vijayawada, Thiruvananthapuram and Chennai bureaus)
11 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Another note on SC case listing||A writ petition filed by veteran journalists N. Ram and Arun Shourie along with advocate Prashant Bhushan challenging “scandalising of court” as a ground for contempt was dropped from the list of cases scheduled for hearing before a Bench led by Justice D.Y. Chandrachud on August 10 because it was accompanied by an application to stay contempt cases pending against the noted civil rights lawyer before another Bench, an official source in the Supreme Court explained. The explanation from the official source came in a note issued late on Monday. This is the second note in as many days with regard to the petition. The first note issued on Saturday said the Supreme Court Registry had made a ‘mistake’ in listing the writ petition before Justice Chandrachud. It said an explanation has been sought from the Registry officials involved in listing it. This second two-page note explains that the writ petition filed by Mr. Ram, Mr. Shourie and advocate Bhushan has specifically sought a stay on a criminal contempt case of 2009 and a suo motu contempt proceedings, both pending before a three-judge Bench led by Justice Arun Mishra. In fact, Justice Mishra’s Bench on Monday, in an interim order, decided to hear on merits the 2009 contempt case. This case is based on remarks about “judicial corruption” made by Mr. Bhushan in an interview to the Tehelka magazine. The court has listed the case for hearing on August 17. The suo motu case concerns Mr. Bhushan’s tweet about a photograph of Chief Justice Sharad Bobde astride a heavy bike and another carrying his comments on the role of the Supreme Court in the past six years. Justice Mishra’s Bench found both tweets to be prima facie undermining the authority of the court. The note issued on Monday said since another Bench (Justice Mishra’s) was already hearing both contempt matters against Mr. Bhushan, it would be against procedure and law to have another co-ordinate Bench (Justice Chandrachud’s) hear or even stay the same cases. “It is a cardinal principle of law that a coordinate Bench cannot stay the proceedings of ongoing cases which are pending before other similar Bench,” the note said.
11 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||UGC says States can’t cancel exams||The University Grants Commission (UGC) on Monday strongly objected to the Maharashtra and Delhi governments employing the Disaster Management Act to cancel the examinations of students amid the COVID-19 pandemic, saying “sooner this issue is resolved, the better for the students”. Appearing before a Bench led by Justice Ashok Bhushan, Solicitor-General Tushar Mehta said the conduct of examinations was entirely within the domain of the UGC, a statutory body. The States could not go on and cancel examinations on their own. The UGC had specific guidelines for conducting them, he contended. “The sooner this issue is resolved, the better it is for the students,” he said. The court decided to hear detailed arguments on Friday. In the previous hearing, Mr. Mehta orally made a submission in the court that students should not break their preparation for final year examinations to be conducted “by the end of September 2020”. Though a UGC affidavit filed on July 31 said the examinations were scheduled “by the end of September 2020” to give varsities sufficient time to make arrangements amid the pandemic, the same affidavit had also gone on to inform the court that information received from 818 universities showed that 603 varsities had conducted their final year exams or were in the process of conducting them during August-September 2020. Mr. Mehta had added a word of caution to students, saying “let nobody be under the impression that final exams will be stayed because the Supreme Court is hearing the case. Students should continue to prepare for their exams”. The UGC is strongly advocating the conduct of the final year exams by September 30 in compliance with its July 6 guidelines while keeping in mind the safety and health of students. The hearing is based on petitions filed by over 30 students challenging the conduct of exams amid the pandemic. The court had then ordered both Maharashtra and NCT Delhi governments to submit reports on the ground situation in the fight against COVID-19 from their respective State Disaster Management Committees within a week. In its written response to the students’ petitions, the UGC said the “final year/terminal semester exams is a crucial step in the academic career of a student”. Revised guidelines It had said the ‘UGC Guidelines on Examinations and Academic Calendar for Universities in view of COVID-19 Pandemic’ was revised on July 6 in consultation with the Prof. K.C. Kuhad expert committee. The revised guidelines offered students the choice to opt for offline (pen and paper) mode of taking examinations, online exclusively or the “blended” manner in which students could alternate between online and physical modes of attending the exams, it stated. Besides, universities could conduct special examinations for students later on as and when feasible “so that a student is not put to any inconvenience or disadvantage”.
11 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Protest against EIA needless: Javadekar||Environment Minister Prakash Javadekar on Monday said some critics of the proposed Environment Impact Assessment (EIA 2020) notification were indulging in needless protest. “How can a draft notification be protested? It's still a draft. We’ve received several suggestions after soliciting comment for nearly 150 days as opposed to the norm of 60 days. We will consider these and after that a final notification will be prepared,” he said on the sidelines of an event organised by the Ministry to commemorate World Elephant Day (August 12). Several Congress leaders, including Jairam Ramesh and Shashi Tharoor, have condemned several aspects of the draft notification and former party president Rahul Gandhi on Monday said the aim of it was a “clear loot of the nation” and that it was “another terrible example of what the BJP government has been doing for the ‘friends’ of the suit-boot who had robbed the resources of the country.” While not mentioning Congress leaders directly, Mr. Javadekar accused the critics of organising “agitations” when the draft had opened up several suggestions for public consultation when those same clauses had been passed by the previous United Progressive Alliance government without a wider public discussion. Man-animal conflict Officials in his Ministry said nearly 500 people were killed every year in India due to human-elephant conflict. Additional Director-General (Forest) S.P. Yadav said, “There are challenges that we face in mitigating conflict. Elephants are now moving from Jharkhand to Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh and even Maharashtra and these create new instances of conflicts between animals and people”. Asian elephants are listed as “Endangered” on the International Union for the Conservation of Nature Red List of threatened species. This has been done as most of the range States except India have lost their viable elephant populations due to loss of habitats and poaching etc. The current population estimates, as of 2017, indicate that there are about 50,000-60000 Asian elephants in the world, of which more than 60% are in India. “To manage conflicts and avoid loss of valuable lives of both the humans and the elephants, it is important to strengthen the human-elephant coexistence,” said the Minister while releasing a booklet Best practices of Human-Elephant Conflict Management in India during the event.
11 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Change at J&K helm amid spate of attacks||Former Union Minister Manoj Sinha’s appointment as Lieutenant-Governor of Jammu and Kashmir is the surest signal yet that the Centre has taken a call that the political process in the Union Territory is to be given a push. With more than three attacks and as many fatalities (two in Qazigund and one in Budgam) in the past five days of sarpanches associated with the BJP, however, a new low investment-high stakes game seems to have been started by terror outfits and could upset the plans Mr. Sinha has arrived in Srinagar with. Easy targets Sarpanches and local-level political workers, who have not been on the terror radar and are considered very low in the pecking order of targets, are finding the going tough. According to officials in the government, the picking of such targets reflects the change in strategy of terror outfits such as the Lashkar-e-Taiba. These outfits have indicated via social media and other messaging platforms in the past month or so that open season is declared on anyone seeming to be on the side of the Indian state and its position vis-a-vis the Kashmir issue. The past few months have seen major crackdowns on terror outfits. Combined with the lack of sophisticated arms with terror outfits currently, BJP-affiliated sarpanches make for easy targets, felled by small arms fire, with an element of surprise. After the panchayat polls of 2018, many sarpanches did demand security and had been provided rooms in Srinagar to stay and camps were also set up. Till last month or so, attacks hadn’t been this severe and threat perception levels were also low. Officials say that the picking of the targets follows a modified version of “non-kinetic action” pattern of Psy-Ops, of low investment and high impact actions. The BJP has predictably reacted with anger at the targeting of its people. Three BJP activists quit the party after the death of Arif Ahmad Shah in Qazigund. The BJP’s national general secretary in charge of Jammu and Kashmir, Ram Madhav, too has demanded adequate security for party leaders. It’s a message of sorts to anyone who wants to participate in any future political activity in J&K. No middle ground The incarceration of leaders of mainstream political parties had already wiped out the space in the middle, and any attempts to reinvent the wheel has now come up against two main hurdles. One is the very obvious hurdle of political legitimacy of any outfit that wants to start off in State politics. The newly formed Apni Party with Altaf Bukhari at its head is a case in point, formed with much gusto and given space to set up party offices, but not getting any traction on the ground. The second, of course, is the physical annihilation of political workers meant to discourage any political activity. In the aftermath of the abrogation of Article 370, nobody yet knows what shape political activity and engagement will take. To the fundamental question of whether to “move on” from Article 370’s abrogation or stick to old positions on it, and what level of pragmatism will not be considered cynical, is added the question of physical security. A tough task for the new man at the helm.
11 August 2020||New Delhi,||Naga peace talks hit a road bump||The Naga peace talks have hit rough weather even as the leadership of NSCN-IM held a detailed meeting with two Intelligence Bureau (IB) officials in New Delhi on Monday. The Isaak Muivah faction of the National Socialist Council of Nagaland (IM), one of the largest Naga groups with which the Government of India signed a framework agreement on August 3, 2015, is reportedly peeved with interlocutor R.N. Ravi, and has demanded that he be removed from the position. The agreement was signed by Mr. Ravi on behalf of the Centre in the presence of Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Mr. Ravi, a former IB official, was appointed Nagaland’s Governor in 2019. A senior NSCN-IM leader told The Hindu that Monday’s meeting was led by NSCN-IM leader Thuingaleng Muivah, 86, who flew to Delhi last month. Mr. Muivah has reportedly refused to meet Mr. Ravi after the latter’s letter to Nagaland Chief Minister on June 16 that “over half a dozen organised armed gangs were brazenly running their respective ‘so called governments’ challenging the legitimacy of the State government.” The letter was followed by another order on July 7 asking government officials to declare if their family members or relatives are members of any “underground organisation.” NSCN-IM signed a ceasefire agreement with the Centre in 2001. ‘Insensitive tone’ A senior government official said, “The letter by Nagaland Governor alluding to the NSCN-IM as an armed gang was seen as an insult by the leadership. The movement is more than 70 years old and they feel that the trust they established with the interlocutor is now broken.” The official said the security agencies were trying to end the stalemate and find a middle ground so that talks do not collapse. “Since it is a tribal set up, most people are related to each other. The July 7 order asking government officials to declare if family members or relatives were members of underground groups seemed insensitive,” said the official. Another source, however, said the talks were on track. Mr. Ravi could not be reached for comments. On August 8, V. Horam, an executive member of the NSCN-IM steering committee told The Eastern Mirror newspaper that “Mr. Ravi had portrayed Naga national workers as gangsters with an attempt to turn Naga issue into a law and order issue and not political as intended.” Mr. Horam also said the “agreement goes as such that Nagas will not be under Indian Constitution….but co-exist as two entities.”
11 August 2020||Patna,||‘19 doctors died of virus in Bihar’||With the surge in COVID-19 cases in Bihar, the State has reported nine times more deaths of doctors than the national average, according to officials at the Indian Medical Association (IMA). “In Bihar, the doctors’ death percentage due to COVID-19 is 4.42% while the national average is 0.5%,” said Dr. Ajay Kumar, senior vice-president of the IMA, Bihar chapter. 250 infected Till Sunday, as many as 19 doctors had died of COVID-19 in Bihar while over 250 were infected with the disease, said IMA State secretary Sunil Kumar. The number of doctors dying of COVID-19 was far lesser in other States such as Maharashtra (0.15%), Karnataka (0.6%), Tamil Nadu (0.1%), Gujarat (0.9%), Delhi (0.3%) and Andhra Pradesh (0.7%), they added. Among the 19 doctors who lost their lives in the State, seven were private practitioners. The IMA officials also criticised the facilities and the quality of protective gear provided to the doctors. “Unlike other States, here in Bihar, the doctors deployed in COVID-19 wards do not get the 15-day quarantine period after 15 days of work... Several doctors here have been working continuously since mid-March without a day’s break,” said a senior doctor. ‘Above 60’ “Most of the government doctors are above 60 years with co-morbidities, yet they are engaged for COVID-19 duty despite our request not to do so,” Dr. Sunil Kumar said. “Besides, 60% of the sanctioned posts of doctors in the State are vacant and the protective kits available here are also not of high quality,” he added. Bihar has so far reported 450 deaths and 82,741 positive cases of COVID-19. Testing of samples has risen sharply, reaching 10,97,252, while 54,139 patients have recovered.
11 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Rajnath reiterates self-reliance goal||Several military platforms like the Light Combat Aircraft, Pinaka rocket launchers and Akash missile systems, which have been indigenously developed, were included in the negative list of imports to ensure that the Services do not go in for procurement of similar systems by imports, the Defence Ministry said on Monday. “It is also highlighted that for a product to be considered as an indigenous system, the percentage of indigenous content has to meet minimum laid down specifications. Hence, manufacturers are also required to ensure indigenisation and decrease import content to the permissible limits,” the Ministry said. The reason for specifying systems presently made in India with part-import content is to ban procurement of such equipment or items which carry similar qualitative requirements but are often contracted under differing nomenclatures, it said. On Sunday, the Defence Ministry issued a 101-item negative defence import list which must be domestically procured in a phased manner. ‘Civil society too gains’ Defence Minister Rajnath Singh on Monday launched the “Atmanirbharta Saptah” and said it was to focus on modernisation of defence infrastructure, creation of new manufacturing capability and investments. “In the use of cutting-edge technologies across the world, defence industries have always been ahead. The technologies are also used in civil areas. Therefore, being self-reliant in the sector can be very beneficial for civil society also,” Mr. Singh said. “Self-sufficient is never meant to separate oneself from the world.” 3 facilities inaugurated Mr. Singh inaugurated three facilities of the Ordnance Factory Board (OFB) and BEML’s (Bharat Earth Movers Limited) Industrial Design Centre at its Bangalore Complex. The three facilities include manufacturing facility for sighting devices for T-90 Tanks at the Opto Electronics Factory, Dehradun, automated assembly line for the production of Pinaka Rockets at the Ordnance Factory, Chandrapur and assembly and testing facility of Stabilised Remote Controlled Gun (SRCG) at the Ordnance Factory, Tiruchirappalli. The automated Pinaka assembly will not only enhance the production capacity but would also be more efficient as it seeks to do away with most of the manual operations, the OFB said in a statement.
11 August 2020||LUCKNOW,||Nepal stalled flood works citing COVID-19, says U.P.||Eleven new flood prevention projects worth Rs. 53.64 crore could not be executed before the current flood season on the India-Nepal border as the neighbouring country did not grant permission for their implementation in its geographical area due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the Uttar Pradesh government said on Monday. The statement comes as 582 villages in around 20 districts of the State remained affected by floods, with 303 of them marooned despite a 15% below normal rainfall so far, as per the State Relief Commissioner. The lack of progress on the projects was conveyed to Prime Minister Narendra Modi by Chief Minister Yogi Adityanath during his video conference with Chief Ministers of six States on the current flood situation. Mr. Adityanath informed the PM that every year, flood projects would be built on the Gandak river on the Nepal border with Central funds. However, this year due to COVID-19, Nepal did not allow 11 new approved flood projects in its “area”. Most of the flood-affected districts are in the eastern part of the State, including Ayodhya and Gorakhpur. From June 1 to August 8, U.P. received 400.5 mm rain, which was 10.4% less than normal, the U.P. Relief Commisioner said. However, 15 districts of Purvanchal, and neighbouring Nepal and Uttarakhand got 20% more rain than normal causing the Ghagra, Rapti, Gandak and Sharda rivers to flow above the danger mark.
11 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC to hear case against Bhushan from August 17||The Supreme Court on Monday decided to hear on merits whether remarks made by noted civil rights lawyer Prashant Bhushan on judicial “corruption” in a Tehelka interview in 2009 amounts to “ per se contempt”. A Bench led by Justice Arun Mishra listed the case for hearing on August 17. Mr. Bhushan, his father and senior advocate Shanti Bhushan and their lawyer, Rajeev Dhavan, were visible on the screen showing the pronouncement of the interim decision of the virtual court. On August 4, after an almost day-long hearing held away from the public eye, the Bench had said it would hear the case if “we do not accept the explanation/apology” of Mr. Bhushan.  Tehelka magazine editor-in-chief Tarun Tejpal is a co-respondent with Mr. Bhushan in the contempt case. A communication released by Mr. Bhushan’s office said the hearing on August 4 took place over WhatsApp. It said Mr. Bhushan had refused to apologise and said the word “corruption” was used in the interview in a wide sense to mean “lack of propriety”. Mr. Bhushan had said that the remarks were not meant to hurt judges’ families or tarnish the judiciary. “Before reaching to any finding whether the statement made as to ‘corruption’ would per se amount to contempt of court, the matter is required to be heard,” the court order read.
11 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Lufthansa to resume flights from Europe to India||Lufthansa will commence ticket sales for its flights from Europe to India after the Home Ministry had recently relaxed norms for those entering the country. “Effective immediately, Indian citizens are eligible to travel on Lufthansa flights to India from the U.S., Canada, and other countries worldwide. Following a bilateral agreement between India and Germany, inbound passenger flights to India, one of Lufthansa’s most important international markets, will be reinstated as of August 13,” the airline said on Monday. It will resume the Frankfurt to Delhi, Munich to Delhi, Frankfurt to Bangalore and Frankfurt to Mumbai flights. Since the ban on international flights on March 22, Lufthansa has been operating outbound flights from India. The Home Ministry had last week allowed entry to OCI cardholders from the U.S., the U.K., Germany, France and other foreigners from these countries, who are now allowed to avail themselves of the Indian visa facility for business, medical and also employment purposes.
11 August 2020||Mumbai,||Initial probe on in NSEL scam: CBI||The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) told the Bombay High Court on Monday that it was conducting a preliminary inquiry into a complaint filed against former Union Finance Minister P. Chidambaram and two other bureaucrats for the alleged misuse of power in the National Spot Exchange Limited (NSEL) scam. A Division Bench of Justices Sadhana Jadhav and N.J. Jamadar was hearing a criminal petition filed by 63 moons technologies limited, also known as Financial Technologies Indian Limited. The company was founded by industrialist Jignesh Shah, who was also the company’s former chairman. He was arrested on July 12 in connection with the Rs. 5,600-crore NSEL scam. Over 13,000 investors have allegedly lost money due to alleged malpractices by the directors and promoters of NSEL. CBI counsel Hiten Venegavkar informed the court that Mr. Shah’s statement had been recorded and that there were documents that dated back to the year 2012-2013 and so the agency required time to verify them. He also said the CBI had not received any further evidence or documents from the company. To this, senior advocate Aabad Ponda, representing 63 moons technologies, said all relevant documents had been submitted to the CBI. “A preliminary inquiry, as per provisions of the Prevention of Corruption Act, has to be completed within a period of four months. In this case, the preliminary inquiry was initiated in February,” he argued. The plea pertains to the delay by the CBI in investigating Mr. Chidambaram, who was the then Union Finance Minister; and bureaucrats K.P. Krishnan, who was the Additional Secretary and Joint Secretary in the Ministry of Finance; and Ramesh Abhishek, who was the chairman of the Forward Markets Commission during the scam. In February last year, the company filed a complaint with the CBI, seeking a case to be registered against the three for allegedly abusing their official positions during the scam. In June 20, 2019, the company filed a petition in the High Court, seeking a direction to the CBI to register an FIR. In August 2019, the CBI informed the court that after verification of the complaint, a preliminary inquiry would be initiated. The court adjourned the matter to August 13.
11 August 2020||New Delhi,||Put draft EIA on hold till it is discussed, says Jairam||The Chairman of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Science and Technology, Jairam Ramesh, urged Environment Minister Prakash Javadekar to keep the draft Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) 2020 notification in abeyance until the committee examines it in detail. The committee began deliberations on EIA 2020 at its meeting on Friday. The last date of submitting feedback to the Ministry on the notification ends on Tuesday. Continuing the extended dialogue ongoing between Mr. Ramesh and Mr. Javadekar, in a fresh letter Mr. Ramesh said the EIA 2020 was “fundamentally flawed” and it made a mockery of the Prime Minister’s many statements on the need to protect the environment. Various concerns had been raised in representations to the committee, Mr Ramesh said, like for instance, how could a subordinate legislation override the parent Act from which it was derived like the draft EIA Notification 2020 did vis-à-vis the Environment Protection Act, 1986? He refuted Mr. Javadekar’s claim that the environment clearance was not ex post facto but prospective in nature. “If the clearance permits the illegally constructed portion of the project to remain... and there is no direction for demolition of the illegal portion — then it is not a prospective clearance. It is being granted ex facto, and it is regularising the illegality committed by the project proponent,” he said.
11 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,||Social media abuzz with campaign against EIA||Three consecutive years of climate calamities in the State seems to have created an awareness among the youth regarding environmental issues, going by the number of youngsters who became part of a social media campaign calling for the rejection of the draft Environment Impact Assessment (EIA) Notification 2020, which they alleged waters down the existing EIA notification of 2006. After a delayed publication of the draft in the gazette by the Centre, the Delhi High Court had extended the deadline further to August 11 to register public opinion on the draft. With the deadline approaching, Malayalam social media has witnessed a sustained campaign from meme page creators, video bloggers and instagram influencers, all of whom veered away from their usual light-hearted content to speak about weighty environmental issues. To make matters easy for their followers, a link to a sample e-mail to be sent to the Environment Ministry, requesting for rollback of the new notification, was also provided by most of them. Some of the objections to the notification include allowing projects to go ahead without securing environmental clearance, which can be applied later, exempting a large category of projects from public consultation, reduction in notice period of public hearing from 30 days to 20 days and option of holding public hearing through digital medium which will limit the power of people in remote tribal areas to put in their opinions. From mid-July Even after the first deadline for public comments, which was later extended, there was hardly any noise in the public sphere regarding the EIA notification. In mid-July, pages like ‘Resist EIA 2020’ began to appear on instagram and facebook, with eye-catchy posters on the damage that the new notification could cause. Soon, YouTube celebrities and instagram influencers, including Prapti Elizabeth, came out with explainer videos in their respective trademark styles. Celebrities too Celebrities, including actor Parvathy, were active in the campaigning. A part of the anger of the memes were directed against the Opposition parties and the mainstream media for not raising enough voice against the notification. The Kerala Sasthra Sahitya Parishad, All Kerala People’s Science Network and the Students Federation of India too came out with a wide variety of materials explaining the history of the EIA and the need to preserve it in its existing form. The administrator of a Malayalam meme page said that they were apprehensive about mass mails to the Environment Ministry after the Delhi Police had in July blocked the official website of Fridays for Future India for sending “too many mails” to the ministry on the notification.
11 August 2020||IDUKKI,||At Pettimudy, a long and hopeful wait for the master||Amidst the boulders and slush at the landslip site at Pettimudy, near Rajamala, a dog has been waiting for the return of its master. The family which cared for it and the estate lane where it lived have been buried under the boulders and earth that gushed in on the ill-fated night on Thursday. Notwithstanding the rain and mist, it stands amidst the debris. Sometimes it makes way when the National Disaster Response Force team searches the spot and then returns to the spot as if to tell the rescue workers that his master is under the debris there. As the search operations continued on Monday, the sight of the dog created painful moments for the people gathered at the landslip site. Some of them tried to feed the dog, which was reluctant to eat or move. How the dog survived the tragedy is a mystery as the search teams have already unearthed the carcasses of cattle, besides the crumbled remains of a jeep, a car and motorbikes from the area. Refuses to eat “A local resident took the dog away and tried to feed it. But it refused to eat and barked continuously. Later it returned to the spot,” said Manoj Galaxy, a Ham radio operator camping in the area for the past three days. He said nobody could identify the family to which the dog belonged.
11 August 2020||IDUKKI,||Six more bodies recovered as Kerala landslip toll rises to 49||With the recovery of six more bodies on Monday, the death toll in the Pettimudy landslip has risen to 49. Revenue Department officials said the bodies were recovered from the Kanniyar river near the estate lanes that were buried under the landslip debris on Thursday night. The unfavourable weather, with rain and mist, continues to hamper the search operation. Four bodies recovered on Monday were of children under the age of 14. As per official estimates, 21 people are still missing. A team of the National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) numbering around 100 started the search along the banks of the Kanniyar river, a tributary of the Muthirapuzha, from Monday morning. The Forest Department also deployed a 10-member team for the search operation. A 10-km distance along the river was searched before the bodies were found, said the officials monitoring the search operation at Pettimudy. Devikulam Subcollector S. Premkrishnan said a post-mortem examination was conducted at the makeshift mortuary ahead of burying them in the mass grave at Pettimudy. Boulders broken The search operation is likely to be held on Tuesday for the missing. District Collector H. Dinesan said bad weather was the main hurdle at Pettimudy. The authorities have decided continue the search till all the missing from the accident site are found. The boulders that came down with the landslip debris had been broken and the area was cleared on Sunday, he added. Members of non-governmental organisations and local people too were helping with the search operations. Since the communication facilities were poor, ham radio too was being used to collect details at Pettimudy. The district health authorities have decided to conduct antigen tests to all the members of the search team as part of the COVID-19 norms.
11 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Sushant death being politicised: Rhea||The death of actor Sushant Singh Rajput was being politicised in the wake of the Bihar Assembly elections through sensationalism in the media, actor Rhea Chakaraborty told the Supreme Court on Monday. The actor said she was being made a scapegoat for political agendas. She had been “convicted” by media channels even before any “foul play” had been established in the death. She directly accused Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar of influencing the registration of an FIR in Patna. The FIR is based on a complaint filed by Rajput’s father, K.K. Singh, a resident of Patna. He has accused Ms. Chakaraborty of abetment to suicide. The CBI has taken over the case on the Bihar government’s recommendation. “The incident of the death of Sushant Singh Rajput, who hailed from Bihar, unfortunately occurred just in wake of elections in Bihar. This has led to the issue of suicide of deceased being isolated and blown out of proportion,” Ms. Chakraborty said in an affidavit. The actor stated that she was suffering from extreme trauma. Her privacy had been infringed by the constant sensationalisation of this case. She said, “Media had convicted the accused in 2G and Aarushi Talwar cases in a similar fashion. Each and every accused was later found innocent by the court”. Investigation into crores worth of scams wither into nothing or disappear at the drop of a hat.
11 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Probe Ugandan woman’s death in Tihar jail, says rights group||The Commonwealth Human Rights Initiative on Monday sought an independent inquiry into the death of an Ugandan woman lodged at the Tihar jail after being injured in a scuffle in July. In a statement, the CHRI also raised concern about the condition of foreigners in Indian prisons, urging States and the Union Ministries of Home and External Affairs to work with diplomatic missions to ensure their safety. The Ugandan woman, Jesca Sarah Kafeeco, died while undergoing a surgery for injuries sustained in a scuffle. Foreign prisoners had protested demanding release on interim bail due to the COVID-19 pandemic. “She along with 53 other foreign nationals had made a representation before the High Powered Committee in New Delhi in March, raising concerns of discrimination meted out to foreign prisoners, which had placed restrictions on their release. Jail authorities have reportedly cited ‘use of minimum force’ as the cause of her injuries, and that itself warrants an enquiry by the National Human Rights Commission,” the CHRI said. CHRI prison reforms programme head Madhurima Dhanuka said such prisoners had been vulnerable before, but the issues had escalated during the pandemic.
11 August 2020||JAIPUR,||‘Family member killed 10 Pak. migrants’||The recovery of a written note from a shack in Jodhpur district’s Lodta village, where 11 members of a family of Pakistani Hindu migrants were found dead on Sunday, indicates that one of the deceased, trained as a nurse, gave sedatives and injected everyone with poison, before taking her own life, according to the police. Preliminary investigation by the police found that the injections were given in a professional manner probably by a daughter of the head of the family, who also injected the poison through a cannula later in her leg. The absence of injury marks on the victims’ bodies ruled out the possibility of mass suicide. The note reportedly mentioned a family dispute and the financial hardship because of which the extreme step was taken. Jodhpur Rural Superintendent of Police Rahul Barhat said on Monday that while the cause of death would be established through post-mortem, there was enough circumstantial evidence in the shape of recovery of pesticide, sedatives and empty vials from the spot. Sole survivor The police have registered a first information report under Section 306 (abetment of suicide) of the Indian Penal Code, based on the complaint of Kewal Ram, the sole survivor in the family, against his in-laws. Mr. Kewal Ram and one of his brothers (among the dead) were married to two girls from a Bheel tribal family in Jodhpur and had some differences with their in-laws. Mr. Kewal Ram claimed that he had survived because he went out in the night to his farm to guard the crops from animals. He drifted into sleep at the farm and saw the bodies when he returned to the hut on Sunday morning.
11 August 2020||Mumbai,||‘NCP MLAs are not planning to join BJP’||Discarding rumours that 12 MLAs of the Nationalist Congress Party (NCP) in Maharashtra are planning to join the BJP, raising questions over the stability of the alliance government, Minority Affairs Minister Nawab Malik on Monday said that in reality those from other parties who had joined the BJP want to return. “People are claiming that 12 NCP MLAs are planning to join the BJP. How is it possible? How can those who did not quit the party when it was in opposition desert us now when we are in power? It is rubbish and baseless,” said Mr. Malik, who is spokesperson of the NCP. Mr. Malik said the reason behind such reports was different. “In reality, those leaders who had joined the BJP are now making requests and want to join the Maha Vikas Aghadi government. They are ready to resign from the MLA post and contest the elections once again,” Mr. Malik said. “We have been hearing about the attempts to destabilise the Maharashtra government from the time it was formed. It is being spread purposely by the Opposition,” he said. In his recent interview to Shiv Sena mouthpiece Saamna , Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray had dared the BJP to attempt and destabilise the MVA government.
11 August 2020||HYDERABAD,||Team inspects facility where ammonium nitrate is to be stored||A team of Telangana government officials inspected the Salvo Explosives & Chemicals facility near Hyderabad on Monday and found the company, which is bringing nearly 700 tonnes of ammonium nitrate from Chennai, has sufficient storage capacity for the incoming cargo. The inspection was conducted on the instructions of the Commissioner of Industries, following a report in these columns. The inspection was carried out by a team comprising a General Manager, DIC; Deputy Chief Inspector of Factories; Executive Engineer of Telangana State Pollution Control Board; Inspector of Factories, Medchal-II Circle and an Assistant Director, Industries. Sharing details of the report submitted by the team, Industries Secretary Jayesh Ranjan said the inspection was ordered to ensure against any panic in the neighbourhood when the consignment arrives. The report said the company was established in 2001 and is into “manufacturing detonators slurry explosives etc.” The factory in Keesara mandal, Medchal-Malkajgiri district, is having valid permission from PESO (Petroleum and Explosives Safety Organisation); consent for operation from TSPCB, CFO; and Factories licence. The permitted storage capacity for ammonium nitrate is 1,250 tonnes in godowns – 750 and 500 tonnes each. There is 609 tonnes of the chemical stored on site and the company has informed that it is going to receive 690 tonnes ammonium nitrate from Chennai in a week’s time. The unit’s daily average consumption of ammonium nitrate is around 60 tonnes. They have sufficient storage capacity for the incoming ammonium nitrate from Chennai, a report of the officials said. The company has been advised not to store incompatible materials at the same place and maintain safe distance between raw materials. Salvo Explosives & Chemicals on Sunday began moving the first batch, of about 200 tonnes, of the ammonium nitrate consignment from Chennai. The consignment was lying in a container freight station on the outskirts of Chennai and purchased by the company in an e-auction by the Customs Department.
11 August 2020||Bengaluru,||71.8% pass in SSLC exam in Karnataka||Karnataka has recorded a pass percentage of 71.8% in the2020 Secondary School Leaving Certificate (SSLC) examination. This is a decrease of 1.9 percentage points from last year’s 73.7%. Six students in the State aced the exam by scoring 625 marks out of 625. Last year, only two secured the top spot. As many as 301 students secured 620 marks and above, while only 170 did so in 2019. Announcing the results on Monday, Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar said 5.82 lakh candidates of the 8.11 lakh who sat for the exam in June and July cleared all the papers. Attributing the dip in results to the uncertainty and anxiety faced by students on account of the COVID-19 pandemic, he said that manyexperts had, in fact, predicted a lower pass percentage this year. The drop can also be attributed to the change in the question paper pattern with more emphasis given to descriptive answers this year. The exam, which was scheduled to be held in March/April this year, was put off after the entire country went into lockdown because of COVID-19. While many States cancelled the board exams, the Karnataka government conducted the SSLC exam from June 25 to July 4 following a Standard Operating Procedure approved by the Supreme Court and the High Court of Karnataka. Girls had a pass percentage of 77.74 and performed better than boys (66.41%). With a pass percentage of 77.18, rural students outperformed their urban counterparts (73.41%). Meanwhile, among the freshers, 82.31% of the students from unaided schools passed. Aided and government school students recorded a pass percentage of 70.6 and 72.79, respectively. As many as 1,550 schools secured 100% pass results, while 62 saw not a single student pass. While there has been a decrease in the number of schools that secured 100% results compared to the previous years, the number of schools with nil passes has increased.
11 August 2020||Kolkata,||Cruel joke on Bengal farmers: Governor||Bengal Governor Jagdeep Dhankhar on Monday wrote to Chief Minister Mamata Banerjee asking why farmers were being denied the benefits of the PM-Kisan Samman Nidhi. “Due to inactions and failures @ Mamataofficial farmers in WB have so far been deprived of Rs. 8,400 crore benefit #PMKisan Most unfortunate that Annadata is so ill-treated. Farmers all over have benefited by [Rs. ]92,000 crore but no benefit to WB due to government failure,” Mr. Dhankhar tweeted sharing the letter addressed to the Chief Minister. The development came a day after Prime Minister Narendra Modi released the sixth instalment of the PM-Kisan scheme. “It is indeed distressing to note that in our State 70 lakh famers continue to be denied the benefit. They have already lost Rs. 8,400 crore benefit which was their due and right,” Mr. Dhankhar wrote in the letter. Pointing out that every farmer in the country has so far received Rs. 12,000 — totalling Rs. 92,000 crore — under the scheme, the Governor blamed the “insensitivity and confrontational stance of the State government” for it. Mr. Dhankhar said the State was only required to identify the farmer families for the benefit. Describing the development as “cruel joke and historic injustice”, the Governor said he fails to “understand why this has not been done by the State government”. Union Home Minister Amit Shah in a virtual rally in June also flagged the issue. The Trinamool Congress government maintains that it has a separate scheme for cash transfers to farmers.
11 August 2020||HYDERABAD,||Telangana urges Centre to allocate 1,000 tmcft more from Godavari||Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao has asked Central government to allocate to Telangana at least 1,000 tmcft out of 2,000 tmcft water of Godavari water which will go into the sea untapped by Telangana and Andhra Pradesh. Telangana was entitled to 1,000 tmc ft surplus water of Godavari because the river had a major catchment and also flowed through a larger part in the State, Mr. Rao said in discussions with Irrigation officials to draw up a strategy for the Apex Council meeting soon on river water disputes between the two States. Mr. Rao came down heavily on both Andhra Pradesh and Central governments for pointing an accusing finger at Telangana in the matter of river water utilisation. It’s time both governments are given a fitting reply, he said. Expressing his ire at Andhra Pradesh for lodging a complaint with Centre on projects taken up by Telangana, he said the allegations of the neighbouring State are “meaningless and baseless.” Telangana will silence Andhra Pradesh with its arguments once and for all at the Apex Council meeting, he said. The stand of Centre in respect of projects in Telangana is also not right. It raised objections to projects which had water allocation even before the State was formed, clearances received and funds spent. The Centre needlessly set up obstacles even to water release from Srisailam to Nagarjunasagar. In fact, any other reservoir should be filled with water in river Krishna only after Nagarjunasagar is filled up. This is because Srisailam is not an irrigation project but a hydel generation project. The Centre overrode rights of Telangana in the matter. The stand of Centre will be exposed to the whole nation, Mr. Rao remarked. Insisting that Telangana went ahead with projects in Krishna and Godavari river basins in tune with its rights, the Chief Minister said all projects were sanctioned before formation of the State. They had water allocation and clearances from the Central Water Commission and other agencies. As much as Rs. 23,000 crore was spent and 31,500 acres of land acquired for them. After so much was done, it is meaningless to stall them in the name of new projects. The projects were deliberately not completed in combined State and it was seen to it that they had higher ayacut with less water allocation. This will not help in meeting the irrigation requirements completely. Therefore, the Telagana government took up redesign of projects in the context of its requirements and requirements for water. It is meaningless to find fault with the efforts, he said. The Pranahita - Chevella project was redesigned as Kaleslwaram, Kantanapalli as Samakka Sagar, Rajiv Sagar - Indira Sagar as Sitarama and Dummugudem as Seetamma Sagar projects. On the other hand, the inter-State agreement with Maharashtra on Penganga project was concluded in 1975 and the award of Godavari river water tribunal given subsequently. The Apex Council meeting will be informed when the project is sanctioned, clearances that it got, money spent till formation of Telangana, land acquired and government orders issued in the process. “People who lodged the complaints and those who raised doubts should get a final explanation,” he instructed officials. Mr. Rao recalled that the Andhra Pradesh government had raised an objection on Palamuru - Ranga Reddy project at the earlier Apex Council meeting. Then, Telangana countered with queries about Muchumarri project in Andhra Pradesh. Therefore, it was decided to let both projects take off. But, Palamuru - Ranga Reddy was again raised by Andhra Pradesh, which is not right, he said. The river water tribunal had suggested that only 20% of water released from drinking purposes should be accounted. Hence, Telangana should book only 22 tmcft out of 110 tmcft water released for drinking. He also said injustice was done to Telangana in irrigation from the beginning. Even the Bachawat tribunal held that injustice was done to the State in the matter of water allocation. The tribunal made a special allocation of water to Telangana after establishing that the region was not factored in the requirements of the combined State. The projects in Telangana which were taken up in combined Andhra Pradesh like Jurala, Nettempad, Kalwakurthy, Bheema and Koilsagar were completed after bifurcation of the State. The Tummilla lift-irrigation scheme had to be taken up to stabilise the ayacut of Rajolibanda Diversion Scheme. Therefore, Telangana was in dire need of more water allocation which can be met by surplussing of Godavari.
11 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||Pinarayi asks Centre to lift cap on SDRF spending||The Kerala government on Monday requested the Centre to lift the 25% limit on the utilisation of State Disaster Response Fund. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said the removal of the cap on SDRF spending would help State governments fight COVID-19 with better financial resources at hand. Mr. Vijayan had made a case for State governments at a video-conference chaired by Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Mr. Vijayan’s counterparts in Maharashtra, Karnataka, Assam, Bihar, and Uttar Pradesh were present. Rain had caused severe havoc in these States that attended the top-level conference. Currently, the Kerala government has accommodated 22,830 people in 6,967 relief camps across the State.
11 August 2020||August 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Pilots gave ATC no indication of danger||“Kozhikode airport is equipped with RESA [runway end safety area] as per ICAO guidelines. Engineered Material Arrestor System (EMAS) provides safety benefit if less than standard RESA length is available or at airports where RESA cannot be provided due to constraints,” Mr. Puri tweeted. He added that the AAI had examined the suggestion from a safety committee to deploy EMAS, but decided to increase the safety area at the end of the runway instead.
11 August 2020||August 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Crash probe zeroes in on pilot’s actions||While the AAI has given a clean chit to the tabletop runway, aviation experts say the inquiry is zeroing on the aborted landing and the reasons why the pilot missed touchdown at Runway 10. The Air India Express aircraft with 191 on board from Dubai had started descending on getting all clearances from the Air Traffic Control (ATC) to land in Runway 28 whose approach is from the landside. But, while descending to 1,900 feet, the pilot aborted landing and started climbing up to 7,000 ft proceding outbound towards the sea. After going around for 20 km into the sea, the pilot decided to land on Runway 10 that has an approach path from the seaward side. The pilot had clearance of the ATC and the profile of the Instrument Landing System (ILS) and that of the central line of the runway was in his favour. Even the DGCA had confirmed that the visibility was around 2000 m. But, the plane touched down at 1,000 m of the 2,860-m runway, while the threshold marking for touchdown is about 300 m from the start. The inquiry will look into why the aircraft missed the touchdown and why the pilot did not abort the landing and climbed up. The initial report submitted before the Ministry also stated that just after landing, the aircraft went out of the runway is also before the investigators. “It was observed by the controller that the aircraft has not touched down till abeam (intersection) taxiway C. On anticipation that the aircraft may overshoot runway the controller has asked the CFT (Crash Fire Tender) on PD point (predetermined position) to enter runway and follow the aircraft. Since the controller was not able to sight the aircraft at the end of the runway, fire bell and siren were activated. The CFT from the end of the runway reported being unable to sight the aircraft on the runway. CFT was asked to proceed to the valley and check,” the report stated. The AAIB mandate is to conduct independent aircraft accident investigation and to obtain a preliminary report and assist in setting up of the committee of inquiry and formal investigation in accordance with International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) rules.
11 August 2020||New Delhi,||Shah Faesal steps down as JKPM leader||Jammu and Kashmir People’s Movement (JKPM) chief Shah Faesal, a former Indian Administrative Service (IAS) officer in detention since last year, has said that he is “deeply hurt” by the way he was branded an “anti-national.” Mr. Faesal, who stepped down as the JKPM leader on Monday, told The Hindu that his politics ended before it could even start. Mr. Faesal, a topper of the 2010 civil services examination, was detained at the Delhi airport on August 14, 2019, after the Centre passed two pieces of legislation to read down Article 370 of the Constitution in J&K and bifurcate the State into Union Territories. J&K has been under Central rule since June 2018. He continued to be under detention at the MLA Hostel in Srinagar and after being released on June 3, he had been under “house arrest” at his residence. “I want to move on in life and do something productive. My politics ended before it could even start. But I have learnt my lesson. Some of my utterances were problematic. But not anymore,” he said in a written statement to The Hindu . On Monday, Mr. Faesal dropped all references to the JKPM party from his Twitter handle and deleted all posts from his timeline.
11 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||ED again questions Rhea and four others||The Enforcement Directorate on Monday again questioned Bollywood actor Rhea Chakraborty and four others in connection with the Sushant Singh Rajput’s death case. The agency continued the process of recording the statements of the actor, her brother Showik, their father Indrajit, her former manager Shruti Modi and Siddharth Pithani, who lived with Sushant. The ED is closely examining the transactions related to three companies which were floated by Sushant between 2018 and 2020. While two were based in Mumbai, the third one had a Gurugram address. The suspects have already been told to furnish details of their income-tax returns in the past five years and the assets in their names. The ED probe is based on an FIR registered by the Patna police last month
11 August 2020||August 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Truce in Congress after Pilot meets Rahul||“We should exercise restraint as there is no place for personal attacks in politics. All of us worked hard for five years to form the government and all of us are stakeholders… We are happy to be be assured that all the issues would be addressed in a time bound manner,” he added and denied that he ever acted against the Congress. Though Mr. Pilot didn’t make a public comment on the understanding reached between him and the party leadership, two MLAs close to him spoke to The Hindu and claimed that Monday’s meeting addressed all the grievances and he is expected to proceed to Jaipur for the Assembly session. The MLAs contended that Mr. Pilot would be “given his due including the Chief Minister’s post in the future” even though he will not get any party or government position immediately. The Congress party’s formal statement, however, only said: “Sachin Pilot has met with former Congress President Rahul Gandhi and expressed his grievances in detail. They have had a frank, open and conclusive discussion. Mr. Pilot has committed to working in the interest of the Congress party and the Congress government in Rajasthan.” “Following this meeting, Congress president Sonia Gandhi has decided that the AICC will constitute a three-member committee to address the issues raised by Mr. Pilot and the aggrieved MLAs and arrive at an appropriate resolution,” the party said.
11 August 2020||August 11 2020 00:00 IST,||It will not be a zero academic year: officials||Members suggested that community radio and district newspapers should also be used, especially in areas where Internet coverage is patchy. At a webinar on the New Education Policy hosted by the Hero Group, the Education Minister was asked if there was any plan to physically reopen schools and colleges. “We have not taken any decision till now, we will take a decision after consultations,” he said. “In 10-15 days, as the situation develops, we will sit together with States, institutions, Home Ministry, Health Ministry and take a decision. Our priority is safety and also education, but safety is the first priority,” he said. He said the Ministry has been flexible and responsive in its decisions so far, changing or cancelling examination dates as the pandemic worsened. With regard to the government’s insistence on conducting final year examinations, he said this is to ensure students are not stuck with a tainted “COVID degree”. Feedback on reopening Over the last month, the Ministry has sought States’ and parents’ opinions regarding reopening dates. States have differed in their response, with COVID-19 cases declining in some areas and surging in others.  The Hindu has reported on the impact of school closures on students without Internet access, as well as children forced to return to rag-picking or other employment. A United Nations policy brief warned that almost 24 million children may drop out of school completely due to the pandemic impact, with school closures also resulting in learning losses, especially among girls, poor families and children with disabilities.
11 August 2020||Chandigarh,||‘Withdrawal of Bajwa’s security a routine exercise’||Punjab Chief Minister Amarinder Singh on Monday defended the withdrawal of State police security given to Congress Rajya Sabha MP Partap Singh Bajwa, saying it was a routine exercise and has nothing to do with the leader’s face-off with the State government. The State government on Saturday had decided to withdraw the security given to Mr. Bajwa, saying he enjoys central security cover and virtually faced no threat. The decision had come days after Mr. Bajwa and another Congress Rajya Sabha MP, Shamsher Singh Dullo, sought a CBI probe into the illegal liquor trade in the wake of the hooch tragedyin the State. On Saturday, Mr. Bajwa had attacked the Chief Minister, accusing him of resorting to hitting below the belt and exposing his whole family to risk for criticising the improper functioning of the government. The Chief Minister termed inexplicable Mr. Bajwa’s attempt to link this review with his confrontation with the State government, which he said was triggered by the MP “without any basis”. It was a routine exercise based on a periodic review of his threat assessment as provided in the State Security Policy of 2013 after he was provided Z category security by the Centre, Capt. Amarinder said.
11 August 2020||August 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Reason for avataras||The Lord is anxious to reveal His auspicious qualities to the world, and hence He takes avataras, said M.A. Venkatakrishnan, in a discourse. In Paramapada, He does not get an opportunity to reveal His qualities like vaatsalya, sauseelya, saulabhya etc. Vaatsalya means that even if someone has some flaws, we do not mind them. But in Paramapada, no one has any flaws. So, there is no scope for the display of vaatsalya in Paramapada. The cow is a herbivorous animal, and yet, when it has a calf, it licks the body of the new-born clean, and eats the afterbirth joyfully. That is because of its love for its calf. Likewise, the Lord is like a mother, in His forgiving nature. He does not shun us because of our doshas. His protection to us shows that even our doshas are welcome, because He cares for us. The tendency of most people is to sin, but to refuse to accept the consequences of their actions. They do not do good deeds, but want good results. In his Daya Satakam, Vedanta Desika speaks of Lord Srnivasa’s daya. Desika says that he offers a lot of food to Daya Devi. Food here means sins! Daya Devi swallows them all, and wants more, says Desika. From this, we should not infer the wrong meaning. It does not mean we should deliberately do wrong things. It is just to show that despite all our bad qualities, the Lord showers His mercy on us. He can show such daya only on this earth, for in Paramapada, no one has any doshas. Kamban says that in Ayodhya, no one gave any daana. Daana can be given, only if there is someone to receive it. When everyone is prosperous, there will be no recipients. Similarly, in Paramapada, there is no one in need of daya, for no one has any doshas there. Hence the need for avataras.
11 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||SC to hear pleas of 6 Raj. BSP legislators||The Supreme Court on Monday agreed to urgently hear a plea by Rajasthan BJP MLA Madan Dilawar challenging the State High Court’s refusal to stay the decision of Assembly Speaker C.P. Joshi to recognise the ‘merger’ of six BSP legislators with the Congress. During the hearing, the Bench led by Justice Arun Mishra learnt that the six BSP MLAs have also separately approached the apex court. They have sought a transfer of the case filed by Mr. Dilawar in the High Court accusing them of defection. He has asked for their disqualification from the House. “We will hear both cases [Mr. Dilawar’s petition and the transfer plea by the BSP MLAs] tomorrow”, said Justice Mishra. Mr. Joshi had dismissed a complaint filed by Mr. Dilawar for disqualification of the six MLAs.
11 August 2020||JAIPUR,||Rebel MLA makes peace with Gehlot||Amid signals of the Rajasthan political crisis coming to an end, dissident Congress MLA Bhanwar Lal Sharma, who was suspended from the party, met Chief Minister Ashok Gehlot here on Monday and declared that the State government was safe. He said the tussle in the party was an “internal matter”, which had been resolved. Mr. Sharma, one of the 18 MLAs supporting ousted Sachin Pilot, said there was no resentment against the party or the Chief Minister. He hoped that all the rebel MLAs would return to Jaipur shortly and the position would be clear by Tuesday.
11 August 2020||New Delhi,||Chidambaram says he too faced ‘taunts’||Former Union Finance Minister P. Chidambaram on Monday said what DMK MP Kanimozhi faced at the Chennai airport was not unusual and he too had to face “taunts” from officials and citizens who wanted the former Minister to speak in Hindi. In a series of tweets, he said the Union government must “insist” on Central government employees being bilingual in Hindi and English. His comments came a day after Ms. Kanimozhi tweeted that she was asked whether or not she was an Indian after she told a Central Industrial Security Force (CISF) official at the airport to speak in Tamil or English as she [Ms. Kanimozhi] did not understand Hindi. The CISF responded to her tweet, saying it has “ordered an enquiry into the matter. It is not the policy of CISF to insist upon any particular language.” “The unpleasant experience of DMK MP Ms. Kanimozhi at Chennai airport is not unusual. I have experienced similar taunts from government officers and ordinary citizens who insisted that I speak in Hindi during telephone conversations and sometimes face to face,” Mr. Chidambaram said. “If the Central government is genuinely committed to both Hindi and English being the official languages of India, it must insist that all Central government employees are bilingual in Hindi and English,” he stated. Non-Hindi speakers in government jobs learnt functional Hindi quickly, he said. “Why cannot Hindi-speaking recruits to Central government posts learn functional, spoken English?” he asked.
11 August 2020||August 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Masks and the men||
11 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Reports of cancellation of trains false’||The Railway Ministry on Monday said the reports about cancellation of all regular trains till September 30 were incorrect. “Some section of media is reporting that Railways has cancelled all regular trains till 30th September. This is not correct. No new circular has been issued,” tweeted the Ministry.
11 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||CBI books Gujarat man in graft cases||The CBI has booked a Gujarat-based businessman, the companies associated with him and others, in three more cases alleging bank loan fraud of about Rs. 192 crore. The cases have been registered on complaints from the State Bank of India. In the first FIR, the bank has alleged a wrongful loss of Rs. 87.49 crore. It names Chem Edge International Private Limited, Bharatbhai Shah, Fenil Bhratbhai Shah, Ardor Overseas Private Limited, Ardor Structures Private Limited and others as accused.
11 August 2020||New Delhi,||Pranab undergoes brain surgery||Former President Pranab Mukherje is reported to have undergone a successful brain surgery in the Army's Research and Referral Hospital in Delhi on Monday. His condition has been reported to be stable and is being given ventilator support post the surgery. Earlier, Mr. Mukherjee had said on Twitter that he tested positive for COVID-19 during a regular hospital visit. “On a visit to the hospital for a separate procedure, I have tested positive for COVID19 today. I request the people who came in contact with me in the last week, to please self isolate and get tested for COVID-19. #CitizenMukherjee,” tweeted the 84-year-old former President. Defence Minister Rajnath Singh visited the hospital and enquired about the former President’s health. He was in the hospital for about 20 minutes. Former Congress chief Rahul Gandhi tweeted, “Wishing former President Pranab Mukherjee a speedy recovery.”
11 August 2020||Patna,||Bihar CM complains against Nepal||In a virtual meeting convened by Prime Minister Narendra Modi with six States on Monday, Bihar Chief Minister Nitish Kumar flagged non-cooperation from neighbouring Nepal in managing flood, which has affected over 74 lakh population in 16 districts of the State. “North Bihar gets ravaged by floods because of heavy rainfall in the catchment areas of Nepal and in accordance with an agreement between India and Nepal, the water resources department of Bihar conducts the flood management work in the bordering areas but in recent times we’ve not been receiving full cooperation from Nepal,” said Mr. Kumar in the meeting. Mr. Kumar further said, “This year, in Madhepura and in no man’s land in Madhubani district too, we did not get cooperation from Nepal in strengthening work on embankments. The officials from the Bihar government tried to solve the problem by speaking to Nepalese officials but they did not cooperate... the work which was to be completed by mid-May, was completed by the end of June… this needs to be focussed.” On Farakka barrage, he said “now water takes longer time in its exit from the barrage and therefore, Ganga’s water spread to wider areas”. “The Bihar government is running 29 relief camps, in which 27,000 people have taken shelter. Over nine lakh people are getting food from 1,267 community kitchens,” he said.
11 August 2020||HYDERABAD,||Video call facility for visitors at DPH office||As one of the measures to check transmission of COVID-19, a video call system has been put in place at the office of Director of Public Health G. Srinivasa Rao in Koti. Visitors wishing to submit requests or lodge grievances can speak to him through the system.
11 August 2020||Tezpur (Assam),||Curfew lifted from one area in Assam district||The administration in Assam’s Sonitpur district on Monday lifted the indefinite curfew, imposed following communal clashes over the ‘bhoomi pujan’ for the Ram temple at Ayodhya on August 5, from one police station area, but said that it would continue to be in force in another. Indefinite curfew was clamped in areas under Dhekiajuli and Thelamara police stations on the night of August 5 after clashes took place in two villages. Sonitpur Deputy Commissioner Manvendra Pratap Singh said in an order that indefinite curfew was lifted from the Dhekiajuli police station areas.PTI
11 August 2020||HYDERABAD,||KTR funds Warangal girl’s IIT education||Keeping his word to fund the engineering education of an IIT student from a poor family of Hasanparthi in Warangal Urban district, Minister for Urban Development, IT and Industries K.T. Rama Rao handed over a cheque for Rs. 1.5 lakh to Mekala Anjali, studying in IIT Indore, here on Monday. The assistance is to meet her college fee for second year, purchase of a laptop and other expenses. The Minister gave money from his personal funds. The girl, who studied Intermediate in the government residential junior college at Hasanparthi, secured a seat in IIT Indore last year and she approached the Minister through a social media platform seeking financial assistance to continue her education. She was assured by Mr. Rama Rao last year that he would provide money for her education. Ms. Anjali, daughter of auto driver Mekala Ramesh, sought financial assistance from the Minister explaining that her family’s financial position is not good. The amount was handed over to the girl and her father by the Minister in Pragathi Bhavan. They thanked the Minister for his humane gesture.
11 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Searches in Ambience group firms in Gurugram mall case||The CBI on Monday conducted searches at four locations in three cities in connection with a case against two private companies, unknown officials and others for alleged illegal construction of a mall in Gurugram. The searches were carried out in the premises of the accused in Delhi, Chandigarh and Panchkula. “Businessman Raj Singh Gehlot, a resident of Delhi, Ambience Limited, Ambience Developers and Infrastructure Private Limited and unknown officials of Haryana Urban Development Authority, Town & Country Planning Department, have been named,” said an official.
11 August 2020||IMPHAL,||COVID-19 patient delivers healthy baby in Manipur||A young woman who had tested positive for COVID-19 gave birth to a healthy baby on Monday at the Regional Institute of Medical Sciences in Imphal, run by the Union Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. The woman, 24, hails from Lilong area in Thoubal district, hospital officials told presspersons. She had tested positive for the virus after she was admitted to the hospital. The woman delivered a baby girl, hospital sources said.
11 August 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Centre’s nod for NIV unit in Punjab||The Central government has given in-principle approval for setting up a National Institute of Virology Centre for the north zone in Punjab, said an official statement on Monday. The Centre’s letter had been received by the State Chief Secretary from Secretary to Government of India, Department of Health Research of Ministry of India-cum-Director General, Indian Council of Medical Research Balram Bhargava, said the statement.
11 August 2020||Kochi,||Swapna denied bail as court upholds UAPA charge||Swapna Suresh, the second accused in the diplomatic baggage gold smuggling case, was denied bail as the trial court found that there were sufficient grounds to believe that the accusations made against her were prima facie true. While maintaining that the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act will hold good against her considering the charges of attempting to destabilise the country’s economy as defined under the Act, the NIA Special Judge noted that there was nothing on record to show that the proceeds of the gold smuggling were used or intended to be used for funding terrorism. ‘Deeper probe needed’ It was a matter that requires deeper probe by the National Investigation Agency (NIA), the court said. The NIA had invoked Section 16 (punishment for terrorist act) 17 (punishment for raising funds for terrorist) and 18 (punishment for conspiracy). The trial court found weight in the arguments of the agency that an act of terrorism was not needed to attract the provisions of the Act. The NIA had contended that the accused had the knowledge that the smuggling would upset the economic security of the country. The economic security, as defined under the Act, included financial, monetary and fiscal stability, it argued. The judge relied on the entries in the case diary presented by the NIA and the statements given by the accused to the investigation officer that while smuggling gold, she was aware that her acts would leave a serious damage on the economy. ‘No political angle’ The judge did not find acceptable the arguments of the defence lawyer that the case was politically motivated and Swapna was caught between the political battle between the State and the Union governments. The Chief Minister himself had written to the Prime Minister seeking a comprehensive probe, the judge pointed out. There was evidence that Swapna had intervened on behalf of the UAE Consulate for the release of the cargo from the airport. The statement of the wife of the 4th accused given to the Customs also mentions Swapna role, the court noted.
11 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Soil tests, land acquisition resume for Metro phase II||After a break of nearly four months, when COVID-19 and the resultant lockdown disrupted work, the soil tests have resumed in the city for Chennai Metro Rail’s phase II project. The project will cover 118.9 km along three stretches — Madhavaram to SIPCOT, Madhavaram to Shollinganallur and CMBT to Poonamallee. Soon after the project was conceived and approved, soil testing was taken up in various parts of the city two years ago. The tests are usually done to gauge the geological conditions of the area, the knowledge of which is essential, before starting construction of tunnels and stations. Work suspended Following the pandemic, the soil tests were suspended for a few months. They have resumed now. According to officials of the Chennai Metro Rail Ltd. (CMRL), the tests had been resumed at a few places in the city and they planned to finish them soon. “Simultaneously, we have also begun the land acquisition process. The idea is to finish the process at the earliest so that we can focus on starting the construction,” an official said. At present, the CMRL has finalised detailed designs for all three stretches; but the priority is for the Madhavaram-CMBT and Madhavaram-Shollinganallur stretches. Tenders were floated for construction of tunnels early this year. Japan International Cooperation Agency will be providing loans and an agreement to this effect has been signed. Sources said that efforts are on to sign get funding from other banks such as the Asian Development Bank and the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank for other stretches in this project and it is likely to be finalised by the end of this year or early next year.
11 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||State records 5,914 fresh cases; over 6,000 patients discharged||A total of 5,914 persons tested positive for COVID-19 in the State on Monday, taking the overall case tally to 3,02,815. As many as 6,037 persons were discharged after treatment, taking the total figure to 2,44,675. The northern districts of Tiruvallur, Kancheepuram and Cuddalore continued to witness a spike in cases. Five deaths and 483 fresh cases were recorded in Chengalpattu. In Kancheepuram, three persons died and 310 new cases were identified. Tiruvallur recorded 399 fresh cases and four deaths. Among the southern districts, Theni recorded 357 new cases and five deaths; and Kanniyakumari, 205 cases and seven deaths. Madurai saw 100 new cases and five deaths, according to the daily health bulletin of the Directorate of Public Health. Seven new infections were reported in the Nilgiris, which was the only district to have recorded cases in single digit. The total number of active cases in Chennai was 11,328. The city recorded 976 new cases, while 1,305 persons were discharged. A total of 25 deaths were recorded in the city. Among those whose deaths were recorded on Monday were a four-month-old and three persons in their twenties. Of the 114 persons across the State whose deaths were recorded on Monday, 9 died of the infection while the rest had co-morbid conditions that resulted in their deaths. As many as 34 persons died in private facilities, while 80 persons admitted to government facilities died of complications owing to pre-existing ailments, officials said. A 4-month-old girl from Tiruvarur, who was admitted on June 20 to the Tiruvarur Medical College Hospital, died on June 24 due to COVID-19 pneumonia. The child was diagnosed as having been suffering from chromosomal anomaly. A 14-year-old boy from Thoothukudi, who was admitted to hospital on August 5, died on August 8 due to the infection. A 90-year-old man from Tiruvallur, who was suffering from type 2 diabetes mellitus and hypertension, was admitted to hospital on Saturday. He had complained of fever for five days, cough for four days and breathing difficulty for three days. He died of a sudden cardiac arrest on Sunday. A private laboratory in Tindivanam has been approved for testing. The State now has 130 testing facilities, including 61 in the government sector and 69 in the private sector. Situation in U.T. With two more COVID-19 deaths on Monday, the toll in the Union Territory of Puducherry rose to 89, while 245 new cases took the number of active cases to 2,180. S. Mohan Kumar, Health Director, said a 66-year-old woman from Nanbargal Nagar, Oulgaret, died at Jipmer, and a 66-year-old man from Yanam died of COVID-19. With the latest casualties, the death toll in Puducherry stood at 75, followed by eight in Yanam and six in Karaikal. The infection rate was 26.8% with 245 out of 912 samples testing positive. The fatality rate stood at 1.6%. Among the new institutional admissions, 192 cases are in Puducherry, six in Karaikal and 47 in the Yanam region. Cuddalore district on Monday reported 287 fresh cases, the highest single-day figure so far. The district also crossed the 5,000-mark in terms of the total number of positive cases. The tally stood at 5,066. A total of 89 cases were reported in Villupuram district, taking the total number of active cases to 4,620.  Cuddalore district on Monday reported 287 fresh cases, the highest single-day figure so far. Its overall case count crossed the 5,000-mark
11 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||T.N. may release water only after Mullaperiyar level touches 142 ft.||Though the Mullaperiyar dam’s water level crossed the 136-ft-mark, Tamil Nadu is likely to release surplus water from the dam only after the level reaches 142 ft. Pointing out that this position is based on the Supreme Court’s judgment, which permits Tamil Nadu to store water up to 142 ft, senior officials of the State government say inflow and rain forecast are the factors that have to be weighed before deciding to release the surplus water, which will flow through territories of Kerala before joining the sea. ‘Dynamic decision’ “Our decision will be a dynamic one based on the data,” an official observes. At noon on Monday, the dam’s water level stood at 136.45 ft. A few days ago, Kerala Chief Secretary Vishwas Mehta wrote to his Tamil Nadu counterpart K. Shanmugam, urging him to begin drawing water from the dam to Vaigai, in the event of the water level touching 136 ft. Another official attached to the Public Works Department says that the drawal for Vaigai has been going on. As of now, 2,000 cubic feet per second (cusecs) is being discharged against Mullaperiyar’s inflow of around 4,400 cusecs. As for the Cauvery, the State, during June 1 to August 10, realised around 49.856 thousand million cubic feet (tmc ft) against its due of 55.253 tmc ft, as per recordings done at the Biligundlu gauging site, located on the Tamil Nadu-Karnataka border. Quoting information provided by the Central Water Commission which maintains the gauging site, a Public Works Department official says that the shortfall is about 5.4 tmc ft, which is expected to be wiped out in no time if the river on the side of Tamil Nadu continues to witness the present rate of flow. For the entire month of August, the State should get 45.95 tmc ft, which means that it should receive about 36.5 tmc ft in the next 21 days. In the first 10 days of this month, the realisation by Tamil Nadu was 32 tmc ft.  Inflow and rain forecast are the factors that have to be weighed before deciding to release the surplus water
11 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Problems galore for police||In the wake of the pandemic and the alleged custodial deaths in Sattankulam, police personnel claim they have been facing too many difficulties in carrying out their duties. From arresting the accused, taking them for medical examination and producing them before jurisdictional court to admitting them to prisons, everything has become more difficult because of these two factors, they say. An Inspector of Police, who has handled more than a dozen arrests and remands in Chennai city over the last two months, says that after the deaths of Benicks and Jayaraj at Sattankulam, most personnel are hesitant to take risks or coercive action while conducting interrogations. “Even in hospitals and courts, when we take the accused for medical examination or remand, the doctors or judicial officers concerned, instead of asking about the case details, carry out a thorough enquiry with the accused to determine whether they have any bruises and if the police had beaten them,” he says. “For interrogation, we have to personally enquire with the accused. To achieve that purpose, one should not place a screen or mirror or lens. Is that possible with COVID-19? We are in a fix, unable to get information from those we arrest,” the officer adds. An Assistant Commissioner of Police says, “We face too many difficulties nowadays while arresting and remanding the accused. We have to produce an accused before a Magistrate within 24 hours. Last week, when we produced an accused for remand, the judicial officer took three hours and asked the accused to remove his clothes. The officer checked thoroughly whether the accused had any fresh injuries. Before the onset of the pandemic, the remand procedure used to get over within five minutes.” In normal circumstances, the police would have to take the accused for a medical examination before admission into prison and it would be over in the outpatient ward itself, within a few minutes. Now the person should be subjected to a COVID-19 test, which is time-consuming. Recently, one man accused of robbery escaped after the police removed his handcuffs to facilitate a COVID-19 test. He was nabbed subsequently. In a couple of cases, police personnel claimed they had contracted the virus while arresting the accused and interrogating them Another police officer says, “We cannot ascertain whether the accused has COVID-19 before the arrest. They have to be nabbed and brought under our custody. There is no guarantee that he or she will not transmit the disease. There are no norms to test within the mandatory 24 hours.” Police personnel were facing hardship even to buy food or tea for the accused as most of the hotels, and tea shops were closed for months. They had to travel long distances with the accused to transfer them from one sub-jail to another. “Now we cannot straightaway lodge the accused in the Central prison in Puzhal due to the pandemic. Authorities admit them in sub-jails first for the quarantine period. Last week, an accused was remanded by 5 p.m. We had to take the accused to Ponneri sub-jail and thereafter to Tituttani and Tiruvallur for lodging. Prison officials insist on a written undertaking that the accused would be escorted from the prison to the hospital if the results come out positive. It is really tough for us,” a senior police officer says. ‘Bathroom incidents’ Meanwhile, human rights activists point out that incidents of the accused suffering broken limbs after ‘slipping in the bathroom’ have come to a stop. Andrew Sesuraj.M., State convenor of the Tamil Nadu Child Rights Watch, says, “There is an attitudinal change among the police officers. Senior police officers strictly monitor subordinate level officers to ensure all rules are followed while effecting arrest and remand. This should continue.”
11 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Invoice racket busted, GST fraud of Rs. 33 crore detected||The Chennai North CGST Commissionerate claimed to have busted a GST invoice racket and unearthed fraud worth at least Rs. 33 crore. The Commissionerate, monitoring the trends and patterns in the GST invoices and e-way bills issued during the COVID-19 lockdown, came to know that a criminal gang, including former bank employees, was involved in making fake GST registrations to enable unscrupulous elements to evade tax by generating fake credit transactions and siphone off money. Simultaneous searches were carried out at several offices and residential premises of the suspects, including a former assistant vice-president of a private bank A. Diwakar and a businessman John Livingston, in the city. The two had established extensive contacts in banks and among traders. Incriminating documents were recovered during the searches on the premises of their accountants who filed GST returns and prepared e-way bills on their behalf. During interrogation, it emerged that the suspects and their associates conspired to operate a network of fictitious firms to supply fake GST invoices and pass on input credit to various recipients. According to Leo John Ilango, Joint Commissioner, CGST and Central Excise, Chennai North Commissionerate, those involved had obtained fake or dormant/non-functioning GSTINS registered in the names of various persons or GST registration was obtained using PAN of unrelated people and the companies were shown as proprietorship firms. Suspects opened current accounts in banks by creating fake partnership firms with their friends and relatives by using the names of same firms. During verification, it was found that many of the firms did not exist at the given address. Fake invoices were created and transactions done through the newly created accounts. Fake e-way bills were generated for invoices to create a fictitious trail of goods. Twenty firms were created by the gang and fake GST invoices for a sum of Rs. 182 crore were sold to 315 firms. The fraudulent input tax credit generated was estimated at Rs. 33 crore. According to Mr. Ilango, the final figure of GST evasion was likely to be higher as investigations were still on. Those involved have been arrested and remanded in judicial custody.  Fake invoices were created and fake e-way bills were generated to create a fictitious trail of goods
11 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||EC looking at introducing remote voting||Developing technology and processes to enable remote voting for those who are not in their constituencies can significantly help improve voter participation, said Umesh Sinha, Secretary-General, Election Commission of India, on Monday. Addressing a webinar organised by Tamil Nadu e-Governance Agency and the EC, Mr. Sinha said that despite all efforts, voter participation had remained only around 67% in general elections. A key factor contributing to this was the inability of the people, who had migrated from their native constituencies for various reasons, to vote. Unless structural changes in the election processes were made, it would be difficult to increase participation. He said that while remote voting could help such people, including those outside the country, to vote from wherever they were, such a system must satisfy the highest standards of security and trustworthiness. Highlighting how technology had been adopted in the election process, he pointed out how electoral rolls were in physical ledgers at the sub-district level just a decade ago. “Today, we have electoral rolls of 90 crore voters in a single portal and online services are provided for registration,” he said. ‘Vote from anywhere’ Bhaskar Ramamurthi, Director, IIT Madras, stressed on the need for the new remote voting system to not deviate much from the present electoral process followed. He said the system must have mechanisms to gain confidence of not only the voters, but booth agents of parties and independent candidates as voters would be allowed to vote from anywhere. Stating that a remote voting system would be a major step forward in enabling franchise for migrant population, he pointed out how students of his institution often expressed dissatisfaction over their inability to vote as they were away from home. Rajat Moona, Director, IIT Bhilai, explained about the architecture of a remote voting system that could be developed, by using blockchain technology as well. Jayesh Ranjan, Principal Secretary, Information Technology department, Telangana, spoke on the system implemented in his State to eliminate the need for pensioners to show up physically in a government office every year to show they were alive. “The artificial intelligence, machine learning and face recognition tools used by us could possibly be of use voter verification as well,” he said. Santosh Misra, chief executive officer, TNeGA, highlighted how technology, particularly blockchain, could transform government services.  Today, we have electoral rolls of more than 90 crore voters in a single portal
11 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||DMK chief questions lower cut-offs for EWS in civil services||DMK president M.K. Stalin on Monday alleged that the 10% reservation for the economically weaker sections among the forward communities in the civil services examination had caused a great injustice to social justice. In a statement issued in Chennai, he said candidates from the economically weaker sections among Forward Communities had cleared the preliminary examinations even though their cut-off score was 5.34 marks less than that for OBC candidates. “In the main examination, the cut-off score for the economically weaker section was 696 while for OBCs it was 718. The SCs’ cut-off was 706 marks and for the STs 699 marks. “In the interview, the cut-off for economically weaker section was 909 marks whereas for OBC candidates it was 925,” he said. Mr. Stalin said though there were 927 vacancies, candidates had been announced only for 829 posts. “Others seats are being kept as reserve. Why are the names of those who are in the reserve list not released? “Why are OBCs, STs and SCs not allowed to participate in the administrative structure of the country,” he asked. He said the UPSC, known for its efficiency and credibility, was reduced to such a situation by the BJP government which was against social justice. “It introduced the concept of an economically weaker section quota only to undermine social justice,” he said. The DMK leader demanded a thorough inquiry into the examinations conducted by the UPSC.
11 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Row over Tangedco giving individual connections under bulk tariff||Tamil Nadu Generation and Distribution Corporation Limited’s (Tangedco) move allowing individual service connection to each dwelling unit for residential projects of certain government agencies by charging tariff under “bulk supply” category, has raised eyebrows with a section of experts saying it is contradictory to the 2017 tariff order. “Representations have been received from various government agencies viz., Tamil Nadu Police Housing Corporation Limited (TNPHC) and Tamil Nadu Housing Board (TNHB) under Tamil Nadu Government Residential Housing Scheme for Rental Purpose (TNGRHS) requesting Tangedco to effect individual service connections to each dwelling unit instead of single-point supply for their administrative convenience,” a memo issued by the State utility on August 4 said. In the circular, Tangedco said by order of its chairman and managing director, it has approved the request to effect individual service connections under low tension tariff I–C to each dwelling unit of the agencies. It said they have to bear the total cost of extension including the cost of distribution transformers along with the structures. As per the 2017 tariff order, approved by Tamil Nadu Electricity Regulatory Commission (TNERC), low tension tariff I-C is applicable for bulk supply for residential colonies of employees such as railway colonies, plantation worker colonies, defence colonies, police quarters, residential quarters of Kudankulam nuclear power project etc. Single-point supply to Cooperative group housing society and for the residential purpose of employees as specified in “The Electricity (Removal of difficulties) Eighth Order 2005”, also comes under the low tension tariff I-C. The tariff for this category is a flat Rs. 4.60 per unit along with a fixed charge of Rs. 60 per month. There is no concession of [free] 100 units or the different slabs for this category like in the case of other domestic consumers. “The 2017 tariff order is very clear about the category of customers to which low tension tariff I-C is applicable, without any ambiguity. To apply that tariff for individual service connection is contradictory,” advocate Vijay Anand said. “If the supply is effected to the individual dwelling or service connection, instead of bulk supply, only LT tariff I-A will kick in and LT tariff I-C cannot be applied. Whether if it is a tenant or a owner of the house, only LT tariff I-A will apply for individual service connections,” P. Muthusamy, former TNERC director (engineering) said. K. Kathirmathiyon, secretary, Coimbatore Consumer Cause pointed out that giving nod for individual connections and collecting bulk tariff is against what is approved by the TNERC in its tariff order. A senior official of the Tangedco confirmed the issue of circular and said it would cause confusion for local officials in granting the connections and determining the applicable tariff.
11 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||All class 10 students declared ‘passed’||All 9.39 lakh class 10 students who were supposed to take up the board exams in March have been declared ‘passed’ by the Directorate of Government Examinations. The SSLC exams were initially scheduled to begin on March 27 and were postponed owing to the lockdown due to COVID-19. While it was later scheduled to be held in July, the exams were cancelled and Tamil Nadu Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami had said that all students would be declared as having passed. The marks were calculated based on their half-yearly and quarterly exams, and 20% weightage was given to their attendance as well. On Monday from 9.30 a.m. onwards, students were able to access their results online. Mixed bag The results have been a mixed bag for schools. While some have said that the number of high scorers have dropped, some institutions are happy with the outcome. A few schools have students who have scored 500 out of 500 as well, which is a rarity in SSLC exams. “Most private schools set tough half-yearly and quarterly papers to give students enough practice and the initial announcement about taking into account internal assessments was concerning. However, the results have been along the mark ranges we expected even if there had been a board exam,” said Vishnucharan Paneerselvam, Correspondent, Shree Niketan Group of Schools. While there are common quarterly and half-yearly question papers that are set for each district, government schools generally use these common question papers and private schools generally prepare their students with tougher exams. Noticeable dip B. Purushothaman, Correspondent, Everwin Group of Schools, said that there had been a noticeable dip in the scores at his institution. “While we usually have at least 10 students scoring above 490, the same is not the case this year. School exams are always tougher and students generally gradually improve their performance towards the end of the academic year,” he said. For their marksheets, Mr. Purushothaman said that many students and parents are keen that there is a clear mention made about how they were assessed. “Instead of issuing a marksheet identical to the ones given the previous years, a mention should be made about the cancellation of the board exams and how the marks were calculated,” he added. At government schools, while students who were expected to score low marks have done well, students who were pegged as top scorers are a bit disappointed with their scores, said Patric Raymond, General Secretary of the Tamil Nadu Graduate Teachers Federation. The DGE has said that students can collect their provisional mark sheets through their schools from August 17 to 21 and can also submit any grievances they have with regard to their scores. No clarity While the 9.39 lakh students who received their results will move on to the next step of securing admissions and starting classes for Plus 1, there is still no clarity about the SSLC exams to be held for private candidates. According to data released by the DGE in March, 10,742 candidates had registered to take up the SSLC exams privately. “It is unfair that all other students have passed and these candidates are being made to wait. This will result in the loss of a year for them if the exam is postponed further,” a teacher said. Teachers associations have been urging the school education department to make an announcement about the conduct of the exams at the earliest or address the concerns of the candidates who are still waiting.
11 August 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||‘State’s two-language policy not restrictive’||Tamil Nadu’s two-language policy cannot be dubbed restrictive as it does not prevent anyone from voluntarily learning an additional language, including Hindi, Prof. A. Ramasamy, academic and historian, said on Monday. The former vice-chairman of Tamil Nadu State Council for Higher Education told The Hindu that any advocacy for the three-language formula, proposed by the National Education Policy, would only impose an additional burden on rural students. Students from poor families will be forced to learn a third language, which they may not need for practical purposes. Countering former Anna University vice-chancellorE. Balagurusamy’s views in a letter to Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswamiopposing the two-language policy, he said it was erroneous to argue that learning Hindi was required as a link language within India. The former Alagappa University vice-chancellor, who authored the book, ‘Struggle for Freedom of Languages in India’, said lakhs of people in Tamil Nadu have learnt Hindi in CBSE schools and Dakshina Bharat Hindi Prachar Sabha. “How many of them have gone outside Tamil Nadu for work? In fact, people from other States are coming here in search of jobs. So one cannot argue that Hindi must be learnt from an employment perspective,” he said. Tamil Nadu is not the only State to shun the three-language policy. Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh and Jharkhand predominantly have Hindi as the medium of instruction, as they feel that is sufficient, he contended. “Dravidian leaders were never against learning Hindi; they only opposed its imposition. Even DMK founder and former Chief Minister C. N. Annadurai had purchased a book ‘Tamil-Hindi Suyabodhanai’ (self-learning) for 50 paise. But he wrote that he gave it up as he did not find time to learn it beyond a point,” he recalled. Prof. Ramasamy, a student-leader during the anti-Hindi agitation, said Prof. Balagurusamy was way off the mark in his assumption that if Annadurai was alive, he would support the three-language formula.
11 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||HC to hear Stalin’s plea on Wednesday||The Madras High Court Bench will on Wednesday hear a petition filed by DMK president M.K. Stalin seeking to declare as illegal, null and void the Confidence Motion moved by Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami in the Assembly in February 2017. The tenure of the present Assembly is due to end in about nine months. Chief Justice Amreshwar Pratap Sahi and Justice Senthilkumar Ramamoorthy would be hearing the case along with similar petitions filed by activist ‘Traffic’ K.R. Ramaswamy and T. Analagan, son of former DMK MLA R. Tamaraikani. These three cases have been listed as part of a batch of cases filed by 21 DMK legislators against the breach of privilege proceedings initiated against them in August 2017. The confidence motion was declared passed by Speaker P. Dhanapal by way of a voice vote on February 18, 2017, with 122 AIADMK MLAs voting for it. The present Deputy Chief Minister O. Panneerselvam, who was then heading an AIADMK faction, and 10 other MLAs voted against it. Writ petition On February 20, 2017, Mr. Stalin filed a writ petition to declare the passage of the motion illegal. On August 28, 2017, the Committee of Privileges of the Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly issued show cause notices to 21 DMK legislators, including party president Mr. Stalin, for having displayed the banned gutkha sachets in the House on July 19, 2017. The DMK legislators approached the High Court on September 5, 2017 and claimed that the privilege proceedings were a ploy to keep them out of the Assembly session whenever a fresh floor test was conducted. Though all cases were listed before the then first Division Bench of Chief Justice Indira Banerjee (now a Supreme Court judge) and Justice M. Sundar, the Bench heard the 18 MLAs disqualification batch of cases first. They reserved orders on January 23, 2018. Only in March this year, the first Bench fixed a date for hearing in the case filed by Mr. Stalin.  COVID-19 impact However, the COVID-19 outbreak disrupted regular functioning of courts. Now, the cases related to the privilege proceedings have been listed on Wednesday at the request of Advocate-General Vijay Narayan and along with them the cases regarding motion of confidence have also been tagged.
11 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Light to moderate rainfall likely today||An upper air circulation will bring light to moderate rains over some districts on Tuesday. Heavy rains are likely in one or two places in the Nilgiris district. However, rainfall activity may largely decrease over the State after Tuesday, according to the Meteorological Department. The cyclonic circulation now lies over southwest Bay of Bengal off Tamil Nadu coast at 7.6 km above mean sea level. This would influence light to moderate rainfall over Vellore, Krishnagiri, Dharmapuri, Tiruvallur, Theni and Kanniyakumari districts. The Nilgiris district may get isolated heavy rains on Tuesday. This season, the Nilgiris district has received 92.6 cm of rainfall, 65% more than its average so far since June 1, officials of the Meteorological Department. Rain in Chennai Chennai and its suburbs have chances of light rains in some areas on Tuesday and have a day temperature of 32 degree Celsius. However, rains may ease over most parts of the State this week and only isolated rains would occur, they added. In 24 hours ending 8.30 a.m. on Monday, Devala in the Nilgiris received the highest amount of 12 cm rainfall and Yercaud in Salem district registered 10 cm. S. Balachandran, Deputy Director-General of Meteorology, Chennai, said the weather system off coast may not sustain for more than a day. The southwesterly wind speed, which was active during the past few days, was weakening.
11 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Experts share tips on passing civil services exam||Kingmakers IAS Academy conducted a free webinar on Sunday titled “Unakkul Oru IAS”. V. Irai Anbu, additional chief secretary and director of Anna Institute of Management, spoke about ways of cracking the civil services. M. Ravi, ADGP, who explained the difference between State and Central examinations, said clearing UPSC exam was easier than TNPSC. Beno Zephine, a visually challenged IFS officer, secretary of Indian Embassy Paris, spoke about her journey. Sathyashree Boominathan, academy chairman and managing director, moderated the webinar.
11 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Jaya’s properties: CJ orders listing of cases||Chief Justice Amreshwar Pratap Sahi of Madras High Court has ordered for listing of cases related to properties left behind by former Chief Minister J. Jayalalithaa before a Division Bench of Justices Vineet Kothari and Krishnan Ramasamy on Wednesday. A Bench of Justices N. Kirubakaran and Abdul Quddhose had, on May 27, allowed a case filed by Jayalalithaa’s nephew J. Deepak and declared him and his sister J. Deepa as legal heirs entitled to inherit all properties left behind by their aunt. Then, the judges had also recorded the undertaking given by the siblings to form a public welfare trust, to be selected as per their discretion, and ordered listing of the case once again, after eight weeks, for reporting compliance. In the meantime, Mr. Deepak filed a writ petition challenging the State government’s move to acquire Jayalalithaa’s Poes Garden residence ‘Veda Nilayam’. Justice N. Anand Venkatesh, on July 17, referred that petition to the Division Bench to avoid contradictory orders.
11 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Kin of students who drowned in Russia await answers from govt.||The families of the four medical students who drowned in the Volga river in Russia on Saturday, say they are clueless about when the bodies would reach them. The lack of information and inability to speak to the Russian government as they did not know the language has left them with no option but petition the State for help. Four students, three of them in the final year of MD and one in the second year of the six year programme at Volgograd Medical Academy had drowned in the river on Saturday night. Their bodies were found along the banks of the river on Sunday morning. Anandan, father of Manoj, one of the students who drowned had petitioned the Commissionerate of Rehabilitation and Welfare of non-resident Tamils, which in turn had petitioned to the Indian ambassador in Russia to assist in transporting the mortal remains. Anand Kumar, uncle of Stephen Lebaku, whose family lives in Chennai said the Indian embassy had taken over the issue. Meanwhile the relatives of Mohammed Ashiq, petitioned Tiruppur District Collector K. Vijayakarthikeyan to arrange for the mortal remains to be brought back. Ashiq's father Mohamed Rafi, a resident of Chokkanathapalayam in Dharapuram, Tiruppur district, told The Hindu over phone that the Collectorhad assured him that he would discuss with higher officials. The family of R. Vignesh of Thittakudi, submitted a petition to the Collector Chandra Sekhar Sakhamuri seeking the administration’s intervention to bring back the body.  CM condoles death Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Monday expressed condolences to the families of four students. He has directed senior officials to expedite the process of bringing back their bodies to their respective hometowns at the earliest.
11 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Ammonium nitrate to be cleared soon||Commissioner of Police Mahesh Kumar Aggarwal on Monday said all containers of ammonium nitrate will be moved out from a container freight station (CFS) at Manali within two or three days. In the wake of the blast in Beirut recently, the authorities had chalked out a plan to move 740 tonnes of ammonium nitrate, which was seized by Customs andstored in a container freight station (CFS) in Manalisince 2015. Customs authoritiesbegan to movethe seized ammonium nitrate to a Hyderabad-based buyer from Sunday. Ten containers with 181 tonnes of ammonium nitrate were moved on Sunday. There are 27 more containers filled with ammonium nitrate at the CFS. 32 personnel rejoin duty On Monday, Mr. Aggarwal and other officers gave a warm reception to 32 police personnel, including Deputy Commissioner, Mylapore, G. Shanshank Sai, who recovered from COVID-19 and rejoined duty. Later, Mr. Aggarwal told presspersons that 1,870 police personnel of the city police had tested positive for COVID-19 so far and 1,468 of them rejoined their duties after they recovered. He said 32 suspects had been detained under the Goondas Act last month. The Commissioner said there was a good response from the public to the video-calling introduced to redress grievances.
11 August 2020||Chennai,TAMIL NADU||Maridhas appears before CCB||YouTuber Maridhas, on Monday, appeared before the Cyber Crime Wing of the Central Crime Branch (CCB) in connection with an inquiry into a case of allegedly forging an email, based on a complaint from Vinay Sarawagi, Associate Executive Editor of the News18 Group. Mr. Sarawagi said on July 5 that Mr. Maridhas posted a video on his YouTube channel, wherein he alleged thatNews 18 Tamil Naduchannel had been running an anti-Hinduism campaign for four years. On July 10, Mr. Maridhas in a clip showed an email of July 9 allegedly sent by Mr. Sarawagi. However, Mr. Sarawagi denied having sent any email and filed a complaint.
11 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||E-Vidhyuva fest concludes||Vidya Mandir @ Estancia hosted its virtual inter-school competition E-Vidhyuva in the city recently. Every year, the school holds its intra and inter-school cultural fests in June and July. This year, despite the pandemic, the school management, staff and students wanted to host the annual youth fest — Vidhyuva and decided to hold it virtually on July 25. The theme for the “Steam” event was COVID-19. Various contests based on science, technology, engineering, arts and maths were organised. There were competitions on creating a video to salute soldiers, creating a meme, and mathematically symmetrical drawing of the COVID-19 among others. Students from primary to high school from various institutions sent their entries for different categories. Among the winners were students from PSBB Millennium School, OMR; Lalaji Memorial Omega International School and Ramana Vidyalaya.
11 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Vehicle registrations down 38.43% in July||Vehicle registrations in the State declined 38.43% to 1,10,581 units in July from 1,79,591 during the corresponding period in 2019, according to the Federation of Automobile Dealers’ Associations. The fall was steeper than in June, when registrations declined 26.92%. However, tractor registrations continued to be robust. Two-wheeler registrations declined 35.67% to 95,902 units in July from 1,49,073 in the same period last year. The fall was sharper than the 21.73% drop seen in June. In July, passenger vehicle registrations were down 46.88% to 9,001 units from 16,945 units in the same month last year. Three-wheeler and commercial vehicle registrations also continued to see a sharp decline.
11 August 2020||CHENNAI,TAMIL NADU||Language issue is an emotive one: Veeramani||Dravidar Kazhagam president K. Veeramani on Monday said the Centre should not forget that the language issue is an emotive one and national integration is not possible with imposition of a language across India. In a statement, Mr. Veeramani referred to the alleged incident where a CISF officer had asked DMK MP Kanimozhi, if she was an Indian, for not being able to comprehend Hindi. “Is it desirable that a MP from Tamil Nadu, elected by lakhs of voters, is being identified as an Indian (or not) in Chennai based on the ability to speak Hindi? We strongly condemn this,” he said.
11 August 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Gymnasiums reopen after nearly five months||Gymnasiums and fitness studios in Coimbatore that remained closed for nearly five months due to COVID-19 lockdown reopened on Monday. The reopening of the facilities was allowed after the State Government issued detailed guidelines for gym goers and managements. A senior official with the Revenue Department said the facilities would be monitored in the coming days to ensure all the guidelines were followed. Gym managements here have advised clients not to wear mask during workouts as it may cause difficulty in breathing. Instead they were asked to wear face shield and gloves. They were permitted inside gyms after checking temperature with thermal scanner. Equipment were realigned on gym floors to maintain the six feet gap as per the guidelines. Clients were also asked to carry their own gloves, towels, mat and skipping rope. K. Rahul, a fitness enthusiast, said that he wanted to restart the workout regime, as full regular workouts were not done during the lockdown. R. Senthil Kumar, chief executive officer of Sane Fitness Center at Race Course in Coimbatore, said they were also checking the oxygen saturation level of clients using pulse oximeter. “Persons who have saturation level below 95 % (SpO2), those who have co-morbidities, those aged above 50 and below 15 and pregnant women will not be permitted for workouts. As clients have not come to the gym for several months, trainers give special instructions to clients,” he said. Sanitiser dispensers were arranged in all gyms. Large gyms that employ housekeeping staff have made arrangements to clean the surfaces of equipment with disinfectant solution after they are used by each client. The reopening of gyms was also a relief for operators who bore the brunt of lockdown. “Operators of small, medium and large gymnasiums alike suffered huge loss after the training facilities remained closed due to lockdown. Managements had to take care of electricity bill, building rent and salary of instructors,” said Mr. Beethovan.  Salem  Gyms and fitness centres started functioning in Salem from Monday. P. Prakash, who operates a fitness chain in Salem, said all safety measures were being followed. “All customers are provided with gloves and personal hand sanitisers. Each equipment is disinfected after individual use and only 20 persons are allowed to use the facility in one session,” he said.
11 August 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||SACON’s expertise sought to examine causes of elephant deaths in Coimbatore||The Forest Department has decided to send biological samples of elephants that died in Coimbatore Forest Division to an advanced laboratory at Sálim Ali Centre for Ornithology and Natural History (SACON) at Anaikatti here for detailed scientific examinations to find causes behind the mortalities. Poisoning With 17 elephants, including young ones, died in the forest division this year, the Department sought the expertise of SACON to check whether factors including chronic poisoning and toxic effects were reasons for the mortalities. As many as 16 elephants died of various reasons in seven forest ranges of the forest division from January to July. The 17th elephant death was reported on Monday when an ailing female elephant died within the limits of Pooluvapatti forest range without responding to treatments given in the last two days. District Forest Officer D. Venkatesh told The Hindu that discussions were held with SACON authorities to get biological samples of deceased elephants examined at the advanced laboratory which was inaugurated last year. “Experts at SACON have given us instructions on the type of samples required and methods to be followed while collecting them. Samples of kidney, intestine and liver will be sent to the laboratory for tests,” he said. Chemical traces With several elephants frequently raiding farms bordering forest areas, where use of pesticides is rampant, the Department wants to know whether traces of chemicals in crops have an impact on the health of the pachyderms. While some of the 17 elephants died of natural causes such as fight between other elephants and accidental fall, many died after roaming and lying down in ailing condition for several days. Facilities S. Muralidharan, senior principal scientist, Division of Ecotoxicology at SACON, said the National Centre for Avian Ecotoxicology at the premier research institute was equipped with facilities to study toxic effects of chemicals on any living organisms. It is learnt that biological samples collected from the elephant that died on Monday will be sent to the laboratory for examination.
11 August 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||College students from Coimbatore city win prize in hackathon||Third year Computer Science and Engineering students of Sri Krishna College of Engineering and Technology A. Vijayaalayan, V. Swetha, B. Naveen Kumar, K.M. Nithin, T.N. Sanjaiy Kumar and Kiran Subramanian won the first prize at the Smart India Hackathon 2020, said a release from the institution. The students who grouped to form ‘Team Zero_Buggers’ won a cash prize of Rs. 1 lakh for the problem statement ‘Tracker Mate.’ Professor and Head S. Balakrishnan guided the students in providing their solution, ‘Tracking and Prevention of any suspicious activity of inmates in the jail’ for the Ministry of Technical Education, Chandigarh. The release said the students developed a system with web camera and screen that should be placed with turnstile in front of each block of a prison so that a prisoner leaving his block could pass through only when the turnstile opened. The students had used face, gesture and speech recognition to develop the solution, the release said. Students of Hindusthan Institute of Technology also won the first prize at the Smart India Hackathon 2020. A release said that the team provided the Artificial Intelligence-based solution to the problem statement 'Software for computerisation of farmer, land details along with beneficiary schemes details' given by Dr. B.R. Ambedkar Institute of Technology, Andaman. The team comprised final year students S.M. Jeevan, P. Jayasurya, Ajith Kumar and B. Dhibesh and third year students M.S. Aswani and A. Divya. Students from Rathinam Group of Institutions M. Janani, M. Shebana, Alex Jeffrin, X. Rahulraj and A. Shajan bagged the first prize for their solution, ‘Automatic assessment of pavement condition based on road photography’. The Rural Development of Karnataka had proposed a problem statement for the hackathon and the students provided the solution after connecting online with a nodal centre in Bengaluru. The college release said the artificial intelligence-based solution that the student had offered helped the Department map potholes on road and alert visually challenged persons navigate damaged pavements.
11 August 2020||COIMBATORE,TAMIL NADU||Highways Dept. wants stretch on Mettupalayam Road closed to traffic for six months||The National Highways wing of the State Highways Department has requested the Coimbatore city and Coimbatore rural police to prohibit movement of vehicles from Kavundamapalayam to GN Mills on Mettupalayam Road for at least six months to facilitate the construction of two flyovers. Sources said that closing of traffic was required for the construction of a one km stretch at Kavundampalayam and another 650 metre at GN Mills on Mettupalayam Road. Highways Department officials met R. Mutharasu, Deputy Commissioner of Police (Traffic), Coimbatore city police, and Ara Arularasu, Superintendent of Police, Coimbatore district (rural) police, a few days ago and requested to close the stretch within two weeks. Traffic diversions The police have planned diversions via Bharathi Park Road, GCT junction, Thadagam Road, Kanuvai, Pannimadai and K. Vadamadurai for vehicles heading from city towards Mettupalayam. The plan for vehicles coming from Mettupalayam to the city was to take a left turn at Thudiyalur junction and pass via Kannappa Nagar, Vellakinar and Nallampalayam.
11 August 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Accused escapes from hospital for second time||Coimbatore city police and Palladam police in Tiruppur are on the lookout for an accused in a murder case who escaped from the psychiatric ward of the Coimbatore Medical College and Hospital (CMCH) on Monday. The police said that N. Hem Sagar Naik (30) from Balangir district of Odisha, who was arrested by the Palladam police in connection with the murder of his roommate in April this year, went missing from the hospital for the second time. He was arrested by the Palladam police on April 12 after which he was remanded in judicial custody. He was admitted to CMCH on August 3 allegedly after he exhibited psychiatric problems. Though the man escaped from the ward in the early hours of Sunday, the Race Course police managed to nab him at Uppilipalayam. He was arrested again and remanded in judicial custody, after which he was shifted to the same ward at CMCH. However, the man escaped from the ward again on Monday.
11 August 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Head constable booked||The Traffic Investigation Wing (TIW) of Coimbatore city police registered a case against a head constable of the armed reserve for negligent driving and injuring two persons near Ganapathy recently. On August 5, the car driven by policeman Nagaraj collided with the two-wheeler rode by New Siddhapudur residents A. Indhirani (52) and her son Madan Kumar (25), at Sathyamangalam – Sanganoor Road junction near Ganapathy. After hitting the scooter, the car rammed a pole on the roadside. The woman and son suffered severe injuries and a CCTV visual of the accident was widely circulated on social media. At the time of accident, Nagaraj gave his name as Rajkumar to the TIW. Investigation revealed that the car was driven by Nagaraj.
11 August 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore Collector resumes duty||District Collector K. Rajamani resumed work on Monday after being cured of COVID-19. A fortnight ago, he went on leave after testing positive.
11 August 2020||Coimbatore,TAMIL NADU||24 candidates clear CSE||A total of 24 candidates from KPR IAS Academy here cleared the Civil Services Examination (CSE 2019) recently. They comprised 16 IAS and IPS candidates and eight Indian Forest Service (IFS) candidates, a release said. Managing director of KPR IAS Academy K.P.D. Sigamani and program director M. Rajkumar congratulated the candidates.    Policy holders of Postal Life Insurance and Rural Postal Life Insurance shall apply to revive their policies that have crossed the limit of five years by August 31. Those interested may apply in writing to any post office and must produce a medical certificate, said Senior Superintendent of Post Offices (Coimbatore Division) S. Santhalingam in a release. Policies that are discontinued or lapsed for a continuous period of five years from the date of first unpaid premium will not be eligible for revival on or after September 1, according to the release.
11 August 2020||DINDIGUL/MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Biomedical waste left in the open||The staff of Dindigul Government Headquarters Hospital are dumping all kinds of waste outside the isolation ward, in total disregard to rules governing safe disposal of biomedical waste. Since the COVID-19 pandemic outbreak in March, hospitals have come under strict surveillance by the health and civic authorities. Dindigul, which had reported less number of positive cases during April-June, suddenly witnessed a spurt from the beginning of July. The district administration then started converting educational institutions into COVID-19 care centres. With the isolation ward at the Dindigul hospital overflowing, there seems to be very little importance being attached to waste disposal by both inpatients and hospital staff. Food packets and leftovers are strewn all over the open area by the inmates through the window. Even, the face mask, empty sanitizer bottles and gloves too are thrown away. When The Hindu news photographer attempted to take a few photographs from a distance, the staff abused him. A woman staff member wanted publication of a news report about shortage of staff and non-cooperation by civic authorities. “We are not responsible for all this,” she said. A doctor said waste being dumped from Saturday noon was lifted only on Monday by the civic body. Moreover, the isolation ward was filled to its capacity. Patients were not discharged on weekends as senior doctors were not available, he added. Collector M. Vijayalakshmi said there was no shortage of staff. The isolation ward at the GH and other COVID-19 care centres had been provided with all infrastructure. “I will look into the issue,” she said.  Penalty Madurai Corporation slapped a penalty of Rs. 50,000 on a private hospital on Monday for dumping biomedical waste inside and near a common dumper bin placed on Melur Main Road (ward 44) near Central vegetable market. Omsakthi, Sanitary Inspector of the ward, said Corporation conservancy workers noticed that personal protective equipment, gloves, masks and syringes were scattered around the bin on Monday morning. “We also found the bill of the private hospital which had dumped the waste,” he said. Subsequently, the hospital authorities were called to pick up the biomedical waste, he added. Assistant City Health Officer S. Vinodh Raja said dumping of biomedical waste in the open was a violation of Bio-Medical Waste (Handling and Management) Rules. According to the norms, it was mandatory for every hospital to have a contract with Common Biomedical Waste Treatment Facility (CBWTF) for incineration. A senior doctor from the private hospital said that they did not treat COVID-19 patients.
11 August 2020||Erode,TAMIL NADU||Paddy cultivation targeted at 52,000 hectares in Erode district||With farmers commencing agricultural activities for the current Kharif season, the Department of Agriculture has fixed a target of 52,000 hectares for paddy cultivation in the district, said C. Chinnasamy, Joint Director of Agriculture here. Water was released in Kalingarayan Canal to irrigate 15,743 acre, Arakankottai – Thadapalli canals to irrigate 24,504 acre recently. The State government had announced that water would be released in the Lower Bhavani Project (LBP) canal from August 15 to irrigate 1,03,500 acre in the district. Also, monsoon is expected to bring copious water to the Bhavani Sagar dam which will help in adequate availability of water for the paddy cultivation. Currently, nursery preparation for paddy has been completed and farmers started preparing their land for planting the saplings. Mr. Chinnasamy said that Kuruvai cultivation is in full swing in the district and the department had set a target of 52,000 hectare of paddy cultivation. He said that adequate fertilizers were available at the Primary Agriculture Cooperative Societies and were sold to the farmers at subsidised rates. Block level officers were asked to monitor the sale of fertilizers in societies and in private shops, he added. A total of 312 fertilizer samples were taken in the past four months and eight samples were identified as sub-standard and action were taken, he said. Mr. Chinnasamy warned that action would be taken against persons if they were found selling fertilizers without obtaining license and also for stocking. “If traders were found selling fertilizers at higher prices, action would be taken”, he added.
11 August 2020||KALLAKURICHI,TAMIL NADU||Arts and science college to come up at Rishivandhiyam, says CM||Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami on Monday announced that a new Government Arts and Science College would be set up in Rishivandhiyam in Kallakurichi district. Addressing a press conference, he said that the government had accorded top priority for improving infrastructure in rural areas to enable poor students pursue higher education. Tamil Nadu is leading the country in the Gross Enrolment Ratio (GER) in higher education. The GER, which was 32% in 2011 has now increased to 50%. Mr. Palaniswami also announced the creation of a new taluk headquarters with Kalvarayan hills. This was a long pending demand of the locals, he said. A state-of-the-art CT scan facility will be set up at Kallakurichi Government General Hospital at an estimated cost of Rs. 1.57 crores. Mr. Palaniswami said that a supply chain management scheme aimed at creating necessary infrastructure to reduce post-harvest loss in vegetables, fruits and other perishable commodities would be implemented in 10 districts. New check dams The government has also sanctioned Rs. 350 crores for construction of new check dams across the State to harness groundwater, he added. He also reviewed COVID-19 control measures in the district. Law Minister C.Ve. Shanmugam and Collector Kiran Gurrala were present.
11 August 2020||KARAIKAL,TAMIL NADU||Karaikal Collector tests negative||Swab samples taken from Collector Arjun Sharma have tested negative for COVID-19 in the second test. The Collector had tested positive for the virus a few days back. However, the Collector will continue to remain in home quarantine, Deputy Director - Immunisation, Mohanraj, said in a press release.
11 August 2020||KARUR,TAMIL NADU||Woman, two kids found dead||Three persons of a family, including two children, were found dead in a house on Bhagavathiammam Temple Street in Rayanur, in the district, on Monday. The deceased were identified as Muthulakshmi (29), wife of Balakrishnan, and their sons Rakshith (3) and Dakshith (2). According to sources, on noticing smoke emanating from the house, neighbours broke open the doors in the morning, and found three members of family dead. While Muthulakshmi had severe burn injuries, her children reportedly died due to suffocation. On information, the Thanthonrimalai police rushed to the spot and removed the bodies to the Government Medical College Hospital for post-mortem examinations. The police recovered a burnt mobile phone with its charger connected to an electrical socket. It is suspected that the mobile phone could have caught fire due to a short circuit, and the fire had spread to a sofa, beside which Muthulakshmi was found dead with burn injuries. Her children, who were asleep in an adjacent room, were likely asphyxiated due to the smoke. Thanthonrimalai police have registered a case and are investigating.
11 August 2020||KARUR,TAMIL NADU||Protest by MP||Member of Parliament of Karur S. Jothimani on Monday staged a sit-in protest at the office of the Karur Municipality, protesting against non-utilisation of funds allocated under the Member of Parliament Local Area Development scheme. She said she had allocated about Rs. 30 lakh for a few projects here and intimated her decision to the municipal administration in March itself. But, the administration had been delaying the projects due to the intervention of Minister for Transport M.R. Vijayabhaskar, she alleged. Aravakuruchi MLA V. Senthil Balaji of the DMK also joined her in expressing solidarity. She withdrew her protest after an assurance from Municipal Commissioner Sudha that she would take a decision on utilising the funds within a few days.
11 August 2020||KRISHNAGIRI,TAMIL NADU||Protest against Centre’s ‘anti-people’ policies||The Communist Party of India (Marxist) affiliated organisations staged a demonstration here condemning the “anti-people” policies of the government at the Centre led by the BJP. Demands The protesters belonging to the Centre of Indian Trade Unions, All India Kisan Sabha, and All India Workers Union put forth a slew of demands that included free health protection and medical intervention for all, livelihood assistance and employment guarantee among others. The CPI(M) affiliated organisations also demanded that each citizen was granted 10 kg of dry rations for six months free of cost and families that did not fall under the income tax bracket be provided with a monthly income assistance of Rs. 7,500 for the first six months. Wages Under the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme, each beneficiary family should be given 200 wage days of work, and the wages increased to Rs. 600 a day and a similar urban employment guarantee scheme must be provided for the urban poor. Protests were held outside the BSNL office in Dharmapuri. Similar protests were held at Uthangarai in Krishnagiri.
11 August 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||Madurai district records drop in ILI cases too||The drop in COVID-19 cases in Madurai district has also denoted a fall in the number of people with influenza like illness (ILI) symptoms who approach fever camps, says Collector T. G. Vinay. In the week between August 4 and 10, 655 patients have tested positive for COVID-19. Out of them, the total number of ILI patients were 174, according to data provided by the district administration. It is roughly around 31% of the cases. This is in contrast to around 33% of total cases exhibiting ILI symptoms between July 28 and August 3. Deputy Director of Public Health Priya Raj says the 2% drop and consistent stabilisation of cases should be attributed to early identification of cases through fever camps. “We decide the location and the number of fever camps based on where the majority of the previous day’s cases originated. The aim is to identify the wards with positive cases and encourage those in and around the area to come forward and test themselves,” she says. Currently, 70% of all cases are in urban areas and 30% in rural areas. The Collector says although there is no clustering, lone cases are present in all 13 blocks of the district but are all scattered. “Though, in the initial stages, we saw that the Corporation and peri-urban areas like Tirupparankundram, Madurai East and Madurai West blocks had a number of cases, we have realised now that the 100 odd cases each day are spread out and are few in number. We hope to ensure that the number of cases drop further,” she says.
11 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||AIADMK MLA hospitalised as he develops symptoms||The MLA from Madurai South Assembly constituency, S.S. Saravanan, was admitted to a private hospital after his CT scan suggested that he had contracted COVID-19. The AIADMK MLA said he had lost his sense of taste and smell 10 days ago. “Afterwards, I developed a headache as well. I started taking kabasurakudineer (herbal concoction) and tried steam inhalation, but did not get much relief,” he said. When the MLA went for a medical check-up on Sunday, he was asked to undergo a CT scan, and based on the report, which showed chest congestion, he was asked to get himself admitted to a hospital. Only on Saturday, another MLA from Madurai — K. Manickam of Sholavandan Assembly constituency — was admitted to a private hospital for COVID-19 treatment. Both MLAs had taken part in a review meeting held by Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami at the Madurai Collectorate on August 6. Minister for Cooperation K. Raju, representing Madurai West Assembly constituency, was the first MLA in the district to be infected by the virus. DMK MLA tests positive Kulithalai MLA E. Ramar, 69, of the DMK, tested positive for the infection on Monday. He is believed to have contracted the virus from his wife R. Jothi, who was discharged a few days ago from a private hospital in Tiruchi. Since the MLA was a primary contact of his wife, the hospital authorities subjected him to a swab test on August 7. After the results came back positive, Mr. Ramar got himself admitted to the same hospital on Monday. His condition is said to be stable. DMK president M.K. Stalin called up Mr. Ramar and wished him a speedy recovery. Mr. Ramar is the first MLA from Karur district to have tested positive for the infection. U.T. Minister infected Puducherry Minister for Power R. Kamalakannan on Monday tested positive for COVID-19. He is the second Minister in the Chief Minister V. Narayanasamy-led Cabinet to test positive for the infection. Last week, Minister for Social Welfare M. Kandasamy tested positive. Mr. Kamalakannan, who represents Thirunallar Assembly segment in Karaikal region, has been admitted to Jipmer for treatment.  I started taking kabasurakudineer  and tried steam inhalation, but did not get much relief
11 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||HC seeks report from welfare board||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has asked the Construction Workers’ Welfare Board to file a counter affidavit with respect to a public interest litigation petition that sought a direction to the State to provide COVID-19 financial assistance to registered construction workers, irrespective of whether they have renewed their membership or not. A Division Bench of Justice M. Sathyanarayanan and Justice P. Rajamanickam directed the Welfare Board to file a comprehensive status report in this regard and adjourned the case filed by a construction workers’ welfare association till August 24. Earlier, the court had sought information on the number of registered construction workers, those who had renewed their membership, those who had not, and the online mode of registration.  Online registration The court wanted to know the efficacy of online mode of membership registration to the Welfare Board. The State government submitted that 18.20 lakh construction workers had registered with the Welfare Board out of whom 12.13 lakh had renewed their membership and the remaining 6.06 lakh workers had not renewed the membership. With regard to online mode of registration, the website was under maintenance, the court was informed.
11 August 2020||Madurai,TAMIL NADU||Custodial deaths accused dies in hospital||Pauldurai, Special Sub-Inspector of the Sattankulam police station in Thoothukudi district and one among the 10 police personnel accused of involvement in the custodial deaths of trader P. Jayaraj and his son Benicks, died in Madurai on Monday. He had earlier tested positive for COVID-19. He was admitted to the Government Rajaji Hospital on July 24 after testing positive for the infection at the Madurai Central Prison, where he had been lodged. The 56-year-old, who had suffered from ‘uncontrolled’ diabetes, was admitted to the Thoothukudi Government Medical College Hospital immediately after his arrest on July 8 by the CB-CID. At the same time, his family members petitioned the Thoothukudi SP, seeking special medical care for him. The case was handed over to the CBI as per the direction of the Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court. He was then shifted to the Madurai Central Prison. He had to be treated for diabetes at the prison hospital, a source said. On Friday, Pauldurai’s wife Mangayar Thilagam had complained that his health was deteriorating. After an inquest by a Judicial Magistrate, a post-mortem was conducted on the body before it was handed over to the next of kin. A 21-gun salute was accorded to the deceased SSI, and Deputy Commissioner of Police (Law and Order) R. Shiva Prasad placed a wreath before the body, which was cremated in the evening.
11 August 2020||MADURAI,TAMIL NADU||HC seeks report on maintenance of supply channel||The Madurai Bench of the Madras High Court has directed Sivaganga Collector to file a status report on maintenance of supply channel in a public interest litigation petition that sought a direction to remove encroachment in an oorani in Karaikudi. The petitioner, A. Ayyakkanu in his petition filed in 2017, had sought a direction to the Sivaganga district administration to take steps to remove encroachments from Chetti oorani o ensure free flow of water. In a status report submitted by the Karaikudi Tahsildar in 2020, it was said that the encroachment was removed and there was free flow of water to Chetti oorani. A Division Bench of Justices M. Sathyanarayanan and P. Rajamanickam said that the court wanted to know if there were any fresh encroachments on the waterway. The court directed the Collector to submit a report on the maintenance of the supply channel.
11 August 2020||NAGAPATTINAM,TAMIL NADU||Siddha care centre opened||Asymptomatic COVID-19 patients in the district will be admitted to a Siddha Care Centre for treatment set up at a private college in the city. Set up at the E.G.S Pillay Engineering College, the patients who opt for the treatment will be provided Siddha medicines and yoga therapy. Collector Praveen P. Nair inaugurated the centre, the first one in the district, for the benefit of mild and symptomatic COVID-19 patients on Monday. The facility had been prepared with 44 beds, but the capacity will be scaled up if necessary, said S. Padbhanabhan, District Siddha Medical Officer, Nagapattinam and Tiruvarur. Ten patients were admitted to the facility on Monday and will be treated for the viral infection using Siddha medicines and yoga therapy, Dr. Padbhanabhan said. Since the centre is working in tandem with the district administration and the health authorities, patients will first be taken to the nearest government hospital when they test positive, after which if they are asymptomatic, they will be asked if they would like to opt for Siddha treatment. At the centre, patients will be given kabasura kudineer, other concoctions of kashayam, choornam while also being trained in breathing exercises, and various yoga asanas. “A team of three Siddha doctors have been deputed to the centre and will, on a shift basis, monitor the patients,” Dr. Padbhanabhan said.
11 August 2020||SALEM/ERODE,TAMIL NADU||Mettur dam outflow increased to 10,000 cusecs||With copious inflow steadily increasing the storage in Bhavani Sagar and Mettur Stanley reservoirs, the discharge from the Mettur dam into River Cauvery for irrigation in delta region was increased to 10,000 cusecs from Monday afternoon. According to Public Works Department officials, the water level at the dam on Monday morning was 86.91 ft and the storage was 49.18 tmcft. The inflow was 1.30 lakh cusecs and the outflow to River Cauvery, which was maintained at 1,000 cusecs at 8 a.m., was increased to 10,000 cusecs to the delta region due to farmers’ demand. The combined outflow from KRS and Kabini dams has been reduced to 30,000 cusecs. Heavy rain in Salem Heavy rain lashed Salem on Sunday and an average rainfall of 23.97 mm was recorded in the district. Kadayampatti recorded 71 mm and it was 10 mm in Thammampatti, 15 mm in Aanaimalai, 16 mm in Kariyakovil, 27.3 mm in Salem, 20.4 mm in Vazhapadi, 21.4 mm in Attur, 16 mm in Omalur, 98.6 mm in Yercaud, 1.8 mm in Mettur, 16 mm in Edappadi, 5 mm in Gengavalli and 5 mm in Veeraganur.  Landslides reported on Yercaud Ghat Road Following heavy rain in Yercaud, minor landslides were reported near hairpin bend 14 on the Yercaud Ghat Road. However, traffic movement was not affected. With the water level at Bhavani Sagar Dam expected to touch 102 feet by Tuesday, after which surplus water will be released to River Bhavani, dam authorities have asked officials of the revenue and police department to issue flood alert to people living on banks of the river here. Collector cautions people Erode Collector C. Kathiravan has asked people living on banks of River Bhavani and also in low-lying areas to move to safer places. He said that once the water level attains 102 feet, the entire inflow would be discharged and asked people to be cautious. Heavy rain in The Nilgiris and catchment areas in the last one week resulted in the dam receiving copious water as the level increased by 15 feet in the past six days. At 10 p.m. on Sunday, it had touched the 100 feet mark against the maximum reservoir level (MRL) of 105 feet. At 5 p.m., the water level stood at 100.51 feet while the inflow was 6,389 cusecs and the discharge was 1,200 cusecs. The storage was 29.128 tmc against the capacity of 32.800 tmc. Flood alert Sources in the revenue department said that since the inflow was less than 7,000 cusecs and there were no rains in the catchment areas, a flood alert will be sounded on Tuesday. They added that they are geared up to face any situation to move people to safe locations if the inflow increases. Meanwhile, K. Vadivel, secretary, Lower Bhavani Farmers’ Federation, wanted the surplus water released into LBP canal instead of River Bhavani, as it mixes with River Cauvery and enters the sea.
11 August 2020||Sivakasi,TAMIL NADU||Three held for murder||Virudhunagar police have cracked the Saturday’s murder-for-gain case pertaining to the death of Pragathi Monicka, 24, of Periyar Nagar under Sivakasi East police station limits with the arrest of three persons, including a woman. After Deputy Inspector General of Police (Madurai Range) Rajendiran inspected the scene of crime, special teams were formed to nab the accused. The teams zeroed in on Pragathi’s neighbour Kodeeswaran. The man, who lived opposite the house of Monicka, was an alcoholic and drug addict, the police said. He had been keeping a watch on Monicka and her husband Selva Manikandan for sometime to rob the newly-wed woman as she used to wear lot of jewels. When he found her alone, Kodeeswaran and his accomplice Tyson alias Sekar barged into the house and tried to snatch her gold chain. However, when she raised an alarm, the duo hacked her to death and yanked her gold chain and thali. Since her husband was about to come home for lunch, the accused did not attempt to open the almirah to loot more jewels. “We recovered the bloodstained clothes from Kodeeswaran. A machete used for the murder and the jewels were also recovered,” Additional Superintendent of Police S. Marirajan said. Though his mother Parameswari was aware of her son’s involvement in the crime, she tried to divert the attention of the police. The woman was also arrested.
11 August 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Kumbakonam vegetable retailers seek turn system||Traders engaged in retailing of vegetables at the Wholesale and Anna Vegetable Retail Market Complex at Kumbakonam have pleaded that they be allowed to commence their operation in the complex on a turn system. In a memorandum submitted to Collector M.Govinda Rao here on Monday, the retailers said that around 250 of them were doing business at the complex for more than two decades.As they were not allowed to carry out their business from March 30 in view of the pandemic, they were facing severe financial hardship over the past five months. Hence, the traders pleaded that they be allowed to resume their business on a shift basis in the vegetable market complex by suggesting that a batch of 100 to 125 traders be allowed to open their business for one week and the next batch during the subsequent week in order to comply with the social distancing norms to control the spread of the novel coronavirus.
11 August 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||‘Include tenant farmers also in PM-KISAN scheme’||The Thanjavur District Cauvery Farmers Protection Association has called upon the Union Government to extend the benefits of Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi scheme benefits to tenant farmers also. In a memorandum addressed to the Prime Minister, Narendra Modi, the TDCFPA secretary, Sundara Vimalanathan, has claimed that agriculture lands measuring around 26 lakh acres belong to temples, mutts, charities, Wakf Boards, Churches, and other Charitable Institutions. Nearly 35 lakh farmers have taken these lands on lease and were raising crops. Though the tenant farmers were classified as ‘cultivators’ to receive special financial assistance to compensate loss they had suffered due to natural calamities, they were not covered under the PMKISAN scheme. Stating that already a plea in this regard had been placed with the Union Finance Minister, Nirmala Sitharaman, the TDCFPA secretary had urged the Prime Minister to initiate necessary steps so that tenant farmers would also receive the annual financial assistance of Rs. 6,000.
11 August 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Higher compensation sought for Tamil migrants killed in landslip||The Tamizh Desiya Periyakkam (TDP) has accused the Kerala Government of showing “partiality” in treating victims of the air crash and landslip in the State recently. In a statement, P. Maniarasan, president, TDP, said 42 of 78 persons belonging to 23 Tamil families, who had settled at a tea estate in Pettimuti village panchayat near Munnar in Kerala, had lost their lives in the landslide which had occurred on August 6. The families had migrated to Pettimuti from the Kayathar region in Thoothukudi district in Tamil Nadu several years ago. The bodies of 27 persons were retrieved from the debris on August 8, dumped in a huge pit and interred by the officials though the relatives of the deceased pleaded for a decent burial. Further, the Kerala government had announced Rs. 5 lakh as compensation for the family of the deceased, the statement said. On the other hand Kerala Chief Minister, Pinarayi Vijayan announced Rs. 10 lakh as compensation for the families of the deceased in the Kozhikode air crash. He also visited the hospital and enquired about the health of those undergoing treatment. The TDP demanded compensation of Rs. 25 lakh for the families of the workers killed in the landslide. Pointing out that nearly 90% of the workers in the tea estates in Idukki district hailed from Tamil Nadu, it urged the Kerala government to ensure the safety of these Tamil workers without fail.
11 August 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Scholarship for students from families affected by COVID-19||Students hailing from COVID-19 virus affected families will be offered 100% scholarship for pursuing first year B.Tech (regular) programme at the Periyar Maniammai Institute of Science and Technology, Deemed to be a University, at Vallam near here. According to a PIMST release, K.Veeramani, chancellor, has made an announcement in this regard on August 9 where he had said that the students joining the B.Tech (Regular) programme for the academic year 2020-21 are eligible for the “Periyar Education COVID Scholarship” if they hail from a COVID-19 virus affected family. Already scholarships such as “Annai EVR Maniammai First Graduate Scholarship,” and “Annai EVR Nagammai Women Scholarship and Sports Scholarship” are being offered to the students, the release added.
11 August 2020||THANJAVUR,TAMIL NADU||Dalit Christians observe black day||The National Council for Dalit Christians (NCDC) organised a demonstration at Poondi near here on Monday to mark the observation of Black Day for Dalit Christians. The NCDC has declared August 10 as the Black Day for Dalit Christians every year to highlight the denial of ‘recognition in politics’ to Dalits and non-appointment of Dalits in Christian religious institutions. Demonstrators, led by Stephen, president, NCDC Thanjavur district, raised slogans demanding ‘recognition in politics’ and appointment of Dalits as priests in Churches and as Bishops.
11 August 2020||THENI/KANNIYAKUMARI,TAMIL NADU||Theni district reports 359 fresh cases||Theni reported 359 fresh COVID-19 cases on Monday, which took its tally to 8,257. The district also marked 321 discharges. A total of 173 people tested positive in Dindigul, taking the total case count to 4,051. There were 58 discharges in the district. Ramanathapuram recorded 36 new cases, with which its tally rose to 3,682. Forty-six people were discharged from hospitals. Sivaganga registered 60 fresh cases and equal number of discharges. The district’s tally rose to 2,996. Kanniyakumari reported 205 new cases, which took the total number of infections to 6,553, and 161 discharges. There were seven deaths added to the district’s toll on Monday. The district has 1,787 active cases. Thoothukudi’s tally went up to 9,357 with the addition of 196 cases. With 221 discharges and five deaths, the district has 1,793 active cases. The tally of Tenkasi rose to 3,246 and the number of active cases to 1,232 with the addition of 114 cases on Monday, when 49 people were discharged and five died. Tirunelveli reported 83 new cases, which pushed its tally to 6,662, 103 discharges and three deaths. The district has 2,180 active cases. Virudhunagar registered five more deaths, which took its toll to 139. The total number of positive cases reached 10,155, with 189 fresh cases recorded on Monday. However, the number of active cases came down to 1,595 after 355 people were discharged. Madurai registered 100 fresh cases, which took its tally to 12,104. A total of 298 people were discharged from hospitals. Five people died on Monday, taking the toll to 293.
11 August 2020||THOOTHUKUDI,TAMIL NADU||Expedite search in Idukki, bring back survivors: kin of deceased||Relatives of those who were killed in the landslide at Pettimudy in Idukki district of Kerala have appealed to the State government to take immediate steps to expedite the search for tea estate workers still missing and bring back survivors stranded there to their native places in three southern districts. Minister for Information Kadambur C. Raju, who met the relatives of the deceased at Bharathi Nagar and Thalaiyalnadanthankulam on Monday, gave them Rs. 3.75 lakh from his personal funds, consoled and assured them of all possible help. “Since the Tamil Nadu government has rushed a medical team from Theni District Government Medical College Hospital to give medical assistance to the injured, you need not worry about them. Moreover, the Chief Minister is in touch with his Kerala counterpart to expedite the search and rescue operations. The Tamil Nadu government will be with you always,” Mr. Raju told them. Of the 49 bodies retrieved from the landslide, 26 are from Bharathi Nagar while 11 injured from this hamlet are under treatment in hospitals. Moreover, the search was on to locate 28 more labourers. Official briefing “An Assistant Director sent to the spot (Pettimudy tea estate) is giving us latest information based on which we’re taking appropriate steps,” Mr. Raju said. Collector Sandeep Nanduri and Superintendent of Police S. Jayakumar had accompanied the minister. Totally 85 persons from Bharathi Nagar were residing in Pettimudy. Relatives of the deceased, who had gone to Pettimudy in two vans and six cars on getting information about the landslide, returned to Bharathi Nagar on Sunday after witnessing the burial of the bodies of a few victims. Though 60 persons from Bharathi Nagar had gone to Kerala only 18 of them were allowed to reach the spot in jeeps as it was raining heavily on the Western Ghats. “All the bodies were buried in a pit. When they opened the coffins for a few minutes, we could see their badly damaged faces and identify them. The missing persons might have been buried alive or washed away by the flash floods in the nearby Kallaar river as a body of one of the victims had been retrieved from a spot located 30 km away. Though 10 earthmovers have been pressed into service, heavy rain hampers the search operations,” said those who have returned from Pettimudy. They said the 40 survivors, who were from Tenkasi, Tirunelveli and Thoothukudi districts, should be brought to their native places as they wanted to leave the spot immediately.
11 August 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Pedestrian pathway to come up along Anna Nagar Link Road||The Tiruchi Corporation is set to make another big investment on the Anna Nagar Link Road development – this time to build a pedestrian pathway over the huge open drain that runs along the eastern side of road. The Corporation has recently called for tenders for construction of the pedestrian pathway at a cost of Rs. 95 lakh under the Smart City Mission. The bids are scheduled to be opened on August 27. Just recently, the Corporation has completed constructing a Centre median along the road, after demolishing the old one, at an investment of about Rs. 38 lakh. The median was said to be part of the beautification of the arterial road which runs less than a kilometre, though it was widely seen as a redundant expenditure as there was already a median along the road. With the Uyyakondan canal running along the road on the one side, a walkers track was developed along its banks a few years back. This was one of the three walkers tracks planned to be laid in the city by corporation at a total cost of about Rs. 3.85 crore with funds sanctioned from the State Innovation Fund. The project was taken up close on the heels of a clean up drive taken up by the corporation and Public Works Department of the canal and its banks. Subsequently an open gym was established in a part of the walkers track. While the walkers track and the gym have turned a huge hit among the city residents, the repeated investments being made on a single road has caused resentment among a section of residents and activists. Questioning the rationale for spending such a huge sum for a pedestrian pathway on the road, where there is already a walkers track on one side, M.Sekaran, president, Federation of Consumer and Service Organisations and member of the District Road Safety Council, observed that the road as such does not attract many pedestrians but for those going for a walk or stroll on the track. “There are several other roads which are badly in need of repair or development,” he observed. He suggested that a team comprising public representatives be constituted to check the quality of works executed under the Smart City Mission. “We appreciate the civic body for creating a walkers track, which has also become a popular hangout for the young and the old. The open gym is also well used. But it remains to seen whether it is worthwhile to spend nearly Rs. 1 crore for building another pedestrian pathway on the opposite side. With the walkers track becoming congested in the mornings and evenings, may be some of the walkers can use the pathway on the other side,” observed R. Gopalakrishnan, a city resident who goes for an occasional walk on the track. However, residents concede the need for closing the huge open drain that runs along the road as it could lead to accidents. “No doubt the open drain needs to be closed; but an ordinary platform can be laid over it. But the estimate of Rs. 95 lakh seems very high. Rather than developing a single road as a show piece, the Corporation should take notice of other parts of the city where there is an urgent need to develop roads with pedestrian pathways and provide other amenities,” said K.Chandrasekar, district president, Arts and Cultural Cell, Bharatiya Janata Party, Tiruchi district.
11 August 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Central region records 529 new cases, 15 deaths||The central region on Monday recorded a marginal dip in COVID-19 cases with 529 patients testing positive for the viral infection. However, the number of deaths went up to 15, including a four month old baby. Among the deaths recorded, four each were in Pudukottai and Thanjavur, three in Nagapattinam, two in Tiruchi and one each in Tiruvarur and Karur. The four-month-old girl baby was admitted to the Tiruvarur Government Medical College Hospital and died of COVID-19 pneumonia. She had been diagnosed with a chromosomal anomaly. In Pudukottai, men aged 35, 49 and 65 and a 70-year-old woman with co-morbidities including diabetes and hypertension died. The woman also had a bull gore injury to cranium and post diversion colostomy. The patients in Thanjavur- women aged 59, 55, and men aged 58 and 62 died of respiratory failure while also being diagnosed of co-morbidities of hypertension. Women aged 65, 75 and a man aged 62 died at Nagapattinam of respiratory failure and COVID-19 pneumonia. The 75-year-old woman was also diagnosed with hypertension dyslipidemia and suffered a cardiac arrest. Tiruchi In Tiruchi, a 73-year-old man with acute respiratory distress syndrome and a 58-year-old woman died at a private hospital of respiratory failure. She was known to have hypertension and diabetes. A 46-year-old man died in Karur of coronary artery disease, COVID-19 pneumonia and acute respiratory distress syndrome. Meanwhile, Pudukottai recorded 133 new COVID-19 cases, among who were primary contacts and patients with Severe Acute Respiratory Illnesses and Influenza-Like Illnesses. Thanjavur recorded 120 new cases, among which were 10 contacts of an assistant engineer who tested positive earlier, a policeman, a panchayat union office staff at Pattukottai, a medical representative at Kumbakonam and a house surgeon at the Thanjavur Medical College Hospital. A staff nurse at a primary healthcare centre, a few housewives and students also tested positive. Tiruvarur recorded a drop in COVID-19 cases with 30 new cases on Monday. Tiruchi recorded 56 new COVID-19 cases, including patients from containment zones. Rajarathinam Pillai Street in Ramalinga Nagar was declared a containment zone after patients from the area tested positive on Monday. Meanwhile, 32 patients from the Tiruchi GH and 44 patients from the COVID Care Centre in Khajamalai were discharged after recovering from the infection. Nagapattinam recorded 57 new COVID-19 cases, of which 36 were contacts of positive cases, two health care workers and 13 patients with ILI symptoms. Karur recorded 44 new COVID-19 cases including two frontline workers- a 29-year-old woman and a 39-year-old man from the Government Medical College Hospital. In Ariyalur, 54 patients tested positive for the viral infection. Including these patients, the total number of COVID-19 cases in the district is 1345. A majority of the cases reported on Monday were from Thirumanur. In Perambalur, 19 ILI patients, and 12 primary contacts were among those who tested positive. One antenatal mother and four inter-district travellers also tested positive.
11 August 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||DMK flays priority for other State candidates in jobs||Cadre of the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK) staged a demonstration in front of the Golden Rock Railway Workshop here on Monday condemning “the priority being given to candidates of other States for employment in Southern Railway and depriving opportunities for candidates of Tamil Nadu.” During the demonstration led by the party's Tiruverumbur MLA and Tiruchi south district secretary Anbil Mahesh Poyyamozhi, the cadre demanded employment for Railway Act Apprentices of Tamil Nadu at the Golden Rock Railway Workshop. Around 200 members of the party participated in the demonstration during which they demanded that the on-going exercise of verification of certificates of candidates, a majority of whom were from North Indian states selected by the Railway Recruitment Board for the post of Grade-III technician at the railway workshop, here be withdrawn. They also wondered how candidates from various North Indian States managed to come to Tiruchi for employment at the railway workshop during the current lockdown period and sought an explanation from the State government. They also wanted 90 % of jobs in Central government offices functioning in Tamil Nadu be provided to the candidates from the State. They wanted the State government to immediately withdraw an order allowing candidates from other States to compete for employment in State government offices. After the conclusion of the demonstration, Mr. Mahesh Poyyamozhi met the Chief Workshop Manager of the Golden Rock Railway Workshop Shyamadhar Ram and submitted a memorandum.
11 August 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||SSLC exam: 35,539 pass in Tiruchi district||Since all the students have been declared to have passed in SSLC public exam State-wide without conduct of exams, due to the spread of COVID 19 pandemic, 35,539 students from 455 schools have passed out in Tiruchi district. Among them 17,714 boys and 17,825 girls. Teachers should strive to sustain the performance next year too, Collector S. Sivarasu said, felicitating Education department officials, teachers and students. In Ariyalur district, 10,232 students from of 172 schools, including 5,877 students from 115 government schools, passed. In Pudukottai district, the 22,467 passed candidates comprised 11,191 boys and 11,276 girls. All 12,185 candidates comprising 6,024 boys and 6,161 girls had passed in the exam in Karur district. In Nagapattinam district, 19,666 passed students comprised 9,745 boys and 9,921 girls. As for Perambalur district, 8,587 students of 141 schools passed the exam. Thirty students did not appear and hence considered as having availed leave. All 31,628 students - 15,698 boys and 15,930 girls - of Thanjavur district were declared as having passed the exam. In Tiruvarur district, the 15,155 passed candidates comprised 7,425 boys and 7,730 girls. In Karaikal district, all the 2,609 students comprising 1,285 boys and 1,324 girls were declared passed.
11 August 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Small temples reopen for public darshan||After a gap of over four months small temples opened for public darshan in the city on Monday. The State government had allowed public worship in small temples, churches and mosques/dargahs, with annual revenue below Rs. 10,000, from Monday. A senior HR & CE official said 107 small temples under the department's control and functioning within the corporation limits were reopened for public darshan. Those which were opened for public darshan include Sri Lakshmi Narasimha Temple at Tharanallur, Kottai Muniappa Temple at Kondayampettai, Pandarinathar Temple at Bheema Naga and Angalamman Temple at Sempattu. The official said the HR & CE Inspectors have been instructed to visit the temples in their respective jurisdiction to ensure that personal distancing was being maintained by devotees besides also to ensure that they wore mask inside the temple as stipulated by the government. Regular poojas were being performed at these temples ever since lockdown was clamped in late March due to COVID-19 pandemic without, however, allowing the public for darshan, the official said. Though not many were aware of the government's instruction allowing devotees for darshan from Monday,some devotees turned up at Sri Kailasanathar Temple functioning along the Big Bazaar Street. Few devotees participated in the Vinayakar pooja and rudra japam that was performed on Monday morning. Usually, the rudra japam is done on a Monday in the Tamil month Aadi at the temple as per the custom. But this time around, it coincided on a day when public darshan began to be allowed after a long time, said M.N. Palaniyappan, the president of the Dharmakartha Kuzhu of the temple. "Devotees wore mask, maintained personal distance inside the shrine and felt immensely happy to be allowed for darshan", said Mr. Palaniyappan.
11 August 2020||Tiruchi,TAMIL NADU||A documentary on Alathur Brothers, who are stalwarts of Carnatic music||Carnatic vocal music stalwarts Srinivasa Iyer (1911–1980) and Sivasubramania Iyer (1916–1965), famously known as the Alathur Brothers, were a duo united not by blood, but by music. To celebrate the 105th birth anniversary of Sivasubramania Iyer (popularly called Subbaier), Tiruchirapalli-based Carnatic vocalist R. Kashyap Mahesh has compiled a documentary that talks about the deep bond shared by the two singers and the rigours of their training in the traditional ‘Gurukulam’ method. Though they weren’t related by birth, the Alathur Brothers performed together as the disciples of Subbaier’s father, Alathur Venkatesa Iyer. They were admired for their vocal synchronisation and mastery over ‘laya’ (rhythm) and ‘pallavi’ (a thematic line of a song in Carnatic music). “The Alathur Brothers are still talked about in Carnatic music. The fact that their records are available today shows that lovers of Carnatic music haven’t forgotten them,” Mr. Kashyap Mahesh told The Hindu . The 35-minute video has several archival photographs and visuals, accompanied by a narration by Kashyap Mahesh. A long clip featuring the televised interview of Subbaier’s son, former professor Alathur S. Thiagarajan, who provided much of the background information about the famed duo, is among the highlights. “The family of Subbaier had celebrated his centenary in 2015 in a grand manner in Tiruchi. I had contributed a giant collage of 100 photographs of the Alathur Brothers to the celebrations, so many of the pictures were part of that collection. Several others were shared by Palaghat TR Rajamani, one of the sons of Palaghat Mani Iyer, who had accompanied the brothers on the mridangam,” said Mr. Kashyap Mahesh, who also collects Carnatic music memorabilia. The documentary not only examines the expertise of the Alathur Brothers in detail, but also has some interesting facts about Subbaier’s friendship with film star and singer MK Thyagaraja Bhagavathar. Besides teaching MKT the finer aspects of singing, Subbaier had also composed the music for his 1941 film ‘Ashok Kumar’. “The songs such as ‘Unnai kandu mayangaatha pergal undo’ and ‘Bhoomiyil maanida’ continue to be popular till today. I had bought the DVD of this film from a company in Madurai 10 years ago,” said Mr. Kashyap Mahesh. The sterling career of the Alathur Brothers deserves better commemoration, he added. The documentary can be viewed on YouTube. It is also available in audio format on SoundCloud, as part of the ‘Sangeetha Santhippu’ series of programmes.
11 August 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Over 680 persons discharged so far from COVID care centre||When the district administration opened a COVID-19 care centre at the Bharathidasan University’s city campus at Khajamalai to treat the patients about two months ago, many viewed it as stop-gap arrangement. But, it has emerged as a preferred centre for treating asymptomatic and mild patients of COVID-19. The centre was opened to accommodate patients at a time when the K.A.P. Viswanatham Medical College Hospital in Tiruchi was struggling to cope up with the sharp rise in the number of patients tested positive for the virus. A few modifications were made at the hostel and guest house at the Khajamalai campus to accommodate about 550 patients, in addition to the establishment of basic medical equipment. Taking a cue from the model of a Siddha care centre in Chennai, both allopathy and Siddha treatment were made available at the Khajamalai centre. While patients required medical attention were extended treatment as per the allopathy protocol, others were treated under the Indian medicine system. Besides treating them, focus was on improve the immunity of the patients. Protein rich traditional food and special yoga sessions for enhancing the efficiency of lungs were among the key points in treating the patients. From the day of admission, patients are kept in the centre for at least 7 days. Since the start of the centre, 682 patients have so far been discharged after the full recovery. There was hardly anyone referred to the other hospitals after being admitted to the centre. “We were initially terrified after we tested positive for the virus. Our one week stay at the COVID care centre brought back the confidence. We were taken care of well and given a comprehensive exposure on Indian medicine with our traditional food and yoga. I feel fully rejuvenated now,” said S. Soundaram (80) of Andal Street in Tiruchi. She was among three members of her family discharged from the centre a few days ago. E. Sundararajan of Woraiyur said that 65 patients were accommodated in the centre along with him. All of them were discharged without any major complication. The systematic treatment had really helped the patients to improve the immunity level. Collector S. Sivarasu, who visits the centre almost on a daily basis, told The Hindu that all mild and asymptomatic were admitted to the COVID care centre, which had come in handy to reduce the patients load at the hospitals. A total of 626 patients were discharged successfully. As per the need, patients were treated with allopathy and Indian medicine methods. It had really worked well.
11 August 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Sectional speed of trains in Mayiladuthurai-Thanjavur BG stretch raised||The Chief Bridge Engineer, Southern Railway, has authorised an increase in the sectional speed of trains on the Mayiladuthurai - Thanjavur broad gauge stretch from the existing 90 kilometres to 100 kilometres per hour. An order to this effect was issued by the Chief Bridge Engineer recently with a copy marked to the Tiruchi Divisional Railway Manager. Ahead of issuing the authorisation letter, the Chief Bridge Engineer conducted a rear window inspection by travelling on board a special train last week on that section. Railway sources said the authorisation letter was issued by the officer after being satisfied with works carried out to attend to deficiencies. The authorisation letter permitting to raise the sectional speed in the 70 -km stretch comes into immediate effect. The Mayiladuthurai - Thanjavur broad gauge stretch comes under the mainline section from Villupuram Junction to Thanjavur Junction via Panruti, Tiruppadripuliyur, Cuddalore, Chidambaram, Sirkazhi, Mayiladuthurai and Kumbakonam. The sources said Southern Railway had already increased the sectional speed of trains from 90 km per hour to 100 km per hour from Villupuram to Mayiladuthurai Junction. Consequent to the authorisation issued recently all mail and express trains would now be able to run up to 100 km per hour on the entire mainline section, said a senior railway official. The increase in the sectional speed from Mayiladuthurai to Thanjavur would reduce the time taken once train services were resumed, the official further said. The mainline section serves as an alternative route to reach Chennai from Tiruchi or to Tiruchi from Chennai in case there was disruption in movement of rail services on the chord line section from Villupuram to Tiruchi via Vriddhachalam, Ariyalur and Srirangam. The mainline section with a single broad gauge railway line is presently witnessing the execution of overhead electrification project being carried out by the Rail Vikas Nigam Limited coming under the Ministry of Railways. The electrification project is now on its final leg with works under way from Mayiladuthurai to Thanjavur.
11 August 2020||TIRUCHI,TAMIL NADU||Gold in paste form seized from air passengers||In a joint operation by the Central Intelligence Unit and the Air Intelligence Unit of the Customs, officials seized gold in paste form allegedly smuggled by three passengers, including a woman, at the international airport here on Sunday night. The passengers had concealed it in their person which was detected by the officials moments upon their arrival from Kuala Lumpur by an Air India Express flight operated under Vande Bharat to evacuate Indians from abroad. Airport sources said the paste was sent for a chemical processing on Monday morning and the gold recovered after its completion was around 1.4 kg. The value of the gold was around Rs. 83 lakh. Cases were registered against them.
11 August 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Centre allowing private firms to enter crucial sectors: unions||Condemning the Union government’s “anti-labour and anti-people laws and policies” and the decision to allow private investments in crucial public sector undertakings, members of various trade unions staged a demonstration here on Monday. The protestors said the Narendra Modi-led Union government, while projecting itself as the ‘Saviour of India’ and claiming to be working overtime to create a self-reliant India, was allowing the private sector to enter strategically-important sectors, including defence, space research and atomic energy, which would pose serious threat to the nation’s security. Divesting the stake in public sector undertakings such as Indian Railways, Life Insurance Corporation, banks and allowing private investments in space exploration, defence production, atomic energy and the sale of coal blocks to private players would seriously jeopardise the economy. While liberally favouring the private telecom companies, the Indian government was smothering the BSNL, the official communicator, by not giving due permission for launching 4G service across the country. The new Electricity Bill that would burden the farmers of paying the power bill even for farming operations and thus would wipe out the free power system in Tamil Nadu. The Environment Impact Assessment Notification 2020 being promoted by the Centre would enable private companies to loot natural resources and destroy the forests at will. Working hours Moreover, the Centre was vigorously pushing anti-labour policies that had increased the working hours from 8 hours to 12 hours while actively introducing outsourcing operations of public sector undertakings, besides downsizing, the protestors said. In the demonstration held in front of the Tamil Nadu State Transport Corporation’s depot at Vannarpet, representatives of all trade unions except those of ruling AIADMK and the BJP participated. Similar protests were staged in front of offices of the State and Central governments in Tirunelveli and Tenkasi districts.
11 August 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||‘Allow export units to function round the clock to offset loss’||The Tirunelveli District Chamber of Commerce and Industry has appealed to Chief Minister Edappadi K. Palaniswami to allow export-oriented manufacturing units to function continuously for three months on Sundays also, now being observed as ‘total lockdown days,’ to compensate the production loss the firms suffered so far due to the total lockdown. When its president Gunasingh Chelladhurai and secretary G.S. Janarthanan met the Chief Minister during his meeting with the promoters of small, tiny and marginal industries during his visit to the district last Friday, they submitted a memorandum to him. Sharing its contents, Mr. Gunasingh said production had stalled for over four months owing to the lockdown. To compensate loss of production and foreign exchange, the Chief Minister should allow the units to function round the clock by relaxing lockdown norms for at least three months, Mr. Gunasingh said assuring that the units would ensure physical distancing and other protective measures on their premises. As public transport had been stopped completely for more than three months, workers could not reach the units. Hence, the government should ensure early operation of public transport between 6 a.m .and 9 p.m. to enable the workers to reach the units. Besides exempting the public transport buses from paying road tax for the past four months, the Regional Transport Officers should be instructed to extend the deadline for paying the vehicle insurance premium, he said. The brick and tile manufacturing industrieswere ailing for the past several years due to cumbersome procedures laid down by the Union Ministry of Environment and Forests for taking sand from patta lands. The Tamil Nadu government should simplify the procedure and give permit for lifting sand for three years, Mr. Gunasingh said. Banks must release collateral-free loans and loans under COVID Credit Guarantee Scheme early and without hurdles, he said.
11 August 2020||TIRUNELVELI,TAMIL NADU||Four held, 750 grams of ganja seized||Four persons, including a man and his son, have been arrested and 750 grams of ganja seized from them here since Sunday night. Police sources said Superintendent of Police N. Manivannan instructed the Inspectors of stations coming under Thazhaiyooththu sub-division to intensify surveillance in areas under their jurisdiction and conduct vehicle checks following information about drug trafficking. Subsequently, police intensified vehicle checks in Palayamkottai Taluk, Thazhaaiyooththu, Maanur, Thevarkulam, Gangaikondan and Sivanthipatti police station limits since Sunday. A team led by Samson, Inspector of Police, Thaazhaiyooththu, intercepted two persons at Ram Nagar. They found 250 grams of ganja in their possession. The two were identified as Ramar Pandi, 55, and his son Muthupandi, 23, of the same area. Another police team led by Palayamkottai Taluk Inspector Raghupathi Raja nabbed Chinnadurai, 38, and Kodeeswaran, 27, both from Chettikulam Melur when they were moving around in suspicious manner near Palayam Chettikulam bus stop. The police seized 500 grams of ganja from them. All the four were arrested and remanded in judicial custody.
11 August 2020||Tirunelveli,TAMIL NADU||Four persons held with ganja||Four persons, including a man and his son, have been arrested and 750 grams of ganja seized from them here. Police sources said Superintendent of Police N. Manivannan instructed the Inspectors to intensify surveillance in areas under their jurisdiction and conduct vehicle checks following information about drug trafficking.
11 August 2020||UDHAGAMANDALAM,TAMIL NADU||‘Climate change to blame for extreme weather events in the Nilgiris’||For the second time in two years, parts of the Nilgiris witnessed intense, incessant rains for five consecutive days, leading to flooding and landslips in multiple places. Scientists say such “extreme climate events” could be linked to climate change, and fear such events could become more common in the coming years. K. Kannan, Head of the Indian Institute of Soil and Water Conservation (IISWC) in Udhagamandalam, said that last year and this year, there had been “deficient” rainfall from the south-west monsoon till the end of July. “Usually, the Nilgiris receives an average rainfall of around 620 mm during monsoon, but in 2019, there was a 60 % shortfall till the end of July. In 2020, there was a shortfall of 40 %,” he said. However, since 2019, these periods of shortfall were followed by a phase of intense rainfall in the beginning of August, said Dr. Kannan, who believed that climate change could be contributing to the erratic climate patterns, especially the monsoons. Gokul Halan, additional co-ordinator at the Keystone Foundation in Kotagiri, which has been working on understanding climate change and natural disasters in the region, said extreme weather events were being witnessed more frequently across the Western Ghats. “These events seem to be linked to a combination of factors, with climate change also playing a part,” he said. Mr. Halan said that in order to better understand the reasons for the erratic climate patterns witnessed over the last few years, there was a need for better instrumentation that could give real-time data on rainfall and the weather. This would help develop more accurate climate models. There was also a need for early-warning systems to prevent damage to infrastructure and loss of lives owing to extreme climate events. Nilgiris-based environmentalist N. Mohanraj said the region should prepare for more intense rains in the coming years. “Last year, even Shola-grassland ecosystems, such as the one in Avalanche, were unable to cope with the extreme amount of rains that led to many landslips in the region,” he said. “We can easily develop climate models that can predict where floods will occur, and shift people away from flood plains, while also coming up with infrastructure that will provide better drainage in areas that are affected the most during rains,” he said. Restoration ecologist Godwin Vasanth Bosco said climate change would lead to more extremities in the future, such as high-intensity rains and droughts. “We need to ensure ecological security by expanding the range of native flora, especially grasslands, as these will serve as a means of mitigating the impact of some of these catastrophic climate events,” he said. The government should not sanction any large-scale development projects as these could lead to slope destabilisation and increase the risk of landslips in the region, he said.
11 August 2020||Udhagamandalam,TAMIL NADU||Leopard, gaur found dead in Coonoor||A female gaur and a male leopard were found dead near Periya Karumbalam on Selas road in Coonoor on Monday. Forest department officials believe that the leopard had hunted the female gaur, which was pregnant and had killed the animal, but was attacked by a herd of gaur of which a female was a part of and had killed the leopard. Postmortem A postmortem was conducted on the carcasses of the two animals. K. Saravanakumar, Assistant Conservator of Forests, Nilgiris division, said that a postmortem had revealed that the leopard had suffered fractured ribs, while its stomach contained gaur meat, indicating the animal had killed and eating the gaur but was then attacked by another large animal or group of animals, leading to its death. The carcasses of both the animals were destroyed by the forest department.
11 August 2020||August 11 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Small temples in Coimbatore await Collector’s nod to reopen||Small temples in Coimbatore Corporation limits did not reopen on Monday as they are awaiting permission from the District Administration. The State government permitted the reopening of small temples whose annual revenue is less than Rs. 10,000. These temples remained closed since March due to the COVID-19 lockdown. However, the State government directed that temples in Municipal Corporations, except Chennai Corporation, must get permission from the respective District Collectors to reopen. Sources in the Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments (HR and CE) Department said that nearly 30 temples in Corporation limits have applied for reopening and were awaiting permission. These temples are likely to be reopened in the next few days, sources said. Temples such as Perur Patteeswarar Temple, whose annual revenue is more than Rs. 10,000, will continue to remain closed to devotees.  Salem Staff Reporter adds   Following State government’s relaxations, religious places with annual revenue less than Rs. 10,000 started functioning from Monday. According to HR and CE officials, Sanitisers and soaps were made available outside temples. Physical distancing norms A. Natarajan, Joint Commissioner, Salem Division said, “all temples have been advised to follow physical distancing norms and other COVID-19 safety protocols.” Temples were advised to ensure hand sanitation facilities. Priests and devotees must compulsorily wear masks. “While abhishegams are not allowed as they consume a lot of time, other pujas can be done based on the availability of time. Priests have been advised to exercise physical distancing and devotees were told not to spend long time on the temple premises,” he said. 33 masjids to reopen today S.R. Anwar, Muthavali from Salem Jamia Masjid Trust Board, said that following government relaxations, 33 masjids would start functioning from Tuesday following all safety measures. He said the entire premises would be disinfected.
11 August 2020||August 11 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||12 die of COVID-19 in western region||Among the districts in western region, Coimbatore continues to see a spurt in COVID-19 cases, with the district on Monday reporting 292 positive cases and seven deaths due to the disease. While the number of deaths so far in the district is 132, the fresh cases took the tally to 6,961. Salem district reported five deaths and 128 new positive cases. In Coimbatore, the deceased were aged between 60 and 85. As for those who died in Salem, two men aged 60 and 56 and a woman aged 65 belonged to the district. Two others who died at the Government Mohan Kumaramangalam Medical College Hospital -- a man aged 45 and a woman aged 48 -- were from Namakkal district. New cases The new cases reported in Coimbatore were from areas such as Vilankurichi, Cheran Ma Nagar, Vellakinar, Selvapuram, Kalveerampalayam, Velandipalayam, Gandhipuram, Ponnaiyarajapuram, P.N. Pudur, Vadavalli, Katoor, Edayarpalayam, Podanur, Ukkadam, Peelamedu, Anamalai, Karumbukadai, Ganapathy, Pappampatti, Kalapatti, Thoppampatti, Ammankulam, Udayampalayam, Kuniyamuthur, Sungam, Siddhapudur, Ramanathapuram and Kovilmedu. Out of the 128 new cases in Salem, 126 cases were indigenous, including 88 in Salem Corporation limits, health officials said. One patient has travelled to Coimbatore and another had returned from Kerala. Namakkal’s 29 cases included seven patients who had travelled to Tiruchi, Salem and Erode. One person had returned from Andhra Pradesh. 48 cases in Tiruppur Tiruppur district reported 48 fresh positive cases, taking the district's overall tally to 1,197. An Inspector with the Tiruppur North All Women Police Station and a Sub-Inspector with the Tiruppur Rural police station tested positive on Monday. Sources in Tiruppur City Police said both the police stations were disinfected on Monday and the rest of the police personnel in both the stations would undergo COVID-19 test on Tuesday. As of Monday, 12 police personnel in Tiruppur City Police tested positive, out of which five are active cases and six have recovered. Vasu, an Armed Reserve constable in Tiruppur, died in Madurai on August 4, police sources said. The new cases on Monday included a two-year-old boy from Mudalipalayam in Tiruppur block. Out of the 1,197 cases in Tiruppur district so far, 815 have recovered and 359 are active cases. The district reported 23 COVID-19 deaths so far. Fourteen patients were discharged on Monday.  37 in Erode Erode district reported 37 positive cases on Monday, taking the district’s tally to 1,101. Nineteen of the new cases were in Erode Corporation limits. While 16 cases were contacts of positive cases, 18 had no contact history and two cases were persons who undertook inter-district travel and one person returned from another State. Ten persons were discharged on Monday and 394 patients are under treatment.   36 in Krishnagiri Krishnagiri recorded 36 positive cases, raising the district’s tally so far to 1480. Of these, 943 persons have been discharged, 516 are active cases, and 21 patients had died. Fourteen new cases were reported in Dharmapuri. The district’s tally so far is 898, with 758 persons having been discharged and 131 being active cases. The district has so far recorded nine deaths.  Seven in the Nilgiris In the Nilgiris, seven persons tested positive for COVID-19 on Monday, taking the total number of cases so far to 965.
11 August 2020||August 11 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Youth who lost jobs during lockdown can get loans||Youth who have lost their jobs or businesses and returned home in select blocks of Virudhunagar district can avail themselves of Rs. 1 lakh loan for new trade or industrial ventures. A statement said the assistance would be given to the households of members of self-help groups that are part of panchayat-level federations. Skilled youth who had returned to the village panchayats in Rajapalayam, Sivakasi, Virudhunagar and Kariapatti blocks that are served by Tamil Nadu Rural Transformation Project are eligible for the assistance. They should be in the the age group of 18 years to 35 years - 40 years for women, and should be part of the SHGs. Based on recommendation of village poverty reduction committees, the loans would be given. The trade or business should suit the requirement of local panchayat and the applicant should have experience in it. Though the target is to give loans to 167 persons, the number of beneficiaries will be increased based on demand. The loan should be repaid in 39 equated monthly instalments with a moratorium of three months.
11 August 2020||August 11 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||With ample restrictions in place, gyms reopen across Tamil Nadu||The clanking of iron plates and the grunting of fitness enthusiasts lifting heavy weights and fast-paced music echoed inside the gymnasiums across Tamil Nadu on Monday. They reopened after a gap of five months, with a lot of restrictions in place to prevent the spread of COVID-19. The fitness industry which was on the verge of collapse, is now back on the road to recovery and the government’s decision has brought cheer to gym owners and trainers. However, not many members turned up for workout on the first day and some owners have delayed the reopening due to safety concerns. There are more than 7,000 gyms across the State and over 3,000 in Chennai alone. “We were staring at financial losses. We are happy that the gyms have reopened,” said M. Arasu, general secretary, Tamil Nadu Amateur Body Building Association (TABBA) who also owns a chain of gymnasiums. The gyms have now introduced safety measures. “We check temperature, use pulse oxymeter and provid sanitisers. In the cardio section, alternate treadmill and EFX machines should be used to ensure personal distancing. The customers have to bring their own towels, shoes and water bottles. All of them have to wear a face-shield and those above the age of 50 are restricted from working out,” added Mr. Arasu. In the districts too, fitness enthusiasts were excited as they were able to pump iron after a gap of five months. “Clients were asked not to use masks during workouts as it may cause difficulty in breathing. They were allowed inside the gyms after temperature checks,” said a gym owner in Coimbatore. Krish Beethovan, athlete and founder of Bodyzeal Fitworks chain of gyms in Coimbatore and Madurai, said clients were permitted by strictly following the government guidelines. Trainers, who also follow safety guidelines, were asked to instruct low intensity workouts for clients who did not hit the gym for about six months. “Gyms have fixed slots for the clients and have asked them to visit only at the stipulated time to ensure distance is maintained and the premises could be sanitised in between,” said K. Hemapriya, a gym owner in Tiruchi. T. Meenakshi Sundram, joint general secretary of Madurai District Amateur Body Building Association, said barring the gyms located within containment zones, almost 150 gyms within Madurai reopened on Monday. Most gyms had appointed additional staff to disinfect the premises and the equipment frequently, he said. A. Mubarak Ali, a personal trainer, said it was difficult to avoid physical contact while having personal training sessions with clients. Lukewarm response In Tiruchi, the response was lukewarm on the first day. “We follow physical distancing norms and the standard operating procedure laid down by the government, yet the response is rather lukewarm,” said V. Vignesh, who owns Define Fitness Centre in Tiruchi. G. Sukumaran, president of Madurai Gym Owners Association, said that in most gyms only 50% of the customers walked in. “Many of the old customers said they cannot afford to renew their membership,” he said. Bharath Varadarajan, who has an annual membership with a gym in Alwarpet, said he would wait for a month before he starts hitting the gym. “I want to be first sure that it is safe to start the workout as the virus will easily spread in a closed environment,” he said. Though happy about the reopening, many members had questions pertaining to their membership payments made earlier. Many gyms across the State have promised to carry over membership payments, especially for those who have paid for half a year or for 1 year. Meanwhile, the government officials said the training facilities would be monitored in the coming days to check whether they adhered to the guidelines.  (Reporting by Vivek Narayanan in Chennai, Kathelene Antony in Tiruchi, Wilson Thomas in Coimbatore and P.A. Narayani in Madurai)
11 August 2020||August 11 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Class X exam results announced||Following the State government’s decision to declare Class X students as ‘all pass’ in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic, the marks were released on Monday. In Coimbatore district, 40,422 students (20,444 girls and 19,978 boys) were declared to have passed the examination. Officials from Department of School Education said that of the total students, 11,189 were from government schools, 323 from municipality schools, 2,152 from Corporation schools, 168 from Adi Dravidar Welfare schools, 7,285 students from government-aided schools (partly and fully aided), 282 from Anglo-Indian schools and 19,023 from private schools. However, the results of nearly 500 students, who were absent for either both the exams (quarterly and half-yearly) or one of the exams were not declared, officials said. Besides, the results of around 1,500 private candidates registered in Coimbatore district were also not declared. Directions for these candidates were yet to be announced by the Department, the officials said. Coimbatore Chief Educational Officer P. Usha said though the reopening of schools remained uncertain, the admission process for Class XI in government schools might commence in a few days. In Tiruppur, 29,502 students (14,780 girls and 14,722 boys) ‘passed’ the exam, officials said. The students included 11,557 from the government schools and 11,756 from private schools. In Erode district, 25,782 (12,983 boys and 12,799 girls) ‘cleared’ their SSLC examination. Officials said results were declared based on marks scored in quarterly and half-yearly exams (80%) and 20% weightage was given to attendance. They said if students were not satisfied with their marks, they could submit grievances forms to the Directorate of School Education through their respective school principal. Forms can be downloaded from the portalwww.dge.tn.gov.inand have to be submitted by August 25. According to officials in Salem, a total of 44,858 students (22,557 boys and 22,301 girls) studying in 532 schools were declared pass. In Namakkal, 21,225 students (11,024 boys and 10,201 girls) studying in 305 schools were declared pass. P.Ayyanan, Chief Educational Officer, said the mark sheets would be given to students from August 17.
11 August 2020||August 11 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Filled with hope||
11 August 2020||August 11 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||T.N. police warned of jihadi propaganda to launch attacks||Law enforcement agencies were acting on inputs that extremists had entered or were trying to enter the country through the coastline of Tamil Nadu and Kerala from Sri Lanka and the Maldives, with the intention of carrying out terror attacks on places of worship, foreign establishments and areas of public congregation like malls. Fragile situation In view of the fragile communal situation, a comprehensive scheme was being devised to ensure heightened security arrangements at vulnerable places. Besides stationing ‘Quick Reaction Teams’ and ‘Snipers’ at vantage points, adequate armed security personnel, including a sizeable number of plainclothes personnel, would be deployed on bandobust duty before and during the Independence Day celebrations across the State, sources said. “As part of the elaborate security plan, special teams are being formed to conduct checks in isolated buildings on the city/town outskirts. Coastal and inter-state/district borders have been strengthened with additional manpower. Members of Coastal Vigilance Committees have been sensitised to the threat perception and asked to alert the local police in case they come across suspicious persons or activities,” a senior police official told The Hindu on Monday.
11 August 2020||August 11 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||Coimbatore district||Till August 10   Cases on Monday: 292 Deaths on Monday: 7 Persons tested +ve so far: 6,961 Active cases: 1,561 Persons recovered: 5,268 Deaths so far: 132   Cases on Monday: 48 Persons tested +ve so far: 1,197 Active cases: 359 Persons recovered: 815 Deaths so far: 23
11 August 2020||August 11 2020 00:00 IST,TAMIL NADU||power shutdown||Coimbatore  In view of the proposed maintenance works to be carried out at the R.S. Puram sub-station on Wednesday (August 12), there will be no power supply in the following areas from 9 a.m. to 2 p.m.: Arockiasamy Road, Ramachandra Road, part of DB Road, Lawley Road, Thadagam Road, Cowley Brown Road, West Periasamy Road, West and East TV Samy Road, Sambandham Road West and East, Sir CV Raman Road, Azad Road, Subramanian Road, Sukrawarpet part, TK Street, Mcriker Street, Ponniahrajapuram, EB Colony, part of Chockampudur, Gopal Lay out, Samy Iyer New Street, Gandhi Park, part of Sullivan Street, Telugu Street, Edayar Street, part of Raja Street, part of Big Bazaar Steet, RG Street, Kamarajapuram area, Devangapet streets 1, 2 and 3, Syrian Church Road 1 and 2, Devanga High School Road, Shanmuga Theatre road, RR Lay out, VVC Layout, Krishnasamy Road and part of Chinthamani area.  Erode  Due to maintenance works, power supply will be disrupted from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. in the following areas in the sub-stations:  Perundurai Sipcot III sub-station, August 12: Kottaimedu, Karungkattur, Kalliyampudur, Thudupathi, Chinna Vettuvapalayam, Pallakattur, T.K. Pudur, Slater Nagar, Sullipalayam Pirivu, Ayyappa Nagar, Anna Nagar, Sipcot Special Economic Zone premises, Perundurai Town, North Perundurai, Perundurai East areas.  Perundurai Thingalur sub-station, August 13: Thingalur, Vettaiyankinaru, Grey Nagar, Pappampalayam, Mandiripalayam, Nallampatti, Seenapuram, Sellappampalayam, Veerachipalayam, Veeranampalayam, Karandipalayam, Thalayampalayam, Ayicoundanpalayam, Keeleripalayam, Pattakaranpalayam, Weavers Colony, Madathupalayam, Naduvalasu, Kombaiyan Valasu, Dasampudur, Velankadu, Manoorkadu, Mamutti Thoppu, S.K. Palayam and N.C. Palayam.
11 August 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||Railway staff clear landslip debris in four places||Railway staff have cleared debris from landslips on railway tracks in four places in the Western Ghats this week The staff cleared trees that had fallen on the tracks between Tinaighat and Castle Rock. As many as 30 workers were deployed on site. As many as 20 workers removed loose soil that had fallen on the tracks between Castle Rock and Caranzol. Debris from a landslip near Dudhsagar was cleared by unloading five boosters filled with boulders and three wagons filled with sand bags. The work was completed in four hours with the deployment of around 40 workers. Debris from a similar landslip was cleared in Sankval by unloading three wagons filled with sand bags. Around 30 people worked for two hours. As many as six railway officers supervised the work. Two monsoon rakes reserved for emergencies were used. Divisional Railway Manager Arvind Malkhede, Senior Divisional Engineer Neeraj Bapna and Senior Divisional Engineer S. Mahender have congratulated the staff, said a release.  In one of the places, debris from a landslip near Dudhsagar was cleared in four hours with the help of 40 workers
11 August 2020||Belagavi,KARNATAKA||‘Inspired by the work of doctors during the pandemic’||The COVID-19 situation has had a positive impact on a Kannada-medium topper in the State - Shruti Patil. Shruti, who scored 623 marks, said she was inspired by the selfless service of doctors to study MBBS and become a doctor. She is a student of KR Hukkeri High School in Gokak. Her father, Basanagouda Patil, is a lecturer in the local Pre University College. He defends sending her to a Kannada-medium school, saying it was the only way to keep her rooted in her culture. Shruti has obtained full marks in five subjects — Kannada, English, Hindi, Mathematics and Social Sciences. She scored 98 marks in Science. She credits her success to regular studies throughout the year. Most students study only at the end of the year. “That can be stressful. I have been studying since the first week of school. Of course, the number of hours of study increased as the examinations approached. Being attentive in school helped,” she said.
11 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Maximum accidents in the State occurred in the evening||The year 2019 saw a marginal drop in accidents and fatalities compared to the previous year. As per data released by the Police Computer Wing and State Crime Records Bureau, 40,658 road accidents were reported in Karnataka last year, resulting in the death of 10,958 persons. In 2018, the total number of road accidents was 41,707 and fatalities were 10,990. On an average, 30 people get killed per day in road accidents across the State. The report goes on to state that the highest percentage (27.13%) of people killed were in the age group of 25 to 35 while 25.43% were in the 35-45 age group. The evening hours, with everyone rushing to get back home after work, are when motorists are at risk. The highest number of accidents (21%) occurred at 6-9 p.m. followed by 3 p.m. to 6 p.m., which accounted for 18% of the accidents. In 2019, there were 8,612 accidents between 6 p.m. and 9 p.m., and 7,385 accidents between 3 p.m. and 6 p.m. Black spots on highways continue to remain a problem. According to the report, due to higher volume of traffic and speeding vehicles, 58.56% of accidents happened on National and State highways compared to those in districts and other roads. More than 64% of people who were killed were involved in road accidents on highways. Speeding is a major cause accounting for 38,000 accidents. Tumakuru tops list of fatalities Road fatalities are on the rise in Tumakuru district for the consecutive second year. Death caused due to road accidents has increased from 766 in 2018 to 786 in 2019. Bengaluru, which has the highest number of vehicles in the State, stands second when it comes to fatalities. Last year, 768 people were killed in the city limits, an increase of 82 deaths compared to 2018. Belagavi was third in the fatalities list with 713 deaths. Transport Commissioner N. Shivkumar said, “The road safety authority will come out with various measures to bring down the number of accidents that include increasing awareness. The department is also introducing driving tracks in Hassan, Shivamogga, Dharwad and other areas.” The department is also planning a vehicular traction system to reduce the number of accidents. To control the road accidents in the State, the government has allotted Rs. 100 crore for various projects, of which Rs. 25 crore was released on July 31.
11 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||73.56% jump in full mark scorers||Although the pass percentage has dipped compared to the previous year, the number of students who secured maximum marks in different subjects and the percentage of students who secured A+ and A grade have increased. SSLC students secured full marks in 43,661 papers this year. This is a huge jump — 73.56% — compared to 2019, where students secured full marks in only 25,155 papers. This year, the highest number of students secured the maximum marks in the third language: 21,745 scored 100/100. Last year, only 8,138 students secured full marks in this subject. In 2019, the maximum number of students had secured the highest marks in the first language examination. Science, however, was where many students stumbled. In a trend similar to 2019, the least number of students bagged maximum marks in science. That said, this year, there was a huge increase in the number of students who got full scores in this paper: 910 students aced the science paper, compared to previous year, where only 226 got full. Among freshers Meanwhile, an analysis of grades among freshers revealed that the percentage of students with A + grade had increased compared to 2019. While 5.07% of students secured the grade this year, last year it was marginally lower at 4.25%. This year, as many as 14.28% students got ‘A’ grade, compared to 13.24% who got the same grade in 2019. Manjunath H.K., president of the Karnataka State High School Assistant Masters’ Association, said students from poor socio-economic backgrounds, who did not have a conducive environment at home during COVID-19 pandemic, were not able to prepare effectively for the examination. “On the other hand, students who were able to attend special classes online and devote all three months to the exam got high scores as they had an advantage,” he said. The examination, which was scheduled in March/April, was postponed to June/July due to the pandemic. Rishikesh B.S., associate professor at Azim Premji University, said the gap of three to four months between classes and the examination would have left several students at a disadvantage as the pattern of the examination is heavily dependent on the recall value that students have, and also lays heavy emphasis on rote learning. “It is high time that we have reforms in assessment,” he said.
11 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Floods: State seeks special assistance of Rs. 4,000 cr.||Flood-hit Karnataka on Monday sought a special financial assistance of Rs. 4,000 crore from the Centre to handle relief and rehabilitation measures. In addition to this, Karnataka also appealed to the Centre to release the second instalment of Rs. 395 crore towards the State Disaster Response Fund (SDRF) to cater to the immediate relief measures. The appeal was made by Home Minister Basavaraj Bommai and Revenue Minister R. Ashok during Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s two-hour videoconference with representatives from various flood-hit States. Representing Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, who is undergoing treatment for COVID-19, the two Ministers explained the flood situation in the State and the relief measures initiated. According to a release from the government, the Prime Minister assured the State of considering the request and also directed the Central authorities to take up short as well as long-term measures to handle relief and rehabilitation. Briefing presspersons after the videoconference, Mr. Bommai said that the State had also sought an additional four National Disaster Response Force (NDRF) teams to handle emergencies. Presently, the State has four NDRF teams and 200 trained staff of the SDRF, besides four Defence helicopters, he noted. As part of long-term measures, the State appealed to the Prime Minister to establish an inter-State integrated flood forecasting and response system in the Krishna basin through the Central Water Commission. It also requested setting up a landslip hazard mapping and early warning system in the Western Ghats region in the wake of frequent landslips. Expressing concern over sea erosion, the State appealed for inclusion of prevention of sea erosion as a component in the National Cyclone Relief Mitigation project. It also sought similar measures to prevent river erosion. The two Ministers said in the videoconference that 885 villages in 56 taluks, spread over Belagavi, Raichur, Kodagu, Chikkamagaluru, Shivamogga, Hassan and Haveri among other districts, had been affected by floods. As per an initial assessment, 3,000 houses had been damaged while standing crops on 80,000 hectares had been devastated. In addition to this, 3,500 km of roads, 394 government buildings, 150 bridges, and power infrastructure had been damaged, while 104 tanks, under the Minor Irrigation Department, had breached. Meanwhile, the govenrment has decided to depute Army personnel to Kodagu that faced serious floods, Mr. Bommai added.  Other demands  Additional four NDRF teams  Setting up inter-State integrated flood forecasting and response system in the Krishna basin   Landslip hazard mapping and early warning system in the entire Western Ghats region  Inclusion of prevention of sea erosion as a component in the National Cyclone Relief Mitigation Project
11 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||114 deaths, 4,267 new cases||As many as 114 COVID-19 deaths and 4,267 new cases were reported from Karnataka on Monday. The overall toll in the State stands at 3,312. According to the media bulletin of the Department of Health and Family Welfare, the total number of positive cases in Karnataka is 1,82,354. The bulletin also said that there were 5,218 discharges, taking the total number of discharges to 99,126. Bengaluru Urban reported 1,243 new cases and 36 deaths, taking the total number of deaths in the capital to 1,276. The total number of positive cases in the city is 75,428. As many as 2,037 patients were discharged, resulting in an overall 41,166 discharges. The total number of active cases stands at 32,985. Mysuru had the second highest number of new cases with 374 and five deaths. New COVID-19 deaths were also reported in Ballari (7), Davangere (11), Dharwad (4), Bagalkote, Chamarajanagar, Chickballapur, Bidar, Kalaburagi (one each), Dakshina Kannada (8), Hassan, Udupi and Koppal - six each, Tumakuru (5), Ramanagara, Gadag and Mandya (two each), Shivamogga, Belagavi and Haveri (three each).
11 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Empower more people to take care of COVID-19 patients’||India will face an acute shortage of doctors, nurses, and technicians in the next few weeks and months unless the government takes a dramatic decision to empower more people to take care of COVID-19 patients, warned Devi Shetty, Chairman, Narayana Health. According to Dr. Shetty, the country can quickly make available a large number of final year nursing and MD students to the healthcare workforce by changing regulatory requirements. The Ministry of Health, Nursing Council of India, and other healthcare bodies should work on this front and many countries are already doing it, he said. There are around 1.5 lakh nursing students who are waiting for their BSc and GNM final exams. If the government decides and tells them they need not appear for exams if they are willing to work in COVID-19 care, the country will immediately have a large pool of nurses. Also, there are over 25,000 MD students who can join the workforce to fill in the shortage of doctors. “What is an exam after-all? No one learns anything new by writing exams. It is only a certification. So, if the government makes the necessary regulations, we can quickly increase the pool of healthcare professionals,” Dr. Shetty added while speaking at a webinar organised by Covid Healthcare Professionals (CHP), a not-for-profit joint initiative between Echo India and Naukri.com. Dr. Shetty further said the country required a fluid healthcare force comprising at least 150,000 nurses and 50,000 doctors. “They should be young and technically skilled to manage patients in ICUs. COVID-19 behaves in a more or less predictable manner; it goes from one city to another, one location to another. A fluid healthcare team can be deployed wherever it is required,” he added.
11 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||SSLC: District ranking abolished by KSEEB starting this year||The Karnataka Secondary Education and Examination Board (KSEEB) has decided to abolish district rankings based on the pass percentage obtained by SSLC students. Starting this year, KSEEB will provide grades for districts that will be calculated using three parameters — pass percentage, average marks scored by students, and number of students awarded distinctions and first class. At a press conference on Monday, Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar said three grades will be allocated to the 34 educational districts. “To calculate the grade, 40% weightage will be given to pass percentage, 40% to average marks scored by all students in the district. and the remaining 20% to the number of students who bag distinctions and first class,” he said. This year, 10 districts secured ‘A’ grade, while 20 were awarded ‘B’ and four got ‘C’. According to Commissioner for Public Instruction K.G. Jagadeesha, the earlier ranking system had led to an “unhealthy” competition among districts. The grading system will also be applicable to individual schools and blocks. Around, 5,859 schools secured ‘A’ grade, 4,310 schools were graded ‘B’, and 4,528 schools secured ‘C’ grade. Meanwhile, a block-wise analysis reveals that 60 blocks secured ‘A’ grade, 107 got ‘B’, and 37 blocks ‘C’ grade. V. Sumangala, KSEEB director, said this was a more “holistic” approach to assess a district’s performance, and was taken in consultation with experts. Senior officials in the Education Department pointed out that district-wise rankings had resulted in individual schools and district officials pushing students to improve their performance. “Students who got low scores in the preparatory exam were put under tremendous pressure,” said a senior education official. Another official said many schools denied students admission tickets if they scored badly in the preparatory exam. “They would send a report to the board that the student had low attendance,” the official said. Many teachers and headmasters admitted that they were forced to do so to “boost their results”.
11 August 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Permanent relief centres to be set up in 10 districts||In the wake of the State facing frequent floods, the government has decided to set up permanent relief centres in 10 flood-prone districts. Announcing this at a press conference in Bengaluru on Monday, Revenue Minister R. Ashok said setting up such centres was expected to cost over Rs. 200 crore. Facilities The proposed centres will have facilities for separate accommodation of men and women, dining halls, toilets, hospitals and libraries, he said. Meanwhile, the Minister said he had directed the authorities to provide quality food, including eggs and vegetables, at the relief centres. Responding to the allegations that the government was yet to release compensation towards floods in 2019, Mr. Ashok announced that the compensation amount had been released now. Leader of the Opposition Siddaramaiah had launched an attack at the government over the failure to release the compensation amount and said that delay had further deteriorated the condition during the present floods. Mr. Ashok announced that Rs. 334.29 crore towards the third, fourth and fifth instalments with respect to construction of houses for those whose houses were damaged in 2019 floods in 21 districts had been released now to the Rajiv Gandhi Housing Corporation. House reconstruction Meanwhile, the government has issued a notification that it would provide Rs. 5 lakh for reconstruction of houses that have been severely damaged, and Rs. 3 lakh for repairing those damaged between 25 to 75%; and Rs. 50,000 for repairs of those damaged between 15 and 25%. Similarly, it has also made a provision for providing an immediate compensation of Rs. 10,000 to the flood-hit families for buying clothes, utensils and essentials.
11 August 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Urge Prime Minister to visit flood-hit areas’||Leader of the Opposition in the Assembly Siddaramaiah has said that Karnataka Ministers should urge Prime Minister Narendra Modi to personally visit flood-hit areas in the State. Taking to Twitter to express his views just before the videoconference of the Prime Minister on Monday, Mr. Siddaramaiah said Mr. Modi should also send a team to conduct a survey to assess the damage due to floods. “I welcome the decision of @PMOIndia @narendramodi to discuss about flood issues with ministers of Karnataka govt,” he said. “He had not even tweeted about Karnataka floods when it happened last year. He has finally woken up now and I appreciate it,” Mr. Siddaramaiah added in another tweet. Meanwhile, Mr. Siddaramaiah has alleged that the Rs. 1-lakh agriculture package announced by the PM on Sunday was an old one which had already been announced by Union Finance Minister Nirmala Sitharaman in May 2020. “We were seeing UPA schemes being re-branded. But now their own schemes are being re-announced,” he said.
11 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Centre’s fiat to all States, UTs on water release||The Union government, for the first time, on August 9 invoked powers under the provisions of the Disaster Management Act, 2005 to direct all State governments, Union Territories (UT) and the dam authorities in the country to give advance information on the release of water from dams and reservoirs to the neighbouring States and UTs situated in the downstream. HC order The direction has been issued acting on an order by the High Court of Karnataka, which on July 24 directed the National Executive Council (NEC) to consider exercising issuing directions to the State governments mandating them to give immediate intimation to the neighbouring States on the decision to release water from dams and reservoirs. Acting on the court’s direction, the chairperson of the NEC on August 8 issued a direction to the Secretary of the Department of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Kalyan, Ministry of Jal Shakti. Orders The orders passed by the NEC and the Secretary of Department of Water Resources were submitted before a Division Bench, comprising Chief Justice Abhay Shreeniwas Oka and Justice Ashok S. Kinagi on Monday during the hearing of a PIL petition, filed by A. Mallikarjuna.
11 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Recovered patients call for immunity against negativity||As COVID-19 cases continue to rise, stories of stigma surrounding patients and those who have recovered are also becoming common. A session aimed at ‘Destigmatising COVID-19’ on Monday saw government representatives, doctors and recovered patients speak about the need for creating awareness about the myths surrounding the disease, and how these are an impediment to beating it. C.N. Manjunath, Director, Sri Jayadeva Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences and nodal officer for labs and testing in the State’s COVID-19 task force, said fear was a bigger disease than COVID-19 today. “COVID-19 is being seen as a death sentence. Society is practising untouchability on those who have are infected. There is panic about burying patients who have died because of the virus too. This is unscientific and inhuman,” he said, referring to complaints of patients being stigmatised by neighbours. He also said there are three ‘vaccines’ available now before the actual vaccine is found: masks, physical distancing and kindness and humanity. “In Jayadeva hospitals too, we have had staff, including doctors, get infected and recover. One of our doctors calls himself an ex-COVID-19 patient. Family and friends need to motivate the patients and the patients need to keep themselves motivated too,” he added. Fatality rate much lower Fear surrounding the virus is also preventing people with symptoms from getting tested, Medical Education Minister K. Sudhakar said. All of humanity is affected by the virus, and the fatality rates are much lower than several other diseases, he added. The session also had recovered patients come forth with their experience, many of whom encouraged others to follow suit, which could also lead to motivation to donate plasma. Bhagavan Srinivasan, one of the recovered patients, said he was the first to be admitted in ICU in Victoria Hospital for COVID-19. “Anyone can get it any time, but a positive attitude will help you through. What we need is immunity against negativity,” he said.
11 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||2-wheelers worst-hit||In the State, 4,790 two-wheeler riders lost their lives in road accidents. Data shows that 43.71% of deaths involved people on two-wheelers. Pedestrian deaths increased by 23.76% from 1,519 in 2018 to 1,880 in 2019.
11 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Garbage tenders cleared||Fearing contempt of the Karnataka High Court, the BBMP council on Monday cleared the garbage tenders that were pending for well over a year. With this, the tenders for nearly 150 wards have been cleared, and the civic body can now start issuing work orders. Contractors would be responsible for collecting and transporting wet and sanitary waste while dry waste would be collected by ragpickers from the Dry Waste Collection Centres, or self-help groups.
11 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||IMA’s movable properties attached||Acting on the report submitted by Special Investigation Team (SIT) and the State-appointed competent authority for the IMA scam, the Revenue Department has attached all movable properties of I Monetary Advisory (IMA) Group. An order was issued on Monday. Investors in Bengaluru and other parts of Karnataka lost thousands of crores of rupees in the investment fraud, which was uncovered in 2019. Multiple agencies, including CBI and ED, are probing the scam.
11 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||HDK lashes out at ‘Hindi politics’||Former Chief Minister and Janata Dal (Secular) leader H.D. Kumaraswamy in a series of tweets on Monday has condemned “the insult meted out” to DMK leader Kanimozhi allegedly for not speaking in Hindi. He has come down heavily on “Hindi politics” and called for a debate on how several political leaders from the South were deprived of their opportunities and were discriminated against. Though his father, former Prime Minister H.D. Deve Gowda, was successful in breaking this barrier, there were several incidents of him being criticised and ridiculed for reasons of language, he said. “Hindi politics was successful in making Mr. Deve Gowda deliver his Independence Day speech from the Red Fort in Hindi,” he added. “I have seen in close quarters on how Hindi politicians manoeuvre. Most of them don’t respect non-Hindi politicians,” Mr. Kumaraswamy tweeted.
11 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||‘Centre may start schools after Sept.’||Primary and Secondary Education Minister S. Suresh Kumar said that the Union government was mulling over the idea of reopening schools after September. He, however, added that he was yet to look into the modalities of this. Sources in the Department of Primary and Secondary Education said that the Union government was planning to start classes 10, 11 from September 1, while the remaining classes would commence in a phased manner. “But the reopening of schools during the COVID-19 pandemic will be left to individual State governments,” said a source. The department had conducted a survey among parents in June where many had said that schools should not reopen until the number of cases reduces.
11 August 2020||BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||Short duration||Home quarantine norms are likely to be relaxed for Chief Minister B.S. Yediyurappa, as he is a frontline warrior for the State in fighting the pandemic. According to sources, the CM is likely to confine himself to self quarantine only for a couple of days and then get back to the routine work. He is also expected to unfurl the national flag on August 15.
11 August 2020||Bengaluru,KARNATAKA||Asymptomatic, those with mild symptoms to get home quarantine||Only those who are asymptomatic or have mild symptoms will be allowed to be in home isolation or home care as per the revised guidelines for COVID 19 patients issued by the State government on Monday. The guidelines were revised following the evolving situation of COVID-19 in the State and recent revision of guidelines by the Centre. The person will have to be clinically assigned as asymptomatic or a mild case through telephonic triage or by the health staff, medical officer or physician. Such cases should have the requisite facility at their residence for self isolation as well as for quarantining the family contacts. A caregiver will have to be available 24x7, while elderly patients and those with comorbid conditions will be allowed home isolation only after clinical evaluation. Dedicated tele-monitoring link will be established for daily follow up of the person during the period, and the person will have to report their health status daily.
11 August 2020||Hassan,KARNATAKA||‘Remove all acacia trees that disrupt power supply’||Minister for Rural Development and Panchayat Raj K.S. Eshwarappa, on Monday, directed Forest Department officers to remove all acacia trees that were disrupting power supply in Shivamogga district. There should not be fresh plantations of acacia and Nilgiri in the district, he told a meeting. Reviewing steps taken to address rain havoc, Mr. Eshwarappa, who is also Minister in-charge of the district, said power supply was disrupted during heavy rain due to acacia trees. MESCOM officials had been finding it difficult to restore power supply. “Such problems can be resolved only if both MESCOM and Forest Department work together. The lack of coordination has caused many problems. If one tree falls, power lines connected to 10-15 electricity poles are disrupted,” he said.  In Thirthahalli taluk, 314 electricity poles had fallen during heavy rain and so far, 116 had been replaced.
11 August 2020||HUBBALLI/BELAGAVI,KARNATAKA||Three top in Kannada medium||Three students — a boy from Davangere district and two girls from Belagavi — secured first place in Kannada medium, scoring 623 out of 625. In Belagavi, Sahana Shankar Kamagoudar of M.K. Kavatagimath High school of Chikkodi and Shruti Basanagouda Patil of K.R. Hukkeri High School in Gokak scored 623. Both are from private Kannada medium schools. Shruti’s father, Basanagouda Patil, a lecturer, said he put his daughter in a Kannada medium school to ensure she is rooted in her culture. At Harihar town in Davangere district, M. Abhishek, the son of an autorickshaw driver, secured the top spot. Abhishek, a student of Mysore Kirloskar Trust’s Laxmanrao Kirloskar School, Harihar, secured 125 out of 125 in Kannada, 100 out of 100 in English, Hindi, science, and mathematics and scored 98 in social science. Abhishek shares the top spot with two others from Belagavi district. Abhishek’s father Manjunath occasionally also doubles as a taxi driver. When Abhishek’s results were out, he had gone to Haveri to ferry passengers. Netravati, Abhishek’s mother, who is a housewife, was in school with her son to share the joy with his teachers. Abhishek is the eldest of three children. She said they will try to mobilise resources for his further studies. Abhishek wants to pursue science and take up PCMC combination as his next choice is engineering. School headmaster Vinod S. Hegde told The Hindu that it was the first time that the school got the first rank in the State.
11 August 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Students of SRN Mehta, SBR School shine in SSLC exam||Bhagesh B.M. and Prashant A. Uppin, students of SRN Mehta School brought laurels to the institution by securing the school highest of 620 marks (99.2%) of 625 in the SSLC examination, the results of which were declared on Monday. Bhagesh scored centum in three subjects (Kannada, Hindi, and Maths), while Prashant secured centums in Kannada and Hindi. Both got 124 marks out of 125 in English. Speaking to The Hindu , both attributed their success to their parents, teachers and the institutions. They aspire to pursue careers in the medical stream after PUC. They said they used to revise lessons for about 4-5 hours daily. Tuitions and the lockdown helped them to prepare well. Abhay Patil and Shivaprasad Patil, of Sharnbasaveshwar Residential Public School, secured the school’s highest of 618 marks (98.88%). Abhay scored 100 in Kannada, Science and Social Science; and 123 in English. Shivaprasad scored 100 each in Science, Kannada, Hindi, and 122 in English.
11 August 2020||KALABURAGI,KARNATAKA||Kalyana Karnataka districts see improved rankings||The educational districts of Kalyana Karnataka region put up a marginally improved performance but for Koppal and Yadgir districts in the SSLC examinations, the results of which were announced on Monday. Though Kalaburagi, Bidar, Ballari, and Raichur improved their rankings this year, Yadgir retained its position as 34th, the last in the State, while Koppal slumped from last year’s 16th place to 23rd this year. Kalaburagi improved its position from 30th last year to 22nd this year. Except for 2016 with 17th place, Kalaburagi district has never placed within 25th position in the State in the last decade. Bidar rose from 29th place last year to 24th this time. Raichur reached the 28th place from last year’s 33rd position. Ballari district improved its performance from the 23rd position last year to 13th position this year. Yadgir retained its 34th position this year too. Though Yadgir district has performed poorly for two years consecutively, it is the only district that was placed eighth in 2014.
11 August 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||‘Remove obstructions causing artificial floods in Kundapur’||Udupi-Chikkamagaluru MP Shobha Karandlaje on Monday said that she has asked officials concerned to immediately remove two obstructions to enable free flow of rainwater from the service road of the National Highway 66 in Kundapur town thereby causing artificial floods. In a related development, Kundapur MLA Halady Srinivas Shetty visited the area where artificial floods were reported, near Basrur Moorkai in the town, and led a team in the removal of those obstructions during the day. Ms. Karandlaje told reporters that local people had prevented free flow of rainwater near Vinayaka Theatre while a concrete road built by the local authority near Moorkai was obstructing water flow. These two obstructions close to each other would be removed, she said. The MP said that NH 66 four-lane project concessionnaire Navayuga Udupi Tollway Pvt. Ltd. was given April deadline to complete balance works, including a bridge at Padubidri and the Shastri Circle flyover in Kundapur. However, the concessionnaire could not complete the work as labour left here for their home States due to COVID-19 lockdown. Now, the concessionnaire has promised to complete the pending works by December this year, she said. Meanwhile, the MP has asked the National Highways Authority of India to build underpasses near Brahmavar bus stand and Katpady Junction. The authority has promised to work on those proposals and start work. To a question on the need for a similar underpass at Ambalpady Junction in Udupi, Ms. Karandlaje asked the district administration to submit a proposal. COVID-19 situation Ms. Karandlaje said that of the 6,201 positive cases reported from Udupi district, 3,444 have been discharged. Almost all the 60 deaths where patients were found to be positive for COVID-19 were due to co-morbidities, she said. It is highly essential that people with co-morbidities should immediately rush to hospitals when they get symptoms. The deaths were mainly due to them going late to hospitals, she said. Sufficient infrastructure and personnel were available to treat the disease in the district, the MP added. Deputy Commissioner G. Jagadeesha and others were present.  Local people have prevented free flow of rainwater near Vinayaka Theatre while a concrete road built by the local authority near Moorkai was obstructing water flow, says MP
11 August 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Landslip in Malavanthige forests||Heavy rain on the Western Ghats has resulted in a landslip inside forests at Alladakadu under Malavanthige Gram Panchayat in Belthangady taluk of Dakshina Kannada. According to Belthangady Tahsildar Mahesh G., about two acres of forest land has slipped. It might have happened late on Sunday or early Monday, he said and added that there was no loss of life. The water level in the Netravathi at Bantwal on Monday stood at 5.9 m against the danger level of 8.5 m. The river was flowing at 27.1 m against the danger level of 31.5 m at Uppinangady. The water level in the Kumaradhara at Uppinangady was 22 m against the danger level of 26.5 m. According to Karnataka State Natural Disaster Monitoring Centre, Dakshina Kannada recorded an average total rainfall of 73 mm in the last 24 hours ended at 8.30 a.m. on Monday. Udupi district recorded 127 mm, while Uttara Kannada district recorded 73 mm during the same period. The highest rainfall of 156 mm was recorded in Kundapur taluk, followed by 146 mm in Byndoor, 141 mm in Brahmavar and 108 mm in Kaup and 93 mm in Hebri of Udupi district. In Dakshina Kannada, 95 mm rainfall was recorded in Moodbidri, followed by 88 mm in Bantwal and Mangaluru, 78 mm in Puttur, 69 mm in Sullia and 61 mm in Belthangady. Among areas in Uttara Kannada, 168 mm was recorded in Bhatkal taluk, 166 mm in Honnavar, 159 mm in Kumta, 142 mm in Ankola, 96 mm in Siddapura and 71 mm in Sirsi taluk.
11 August 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Doctor, engineer dreams for them||Some of the second State toppers in the SSLC examination from Dakshina Kannada, Uttara Kannada and Udupi want to take up varied professions like research, engineering and medical. They, two from Dakshina Kannada and one each from Udupi and Uttara Kannada schools, scored 624 marks. Of them two want to become doctors, one is interested in research and another aspires to become a computer engineer. Aniruddh Suresh Guttikar from Prashanthi English Medium High School, Siddapura, Uttara Kannada, wants to become a computer engineer and join an IIT. He said that he used to study daily for about one or two hours at home in addition to listening to the classroom teachings. His father Suresh Guttikar is a professor of Economics and also vice-principal at MGC College, Siddapura and mother Kanchana Kamath is a mathematics teacher at Government High School, Kangod in Uttara Kannada. Sumukha Subrahmanya Shetty from Sri Sathya Sai Loka Seva High School, Alike, Dakshina Kannada, said that he will either study computer science or physics. “I want to do research in either of these,” he said. Sumukha said that due to COVID-19 restrictions, he wrote the examination at Thirthahalli where his father Subrahmanya Shetty manages a hotel. His mother Rashmi is a teacher at Malnad High School in Bejjavalli. Nidhi Rao from Canara High School, Dongarakery, Mangaluru, said that she wants to become a doctor. She too concentrated more on daily studies. Her father Jayachandra B. V. works with SBI and mother Swapna J. works with Canara Bank. Surabhi S. Shetty from Sandeepana English Medium High School, Kirimanjeshwara, Byndoor, Udupi district, said that she wants to get into the medical profession. Her father Suresh Shetty is a businessman and mother Seema Shetty is a homemaker.
11 August 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Three arrested for abducting minor||The Puttur Woman Police have arrested three persons on the charge of abducting a minor girl and sexually harassing her. The police gave the names of the accused as Imran, Nayeem and Tausheer, all from Mangaluru. In a complaint, the father of the girl said that his daughter was taken in a car to a flat in Mangaluru on August 7. The next day she was taken to Beeramale Gudda in Puttur where she was sexually harassed. The police registered a case for offences under the Indian Penal Code and also under the provisions of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences (PoCSO) Act. The three accused persons were arrested on Saturday and produced before the jurisdictional magistrate who sent them to prison till August 21. Nayeem is an accused in a case under PoCSO Act in the Mangaluru Women Police Station, the police said.
11 August 2020||MANGALURU,KARNATAKA||Udupi, Dakshina Kannada secure A, B grades||While Udupi district was among 10 districts that secured grade A, Dakshina Kannada, which had a student scoring 625 marks, was among the 20 districts which scored B grade in the SSLC examinations results of which were declared on Monday. Udupi district had been ranked fifth while Dakshina Kannada had bagged 7th rank in terms of overall performance of students in the SSLC examination last year. This year the State government has stopped giving ranks and has given A, B and C grades based on pass percentage, average scores of students and number of students scoring first class and distinction. Commending the performance, Deputy Directors of Public Instruction of Udupi and Dakshina Kannada Sheshashayana Karinja and Malleswamy, respectively, said that the students have excelled in the examination that was held in trying circumstances. Teachers were in contact with them and ensured that their morale did not drop during the gap between the initial examination dates and the dates on which they were held. They are awaiting details of the marks for an analysis, they said. The two districts had preparatory examinations. Slow learners were identified and teachers held special classes to prepare them. “Though teachers remained in touch with their students via phone during the lockdown, it is with self inspiration that students have excelled in the examination,” said a teacher of a government secondary school in Mangaluru.
11 August 2020||MANGALURU/BENGALURU,KARNATAKA||These students battle all odds to stand out||Exams are not just about scoring high marks but also about grit and determination to fight against all odds to emerge on top. The results of the SSLC examination announced on Monday threw up many heart-warming stories that testify to this. Kaushik Acharya of Bastipadu, Bantwal taluk, Dakshina Kannada, who scored 424 marks by writing the exam with his legs without the help of a scribe, did not surprise his teachers from SVS Kannada Medium Secondary School, Bantwal. “He is a student with lot of determination and works hard to achieve goals. He will definitely rise high in his career,” said Surekha, headmistress of the school where 70 of 77 students have passed the exam. Second among the three children of carpenter Rajesh Acharya and homemaker Jalajakshi, Kaushik is multi-talented. Living close to the Netravathi, Kaushik has mastered swimming. He has learnt wood craft skills from his father and helps him in wood works. He does several yogasanas with ease. He cycles to school from his house everyday. For Pallavi S., a class 10 student of Government High School, Hesaraghatta Road in Bengaluru, life has been more than tough. Her father was an alcoholic who murdered her mother and is now in jail. She was rescued after she dropped out of school. She resumed her education and has been staying at an institution run by Sparsha Trust for the past three years. Although Pallavi had prepared well for the examination, she faced a lot of challenges due to the COVID-19 pandemic. “I never thought I would be able to write the examination, but everybody at Sparsha Trust gave me moral support and I secured 72%,” she said. She aspires to become a teacher. Jyothi P., a class 10 student of Yuvaka Vikas Mandal in Marathahalli, secured 77%. An orphan, she was rescued by ChildLine in December 2018 fromRamagondanahalli. Later, she was admitted in a child care institute run the by Association for Promoting Social Action. Happy with her scores, Jyothi says she wants to be a teacher. “I got all the maternal love from my teachers and they were my inspiration. I want to be like them,” she says.
11 August 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Historical Wellesley Bridge closed as Cauvery rises||The historical Wellesley Bridge at Srirangapatna was temporarily closed as a safety precaution in view of the overflowing Cauvery following heavy discharge from KRS reservoir. The rising water level in the river is threatening the submergence of the century-old bridge and the taluk authorities have therefore restricted locals from using the bridge. Mandya Deputy Commissioner M.V. Venkatesh on Monday visited the downstream of the dam in and around Srirangapatna.
11 August 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||Daughters of missing priest quarantined||The two daughters of the priest of the Talacauvery temple, who is among the four persons missing following a landslip, have been quarantined as the driver, who ferried them from the airport to Madikeri, has tested positive for COVID-19. In all five persons went missing in the landslip and the body of one has been recovered. The daughters, who live abroad, arrived on Monday and were ferried from the airport to the town in taxi. They visited the site of the disaster and met the District in-charge Minister V. Somanna and others. It transpired that the taxi driver tested positive following which the two daughters were advised to go into quarantine. Kodagu DHO K. Mohan, said the two are in quarantine in Bhagamandala. Meanwhile, Kodagu and other regions of Malnad area got a reprieve from the rains for the second consecutive day enabling the authorities to shore up relief and rescue works. Kodagu received 25.39 mm of rainfall as recorded at 8.30 a.m. on Monday and all the connecting roads are open to traffic. Water level at Bhagamandala and Talacauvery has completely receded and life in the district was limping back to normality. However, the search for the four missing persons did not yield any results and the operations will resume on Tuesday. The Deputy Commissioner Annies Kanmani Joy said the 304 houses have been damaged owing to the rains in the district. The heavy rains has caused extensive damage to farming sector and horticultural crops, spread across 32,500 hectares, have been damaged. The trail of destruction is widespread and 35.8 km of State highways, 26.78 km of district roads, 260.37 km of rural roads and 47 km of city roads have been damaged while 2,012 electricity poles have to be replaced. There are nine relief centres in the district in which 506 people have sought shelter, according to the Deputy Commissioner. Pending road repair works, the authorities have extended the ban on the movement of heavy vehicles, with an axle load of 16,200 and above, till August 31. In other regions, Chikkamagaluru district received 16 mm, Hassan 5 mm while Shivamogga received 31 mm for the 24 hour period ending 8.30 a.m. on Monday. The inflow to the four dams have also receded as the rains have abated.
11 August 2020||MYSURU,KARNATAKA||No entry to waterfalls||Bharachukki was out of bounds for visitors on Monday. It falls in Chamarajanagar and the district administration had barred entry of visitors owing to COVID-19 fears.
11 August 2020||yadgir,KARNATAKA||Raichur students secure high scores in SSLC exam||Deputy Director of Public Instruction B.H. Gonal told The Hindu that Syed Amanulla Hussain, of Vellanki Ramkrishna High School in Manvi, secured the highest score - 620 out of 625 - and became the SSLC topper in Raichur district. Sandeep Patil student of Rikhabchand Sukhani English Medium School in Raichur came second with 619 marks while Abhishek of Jogin RamannaMemorial School in Maski came third with 618. The other three toppers in Raichur are: Arun of Adarsh Vidyalaya in Lingsugur (617), Pulakunda of GHS Mukkunda (616), Prashant of Adarsha Vidyalaya Lingsugur (614), and Vijayalakshmi of Adarsh Vidyalaya in Sindhanur (614), respectively. The overall result of Raichur district was B grade. The individual achievement is as follows: Deodurg- C, Lingsugur - B, Manvi - B, Raichur - C, and Sindhanur - B grade. In Yadgir, the toppers, Ramya (620), and Swapna (619), are both students of RMSA, Shahapur. Priyadarshani of RV High school and Sushma of MG High School secured 617 marks each. Ganesh of RMSA Yadgir got 615 marks. Deepa of Kittur Channamma Residential School Rajankollur got 615 marks and Reshmita .G, a student of Morarji Desai Residential School at Motnalli, got 614 marks.
11 August 2020||YADGIR,KARNATAKA||233 new cases in Raichur, Yadgir districts||As many as 233 fresh COVID-19 positive cases were registered in Raichur and Yadgir districts on Monday. Of these, 165 are from Raichur and 68 from Yadgir. With the 165 new cases, the total number of positive cases went up to 3,958 in Raichur. In Yadgir, with the 68 fresh cases, the total number of such cases reached 3,129.
11 August 2020||August 11 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Coffers of civic body close to empty||The coffers of the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP) are near empty. Following a heated discussion on funds to be released for medical grants and implementation of welfare schemes on Monday, civic chief N. Manjunath Prasad informed the council that there was just Rs. 68 crore in the accounts. “With this, we have to pay salaries and fulfil other commitments. We need to stress on revenue mobilisation. Depending on availability of funds, we will release money on priority for different purposes,” he said. Senior councillors B.S. Sathyanarayana and Padmanabha Reddy spoke about the government’s decision to allow sale of leased properties as a means to garner revenue. While Mr. Reddy pointed out that land had been leased at low rates, Mr. Sathyanarayana said the council must pass a resolution allowing Kannada schools and organisations to renew their leases. Mr. Prasad said the government order on sale of leased land applied to both, the Bangalore Development Authority and BBMP. As per records, 921 acres in Bengaluru had been leased to various organisations and generated a revenue of just Rs. 6.5 crore. Councillors also pointed out that there were several parcels of government lands in the newly added areas, and urged the commissioner to take possession as many of the sites had been encroached upon by land sharks. Mohan Kumar, chairperson of Standing Committee for Major Works, cited an instance of 10 acres of BBMP property on Bannerghatta Road worth Rs. 500 crore that had been encroached. After the Total Station Survey report was tabled in the council, Mr. Reddy pointed out that as per the report, the civic body had incurred a loss of not less than Rs. 500 crore with many property owners not declaring the extent of property under the Self Assessment Scheme. Citing from the report, he said though there are many star hotels in the city, the officials had classified them as hotels and restaurants, as a result of which they paid less by way of property tax. Mr. Reddy alleged that the loss was also in part due to officials giving exemptions in connivance with property owners. He urged the Mayor to direct the Commissioner to write to the government and Chief Secretary seeking powers to initiate disciplinary action against guilty officials. Later, the council passed a resolution to transfer an additional Rs. 5 crore to the Mayor’s medical grant, which had Rs. 3 crore left.
11 August 2020||August 11 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||BBMP sets up system to track ambulances||The Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), which has deployed around 700 ambulances for the eight zones, needs of the police and for areas under Bengaluru Urban district, is now tracking its fleet to ensure maximum efficiency. The fleet includes Basic Life Support (BLS) ambulances, Tempo Travellers (TTs) converted to BLS ambulances and regular Tempo Travellers. They will be monitored and tracked by an Ambulance Despatch Control Centre, which the civic body has set up. According to officials, the active tracking of ambulances started around a fortnight ago. With this system, the BBMP hopes to bring down the number of complaints of delay in ambulances reaching patients. “We can track the movement of vehicles in real time. The drivers have been directed to download the tracking app on their phones,” said a senior civic official. BBMP’s Special Commissioner (Health) D. Randeep told The Hindu that the dashboard at the control centre is being linked to the COVID-19 Hospital Bed Management System. “This second level integration will happen in a couple of days, following which the loop will be complete,” he said. Explaining how the vehicles are tracked, he said that the drivers get an SMS on the COVID-19 positive patient to be picked up and the hospital they are to be taken to. “Once the patient is picked up, the driver has to indicate this on the app. He has to update the app after the patient is dropped off at the designated hospital,” Mr. Randeep added. With everything online, the BBMP will be able to track when the patient was picked up, when he/she was admitted in the designated hospital, apart from tracking the payment of bills. “The entire system is transparent. We began actively tracking vehicles on the Ambulance Despatch Control Centre over the past two weeks,” he added.
11 August 2020||August 11 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Freight trains yield Rs. 25.91 crore||While people remained at home during the lockdown and only essential services were operational, the movement of cargo increased. The operation of freight trains from April to July helped the Bengaluru division of South Western Railways (SWR) generate close to Rs. 25.91 crore in revenue. Divisional Railway Manager (DRM) Ashok Kumar Verma told mediapersons on Monday that demand for freight trains increased significantly during the lockdown compared to the same period in the previous year. The cargo that was moved included granite blocks, tractors and cars. The division has handled 15,424 wagons and moved cargo weighing four lakh tonnes. “The railways ministry is actively pursuing an increase in the goods business, which is also essential for revival of industries. In our division, there was a 40% increase in incoming traffic. In July, our outgoing freight trains increased by 20%. The average speed of trains doubled compared to last year from 23 kmph to 46 kmph. In August too, we expect more business,” said Mr. Verma. In addition, the division operated time tabled parcel trains, transporting 8,839 tonnes of essential commodities, including fruits, vegetables and medicines, in 157 trains. This helped generate Rs. 4.94 crore Shramik Specials During the lockdown, SWR ran 233 Shramik Special trains from the division, of which a majority were operated from Bengaluru. More than 3.44 lakh people travelled in these trains to various destinations. The running of these trains helped the division generate revenue of Rs. 30.09 crore. SWR distributed 700 Channapatna toys to children who travelled in these trains.
11 August 2020||August 11 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Masked men break open ATM||A gang of masked men broke open an Automated Teller Machine (ATM) at Jalahalli and made away with over Rs. 26 lakh. The incident came to light only on Monday morning when the bank sent technicians to repair the ATM as it had gone offline since Saturday night. According to the police, the cable that connected the machine to the bank’s intranet network was cut on Saturday night. It was inspected on Sunday but, as it was a holiday, it was scheduled to be fixed on Monday. “The machine was cut open and money stolen,” said the police, Jalahalli police have registered a case and have set up special teams to investigate the case. The ATM was broken into with a gas cutter after which the burglars accessed the cash box and the money. “The bank has told us that the CCTV cameras in the kiosk had not been functioning for a couple of months. Even the camera in the ATM seems faulty. There was no security guard as well. The bank has been negligent. They should have informed us of the cable being cut on Saturday,” said Dharmendra Kumar Meena, DCP (North). While police sources suspect that the cable was snapped deliberately to ensure that bank was not immediately alerted of the robbery, Mr. Meena said it was too early into the investigation to comment. “The machine has been cut open very professionally. A lot of planning has gone into this crime,” he said. The police are examining footage from other CCTV cameras in the area. Initial leads suggest that at least four masked men were involved. The visuals from the CCTV cameras indicate that the gang robbed the ATM around 1 a.m. on Monday.
11 August 2020||August 11 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||They used the lockdown period to their advantage||This year’s SSLC results, announced on Monday, has six students — against two last year — occupying the top slot, all scoring 625 out of 625. While two of them are from schools in Bengaluru, others are from small towns across Karnataka. Chirayu K.S. and Nikhilesh N. Marali are from Bengaluru. While Dhiraj Reddy M.P. is from a village in Mandya in Old Mysore region, Thanmayi I.P. is from Chikkamagluru in Malnad. Sannidhi Mahabaleshwar Hegde and Anush A.L. are from coastal Karnataka, from Kukke Subrahmanya (Dakshina Kannada) and Sirsi (Uttara Kannada), respectively. One common thread that runs across what they said led to their high scores was how they used the long wait to write the examination, amidst the pandemic and lockdown, to their advantage and burnt the midnight oil to bag the perfect score. Both Bengaluru toppers who got the perfect score said their results did not come as a surprise to them and reflected months of hardwork. Work and play Interestingly, while all the focus is on the COVID-19 pandemic and medical professionals are the highlight, at least three of the six toppers, including both the girls, said they want to be doctors. Many of the students also talked about how they balanced hardwork and leisure during the lockdown. Nikhilesh said he was heavily invested in sports till December as he is a district-level football player and also played badminton. Once the exam mood set in, he prepared a timetable that gave him ample time for studies and relaxation. He solved several model question papers that helped him immensely, but during free time, he played the keyboard and played games on the terrace, since going out was barred during lockdown.
11 August 2020||August 11 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Slump in property tax collection||One of the major revenue sources for the Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagara Palike (BBMP), property tax, has dropped on account of the pandemic. According to information provided by the BBMP’s Revenue Department, till August 5, it had collected Rs. 1,804.80 crore by way of property tax. This is nearly Rs. 165 crore less than the amount collected during the corresponding period last fiscal. BBMP officials attributed this to the pandemic. Sources told The Hindu that almost all revenue officials had been roped in for COVID-19 duty. “We have not given much attention to augmenting property tax collection since the beginning of this fiscal,” the source said. Furthermore, the civic body, which gives 5% rebate on property tax payments made during April, extended the rebate period till the end of May. This was because in April, it was able to collect just over Rs. 400 crore. The total tax collected by May 31 was Rs. 1,440 crore. The tax collected during the corresponding period last fiscal (2019-20) was Rs. 1,510.79 crore. The BBMP has set a target of collecting Rs. 3,500 crore this year. During the last financial year, it had garnered a total of Rs. 2,729.77 crore. BBMP’s Special Commissioner (Revenue) Basavaraj admitted to a slump in tax collection. “Apart from regular activities of issuing notices to those with arrears, we cannot do much else. The department had drawn up an action plan of bringing in more properties under the tax net. However, given the pandemic situation, we are not sure when the action plan can actually be put in place,” he said.
11 August 2020||August 11 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||4 held for wheelies||The city traffic police conducted a special drive on NICE Road and arrested four youths who were allegedly doing wheelies on their bikes on the expressway, endangering lives, on Sunday. The arrested have been identified as Chandan, 21, Sumanth, 20, Likhit, 21, and Vinay, 28, all residents of south Bengaluru.
11 August 2020||August 11 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||At a disadvantage||Like every year, students from SC, ST communities did not fare as well as other students. While students in the general category secured a pass percentage of 79.87, those from SC, ST backgrounds secured 71.64% and 73.33%.
11 August 2020||August 11 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Language of instruction||The highest pass percentage was secured by students studying in English medium schools. Around 80.88% of students who wrote the exam in English cleared the examination. In comparison, 70.19% students who wrote the exam in Kannada passed. The least pass percentage, 48.81, was secured by those who wrote in Hindi.
11 August 2020||August 11 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Private candidates||7.45% of the 24,176 private candidates who wrote SSLC exam cleared it. Private candidates are those aged above 15, with some aged over 50. While most write the exam to improve their prospects at work, others give SSLC a shot to fulfil their long-pending dream.
11 August 2020||August 11 2020 00:00 IST,KARNATAKA||Differently-abled students||Out of 3,573 students with special needs who wrote the examination for the first time, 2,409 students cleared it.
11 August 2020||Alappuzha,KERALA||Kuttanad gets some respite||The district heaved a sigh of relief as the flood situation showed signs of improvement on Monday. According to officials, the water level in Kuttanad receded slightly but still remains above the danger level. Outer bunds of at least 14 more paddy polders were breached in different parts of Kuttanad, inundating a large number of houses and destroying paddy in large tracts. According to the Agriculture Department, 21 bund breaches were reported so far. A breach at Aarupanku in Kainakary destroyed two houses and flooded around 200 homes. As of Monday evening, 5,176 people of 1,487 families were housed in 90 relief camps opened in six taluks in the district. This included 2,051 people of 597 families in 44 relief camps in Chengannur taluk and 2,682 people of 741 families in 23 relief camps in Karthikappally. Apart from relief camps, 148 gruel centres were opened in the district including 135 in Kuttanad. Finance Minister T.M. Thomas Isaac reviewed the situation in the district. Dr. Isaac directed officials concerned to install e-toilets in relief camps. According to officials, a total of 12 houses were destroyed and another 300 houses damaged in rain fury in different parts of Alappuzha between June 1 and August 10. Agricultural loss Agriculture loss in the district was estimated at Rs. 19.70 crore. A 75-year-old-man was drowned at Cheruthana. The deceased was identified as Varghese, of Cheruthana, Haripad. According to the police, he died after a country boat capsized in a flooded field on Sunday night.  Outer bunds of at least 14 more paddy polders were breached in different parts of Kuttanad
11 August 2020||IDUKKI,KERALA||Camps set up to shift people downstream of Mullaperiyar||With water level on the rise in the Mullaperiyar dam, the district administration has made arrangements to shift the people living downstream. The water level in the dam reached 136.55 ft at 3 p.m. on Monday. District Collector H. Dinesan told The Hindu that a subcommittee appointed by the supervisory committee under the Supreme Court was scheduled to visit the dam on Tuesday. A decision on opening the spillway shutters would be taken at a panel meeting. The subcommittee had members of Kerala and Tamil Nadu governments. The maximum storage level of the dam is 142 ft. Mr. Dinesan said the water level was rising at a slow pace now. With the decline in rainfall, the water level may fall in the coming days. However, arrangements to shift people to relief camps were in place. Peerumade tahsildar Shaji N.K. said temporary camps had been opened. An estimated 1,500 people from Kumily, Manjumala, Vandiperiyar, and Upputhara would be shifted to the relief camps. “The process will start after the Tamil Nadu government gives the second warning,” he said. The people living downstream would be informed through loudspeakers. While inflow into the dam was 5,600 cumecs on Monday, Tamil Nadu was drawing water at 2,100 cumecs.
11 August 2020||KALPETTA,KERALA||New bridge on Mundakkai river||A meeting of people’s representatives and senior officials, chaired by Excise Minister T.P. Ramakrishnan, here on Monday decided to construct a new bridge across the Mudakkai river on a war footing. The bridge constructed by British engineers a century ago was destroyed in a flash flood following a landslip in the area on August 7. The new bridge will be constructed in line with the pre-cast method, Mr. Ramakrishnan said. The Public Works Department (PWD) said it suffered a loss of Rs. 7 crore in flood-related calamities, whereas local administrative bodies had a loss of Rs. 3.55 crore. More than 4,000 people were shifted to 79 relief camps.
11 August 2020||Kasaragod,KERALA||MoU signed for setting up COVID-19 lab at CUK||The Central University of Kerala (CUK) and the Health Department have signed a Memorandum of Understanding for establishing an independent COVID-19 testing facility with a vision to develop it as a separate advanced diagnosis lab for Kasaragod district. The agreement was signed by G. Gopakumar, Vice Chancellor, CUK, and District Collector D. Sajith Babu. At present, the COVID-19 testing lab of Kasaragod district is situated at the CUK’s Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology on its Periye campus.
11 August 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Pandemic-hit West Kochi records 26 more cases||Twenty-six people from West Kochi and five officials of the Navy were among the 101 persons who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Monday. A 71-year-old from Kadungalloor who was being treated for the disease at the Government Medical College Hospital, Kalamassery, died on Monday. She had comorbities, including diabetes and hypertension, and was admitted to the ICU on developing pneumonia, said a release from the hospital. Two infants about a year old, one from Palarivattom and the other from Fort Kochi, have been infected. Six positive cases each were reported from Chellanam and Thrikkakara. An ASHA worker from Karuvelipady, a health worker at the District Hospital, Aluva, a health worker at the first-line treatment centre (FLTC) at Perumbavoor, and a health worker at the Piravom Taluk Hospital have been infected, besides a 28-year-old staff member at a private hospital. Other positive cases were reported from Aluva, Edakochi, Edathala, Eloor, Karuvelipady, Nellikuzhi, Vengola, Thripunithura and Sreemoolanagaram. Five people are in critical condition at the Government Medical College Hospital. Nine people who arrived from outside the State have tested positive. Forty-seven people recovered and tested negative. Of the 1,212 people being treated for the disease in the district, 717 people are being treated at FLTCs. District Collector S. Suhas said in an online briefing on Monday that the densely populated Nellikuzhi panchayat remained an area of concern with all wards, except two, registering positive cases. If strict regulations were not implemented, the infection could spread to other parts of Kothamangalam, he said. Nellikuzhi panchayat president Renjini Ravi said that people who had attended a function had acquired the infection. Since the members of a family who had attended the function ran a hotel, the infection had spread to about eight other families, she said. The cluster containment strategy had been effective in Aluva, Edathala and Choornikkara where the number of cases had reduced, but vigil would have to be maintained in areas such as Sreemoolanagaram and Thrikkakara, said the Collector. The Adlux convention centre at Angamaly would soon be converted into a second-line treatment centre to take in category B patients, he added. In the West Kochi area, where 254 positive cases were reported till Sunday, an FLTC began functioning at Mattancherry.
11 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Uncertainty grips Thoppumpady harbour||Activities at the Thoppumpady fishing harbour, Kerala’s biggest such facility, look likely to remain frozen as the mechanised sector across the State anticipates a new fishing season after the 52-day trawling ban, prolonged by COVID-19 restrictions and bad weather conditions. All marine fishing activities had been banned because of bad weather conditions till August 12, said a Fisheries Department official. However, the Thoppumpady harbour is in a dilemma as Division 11 of the Kochi Corporation, where the harbour is located, continues to be under lockdown to contain the spread of COVID-19 in West Kochi areas. “The harbour has been closed for over six months now and workers are in penury,” said M. Majeed, general secretary of Cochin Fishing Harbour Committee. He said that besides hundreds of trawl boat workers from Tamil Nadu, there were at least 5,000 people who depended on the harbour directly for their livelihood. The harbour is also the source of work for thousands of workers in processing units such as shrimp peeling units spread across the coastal region in Alappuzha district. “The entire West Kochi region depends on the activities at this harbour,” he said, pointing to the key role played by the facility in the economic life of the area. The workers, especially those who have been in Kochi for over a fortnight to complete their quarantine period, are restless. While their counterparts from neighbouring harbours such as Vypeen and Munambam can set out as the weather warning ends, they are confined by the continuing restrictions. Around a thousand vessels — 250 gillnet boats, 400 long liners, 300 trawlers and 70 purse seine boats — operate out of the Thoppumpady harbour. The landings include high value catch such as skipjack and bluefin tuna, snappers and shrimp. V.D. Majeendran of Swathanthra Matsya Thozhilali Federation said the harbour was the lifeline of Kochi and a big contributor to the marine food export industry. Business transactions worth Rs. 4 crore to Rs. 5 crore took place at the harbour on a good day during the peak season that stretched between the end of the annual trawling ban in August and January, said Mr. Majeed. The harbour has been closed since March and there has been no activity at all. Boats and fishing gear need repair as most of them have been damaged. It was an added worry for the hundreds of boat owners, he said. Alex Ninan, representing the seafood exporters in Kerala, said the big delay in resuming fishing operations had already hit the Rs. 6,000-crore export industry hard. There are around a hundred exporting units. Most of them work at about 25% of their capacity. But 2020 has been an extremely difficult year both on account of the pandemic and the bad weather. About 50% of the annual business was completed during those months, he added. He said the loss of fishing days had contributed to a scarcity of raw materials from within the State.
11 August 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Oil sardines will be scarce this year too||There is bad news for fish lovers and more than two lakh traditional fishers in the State as the Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute has warned that the availability of Indian oil sardine will remain low this year too. “Indian oil sardine famine along the Kerala coast will continue like the last two years,” said the CMFRI forecast which called for ‘utmost caution’ in harvesting the fish. Charles George, representing the more than two lakh traditional fishers, said the sardine economy, even at its lowest price level, was worth more than Rs. 1 crore a year. Thousands who are engaged in its sales and ancillary activities, he said. Fisheries industry sources said the oil sardine economy has lost substantially over the last six years owing to the steep fall in catch. The wages of sardine fishers had come down from Rs. 88,000 a year in 2012 to Rs. 45,000 in 2018, Mr. George claimed. Health food For the fish-eater too, it does not augur well because oil sardines, as a rich source of Omega-3 fatty acids, combine the quality of a health food, and feed the poor at prices ranging from Rs. 60 to Rs. 100 a kg in normal times. But the scarcity of oil sardines has tended to push the price to about Rs. 150 a kg with even imports from other States as well as Oman substituting for the local catch. It is estimated that fish consumption in Kerala is 25 to 30 kg per head per year, four times the national average. Oil sardines constitute about 30% of the fish consumption. CMFRI scientists said oil sardine production had been affected by ecological modifications stemming from El Nino outbreak, which impacted normal spawning and growth of the species. Leave the juveniles “Along with abstaining from juvenile fishing, utmost care should be exercised to spare matured spawning stocks to allow them release the eggs,” they added. CMFRI figures showed that Kerala’s fish landings went down 15% last year with sharp decline in oil sardine and Indian mackerel catch. The total fish landing in the State was 5.44 lakh tonnes. Oil sardine catch dropped to 44,320 tonnes, the lowest in two decades while Indian mackerel catch stood at 40,554 tonnes, which is a steep decline of 50% compared to the previous year.
11 August 2020||Kochi,KERALA||In a twist of fate, popular naturalist joins piling workers to eke out a living||A high-in demand naturalist who led tourists on trekking and bird-watching tours, is among those from Kerala’s tourism sector who have joined the manual labour workforce, to make both ends meet post the COVID-induced crisis. That is the story in long and short of Vaikom native Shyam Kumar, who has joined the largely migrant workforce who are engaged in piling to install high-power transmission towers at Thalayolaparambu to source electricity from Kudankulam Power Plant in Tamil Nadu. “The gruelling work to pile up to a depth of 40 metres begins at 8 a.m. and ends at 8 p.m. every day. And remember, it is labour intensive, as compared to the one using hydraulic rigs which were deployed for piling in the Kochi metro corridor. It was a sudden transition from three decades of employment in a largely white-collar sector which earned me an average of Rs. 6,000 every day during the tourist season, to one that earned as much over a week,” says the energetic 50-year-old, who is better known as Hari. “The impending September-March tourist season has been wiped out, since nature enthusiasts from abroad and other States, including many famous names, have cancelled their tours to Kerala, and locales like Andaman and Nicobar Islands where I used to lead trekking groups. I took to this job over a fortnight ago, after spending sleepless nights, having nothing to do except worry about the future. Moreover, my elder daughter’s marriage was fixed for December. The new job has given me a sense of surviving the odds that were stacked against me and a few lakh tourism professionals who were rendered unemployed in Kerala following the pandemic,” he says. Shyam Kumar’s zeal for nature saw him adorn many roles — frequently partaking in survey of Nilgris Thars, elephants, birds and butterflies. So much so that he helped set up butterfly parks at many places. He also tried his hands at catching snakes. He was featured in a couple of magazines and also accompanied crew of international TV channels on their nature-filming trips. Friday was a rude jolt since the avid naturalist was very close to three of the victims — all members of Eco-Development Committee of Rajamala in Idukki — who lost their life in a massive landslip.He is cut up with the State and Central governments, since neither has stepped in to help tourism employees who are neck deep in crisis, despite Kerala earning Rs. 45,000 crore from tourism in 2019.
11 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Fishing boat owners urge govt. to lift ban||The Kerala Fishing Boat Operators’ Association has said that while the Kerala government was not lifting the ban on trawling on account of safety issues, Tamil Nadu fishers were enjoying the benefits of the rich resources in the sea after the trawling ban. Association president Peter Mathias and secretary Joseph Xavier Kalapurackal said the State government should allow fishers from Kerala to venture out into the sea at the earliest because the safety warnings from the India Meteorological Department (IMD) had been about wind speeds that were only normal during the monsoon season and should not be a bother for the fishermen. While the Kerala fishermen are being held ashore, their counterparts from Tamil Nadu have been going out without any hindrance to their fishing grounds and making best of the opportunities immediately after the trawling ban period. Rewarding expeditions Fishermen from Tamil Nadu have recorded rewarding expeditions so far with some of the boats recording catch up to Rs. 25 lakh per fishing voyage during the current season. At the same time, the authorities in Kerala are keeping the fishermen of the State from going out in the name of safety. It was a case in which the wind was considered dangerous for Kerala fishermen while it was not for Tamil Nadu fishermen, alleged Mr. Kalapurackal on Monday, while appealing to the government to lift the ban at the earliest.
11 August 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Canal flooding attributed to encroachments||The inundation of roads and a few hundred houses located on either side of Kareethodu Canal that runs parallel to Palarivattom-Vyttila NH Bypass, whenever the city records heavy rainfall, has shed the spotlight on how increasing number of encroachments are choking the flow of water along the canal. Fed up of flooding, residents and other affected people formed a Kareethodu Samrakshana Samity, to catalyse efforts to remove bottlenecks to free flow of water, so that water from Palarivattom reached Vyttila through the canal and drained into Kaniampuzha River. Subsequently, over a dozen meetings were held under the chairmanship of P.T. Thomas, MLA, who walked along the stretch to get a first-hand information of the situation. “Two culverts (at Mannarakara and Kaniaveli) were rebuilt, to prevent them becoming choking points on the canal. Two more (at Pulluparambu and Kaduppath) will be rebuilt, at a cost of approximately Rs. 2 crore. The project has got administrative sanction, while a Government Order is awaited,” Mr. Thomas said. “However, this will only provide temporary respite. A permanent solution to dirty water overflowing into houses and public spaces is to remove encroachments into the waterbody. In addition, over 40 people have built narrow, low-lying, bridge-like structures over the canal. These too hamper free flow of water and must be rebuilt. These two critical works must be realised by summer of 2021, to prevent a repeat of the mess created by floods. A survey will reveal the extent of encroachments into the canal,” he added. The secretary of Puthiya Road-Kaniapilly Road Residents’ Association, A.S. Boban, said areas like Puthiya Road and Pulluparambu were among the worst affected by floods. The councillor representing Chakkaraparambu (Ward No. 46), P.M. Naseema said that many houses encroached into the canal had their kitchen or work area in it.
11 August 2020||Kochi,KERALA||COVID-19 infections hit fire station operations||For the Fire and Rescue Services Station in Aluva bang in the middle of a containment zone following the spread of COVID-19, two successive cases of infection among its ranks could not have come at a more inopportune time. A fireman was tested positive on July 27, sending 16 of his colleagues into quarantine, badly affecting the functioning of the force, which is much in demand for disinfection and fumigation activities to avert potential contamination. Before they could return, which they eventually did on Monday on completion of 14 days of quarantine, another fireman was tested positive on August 6, sending another four, including the assistant station officer, into quarantine in its wake. All five of them were residents of Thiruvananthapuram and had returned together to rejoin duty after a recess. Thankfully, the prospects of them further depleting the workforce at the station was avoided as they were straight away sent for testing and quarantine before they rejoined duty. The station has a total staff strength of 42 out of which five remain vacant while another one person is on long leave, effectively reducing the total number of personnel on duty to 36 out of which some will be on leave or off at any given time. “We are already on a seven-day work, seven-day rest working arrangement. So, when 16 went into quarantine, the remaining 12 persons split into teams of six each and worked continuously for the next fortnight. None of them went home during the two weeks and stayed back at the station all through,” said K.V. Ashokan, Aluva Station Officer. What helped the station to cope during the extremely stretched times were their colleagues from neighbouring stations of Perumbavoor, Angamaly and Eloor. While Aluva station continued to receive calls, trouble spots nearer to the neighbouring stations were attended by firefighters from those stations.
11 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||Study sought on road||With the PWD road at Planthodu, near Attathodu, in the Mannarkulanji-Chalakkayam Road leading to Sabarimala repeatedly developing fissures, the Sabarimala Special Commissioner has sought a scientific study into the issue. In his report to the Kerala High Court, M. Manoj, Special Commissioner, submitted that fissures had developed on the road close to the present location during the torrential rain of 2018. There was only one motorable road leading to Pampa to access Sabarimala and the fissures had made the road inaccessible, he submitted. A study to assess the possibility of soil piping and the subterranean flow of water needed to be carried out to rule out landslip. As the road passed through the Ranni Reserve Forest Division, the assistance of the State Forest Department would be required for the study, the report said.
11 August 2020||Kochi,KERALA||Church takeover: HC for use of Central forces||Slamming the State government for not implementing its directive to take over the Mulanthuruthy church from the Jacobite faction, the Kerala High Court on Monday sought the response of the Assistant Solicitor General of India on seeking the assistance of the Central forces to implement the directive. Justice A. Muhammed Mustaque passed the order when a case relating to the takeover of the church came up for hearing. The court observed that there was a blatant violation of rule of law. The court could understand the predicament of the State officials in view of their engagement in rescue operations in floods as well as in combating COVID-19. In such circumstances, “it is appropriate to seek assistance of the Central forces in taking over the possession of the church,” the court added. The court had issued the directive to take over the church after rejecting the plea of the State government seeking to extend the deadline for implementing the directive by three months. On contempt plea When the contempt of court petition filed by Fr. Geo George, Orthodox faction vicar, for not complying with the court order came up for hearing, the State government had submitted that due to COVID-19 and flood situation prevailing in Ernakulam district, the district administration was not able to take over the possession of the church. In fact, the District Collector needed the assistance of police for enforcing the directive because takeover would be resisted by the opposing faction. It was in this context that the State had sought three more months to comply with the directions. The court had made it clear that at any rate, the affairs of the church should not be in the hands of the Jacobite faction vicar.
11 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||HC moved against curbs on inter-State travel||The Kerala High Court has adjourned to August 17 the hearing on a writ petition challenging the Kasaragod district administration’s order banning inter-State travel without obtaining passes. When the petition filed by K. Sreekanth, a member of the Kasaragod district panchayat, was taken up for hearing, the government pleader submitted that the district authorities needed to ensure that disaster-prone areas were identified and measures for preventing such disasters were to be undertaken by the district and local authorities. Therefore, passes had to be obtained by those who intended to cross the State’s borders. The petitioner contended that the decision of the district administration to restrict travel to the neighbouring States was in violation of Phase 2 and Phase 3 Unlock guidelines issued by the Centre. Kasaragod district mostly relied on Mangaluru for vegetables and other goods. The curbs on movement of vehicles were causing serious difficulties to the people of the district, said the petitioner.
11 August 2020||KOCHI,KERALA||MBA seats for SC/ST candidates||There are reserved seats available for SC/ST candidates for AICTE-approved, two-year MBA course at Bharat Matha College, Thrikkakara. Those interested in joining the course may contact the college authorities on Ph: 9446967616 or 9400963357.
11 August 2020||KOLLAM,KERALA||41 new cases in Kollam||The district reported 41 fresh cases of COVID-19, one death, and 34 recoveries on Monday. It includes 28 contact cases, eight cases of NoRKs turning positive, and four cases of patients who have no travel history. A 43-year-old health worker from Government Medical College Hospital, Kollam, is also among the new patients who tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. The district currently has 7,710 persons under observation and the total number of samples collected is 3,3145. While 423 persons completed home quarantine on Friday, the Health Department traced 7,914 primary and 2125 secondary contacts of the fresh cases in the district. COVID death The department also confirmed on Monday that the death of the 45-year-old Adichanallur resident, who was undergoing treatment for renal problems at Government Medical College Hospital, Thiruvananthapuram, was due to COVID-19.
11 August 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||Receding waters flood Kottayam’s plains||The flood situation in Kottayam improved considerably on Monday with water level in all major rivers stabilising throughout the day and relief and rescue operations going on in full swing. While the high-range areas, which battled landslips and floods in the last few days, returned to normal during the day, life along the low-lying areas on the western parts of the district came to a complete standstill as the run-off water forced more people to go to the rescue camps. “People living in the Vaikom, Kottayam and Changanassery taluks were the worst affected,” said M. Anjana, District Collector. According to her, as many as 216 relief camps were opened in the district, which accommodated about 5,626 persons from 1,860 families. With the floodwater inundating most parts of Kuttanad, the district administration expects more people from the region to seek refuge in Changanassery and neighbouring regions. “The influx of people, however, has been much less than on the previous occasion (2018 mega floods) when we accommodated about 17,000 people from Kuttanad,” the Collector said. Meanwhile, the death toll due to the floods reached five with the rescue officials here on Monday recovering the dead bodies of two more persons. Sudheesh, 38, a native of Perumabyikkad, and Kurian Abraham of Nattassery, 61, had gone missing in the flood. Traffic Traffic along several roads in the Meenachil taluk including Kottayam-Thodupuzha, Ponkunnam and Erattupetta, which were disrupted by the flood, was restored during the day. Vehicular traffic along routes on the eastern side of Kottayam, however, remained disrupted. Preliminary estimates suggested that the farm sector in the district sustained a loss of around Rs. 30.71 crore due to the heavy rain that lashed the region between July 28 and August 9. Bund breaches were reported from northern Kuttanad. Fish farming units too suffered losses.
11 August 2020||KOTTAYAM,KERALA||With 40 cases, Kottayam records a sharp slump||A day after recording the highest number of cases on a single day, the number of fresh COVID-19 cases in Kottayam came down sharply on Monday with 40 persons testing positive for SARS-CoV-2. At the same time, local transmission remained high with 31 persons contracting the virus through contact. In view of the alarming rise in cases from Athirampuzha, which was a part of Ettumanoor COVID cluster, district authorities declared the panchayat as a separate COVID cluster and strengthened pandemic prevention activities there. Spread Virus infection that broke out from Ettumanoor vegetable market kept spreading to more areas including the adjacent panchayats like Kaduthuruthi and Manjoor. As per official statistics, seven natives of KS Puram in Kaduthuruthi panchayat, including a two-year-old baby, tested positive. Situation also worsened in Kottayam municipality with four more persons from Thazhathangadi testing positive for the virus. Meanwhile, more local bodies in Kottayam taluk were turning vulnerable to the virus spread with fresh cases emerging from Pampady, Meenadom, Vijayapuram, Ayarkkunnam, Akalakkunnam and Kooroppada. Double whammy The flood came as a double whammy to the Vaikom region where COVID-19-positive cases continued to rise in Udayanapuram, Vechoor and Kudavechoor panchayats. Girl tests positive Apart from local transmission cases, a nine-year-old girl, who returned from Muscat, and eight persons, who came back from others States, too tested positive for the virus. With 53 more persons recovering and leaving from the hospital, the number of active cases stood at 476 on the day.
11 August 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Relief camps being closed as rain relents||As many as nine relief camps were closed in Kozhikode district on Monday as rain subsided. Over 200 persons had been accommodated in the camps. The total number of camps in the district as on Sunday stands at 37, and there are more than 700 persons in the camps, which were set up with the support of local administrators and voluntary and charity groups. Besides, a number of families had sought shelter in relatives’ houses. Revenue officials said 128 houses had been damaged in rain-related calamities in the district. They made it clear that they were prepared to open more camps in view of possible rough weather. The COVID-19 protocol will be strictly adhered to while opening or winding up camps, they added. Meanwhile, the State Cooperative for the Fisheries Development constituted a special disaster management force comprising local fishermen to support the efforts of the Disaster Management Authority. Coordinators said their services would be available round-the-clock during the monsoon season. The squad can be contacted at at the helpline number 0495-2380444. In Thrissur As many as 215 rain-hit families were shifted to relief camps in the district. As the low-lying areas were flooded, 41 camps were opened at Kondungallur, Thrissur, Chalakudy, Mukundapuram and Chavakkad. Five camps have been opened exclusively for people under quarantine. In Kasaragod Over 4,000 people were relocated after heavy rain lashed the district. Around 200 houses were damaged. Hosdurg Taluk, Kayyur, Cheemeni, Klayikode, Cheruvathur, Thuruthi, Nileswaram, Perol, Madikkai, Pullur, Panayal, Uduma, Puthukkai, North Thrikkarippur, South Thrikkarippur, Padana, Valiyaparamba, Balla, and Ambalathara were the worst-hit areas.
11 August 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Suspension of services at tertiary cancer centre hits poor patients||Cancer patients from across Malabar are hit by the suspension of services at the tertiary cancer centre (TCC) attached to the Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode, in the wake of the staff testing positive for SARS-CoV-2. According to sources, the services are unlikely to fully resume soon. A senior doctor, who wished not to be quoted, said the reopening would be possible only after the infected health workers were moved into the low-risk category. It is learnt that surgical oncology section has resumed functioning. The TCC is a major centre for cancer treatment in Malabar. According to the website of the medical college, around 5,000 cancer patients register at the centre every year. A healthcare volunteer at the MCH said many from far-away places were still coming there not knowing that the centre had been closed. Some patients who were under chemotherapy and were yet to complete a course there were asked to approach private hospitals. A majority of these people were from poor families who could not afford to pay charges being levied by private hospitals, the volunteer said. It was on July 27 that two healthcare workers at the TCC tested positive for the virus after they exhibited COVID-19 symptoms. Antigen tests were performed on all others the next day and many were found to be infected. However, it has been alleged that some of them were allowed to go home and interact with others until reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests confirmed the presence of the virus. According to reliable sources, at least a dozen or more healthcare workers, including two doctors, have been found to be infected so far and all those who were in contact with them had to go into quarantine. Earlier, some patients from the cancer ward of the MCH had to be shifted to the TCC after the ward was designated for COVID-19 treatment. All these people as well as their bystanders have been shifted back to the MCH and those tested positive among them are being given treatment.
11 August 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Work on Hill Highway to begin today||The construction works of the proposed Hill Highway project between the Kodenchery and Kakkadampoyil stretch will begin on Tuesday. G. Sudhakaran, Minister for Public Works, will open the project through videoconferencing. According to officials, the widening of about 35 km of village road will become a reality under the scheme, which will elevate its status to the existing highway network. The route will cover villages such as Kodenchery, Pulikkayam, Punnakkal, Koombara, Anakkallumpara, Akampuzha, Kakkad, and Kakkadampoyil. The Kozhikode-based Uralungal Labour Contract Cooperative Society has been entrusted with the project execution. 24 months The work is expected to be completed in 24 months at a cost of Rs. 155 crore. The project is a part of the 1,332-km Hill Highway project linking Nandarapadavu in Kasaragod district with Parassala in Thiruvananthapuram. PWD officials said the project got a fillip with the cooperation of 987 land owners in the upland area. The 12-metre road would also be improving the Kozhikode rural areas’ connectivity with the Nilambur region, they said. Though some of the disagreements related to the proposed alignment and land had initially hit the project launch, officials said the efforts of people’s representatives and local administrators were proving to be successful in handling it. They also said the e-tendering issues too were addressed on time.
11 August 2020||KOZHIKODE,KERALA||More recoveries than new cases in Kozhikode||Seventy-one persons were cured of COVID-19 in Kozhikode district on Monday, while 66 were declared tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. According to a release, 52 of the new cases are through local transmission, even as the source of infection of six others is not known. Six persons had returned from other States and two from abroad. Cases of local transmission have been reported from Beypore, Chemanchery, Cheruvannur, Edachery, Feroke, Kadalundy, Koothali, Kunnummal, Nadapuram, Olavanna, Omasssery, Ramanattukara, Thiruvambady, Koorachund, Vadakara, Valayam, and the Kozhikode Corporation. There are two natives of Kollam and Thiruvananthapuram as well, and one of them is a health worker. The number of active cases in the district stands at 1,108. Among those who recovered from the infection, 17 are from the Kozhikode Corporation. Meanwhile, 16 healthcare workers at the Government Medical College Hospital, Kozhikode, were quarantined after they were found to be high-risk contacts of an infected person. Meanwhile, an 80-year-old person from Ramanattukara who died on August 8 at the Medical College Hospital here was tested positive for the virus on Monday. Warning issued District Collector Seeram Sambasiva Rao on Monday warned of stern legal action against those who were engaged in circulating the names and other details of COVID-19 patients through social media. Mr. Rao who also expressed concerns over the move of some people to isolate COVID-19 patients, said such tendencies should be discouraged. Details of one of such incidents were handed over to the police for prompt investigation, he said.
11 August 2020||Kozhikode,KERALA||Govt.’s focus is on timely completion of projects: CM||The four-storey Kunnamangalam mini civil station building was thrown open to the public on Monday. Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan inaugurated the new facility through videoconferencing. Mr. Vijayan said the government would strive to complete all welfare projects in a time-bound manner despite challenges thrown up by the pandemic. “It is natural that certain projects get delayed due to natural calamities. However, we are bound to achieve the maximum possible targets considering the future of the State,” he observed. Mr. Vijayan pointed out that the functioning of government offices had to be reorganised in the wake of the pandemic. “However, it will not affect delivery of services,” he said. The mini civil station was constructed at a cost of Rs. 6 crore. The space on the ground floor will have the offices of the sub treasury, Food Safety Department, and the Child Development Project. The offices of the block panchayat engineering section, Krishi Bhavan, Kunnamangalam Performance Audit Unit, and KIIFB will be on the first floor. The Warehousing Corporation will have its office on the second floor. The Excise Circle office will be on the third floor. On the top floor, offices of the Ground Water Department, Regional Analytical Laboratory and the Archaeology Department will be accommodated.
11 August 2020||MALAPPURAM,KERALA||A salute, followed by a backlash||A police officer in the district landed himself in the soup by saluting the youngsters who had earned plaudits for their exemplary rescue work soon after an Air India Express flight crashed at Karipur on Friday night. Nizar A., senior civil police officer at Control Room here, gave a formal police salute to “the good Samaritans of Kondotty” when they went into quarantine at a centre near Kondotty on Sunday. The social media celebrated Mr. Nizar’s salute, describing it as a genuine acknowledgement of the youngsters’ selflessness. But the salute did not go well with the Police Department as it was a breach of protocol. Inquiry ordered District Police Chief U. Abdul Kareem has ordered an inquiry into the incident. The inquiry report is awaited in a day or two. “He (Mr. Nizar) did it on his own. He was not entrusted to do such a thing. Neither were we aware of his action. It was out of place,” Mr. Kareem said. “He may have done it with good intentions. But it is a serious breach of service norms. Let the report come,” he said. Question of mask Among the people in quarantine who got the salute was a man without a face mask. This has irked the senior police officers further. “He has doubled his fault by saluting an unmasked man. Actually he should have asked him to wear a mask or taken action against him,” said a senior police officer. However, the saluting police officer from Aripra, near Perinthalmanna, has found many supporters on social media. Many posted on Facebook and Instagram praising the salute. Collector’s support Even District Collector K. Gopalakrishnan has unofficially asked the police to condone the salute. “We saw what those men did at Karipur soon after the tragedy. And the police officer’s salute must be in that spirit. It can be condoned,” said Mr. Gopalakrishnan. Mr. Nizar has built a positive and populist image among the people of Malappuram. According to his colleagues, Mr. Nizar transgressed the official norms by saluting the civilians “out of excitement.”
11 August 2020||MALAPPURAM/PALAKKAD,KERALA||Malappuram records biggest single-day spike||Malappuram witnessed the biggest spike in COVID-19 cases in the State, with the district registering 255 cases on Monday. The number of patients under treatment in the district now stands at 1,390. District Collector K. Gopalakrishnan, who himself went into quarantine on the advice of the Health authorities, said 223 of the new cases, including three health workers and an Air India employee, were through local contact. The source of infection in 37 cases could is yet to be identified. While 25 cases came from abroad, seven came from other States. There were 53 recoveries in the district on Monday. 19 deaths Nineteen deaths have been recorded in the district so far, and the latest case was the death of a 63-year-old man from Chembrakkattoor on Monday. Manjeri Government Medical College principal M.P. Sasi said the man died of pneumonia and cardiac arrest. As many as 3,513 cases have been reported in Malappuram since March. In Palakkad Palakkad district too witnessed a spurt in cases on Monday. The confirmation of 147 fresh cases took the total number of patients currently under treatment in the district to 635. Among those who tested positive on Monday were a man each from Thrissur and Malappuram. There were 102 recoveries in Palakkad on Monday, said District Collector D. Balamurali. While 70 of the new cases were through local transmission, 14 had come from other States and 27 from abroad. The source of infection in 29 persons could not be traced. The new cases included six health workers too. In Kasaragod In Kasaragod, 146 persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Monday. Of them, 122 contracted the disease through contact, while 17 are from abroad and seven from other States. As many as 4,701 persons are under observation in the district. In Kannur Sixty-three persons tested positive for the virus in Kannur on Monday. While 41 contracted the disease through contact, three arrived from abroad and 15 from other States. Three police officers and a DSC personnel were also infected. In Thrissur As many as 40 COVID-19 cases were reported in the district on Monday. Of them, 30 got infected through contact. The source of infection in three cases is not known. One health worker too was infected on Monday. There are 514 active cases in the district. In Wayanad Thirty-three persons tested positive for SARS-CoV-2 in Wayanad on Monday. Of them, 31 contracted the disease through local transmission.
11 August 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Situation improves in Pathanamthitta||Pathanamthitta, which was on the edge for the past four days, heaved a sigh of relief on Monday as water started to recede from the inundated parts of the district. Although the overall situation improved slightly, the operation to evacuate people stranded in flooded areas to safer locations and providing relief to them is still on. “Water is receding, albeit slowly and the reservoirs are well within the limits. But people should exercise caution,” said K. Raju, Minister of Forests and Wildlife Protection. The Minister convened a meeting at the Revenue Divisional Office (RDO) in Thiruvalla to review the district’s flood preparedness. Meanwhile, water level in the Pampa reservoir was brought down to the upper crest level by Monday evening. “As against the earlier decision to bring down the water level to 982 meters from 983.5 meters, it has now been decided to keep the same at 981.36 meters in view of more showers,” the Collector said. Though the dam’s opening had put the district on a high-alert, water level in the downstream did not rise above the expected levels. “Water level in Pampa rose by just 40 cm in the Ranni side while the CWC river gauge station at Malakkara showed just a 10 cm rise,” the Collector added. The low-lying areas, especially in Mallapally and Thiruvalla taluks, continued to be in deluge. The district has 127 relief camps, which together accommodated 5,166 persons from 1,607 families. Traffic along the Sabarimala route from Attathodu to Chalakkayam was banned as the road developed cracks following the heavy showers. The Collector entrusted the PWD (Roads) Executive Engineer to open a temporary route to facilitate movement to and from the Sabarimala temple. Preliminary estimates suggested that the district sustained a crop loss to the value of Rs. 5.64 crore over the past three days.
11 August 2020||PATHANAMTHITTA,KERALA||Four cases in Pathanamthitta||The number of fresh COVID-19 cases in Pathanamthitta came down sharply on Monday with just four persons testing positive for SARS-CoV-2 . According to Health officials in the district, one person contracted the virus through local transmission while two persons who tested positive came from other States. From Sharjah One of the patients landed from Sharjah. The person who contracted the virus locally was identified as a 52-year-old Perumthuruthy native. Meanwhile, 44 persons who recovered from the disease were discharged from various treatment centres here. Pathanamthitta district currently has 216 active cases and 7,477 persons under observation after coming into contact with patients.  The district currently has 216 active cases and 7,477 persons under observation.
11 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Breather for capital as positive cases fall||The COVID-19 graph continued a downward trend in the district with 200 people testing positive for SARS-CoV-2 on Monday. Those infected include 178 people who contracted the infection through local transmission and 13 health workers. The death of a 50-year old woman, who hailed from Koovalassery near Maranalloor, is the 19th one to be officially recorded due to COVID-19 in the capital district. The deceased, who was a diabetic, had been admitted to the Kandala Cooperative Society in Koovalassery with pneumonia on July 19. After testing positive for SARS-CoV-2, she was referred to the Government Medical College Hospital on July 27. Despite being treated in the intensive care unit (ICU) ever since, she succumbed to her ailments on August 8. District court The District Court premises was shut down to be disinfected on Monday after a system assistant tested positive. While the courts in the heritage building where the infected person used to work and the fast-track courts will remain closed till Friday, those in the new building will function with 30% staff. The Special Branch office of the City Police was closed after a Kattakada-native officer tested positive. Over 10 officials have been sent into quarantine. Another police officer attached to the Nagaroor police station who has been residing in the Attingal police quarters has also been diagnosed with the disease. During his briefing, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said that the limited COVID-19 clusters that have formed in Kallikad, Vellarada and Neyyattinkara municipality have shown worrying signs of turning into large community clusters. As part of intensifying enforcement of COVID-19 protocol in the rural areas, the government has entrusted Harshita Attaluri, Inspector General of Police, South Zone, with the task of coordinating such activities. Eliciting public support for the efforts, the Thiruvananthapuram rural police organised pledge-taking ceremonies in 47 locations. Two more residents of the Thekkumoodu bund colony have tested positive. Four people were diagnosed with COVID-19 in Anad grama panchayat where 64 people were tested. Three people tested positive in Panavoor grama panchayat. Containment zones District Collector Navjot Khosa declared new containment zones in Maruthamcode ward in Athiyannoor grama panchayat, and Palaikonam and Irinjal wards in Aryanad grama panchayat. Other areas including Pottanchira, Valiyakalungu, Parandode and Purithippara wards; Mudiyottukonam ward in Karavaram grama panchayat; and Kannacode and Kulagarakonam wards in Pallichal grama panchayat have been excluded from the list of containment zones in the district.
11 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||No respite as 1,184 more test positive||Kerala reported 1,184 new cases of COVID-19 and 784 recoveries on Monday. With 1,005 of the new cases being locally acquired infections, including those of 41 health-care workers, there seems to be no let-up in disease transmission in the State. The number of cases wherein no epidemiological link could be established went up to 114. Seven more deaths The Health Department confirmed seven more deaths, taking the official COVID-19 toll in the State to 115. The new deaths were reported from Ernakulam, Malappuram, Thiruvananthapuram, Kasaragod, Wayanad and Kozhikode. The cumulative case burden of the State ever since the outbreak began has reached 35,515, of whom, 12,737 are currently undergoing treatment in hospitals across the State. Till date, 22,616 persons have recovered from the disease. Capital in second spot After consistently remaining at the top as the district reporting the maximum number of new cases daily for the past one month, Thiruvananthapuram conceded the slot to Malappuram, which reported 255 new COVID 19 cases on Monday, of which 222 are locally acquired infections. Thiruvananthapuram reported 200 cases of which 191 were infections of local origin. Briefing the media, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan said disease transmission in Thiruvananthapuram was yet to come down and that preventive and containment activities had been intensified at Kallikkad, Vellarada and Neyyattinkara municipality where the limited community clusters were likely to become large clusters. He said all health protocols and universal safety precautions against COVID-19, including physical distancing, were being satisfactorily implemented in all northern districts. To review these activities in districts and to devise new strategies for containment, a meeting of senior police officers had been called. IG of Police S. Sreejith had been given the task of looking onto the problems faced by fisherfolk, now that COVID-19 is spreading in coastal areas. He will be assisted by the Coastal Police. Mr. Vijayan said a Neighbourhood Watch programme, where in the citizens will be empowered to keep an eye on COVID-19 spread in the community, will be implemented across the State with the help of Janamaithri police. He said a new limited cluster had been formed at Panavally in Alappuzha and that disease transmission in Ernakulam district was focussed around Fort Kochi. Migrant workers Cases were on the rise at Malappuram. In Kozhikode, COVID-19 seemed to be spreading fast amongst migrant workers, with 36 of them testing positive in the past three days. In the last 24 hours, the State had tested 20,583 samples. The number of hot spots in the State now is 531.
11 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Irate residents block coastal road||Irate residents on Monday blocked the Shangumughom-Valiyathura road alleging official apathy in tackling the severe coastal erosion in the Shangumughom region. The inundation is particularly severe along a 300-metre stretch which is unprotected by a seawall, the residents, who staged the blockade outside the domestic terminal of the airport, said. Although several houses have been destroyed/damaged, no action has been forthcoming to help the residents, they allege. “The waves have taken three rows of houses here. Two more rows are standing. If something is not done urgently, they too would disappear,”' said J. Moses, DCC member. A robust seawall along this vulnerable stretch is the only lasting solution to the problem, according to the residents. Since this will take time, a temporary wall should be erected urgently to protect the remaining houses. Additionally, the families who have been forced to abandon their homes should be evacuated to rented houses until they can be properly resettled, they said. Following the protest, the Revenue Divisional Officer and senior officers of the city police held discussions with the residents. District Collector Navjot Khosa will convene a meeting on Tuesday to sort out the issue. Crop loss The heavy rainfall in the district over the past several days has caused significant damage to crops. According to the district administration, crop loss has been reported in 5,880 hectares. More than 5,660 farmers have been affected. The loss has been pegged at Rs. 21.44 crore. The district reported a significant reduction in rainfall on Monday. Over the past several days, 39 houses have been destroyed and 238 partially damaged in the rain havoc. Inflow into the dams in the district have decreased with the dip in rainfall activity. All four shutters of the Neyyar dam have been lowered by 30 cm each. Owing to the heavy rainfall on Sunday, the shutters had been raised by 35 cm each. Two shutters of the Peppara dam are open by 15 cm each. The other two shutters are closed. Three of the six shutters of the Aruvikkara dam have been raised.
11 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Dip in rainfall, but State to remain on alert||Although rainfall activity over Kerala has come down significantly by Monday, the State will opt to remain on alert for a few more days, Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan has said. The Chief Minister, during his customary evening briefing on Monday, presented statistics to illustrate the sheer intensity of the recent monsoon activity. Kerala had received more rainfall in the first 10 days of August than was normal for the entire month, he said. Normally, the State may expect 427 mm during August, according to the India Meteorological Department (IMD). However, the State has recorded a total rainfall of 476 mm from August 1 to August 10. Yellow alert The IMD has forecast isolated heavy rainfall for some of the northern districts on Tuesday — Malappuram, Kozhikode, Kannur and Kasaragod are on yellow alert. River water levels, including in the Manimala, Achencoil and Meenachil, have dipped with the reduction in rainfall. Controlled release from the Kerala State Electricity Board and Irrigation Department dams will be stopped once the storage attains safe levels. More than 15,000 people were shifted in Wayanad due to the incessant rain. Of this 11,000 people were shifted to the homes of relatives. The rain has eased in the district and the water level in the Banasurasagar and Karappuzha dams is under control. As many as 1,232 families (4,217 people) were evacuated to 81 relief camps. Of this, 2,312 belong to tribal communities. Nine families (27 people) from the Cherunelli colony in Nelliyampathy in Palakkad have been evacuated, given the possibility of landslips in the district. Severe coastal inundation is continuing in Chellanam in Ernakulam district. On the other hand, river water levels in the district had not risen to alarming levels, the Chief Minister said. In Kottayam, water level in the Meenachil and Manimala rivers and tributaries are still above the danger level. A total of 217 families (5467 people) have been evacuated to camps. Dam shutters raised The shutters of Moozhiyar, Pampa and Maniyar dams in Pathanamthitta district have been raised. As many as 125 camps have been opened in the district. Fifty-five fishers have arrived in the district from Neendakara and Azheekal for aiding rescue operations. As many as 583 people have been shifted to two camps in Thiruvananthapuram over the past few days.
11 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||CM slams Chennithala for graft charge||Chief Minister Pinarayi Vijayan on Monday said LIFE Mission had no direct dealing with the UAE-based Red Crescent. The organisation had offered to build 140 houses and a health centre for the homeless on 218 cents of public land in Thrissur and hand it over to the Mission in 2020. Red Crescent had contracted the builder and not the government as alleged by Leader of the Opposition Ramesh Chennithala. Chennithala’s charge Mr. Chennithala had said on Monday that Swapna Suresh, the second accused in the diplomatic channel gold-smuggling case, had admitted in the court of the National Investigation Agency (NIA) in Kochi that she had received Rs. 1 crore as brokerage from the construction firm contracted by Red Crescent for the LIFE Mission project. The NIA had found the cash stashed away in her bank locker. Mr. Chennithala had also alleged that Mr. Vijayan’s former Principal Secretary M. Sivasankar had lobbied with Red Crescent officials to select the builder Swapna and he favoured. ‘Spreading falsehoods’ The Chief Minister accused Mr. Chennithala of spreading falsehoods. He had even blamed former Chief Minister Oommen Chandy for having dropped charges against Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) workers charged with attempting to murder police officers at MG College here in 2013. The Chief Minister read out a list of charges Mr. Chennithala had levelled against the government and then “had to retract in embarrassment.” On social media attack Mr. Vijayan faced a barrage of questions from journalists who accused his press secretary, P.M. Manoj, of disparaging them personally in a Facebook post for posing questions to the Chief Minister. One accused Mr. Vijayan of failing to condemn the organised social media attacks on journalists who posed questions to him. Mr. Vijayan said he studiously stayed clear of politics during his COVID-19 news briefings. However, he felt compelled to clear the air on specific issues because forces inimical to the government had used some sections of the media to besmirch the ruling front in the run-up to the Assembly elections in 2020. He reiterated that he was not hostile to journalists nor behaved with personal animus to anybody.  The forum offered to build 140 houses and a health centre for the homeless in Thrissur and hand them over to the Mission in 2020.
11 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||It’s not an easy run for Kashmiri traders in capital||Zeeshan speaks fluent Malayalam that does not even give a hint of his Kashmiri roots. Having lived in Kerala ever since he was a one year old, the native of Nawa Bazar in Srinagar feels more at home in Kovalam than anywhere else. But these are hard times for his family and about 125 other Kashmiri traders who deal in exotic handicrafts, pashmina shawls, and jewellery on the beach resort. Since March, when a lockdown was declared following the COVID-19 pandemic, all their shops remains shut. The beach, once teeming with foreign tourists, remains deserted. Around 60% of the Kashmiri traders have returned home in recent months, although many of those who went back are not happy with the restrictions and communication curbs in the valley since the abrogation of Article 370 last August. “My father Niyaz Ahmad Shah has been running this handicrafts shop for decades. Business has been good till 2015 when the tourist inflow started coming down. But after the pandemic, everything is down to zero. I am pursuing an MBA course and the deadline for paying the fee is next week. We have shop rentals to pay and a home loan, for which we got just a two months moratorium,” says Zeeshan. Syed Shabir Ahmad Qadri, who runs a handicrafts shop and heads the Kovalam Kashmiri Residents’ Welfare Society, came to Kovalam as a boy of 13 in the mid-1980s. He had set up his own business after a few years of working as a salesman in a shop run by another Kashmiri. “The people here accepted me as family. I consider myself as a Keralite. I have my ration card and electoral card here. We have our own house, but shop rentals and business loans are still a problem, when there is no income. We have requested the State government to provide us some financial aid ,” says Qadri. Tough time Ghulam Mustafa Reshi has been running Kashmir Cottage Craft Industries for the past 23 years, having taken over from his father who had started the business 37 years ago. He also has been having a tough time in repaying the loans he availed himself of for business purposes. “With the kind of luxury items that we sell, our business is dependent heavily on tourist inflow. Considering the current situation, we are not sure when things will turn around ,” says Mr. Reshi.
11 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||English Indian Clays suspends operations citing losses||Once again, hundreds of employees of the English Indian Clays Ltd (EICL) here are facing uncertainty with the company management deciding to ‘temporarily’ discontinue operations citing mounting losses. EICL, part of the Karan Thapar Group of Companies, had gone through a similar situation in 2019. The management announced its decision to suspend operations from Monday in a notice issued on Sunday, employees said. Employees have been asked not to report for duty until further notice. They would not be entitled to salary and other benefits during the shutdown period, they have been told. Led by the EICL trade unions, the employees were camping at the EICL Veli campus on Monday demanding an explanation from the company management. “So far, they have not given us any. The closure notice was pasted on the notice board and at the main gate at 9 p.m. on Sunday when work was in progress,” said Ajith Kumar, vice president, District Clay Workers' Congress (INTUC). Bonus demand According to the employees’ unions, the company was scheduled to pay their bonus on Tuesday. “Also, as per an agreement arrived at in 2019, the salary dues of the employees have to be settled by September,” said K. Udayakumar, District Clay Workers' Union (CITU). As many as 1,500 families depend on the EICL for their livelihood. EICL mines kaolin (China clay) deposits in the district and processes the clay at two facilities - the main plant at Kochu Veli and a second one at Thonnackal. Meanwhile, company officials alleged that the State government has done little to resolve the industrial issues plaguing EICL. Acute shortage of good quality clay had left the management with no other option, a senior official told The Hindu . EICL’s captive mines in the district have remained shut for the past 24 months. The future of EICL hinges on the availability of China clay. Although the government had been apprised of the situation, the permission to re-open the mines at Thonnackal is yet to be granted. The company has been operating on heavy losses , the official said.
11 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Anu R.S. is new Corporation Secretary||The Local Self Government Department has made changes at the helm of the city Corporation administration with Secretary Deepa.L.S getting promoted as Joint Secretary of the State Election Commission. Joint Director Anu.R.S, Regional Joint Director, Urban Affairs Department, will take over as the new Secretary. In limelight In 2018, Ms.Deepa had come in the limelight when she was transferred at a time when she had completed just one year of her maximum tenure of three years. The move allegedly followed after she had invited the displeasure of a top bureaucrat due to her strong stand regarding files related to some apartment complexes. The transfer order was issued despite the then Mayor V.K.Prasanth and Corporation officials expressing satisfaction with her performance. The transfer was later cancelled following protests from the Mayor and other officials. During her tenure, new regulations regarding waste management and advertisement hoardings were brought in. She has in recent months been one of the driving forces of the civic body's COVID-19 management measures.
11 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||COVID guidelines issued for Rajya Sabha byelection||The byelection to the Rajya Sabha seat in Kerala scheduled for August 24 will be held in accordance with the COVID-19 protocol and postal vote will be arranged if the legislator is COVID positive or in hospital or is unable to reach the Assembly for casting vote. Guidelines have been issued and Legislature Secretary S.V. Unnikrishnan Nair, who is also the returning officer for the byelection, will inform legislators about the norms, Chief Electoral Officer Teeka Ram Meena said on Monday. Medical units would be stationed on the Assembly premises during the days of submitting the nomination papers, scrutiny, withdrawal of the nomination and on the day of polling. Steps for antigen testing would also be made on these days. A meeting chaired by Mr. Meena discussed the implementation of the poll panel’s directive to ensure the pandemic protocol for byelections. Postal vote would be allowed by the returning officer after securing the permission of the EC. Steps would be taken to sanitise the postal vote once it reached the returning officer. Those who had tested COVID positive, those in quarantine, and those with symptoms would have to inform the returning officer in advance. Mr. Meena said those with symptoms would be allowed to cast their vote between 4 p.m. and 5 p.m. after taking precautionary measures. Three chambers Three chambers would be arranged separately for those without symptoms, those coming from containment zones, and those on quarantine but without symptoms. Physical distancing norms would be followed in all steps of the election process, the CEO said. PPE suits Those legislators showing symptoms should have to wear PPE suits, gloves, and N-95 masks while coming to cast their vote and would have to follow the notified guidelines and advice of health officials. PPE suits, cotton mask, gloves, and sanitiser would be procured by the returning officer after informing the Secretary, Health, and the nodal officer.
11 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Sabarimala pilgrimage will stick to COVID protocol||The Sabarimala temple festival beginning November 16 will be held as per the COVID-19 protocol and pilgrim flow will be regulated through the virtual queue system, Devaswom Minister Kadakampally Surendran has said. At a meeting here on Monday, Mr. Surendran said the government’s attempt was to organise the pilgrimage within the limitations imposed by the virus spread. This would also impose a limit on the number of pilgrims to be permitted to the temple during the festival season. Certificate Pilgrims reaching Sabarimala with COVID-negative certificate would have to register their names on the portal and they would be permitted for ‘darshan’ without rush at the Sannidhanam. The sand deposited in the Pampa river following the flood in 2018 had been moved to the parking ground at Chakkupalam, the Pathanamthitta district administration told the meeting. Floods during the past two days might have brought sand to the river again, they said. Steps had been taken to manage natural disasters and the Disaster Management Authority had been told to set up an emergency operation centre at Pathanamthitta. The district administration demanded helicopter service facility for emergency evacuation. Travancore Devaswom Board president N.Vasu said the board would conduct the pilgrimage as per the COVID-19 protocol. He wanted the district administration to vacate the buildings of the board that were being used as COVID treatment centres.
11 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Health inspector’s body found||The body of a 54-year old Health inspector who had gone missing two days ago was recovered from the Karamana river on Monday. The Vilappilsala police identified the deceased as Krishnakumar of Kundamanbhagam. An employee of the Directorate of Health Services, he had been undergoing self-quarantine after a colleague’s father tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. He was reported to be missing on Saturday evening. The police and Kerala Fire and Rescue Services personnel launched a search operation after his footwear was found from near Kundamankadavu bridge. The body was recovered from near the Mangattukadavu bridge soon after the efforts were resumed Monday morning, following which it was shifted to the mortuary of the Government Medical College Hospital where the result of the COVID-19 test is awaited. The police suspected the incident to be a case of suicide with a suicide note being recovered. The deceased is believed to have been under mental trauma since he went into quarantine. (Suicide prevention helpline number: DISHA – 1056, 0471 – 2552056)
11 August 2020||THIRUVANANTHAPURAM,KERALA||Anjuthengu residents protest||In yet another indicator of growing resentment among coastal community, the residents of Anjuthengu took to the streets on Monday to protest against the stringent curbs that have been imposed in the critical containment zone. The latest in a growing incidence of protests, the incident occurred against the backdrop of violent protests that had unfolded in Pulluvila a few days ago and in Poonthura a month ago. Health workers had borne the brunt of both agitations by the local residents. The use of force by the police to disperse a group of people who managed to catch fish and attempted to sell their catch in Anjuthengu triggered unrest by around 10 a.m. Accusing the police of manhandling a few among them, a large number of residents congregated before the office of the Anjuthengu grama panchayat. They laid siege to the office of the panchayat secretary and barged into the premises. Police intervention prompted the agitators to call of their protest. The Anjuthengu police, who have registered a case, maintained that they were required to act upon lockdown violations that had come to their notice.
11 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Greening drive||The premises of the Travancore Devaswom Board headquarters at Nandancode here are set to sport a lush look, thanks to a greening drive launched by the board. On Monday,TDB president N.Vasu inaugurated a drive to plant a variety of saplings of fruit trees, medicinal plants and vegetables in the premises.
11 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,KERALA||Online hearing for voters in containment zones||The State Election Commission has made online arrangements to hold hearing of voters in containment zones on their inclusion in the electoral rolls for the local body elections. State Election Commissioner V. Bhaskaran said electoral registration officers had been directed to receive applications by email and conduct hearings through video calling or on online platforms.
11 August 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Trained to smell life and death, Maya, Donna help rescuers||They can smell life and death. Maya and Donna, the specially trained police dogs from Kerala Police Academy, Thrissur, were a major support for the rescue force at the difficult terrain at Pettimudy in Idukki, where a massive landslip flattened estate lanes and claimed many lives. Part of a 35-member squad under training at the police academy, they were taken to the landslip site from Sunday as per the suggestion of State Police Chief Loknath Behera. 5 hours at a stretch While Lilly, alias Maya, a Belgian Malinois, is specially trained in finding bodies under debris, Dona, a Labrador, is trained in finding people trapped under the debris. She can work for five hours without rest, say the dog trainers in the police academy. The 10-month-old Maya traced three bodies from the debris at Pettimudy. They were procured from the training centre of Punjab Police. The dogs in the academy have also been trained for conducting searches in forests, sniffing out explosives and in combing operations. They are also trained in catching those involved in theft and murder cases. Eight of the Kerala Police dogs are specially trained in sniffing out drugs. The Kerala Police has 150 dogs in its dog squad. The dogs have a retirement home at the police academy.
11 August 2020||Thrissur,KERALA||Probe sought into suicide bid by village officer||The Congress and the BJP have demanded an investigation into the circumstances that forced Puthur Village Officer C.N. Simi to attempt suicide on Monday. They alleged that mental and physical harassment by CPI(M) leaders had led the officer to take the step. Ms. Simi attempted suicide on Monday afternoon after panchayat president Mini Unnikrishnan and other members gheraoed her for the alleged delay in issuing certificates to LIFE Mission project applicants. “Cases should be registered against Mini Unnikrishnan and other members for abetting suicide. The CPI(M) mentally and physically harasses people who do not support their political interests,” said T.N. Prathapan, MP, after visiting the village officer at the hospital. Action should be taken against leaders who interrupt an officer on duty and force her to suicide, said district Congress committee vice president Jose Vallur. Even though the delay in issuing certificates was due to server problems, the panchayat leaders harassed the village officer, said BJP State secretary A. Nagesh, who also visited the officer at the hospital.
11 August 2020||August 11 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||Breaches that flooded hopes and homes||Sijimon K.A., 43, his wife, two children, and septuagenarian mother were eagerly waiting to move to their new home being constructed on stilts at Aarupanku Chira in Kainakary in Kuttanad in the coming months. But all their hopes were dashed on Sunday night after the outer bund of the Aarupanku paddy polder breached and gushing water destroyed the under-construction structure. Under water The place where the building once stood is now filled with water. “80% of the construction was completed. But floodwaters swept away everything,” says Mr. Sijimon. The family, who now resides at a relative’s house, started constructing the new house after the 2018 deluge made their house uninhabitable. “I have spent Rs. 15 lakh for the construction of the house. While the government provided Rs. 4 lakh, the rest of the amount was borrowed through different means. The bund breach has left us in the lurch,” Mr. Sijimon says. Apart from Mr. Sijimon’s house, another under-construction house was also destroyed at Aarupanku. Ajesh Kumar and his family from Valiyathuruthu in Kainakary are living on the upstairs of his wife’s house since Sunday when his own house got inundated following a breach in the outer bund of Valiyathuruthu paddy polder on Saturday night. “Apart from people having houses built on pillars and double-storey buildings, all others have left the place after floodwaters entered houses,” Mr. Ajesh says. Kuttanad has witnessed at least 21 bund breaches in recent days. In Kainakary alone, outer bunds of several polders were breached. This has inundated hundreds of houses, forcing several families to move to their relatives’ homes or relief camps. As per the preliminary assessment carried out by the Agriculture Department, paddy cultivation in 1,289 hectares was destroyed, resulting in huge losses to farmers. Local residents say recurring bund breaches are upending their lives. In 2019, a series of bund breaches led to a flood-like situation in several parts of Kuttanad. Government blamed “The recurring breaches are a result of the lackadaisical attitude of the government. Even two years after the 2018 deluge, no concrete steps have been taken to strengthen outer bunds of paddy polders in Kuttanad. Height of bunds should also be increased. Work on deepening of canals and the lake has also reached nowhere,” says B.K. Vinod, member, Kainakary grama panchayat. Planning board report A report submitted to the government by the Kerala State Planning Board following the 2018 deluge says farmers of Kuttanad deserve permanent outer bunds with necessary height and width, which can withstand the force of water currents. “Ensuring free and natural flow of waters within Kuttanad also requires the construction of strong outer bunds to padasekharams (paddy polders),” reads the report.
11 August 2020||August 11 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||30 cases in Alappuzha||The district reported 30 COVID-19 cases and 25 recoveries on Monday. Of the total fresh cases, 20 patients contracted the disease through contact. Seven who came from abroad and three from other States also tested positive for SARS-CoV-2. Among the contact cases, four cases were reported from Haripad. Punnapra and Pattanakkad logged three cases each. Rest of the contact cases were from Krishnapuram (2), Purakkad (2), and one case each from Kanjikuzhy, Alappuzha, Kadakarappally, Chettikkad, Vechur and Cherthala. The number of active COVID-19 cases in the district stands at 1, 098. Ward 10 in Punnapra North grama panchayat was declared as a containment zone. Panavally in Cherthala taluk, which reported several COVID-19 cases in recent days, was declared a COVID-19 cluster. KIIFB Special Tahsildar V.S. Sheeba was appointed as incident commander there.
11 August 2020||August 11 2020 00:00 IST,KERALA||The advancing sea||
11 August 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Medical oxygen consumption more than doubles in State||Medical oxygen consumption has more than doubled in Andhra Pradesh and keeping in mind the need for supporting COVID-19 patients at hospitals and COVID Care Centres, the Union government has sent 4,500 oxygen cylinders to overcome the gap in turnaround time of a full cylinder. In the first phase when the outbreak was not rampant, 2,000 cylinders were allocated, but after the lifting of nationwide lockdown, the number of cases started increasing exponentially and recently another 2,500 cylinders have been sent. Anantapur district proportionately got 410 cylinders so far for use by various hospitals. “These cylinders are of 7 Cu.Mts. capacity and meet the entire needs of the district,” Nodal Officer and Assistant Director of Drug Control Authority Pullagarula Ramesh Reddy told The Hindu . The district currently with close to 2,000 COVID-19 beds (hospitals and care centres), has sufficient supplies. To augment the availability of oxygen-supporting beds, the administration has got a 13 KL liquid oxygen tank installed on the GGH premises, another 10 KL tank in the new ‘Super-speciality block’ and a 5 KL tank in the Cancer Care Centre in the adjoining compound. Another 50 cylinders have been allocated for the Super-speciality block of the GGH, which is likely to start functioning in another 10 days, said Mr. Ramesh Reddy. Currently, 10 COVID patients with mild symptoms were being housed in the building that was getting final touches. “Once the ‘Third Party’ certification for the entire oxygen network and other facilities is over, these blocks will be commissioned,” he said. Tie-up with VSP Director General, Drugs and Copyright, S. Ravi Shankar has meanwhile struck an arrangement with the Visakhapatnam Steel Plant to supply sufficient oxygen from its plant. Director M.B.R. Prasad monitors the supplies to various districts. To augment the oxygen-supporting beds at area hospitals too, 1 KL liquid oxygen cylinders were recently installed at Hindupur, Kadiri and Guntakal in the district. Two distributors are supplying 460 cylinders/day to all government and private hospitals with the GGH Anantapur alone consuming close to 250 cylinders a day.
11 August 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Passenger services won’t be on track before Sept.’||The Railway Board is deliberating on introducing a few additional special trains on various routes and the announcement is likely to be made within next one week, Guntakal Divisional Railway Manager Alok Tiwari has said. In an online press conference organised on Monday, Mr. Tiwari said that till August 12, the existing set of trains already running would continue and depending on the feedback from various States and the responses of the governments based on the local pandemic situation, the Railway Board will make an announcement very soon. On starting the full complement of passenger services, the DRM said it was unlikely till mid-September, but the railways was running 80% of its goods trains ferrying essentials across the country. “We have utilised the free time during the pandemic to strengthen the existing railway track by replacing weak bridges with new ones, improving the capacity of the Gooty to Renigunta section (280 km) to enable running of trains at a speed of 130 kmph,” Mr. Alok Tiwari said.
11 August 2020||ANANTAPUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Two lakh tests done in Anantapur||Anantapur district has crossed the two lakh-mark in COVID-19 sample testing, announced District Collector Gandham Chandrudu on Monday. The Collector said sample collection in the district was one of the highest in the State and a schedule was being drawn to follow the strategy and guidelines being issued from time to time by the ICMR, Central and State governments. In March, 287 tests were conducted, 5,591 tests in April, 2,336 in May, 35,769 in June, 84,554 in July and in August so far 50,466 have been done, he said. Extra focus on sample collection was from areas where there were more number of positive cases coming each day and also a number of fatalities occurring. Veera Services was operating 9 IMASQ buses with 27 teams. There was a problem in the collection of Samples by Veera Services IMASQ vans for two days as they had internal issues related to their salaries, Mr. Chandrudu added.
11 August 2020||B. Madhu Gopal,ANDHRA PRADESH||Masks available in all hues, sizes||When you go out, you are sure to find the ubiquitous masks, being sold at makeshift stalls, pitched under the shade of trees. The masks come in various hues, shapes and sizes with prices ranging from a mere Rs. 10 to a couple of hundred rupees, depending on the quality of the cloth used. Surgical shops, department stores and shopping malls are also selling a wide range of masks like surgical masks, 3-ply, 4-ply and N-95 masks. Of late, face shields are also gaining popularity with more and more people relying on them for enhanced safety from the novel coronavirus. The shields should be used along with the mask and cannot be a replacement for the mask. The N-95 mask is said to be the most effective among the masks. “In the past, I used to procure N-95 masks from the dealers at Rs. 450 a piece and sell them at Rs. 650, after adding GST and other costs. Now, the raw materials are imported and masks are being made in India by companies like 3 M and Venus. We are selling them to the customer at Rs. 200 a piece,” says Subba Rao, proprietor of Kiran Surgicals, located near the Collectorate Junction. “Cloth masks also provide protection to some extent but the quality of cloth should be good and it should have at least 10 layers. A number of manufacturers have forayed into the mask-making sector in view of the tremendous demand,” he says. “A minimum of three layers is required for protection from the virus. Some manufacturers are passing off duplicates as N-95 masks,” says a dealer of masks. “A high quality mask like N-95 is needed only for patients, their attendants, doctors and paramedical staff, when attending on patients in the ICU. Any mask will suffice for others, who do not run the risk of running into COVID-19 positive patients. When using cloth masks, polypropylene ones are better than cotton ones,” says Dr. B. Ramachandra Rao, Associate Professor at the Government ENT Hospital. “It is dangerous to use reusable N-95 masks with respirators (valves) as the virus can get stuck in the valve and spread in the air later. However, N-95 (without valve) is a must for those going into the ICU, where patients are treated,” says Dr. K. Rambabu, Professor of Medicine, Andhra Medical College (AMC).
11 August 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Overwhelming response to e-Rakshabandhan in Chittoor||Superintendent of Police S. Senthil Kumar on Monday said the “e-Rakshabandhan” programme, jointly organised by the Crime Investigation Department (CID) and Cyber Peace Foundation, received overwhelming response from a cross-section of people in Chittoor district, particularly women and students. Speaking to the media here, the SP said it was a welcome sign that there was growing awareness among the public on cyber bullying faced by women and students. The e-Rakshabandhan initiative launched by Chief minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy on August 3 would continue till the month-end, with a series of webinars on YouTube and other forms of social media, he said. Police personnel of Madanapalle, Palamaner, Chittoor and Puttur sub-divisions were actively involved in spreading the message of the initiative. “We have focussed on various aspects of cyber crimes targeting women, including blackmailing and objectionable posts in the social media. The webinars will touch upon the subjects as to how the women can successfully thwart the evil designs of the criminals resorting to cyber bullying. Apart from this, we have designed programmes to spread awareness of e-Rakshabandhan initiatives through radio programmes, quizzes, competitions for best slogans and public surveys,” Mr. Kumar said. Mr. Kumar said the webinars of the CID and Cyber Peace Foundation had focussed on the misuse of the social media for cyber bullying. Expert personnel of the CID, psychologists and faculty of the criminology were explaining the remedial measures to such attempts. The SP appealed to the public to immediately approach the police immediately whenever they faced cyber bullying. The official said that a separate cyber cell was in force in Chittoor district, apart from Mahila police stations aimed at effectively tackling crimes against women.
11 August 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||20 workers injured in road accident||Twenty workers of the MGNREGA scheme were injured when a mini-truck carrying them overturned near Karveti Nagaram mandal headquarters on Monday. There were 29 workers in the vehicle, mostly women, in the vehicle at the time of accident. According to information, the workers, belonging to Gopisettipalle village of Karveti Nagaram mandal, were on their way to a work site nearby. The area police rushed to the spot and arranged 108 ambulances, shifting them to the Government Area Hospital at Puttur. While some of them suffered fractures, the condition of one of the injured was said to be serious. Deputy Chief Minister K. Narayanaswamy visited the hospital and spoke to the victims and their family. He urged the hospital staff to take care of the victims and even shift them to theSVIMS hospital if required.
11 August 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||1 held, combing stepped up in Seshachalam||The Andhra Pradesh Red Sanders Anti Smuggling Task Force (APRSASTF) on Monday dispatched two combing parties into the Seshachalam hills following information that a fresh batch of red sanders smuggling operatives had sneaked into the reserves on Sunday night. In the morning, the task force nabbed one smuggling operative from Tamil Nadu and seized five red sanders logs. The task force officials said that acting on a tip-off, a combing party rushed to the Bhakarapeta ghat section, 25 km from Tirupati, on Sunday night. In the early hours of Monday, five operatives were seen carrying the red sanders logs towards the ghat road. While one of them was nabbed, four others had escaped into the forests, abandoning the logs. The nabbed operative, Muthaiah (56) of Tirupattur in T.N., told the task force that a batch of 24 woodcutters were brought to the foothills on Sunday night.
11 August 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Tourism sector in Chittoor finds hope of revival bleak||Prior to the COVID-induced lockdown, Chittoor district remained the hot destination for thousands of tourists thanks to the cozy retreats such as Horsley Hills, Talakona waterfalls, Chandragiri Fort, and half a dozen premier pilgrimage sites including Tirumala. But the tourism sector in the district has taken a hit after the coronavirus cases increased manifold. The rush of pilgrims, who form the bulk of tourist population, came down to a trickle. Even as ‘unlocking’ had commenced a couple of months ago, the chances of the tourism sector getting revived look bleak. Though the State government has called for resumption of tourism operations from August 1, and the boating facilities from Aug. 15, the plan of action hardly matches with the reality. Tourism Manager D.V. Chandramouli Reddy told The Hindu that the occupancy rate at Horsley Hills, the standalone hillstation in the State and a major crowd-puller, has come down below 20% at weekends, as against the housefull status of the pre-COVID period.  Except for the Haritha restaurant near Srikalahasti, the others at Puttur, Palamaner and Kuppam had gone defunct early this year.
11 August 2020||CHITTOOR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Liquor packs seized in Tirupati||Special Enforcement Bureau (SEB ) personnel seized 646 packets of liquor packed in cardboard sachets of 180 ml each at two separate locations in Tirupati on Monday. According to the SEB officials, a car was intercepted at Cherlopalle-Alipiri bypass road, a few km from Alipiri toll gate in Tirupati, leading to the seizure of the vehicle with 572 packs. One person, identified as Bhaskar of Tirupati was arrested. In another incident, the SEB teams seized a car with 174 packs in Tirupati. Two persons were taken into custody. The officials said that the packs in both the seizures were brought from Karnataka.
11 August 2020||G.V.R. Subba RaoVIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Conducive atmosphere in State pushes up agricultural output||The agriculture production and yield has considerably increased in the State. The total production of foodgrains increased to 180.54 lakh metric tonnes in 2019-20 from 149.5 lakh MT in 2018-19. The average five-year production during 2014-2018 stands at 159.3 lakh MT. The achievement is despite the fact that there is no increase in the extent of the land cultivated. According to information, the production of paddy and coarse cereals increased to 168.67 lakh metric tonnes in 2019-20 from 142.16 lakh metric tonnes in 2018-19. Similarly, the total oilseeds production increased to 9 lakh MT in 2019-20 from 5.05 lakh MT in 2018-19. Productivity and yield generally depend on availability of water and irrigation facilities, suitable rainfall and climatic conditions, etc. The copious rains along with recharged groundwater and availability of irrigated water have created a conducive atmosphere for the agriculture production. Also, the farmers in north coastal Andhra have changed their agriculture practices to tide over the water scarcity/scanty rains problem in the recent past. 13% increase Direct sowing is one such practice. The sunshine hours were considerably good last year compared to previous years. It led to increase in the production and yield, sources say. When contacted, Andhra Pradesh State Agriculture Mission vice-chairman M.V.S. Nagi Reddy says that the total foodgrain production of 15 different crops increased from 106.51 lakh tonnes in 2018-19 to 120.43 lakh tonnes in 2019-20, a total increase of 13% during kharif. The production and yield increased for various factors. Mainly, it was due to the Rythu Bharosa scheme, which helped the farmers in getting investments at the right time, availability of fertilizers and seeds, and copious rains. The total area sown in the State is 22.20 lakh hectares (59%) as against the normal area of 37.42 lakh hectare and normal as on date is 21.05 lakh hectares (105%), he says. Mr. Nagi Reddy says that increase in production will be useful to the government. But, increase in the yield helps the farmers. The paddy yield increased to 5,846 kgs per hectare in 2019-20 from 5,593 kgs per hectare in 2018-19. The production of pulses also increased to 939 kg per hectare in 2019-20 from 558 kgs per hectare in 2018-19, he explains.
11 August 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cyber bullying, new menace haunting kids, say experts||Bullying is not limited to just campuses, but children too can be intimidated online through cyber bullying. A webinar on “Cyber crimes against children —crimes against children,” hosted by AP Crime Investigation Department discussed on the perils of cyber bullying. Additional Director-General , CID, P.V. Sunil Kumar, suggested that parents take control and protect their children from cyber bullying. He said that the CID had been taking steps to check cyber crime taking place among children and women. Chairperson of National Commission for Protection of Child Rights Priyank Kanoongo said parents played a key role in bringing about an awareness among children against cyber bullying. He warned that children from rural and tribal areas were vulnerable to cyber bullying as they do not have parental control. In most cases, parents were either working in fields or forests. General Manager, Digital India Program, NJP Shilohu Rao said children studying between Class 8 and Class 12 were prone to cyber bullying and were affected mentally. Stating that cyber bullying started at school and college level, where students teased and harassed children, he said children were prone to sharing of information, using using fake accounts. Mr. Rao said the role of teacher was also important as children spent more time with teachers, and parents were advised to regularly discuss and monitor their children’s well-being. He called for creating a community with teachers, parents, children and psychologists which helps in saving and bringing awareness among children. Regional Director and Deputy Chief Vigilance Officer K. Gayatri Reddy said India stood 4th in cyber bullying and advised parents and teachers to guide and bring awareness about what was happening online so that children could defend themselves individually with confidence and without fear. Cyber expert P. Srinivas was present. On Tuesday, a webinar on “Digital shakti — understanding data and digital footprint on cyber crimes and awareness” will be held at 11 a.m. One can click on https://m.youtube.com/ channel/UC9HKNl3ztEy KgSq8DcnLHMQ to take part in webinar.
11 August 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||Ensure identification of primary, secondary contacts: Collector||District Collector and Incident Commander I. Samuel Ananda Kumar has said that the primary and secondary contacts of those who have tested positive should be identified immediately. Mr. Ananda Kumar was speaking at a review meeting on COVID-19 at SR Sankaran Hall on Monday. Stating that the nodal officers were found wanting in identification of primary and secondary contacts of COVID-19 patients, the Collector said that this laxity could prove costly as there was a steep increase in the number of positive cases from July 10.  Surveillance teams “More number of cases are being recorded in Guntur Municipal Corporation area,” he said, adding that surveillance teams should be pressed to identify all positive cases and their primary and secondary contacts. “Identify all the high risk category patients, above 45 years, and those with comorbid conditions. The teams of ANMs, asha workers and surveillance teams should set tasks to identify at least 10 primary contacts and 15 secondary contacts. Ensure that those in home isolation should have thermal screening devices, pulse oximeters and any one who reports fever of more than 100 degree Celsius, dry cough and cold should report immediately,” Mr.Samuel said. Joint Collector A.S. Dinesh Kumar, Municipal Commissioner C. Anuradha, DRO N.V.V. Satyanarayana were present. The Municipal Commissioner said that people could get themselves voluntarily tested by registering athttp://covid19.ap.gov.in/ Covid19Admin/RequestForTest.html and enter the details of the address, mobile number and age. Tests, rapid antigen, and RT-PCR would be conducted.
11 August 2020||GUNTUR,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘Hospitals flouting norms’||Accusing many private hospitals treating coronavirus patients of flouting norms, Government Chief Whip Gandikota Srikanth Reddy has blamed Ramesh Hospitals for the loss of lives in the early morning blaze at Hotel Swarna Palace. “Some private hospitals are charging exorbitant fees in violation of the rules. SOme others also are running COVID-19 care facilities centres out of hotels, not bothering about the compliance with the safety regulations by those private facilities,” Mr. Srikanth Reddy said here on Monday.
11 August 2020||HANUMAN JUNCTION,ANDHRA PRADESH||Woman held for posing as retired IAS officer||The Krishna district police on Monday arrested Pemmadi Vijaya Lakshmi, of Mangalagiri in Guntur district, who was allegedly extorting money posing as a retired IAS officer. The accused, who introduced herself as K. Sujatha Rao, retired IAS officer and Chairman, AP Arogya Committee, allegedly collected money from several persons. On August 8, she came in a car and allegedly demanded Rs. 3,500 from a private nursing home, located at Hanuman Junction. The staff who grew suspicious took her photo and lodged a complaint with the police, said Nuzvid DSP B. Srinivasulu. The team led by Hanuman Junction CI D.V. Ramana arrested the accused in Vijayawada.
11 August 2020||KAKINADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Women and child care to continue at Kakinada GGH||B.C.Welfare Minister Chelluboyina Venu Gopala Krishna on Monday stated that gynic, childcare and cancer treatment would continue to be offered at the Government General Hospital (GGH-Kakinada) despite being designated as the State COVID Critical Care hospital in East Godavari district. Mr. Venu Gopala Krishna has flagged off a bus facility on Monday, transporting the out-patients being registered at the GGH to the respective private hospitals that are listed in the Arogyasri scheme. Initially, the district authorities had decided to suspend admission of the out-patients, completely dedicating the GGH-K for COVID treatment. However, the decision had to be withdrawn after demands for the continuation of services came from the civic society. Speaking to mediapersons, Mr. Venu Gopala Krishna said: “The GGH-K authorities will register the out-patient details and attach them to the respective private hospital listed in the Arogyasri scheme. Joint Collectors – Ch.Krithi, G. Raja Kumari – will co-ordinate in connecting the out-patients to the private hospitals and their treatment.” Brochure released At present, the GGH-K has been converted into a 1000-bed COVID Critical Care facility. Kakinada MP Vanga Geetha, East Godavari Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy and Joint Collector G. Raja Kumari released a brochure on the list of private hospitals offering the services under the Arogya Sri scheme.
11 August 2020||NELLORE/ONGOLE,ANDHRA PRADESH||16 more die of COVID-19 in Nellore, Prakasam||Sixteen more patients — 11 in Prakasam and five in SPSR Nellore district — succumbed to coronavirus in the last 24 hours as of Monday morning, taking the toll to 222 in the south coastal Andhra region. In Ongole, the Government General Hospital mortuary overflowed with the bodies of the deceased as the toll in Prakasam district went up to 122. In SPSR Nellore district, the tally touched the century-mark with five fresh deaths being reported. The number of positive cases rose to 961 during the period with 511 more persons contracting the disease in SPSR Nellore district and 430 in Prakasam district. The health authorities, who worked overtime to treat the patients, had some solace as 582 patients responded well to treatment and got cured in SPSR Nellore district. In Prakasam district, 310 patients were discharged on recovery during the period. Meanwhile, SPSR Nellore District Collector K.V.N.Chakradhar Babu, along with Joint Collector V. Vinod Kumar launched a pilot sero surveillance in Indiramma Colony at Venkatachalam on the Nellore outskirts. The blood samples from 3,750 persons would be collected from COVID-19 hotspots in Nellore city, a rural mandal and two towns with a view to assessing the level of COVID-19 antibodies in them to work out strategies to prevent the spread of the disease, said sero surveillance nodal officer G. Venkataprasad. Contacts traced Health workers in Prakasam district traced 1,989 primary and secondary contacts of the newly-infected persons and isolated them. Four new very active clusters were created as the disease spread across 249 clusters in Prakasam district. As many as 45 patients were put in intensive care unit as their condition turned critical, while 418 patients were given treatment from O2 beds as they developed uneasiness in breathing.
11 August 2020||Rajulapudi SrinivasPALAKOL (WEST GODAVARI DT.):,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rescued boy wants to become Army officer||B. Srinivas, who was missing and was rescued by the police from a Child Care Institution (CCI) in Vijayawada, dreams of becoming an Army officer and serve the nation. Srinivas, a native of Palakol Town, left home when he was five-year-old. He was traced in Vijayawada railway station by an NGO, and was kept in the CCI since then. The AP Police and the Crime Investigation Department (CID) police, who organised ‘Operation Muskaan’ from July 14 to 20 across the State, rescued Srinivas and reunited him with his family. Palakol Town CI Ch. Anjaneyulu and other officials visited the house of Srinivas and enquired about his welfare. They handed over new clothes and books to the boy. The boy’s mother, Sri Lalitha, said Srinivas was staying at home and preparing for the next class. “Following the directions of Director-General of Police (DGP) D. Gautam Sawang, Eluru Range DIG K.V. Mohan Rao and SP K. Narayan Naik, we are following the case. The boy is in good health and is mingling with his family members,” Mr. Anjaneyulu said. “As per the wish of Ms. Sri Lalitha and her son, we will admit the boy in a local school and provide education. Srinivas is showing lot of interest on studies,” said Narsapuram Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) P. Nageswara Rao. “Recently, I was moved with the death of an Army officer (Col. Santosh Babu) at Ladakh. I was disturbed over the frequent encounters at the Line of Control (LoC). I want to join the Army and serve the nation,” Srinivas told The Hindu .
11 August 2020||Rajulapudi SrinivasVIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Panic grips hospitals after arrests in hotel fire case||With the arrest of three employees of Ramesh Hospitals, including two doctors, in the fire accident case at Swarna Palace Hotel, panic gripped private hospitals, which are running the COVID care centres with meagre facilities. The government has constituted different panels to probe into the facilities available at COVID hospitals and care centres. According to sources, 18 COVID hospitals, including Category A and B, 36 COVID care centres and 12 paid quarantine centres, were operating in Krishna district. Health Department and COVID-19 Special Chief Secretary K.S. Jawahar Reddy formed a panel with Dr. Y.S.R. Arogyasri Health Care Trust CEO and Public Health and Family Welfare Director to inquire into the accident. It will submit report within 48 hours. The Home Department has also formed a panel to study fire safety measures available in hotels and quarantine centres. Director-General, AP State Disaster Response and Fire Services, Director, AP Forensic Science Laboratory, and Chief Electrical Inspector, Electrical Inspectorate, will inquire and submit its report in two days. Meanwhile, Krishna Collector and Disaster Management Authority has constituted divisional level panel headed by Sub-Collectors/RDOs to inspect the safety measures in the COVID hospitals, care centres and quarantine centres.  The teams concerned have been directed to inspect the hospitals and centres in their respective divisions and submit report within two days, the Collector said.
11 August 2020||Tirumala,ANDHRA PRADESH||COVID cases among TTD staff touch 743||The number of COVID-19 cases among TTD employees has touched 743. While three succumbed to the virus, 402 employees have recovered and are attending to their duties. The remaining 338 staff are undergoing treatment at the TTD rest houses – Srinivasam, Vishnunivasam and Madhavam at Tirupati – that have been converted into COVID centres. Their quarantine arrangements besides medical treatment and supply of food are being monitored by an officer of the rank of Joint Executive Officer. Reports denied Briefing the media, TTD Executive Officer Anilkumar Singhal said there was no truth in the reports that appeared in a section of press that the darshan at the Lord Venkateswara temple was resumed only with an intention to fill the coffers. The temple was reopened for public on June 11 after a gap of 80 days at the request of devotees, he said. The funds spent by the TTD in tackling COVID-19 was more than what was being derived from the temple hundi, he added. About 2.38 lakh devotees had the darshan of Lord Venkateswara while the hundi income stood at Rs. 16.69 crore in addition to another Rs. 3.97 crore received by way of e-hundi during the last month.
11 August 2020||VIJAYAWAD,ANDHRA PRADESH||‘New industrial policy will spur growth’||Confederation of Indian Industry-AP chairman D. Ramakrishna has welcomed the focus laid by the government in the new industrial policy on MSMEs, end-to-end business facilitation and balanced regional development. He expressed confidence that the policy would give the much-needed push to the industrial sector whose potential remained largely untapped. “The new policy has rightly emphasised on skill development and entrepreneurship. The proposed 30 skill development centres in the State will help the industry source manpower qualified for the jobs,” Mr. Ramakrishna said on Monday.  ‘Impetus to sectoral strength’ He said the policy was in line with the CII recommendation that greater impetus be given to sectoral strengths and natural advantages of the State. He asserted that the State was poised to attract investments in aerospace and defence, pharmaceuticals, textiles, automobile, electronics and petrochemical sectors. De-risking the investments, development of plug-and-play infrastructure and business support services were the highlights of the policy, he added.
11 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State bucks the trend, July GST collections paint a rosy picture||The nationwide lockdown imposed to contain the spread of COVID-19 has led to a drop in the GST collections and impact the consumer spending across the country. But, in contrast, the GST revenue improved in the State in July bringing cheer to officials. Strikingly, the consumer spending also went up, which is against the trend across the country, more particularly the States which witnessed rise in COVID-19 cases. According to information, a growth of 2.65% in the GST revenue (with compensation received) was registered during the month of July compared to corresponding period last fiscal. Similarly, a growth of 1.90% was witnessed in petroleum products during July. There was a dip in the GST revenues by 14.36% across the country in July. There was a dip in the GST revenues during the first quarter (April-June) of this financial year in the State, for various reasons, 'primarily due to the lockdown.'       Dip in first quarter  Interestingly, there was a dip in the GST revenues during the first quarter in last fiscal (2019-20) too. The previous financial year started on a positive note as the GST collections touched Rs. 2,113.54 crore. But, in the subsequent months, there was a dip. The State government, apparently, could not sustain the momentum during the first quarter then. The revenue was considerably good during April 2019. However, during May and June, the target could not be achieved. While Rs. 1,892 crore was set as target for every month, the collections did not cross Rs. 1,650 crore each in May and June. A fall in automobile sales, crude oil prices, the slowdown in the construction industry, steel, etc. were some of the reasons cited. The steel prices witnessed a fall by 10 to 15%, while that of cement decline by about Rs. 20 per bag last year. But, some of these sectors have come to the rescue this financial year. The automobile, electronics and food items consumption increased thus leading to growth in the GST revenues. There is an improvement in petrol and diesel sales, sources say. When contacted, Commercial Taxes Chief Commissioner Peeyush Kumar says that there was a loss of 75% revenue during lockdown. The loss, however, could be brought down to 25% from April-July. The department could achieve 80.46% of the target for GST revenues set for July, 2020. Similarly, 83.69% target set for petroleum Products was achieved. The GST collections witnessed a substantial dip because of the current pandemic in the first quarter. The increasing trend in July inclines to a recovery being in line, he says.
11 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Houses for poor to be built with Indo-Swiss technology||The Building Energy Efficiency Project (BEEP) and AP State Energy Conservation Mission (APSECM) will submit an innovative Indo-Swiss energy-efficient and thermally comfortable (EETC) technology building designs to the State Housing Department which will provide eco-friendly affordable houses to 30 lakh beneficiaries, as part of the Jagan Mohan Reddy’s ambitious ‘Navarathnalu-Pedalandariki Illu’ programme. Principal Secretary for Housing Ajay Jain has asked the Energy Department to submit an action plan at the earliest on the Indo-Swiss technology for affordable housing scheme. Mr. Jain said in video conference that Durga Shanker Mishra, Secretary, Union Ministry of Housing and Urban Affairs, praised the efforts of the AP Government to provide 30 lakh houses to the poor.  Two phases Andhra Pradesh is the only State in the country to have started this initiative on a massive scale and also the first State to implement the BEEP in affordable housing scheme. The houses will be constructed in two phases. In the first phase, they will be constructed in 7,704 layouts in towns and cities (428 in ULBs and 7,278 in UDAs) with all infrastructure facilities. Mr. Jain said the Chief Minister wanted a decent accommodation with all basic amenities intact rather than creating mere shelters for the poor. According to the officials, the Indo-Swiss energy efficient and thermally comfortable technology designs in affordable housing help reduce temperature by not less than 4-8 degrees inside the houses, compared to the outside temperature. Minister for Housing Cherukuvada Sriranganadha Raju emphasised the need to provide energy efficient homes to the weaker sections.
11 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Capital issue: State requests SC for early hearing of SLP||The State government’s advocate-on-record in the Supreme Court Mahfooz A. Nazki wrote a letter to its registry requesting for an early hearing of the Special Leave Petition (SLP) filed against the High Court order to maintain status quo on the implementation of Decentralisation and Inclusive Development of All Regions and CRDA Repeal Acts. The matter was expected to be heard on Monday, but some urgent cases knocked it off the day’s priority list, said sources, adding that the government might have to wait for a few days for the apex court to take up its SLP. Petitioner's argument It may be recalled that the government filed the SLP against the High Court order dated August 4, wherein it granted status quo upon a request by the petitioner (Rajadhani Rythu Parirakshana Samithi) to declare the impugned legislations as illegal, arbitrary and against the Constitutional tenets on the grounds of breach of trust and a massive loss to themselves and the State exchequer. The farmers argued that the due legislative procedures were not followed and the whole process, including the manner in which the Governor gave his assent to the Bills, was mala fide and fraught with violations.
11 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||State reports 80 more deaths, 7,665 new cases||The State reported 7,665 new COVID infections and 80 new deaths during the past 24 hours. The number of cases came down after witnessing over 10,000 cases per day for six days. The number of samples tested too came down to 46,999 in the past day to over 60,000 tests conducted daily for six consecutive days earlier. The positivity rate of tests conducted in the past day is 16% which is similar to the positivity rate witnessed the previous days. The number of samples tested conducted in the State crossed the 25-lakh-mark to reach 25,34,304. The overall positivity rate also increased to 9.29%.  Tally goes up to 2.35 lakh The tally of infections mounted to 2,35,525 and the death toll to 2,116. The number of recoveries further went up to 1,45,636 as 6,924 patients have recovered in the past day. Currently, 87,773 patients are undergoing treatment for COVID. Highest daily spike in E.G. East Godavari district again reported the highest daily spike of 1,235 cases and four deaths. It is followed by Kurnool with 883 cases and six deaths, West Godavari (722 cases, 9 deaths), Anantapur (631, 5), Guntur (621, 10), Visakhapatnam (620, 5), Vizianagaram (574, 5), Nellore (511, 5), Chittoor (479, 6), Prakasam (450, 11), Kadapa (439, 7), Srikakulam (354, 7) and Krishna (146, 0). Recovery rate The district tallies and their recovery rates are as follows: East Godavari (32,938 cases, 56% recovered), Kurnool (28,314, 65%), Anantapur (24,738,71%), Guntur (22,339, 65%), Visakhapatnam (20,113, 59%), West Godavari (18,869, 77%), Chittoor (17,576, 59%), Kadapa (13,876, 53%), Nellore (13,731, 50%), Srikakulam (11,333, 59%), Krishna (10,438, 63%), Vizianagaram (9380, 41%) and Prakasam (8985,62).
11 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Local body polls: CBI probe sought into ‘malpractice’||Alleging large-scale malpractice by the YSRCP during the nomination process for the local body elections in the State, Telugu Desam Party (TDP) MLC G. Deepak Reddy has appealed to State Election Commissioner (SEC) N. Ramesh Kumar to order a CBI probe into the allegations. “Around 2,500 violations were committed by the ruling party during the nomination and scrutiny of the papers. The ruling party leaders obstructed the rival nominees and tore down their nomination papers. Many officials tampered with the nomination papers submitted by the candidates and declared them invalid at the scrutiny stage,” Mr. Deepak Reddy told the media on Monday. He also alleged that Opposition candidates were forced to withdraw nominations by using threats, false cases and inducements in the final stages. The TDP MLC asserted that 5.5 crore people in the State were now looking up to the SEC and it’s time the unconstitutional practice were dealt with an iron fist. Central observers “The election process must regain the trust of the electorate. The local body polls should be held under the supervision of Central observers amid the security provided by Central forces. If suitable punishment was not given to the culprits, it is better not to conduct the polls at all,” he said, adding that a CBI probe would unearth the lapses committed during the nomination process.
11 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Rs. 9.9 crore sanctioned for Kadapa steel plant work||The State government has sanctioned Rs. 9.9 crore for the design and construction of the project office, residential quarters and a cafeteria for AP High Grade Steels Limited (APHSL) in Kadapa district with a 16,000 square feet builtup area, according to a G.O. issued by Special Chief Secretary (Industries and Commerce) R. Karikal Valaven. It was stated order that the APHSL was incorporated under the Companies Act, 2013 for establishing an integrated steel plant in Jammalamadugu mandal of Kadapa district. A sum of Rs. 250 crore was allocated by the Finance Department for APHSL in the 2020-21 budget. The Kadapa steel plant is one of the infrastructure projects supposed to be implemented in compliance with the AP Reorganisation Act, 2014.
11 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Bank support to welfare schemes assured||Major scheduled banks have appreciated the government for the YSR Cheyutha and YSR Aasara schemes aimed at empowering women. During a video conference with the officials of the CMO on Monday, the bankers assured support to the welfare schemes. The recent pacts the government has signed with ITC, Amul, HUL and Procter & Gamble would usher in a new revolution, they said. The officials urged the bankers to extend their support to the government initiatives. The bankers have come forward to provide loans to dairy farmers along with insurance facilities as the government has made a pact with Amul for boosting the dairy sector .
11 August 2020||VIJAYAWADA,ANDHRA PRADESH||Agri co-op. societies get NABARD aid||The National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) Andhra Pradesh Regional Office has sanctioned Rs. 310 crore to APCOB for support to PACS under Agriculture Infrastructure Fund (AIF). The NABARD organised a programme for the stakeholders of the new Central Sector Scheme of financing facility under the AIF here on Monday. The projects supported under the Fund are eligible for availing of Interest Subvention (IS) benefit of 3% per annum up to Rs. 2 crore loans for a period of seven years and also credit guarantee coverage under Credit Guarantee Fund Trust for Micro and Small Enterprises (CGTMSE) scheme for loans up to Rs. 2 crore.  Special finance To enable PACS to reap the benefits of the scheme, NABARD has come out with a scheme of 'Special refinance facility for developing Primary Agriculture Co-operative Societies (PACS) into Multi Service Centres (MSC)' during 2020-21 with an aim to convert 35,000 PACS across the country in the next three years. The refinance facility will be available to APCOB at 3% and an interest rate of 4% will be charged for the loans availed by the PACS. Under this facility, during the programme in-principle sanction of Rs. 310 crore has been accorded by NABARD to support 347 PACS in AP for construction of rural godowns, silos and establishment of custom hiring centres, setting up of RO drinking water plants, purchase of combined harvesters etc. On grounding of these projects, PACS will also be eligible to avail 3% interest subvention and credit guarantee, according to a press release.
11 August 2020||Vijayawada,ANDHRA PRADESH||TDP MLC files writ petition in High Court||TDP MLC P. Ashok Babu filed a writ petition in the High Court on Monday against the Decentralisation and Inclusive Development of All Regions Act and the CRDA Repeal Act. He sought that the Acts be declared illegal and ultra vires to numbers 71, 132, 139, 140 and 141 of the Andhra Pradesh Legislative Council Rules, and number 124 of the A.P. Legislative Assembly Rules read with Article 200 of the Constitution. The petitioner’s counsel Jandhyala Ravi Shankar informed the court that the Decentralisation Act was also in derogation of entry number 78 in the Union List of Seventh Schedule of the Constitution, read with Sections 5(2), and 31 of the Andhra Pradesh State Reorganisation Act. The basic argument against the legislation is that the procedure adopted by the government while passing the Bills and obtaining the Governor’s assent was vitiated and in violation of Article 197 of the Constitution, read with 139 and 140 of the Andhra Pradesh Legislative Council Rules. It has been argued that for the Bills to be deemed as passed by both houses of the Legislature, the signature/certification of the Assembly Speaker and also the Council Chairman are a must. ‘Council ignored’ Neither were the Bills received nor signed by the Council Chairman before they were sent to the Governor for approval, Mr. Jandhyala Ravi Shankar argued.
11 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Only critically ill patients will be admitted to hospitals: Collector||To keep the load of patients, who have tested COVID-19 positive under check in COVID hospitals, the district administration has taken a decision to admit only those who are critical. Defining the criticality, District Collector V. Vinay Chand said that only patients who have symptoms of hypoxia and dyspnea, will be admitted into hospitals. Hypoxia is a condition where not enough oxygen makes it to the cells and tissues in the body. The normal oxygen saturation level is 95 to 100% and patients whose readings drop below 94 in the pulse oximeter will be given admission, he said. Similarly, a person showing symptoms of dyspnea, which is shortness of breath or breathlessness, will be considered for immediate admission. “In the case of both these conditions, a persons will be admitted irrespective whether, he or she is COVID-19 positive or not and irrespective of the age group,” said Mr. Vinay Chand. According to him, the rest will be given a choice to either get admitted into a COVID Care Centre or home isolation. The district administration has already readied 7,000 beds in CCC and about 6,200 in hospitals with at least 2,000 beds having oxygen supply. “Right now we have about 6,200 beds in our 22 COVID hospitals, eight belonging to the State and 14 private, and shortly we shall open up the millennium block in KGH with 500 beds. The work in the oxygen line is on. This apart we negotiating with some private hospitals to be part of the category-B hospitals. In these hospitals we shall have a beds or a ward dedicated to COVID patients. Once they are notified, we shall have another 1,000 beds ready,” he said. According to district COVID Special Officer and Principal of Andhra Medical College P.V. Sudhakar, since both hypoxia and dyspnea are life threatening stages, the focus is on their admission to bring down the mortality rate.Asymptomatic or patients with mild to moderate symptoms can be treated at home under isolation or at CCC. “At any time we have over 4,000 beds vacant at CCC,” said Dr. Sudhakar. Those who do not have the facility for home isolation can opt for CCC, he said. According to him, every CCC has one doctor present 24/7 in three shifts and one ambulance, to shift emergency cases.
11 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Missing patient found dead in storeroom of VIMS||A 79-year-old COVID-19 patient, who went missing from the Visakha Institute of Medical Sciences (VIMS), was found dead at the storeroom of the hospital. Atchanna, the victim, was admitted to the hospital by his son Ch. Srinivas on August 1. Srinivas was in contact with his father on his mobile phone till August 5, after which he reportedly did not get any information about the health condition of his father. Srinivas posted a video on social media on Sunday seeking information on the whereabouts of his father. He alleged that the CC cameras at the hospital were not working. He also lodged a missing complaint with the police. “The hospital staff called me last evening and told me that they found my father’s body in the storeroom. They had no clue as to how he had gone there. I had been searching since August 5 at the hospital and even outside. I had lodged a complaint with the Arilova police,” Mr. Srinivas told The Hindu . “I have been going to the hospital every day since August 5. The hospital authorities did not respond properly,” he said and alleged that negligence on the part of the hospital authorities had led to the death. The patient was able to walk and was last seen, leaving his bed on August 5, by another patient, who was next to his bed. He is believed to have gone to the storeroom and dozed off there. He could have died due to lack of oxygen, said a senior official from VIMS. ‘Will be probed’ Dr. P. Venugopal, who was recently appointed Officer-on-Special Duty of VIMS, said it needs to be investigated. “I have come here only a few days ago and am not aware of the full details,” he said. Dr. Venugopal said that he was in the process of identifying the problems at the hospital. My thrust would be on proper care and treatment at the ICU and reducing the death rate of COVID-19 patients. VIMS Director K. Satya Vara Prasad could not be reached on the phone for his comments.
11 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Child trafficking case accused sent back to jail||The prime accused in the child trafficking case, P. Namrata, the managing director of the Universal Srushti Hospital here, has been sent back to the central prison to complete her judicial remand tenure, from police custody, on Monday. She was arrested on July 26 and sent to police custody for a five-day period, last Thursday, for further questioning. Five others were also arrested in the case at that time. Later, on August 6, the city police arrested Dr. Ch. Padmaja, DGO of the Padmaja Hospital, Seethammadhara, for allegedly selling away a newborn baby by reportedly deceiving the mother that she had delivered a stillborn baby. Sources in the police said that the group might have been involved in a number of such cases and there appears to be a well-oiled network working with them, which includes ASHA workers. Commissioner of Police Rajeev Kumar Meena also hinted that a few more hospitals also may be involved in the racket. “We are investigating it and have formed separate teams to verify different aspects in the case,” he said. “Their modus operandi was to trap people who come to various hospitals to get rid of unwanted pregnancy, especially from poor families and sweet talk them to deliver the child, which then is shown as stillborn. Later, they sell away the babies, especially to the couples who come for IVF treatment, and are childless for years,” said Mr. Meena. Surrogacy aspect The police are also looking into surrogacy angle, where women from poor families are trapped to become surrogate mothers and later the babies are sold to childless couples.
11 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Programme launched to train people in villages||The National Research Development Corporation (NRDC) has launched an Entrepreneurship Development Programme (EDP) scheme under the Skill India programme to train people at the village-level as a means to provide them livelihood, as many of them have returned to their native places due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The objective of the programme is to reduce the drudgery of people, living in rural and backward areas, in their daily lives by providing them new avenues of employment generation through the intervention of science and technology. “The corporation had financed a sanitary napkin manufacturing unit in Nellore last year. Women members of a Self Help Group (SHG) came up with the proposal. Their plan was to sell the napkins to the SHG women. We provided the grant for purchase of the machinery and the raw material,” NRDC Chairman and Managing Director H. Purushottam said. The budgetary support for each EDP will be up to Rs. 4 lakh and only one proposal will be considered from each organisation. The last date for submission of the proposal to NRDC is August, 31, 2020. Full details can be obtained from the website:http://www.nrdcindia.com/ latestdetails/12#
11 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Chamber of commerce lauds industrial policy||Vizagapatam Chamber of Commerce and Industry (VCCI has appreciated the new Industrial Policy -2020-23 brought out by the State government. According to VCCI president G. Veeramohan, the new policy aims at reducing the cost of doing business and helps MSMEs achieve scale and improve competitiveness. He said that the introduction of YSR AP ONE — a one-stop resource and support centre— is an ambitious project and the success of this policy will depend on its efficient implementation. VCCI secretary Ravi Godey said that incentives like reimbursement of 100% stamp duty, Rs. 1 per unit for 5 years, reimbursement of State Goods and Service Tax (SGST) for five years and 3% interest subsidy on the term loan are well appreciated.
11 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Cleanliness drive launched||The Waltair Division of East Coast Railway(E Co R) launched a cleanliness drive with the motto of keeping the railway premises clean and hygienic on Monday. The drive would be observed at various stations and trains of the division, as per guidelines from the Ministry of Railways. Officers and staff participated in mass cleanliness activity at the railway station.
11 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Be mentally strong, SP tells ailing police personnel||Superintendent of Police (Visakhapatnam district) B. Krishna Rao tried to boost the morale of the police personnel in the district, who were undergoing treatment at various hospitals or in home isolation, through video conference on Monday. Stressing on the importance of being mentally strong, the SP said that mental strength would help them in getting back on their feet in a short time and serve people with renewed zeal. He inquired about the condition of about 80 police personnel, undergoing treatment in the district, the conditions at the hospitals and quality of food being served to them. The staff appealed to the SP to arrange for testing of their family members and the latter readily agreed. He said that doctor Goda Devi would be available to test the family members. Additional SP (Crimes) B. Atchuta Rao was present. In a separate statement, DIG (Visakhapatnam Range) L.K.V. Ranga Rao advised police personnel in the three districts to observe social distancing and invariably wear masks in view of the rapid spread of COVID-19. He also advised the public to remain indoors and prevent the spread of the disease to the extent possible. He also appealed to them to observe the guidelines.
11 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Private hospitals fleecing patients: CPI||Alleging fleecing of patients by private hospitals in the name of COVID-19 screening, the CPI staged a protest at the Gandhi statue near the GVMC on Monday, demanding that the government rein in them by taking appropriate measures. Party district secretary B. Venkataramana alleged that the corporate hospitals were charging lakhs of rupees from patients, taking advantage of the pandemic situation. He said that the private hospitals were not collecting the fee prescribed by the government. He attributed it to the failure of the officials concerned and the government.  Home isolation Party city secretary M. Pydiraju alleged that the State government was neglecting those in home isolation despite complaints from the public. In Visakhapatnam city alone, there were 2,277 patients in home isolation. CPI leaders P. Satyanarayana, SK Rehaman and A. Vimala were among those who participated in the protest.
11 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||With 620 new cases, district tally crosses 20,000-mark||The total number of COVID-19 positive cases in the district crossed the 20,000-mark, with the district recording 620 new cases on Monday. With the new cases the total tally goes up to 20,525 cases. Five more deaths The district also recorded five deaths taking the count to 137, which includes 132 deaths from July 1. The number of active cases in the district stands at 7,055 and the total number of discharged goes up to 13,333 with 972 discharges on Monday. According to the Special Officer for COVID-19 and Principal of Andhra Medical College, P.V. Sudhakar, the total number of clusters in the district is 851. Among them, very active clusters are 149. The number of active and dormant clusters is 243 and 459 respectively. Already 39 clusters have been denotified, he said.  Control Room For information regarding tests in Visakhapatnam and emergency, people can contact the Control Room on 0891-2501233 or 0891-2501244.
11 August 2020||VISAKHAPATNAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||CM inaugurates PMU Call Centre||A PMU(Persuasion and Monitoring Unit) Call Centre, which exclusively works for the Department of Grama Sachivalayam and Ward Sachivalayam (GSWS) was launched by Chief Minister Y.S. Jagan Mohan Reddy through video conference at Mouritech IT here on Monday. The Chief Minister shared his vision of adding the remaining 500 odd services which were being catered through GSWS under one roof at PMU by October this year. Currently, calls are being made to the officers who have pending applications related to ‘new rice card’ and YSR Pension schemes. GVMC Commissioner Srijana and Joint Collector Arun Babu were present.
11 August 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||Pvt. hospitals directed to treat COVID patients||The Vizianagaram district administration has directed all private hospitals to admit COVID-19 patients under Arogyasri scheme and allocate at least 50% of the beds for this purpose. The order, given by Collector M. Hari Jawaharlal, comes in view of the reports that many patients are being shunned by the private hospitals for fear that the virus might spread to patients being treated for other diseases. The government, not convinced with the argument, directed the hospitals to make necessary arrangements since COVID and non-COVID patients were simultaneously being treated in many hospitals in the State. As per the government order, Venkatarama Hospital has been directed to allocate 30 beds out of 60 for COVID-19 patients. Sri PVR Hospital has to allocate 25 beds out of 30, Tirumala Hospital has been asked to spare 30 beds out of 200, Muvvagopala Hospital has to spare 25 beds out of 30 and Venkatapadma Hospital has to allocate 40 beds out of 80 for COVID-19 patients. The hospitals located in other places like Parvatipuram, Bobbili, S.Kota should also follow the guidelines and provide treatment for coronavirus patients under Arogyasri scheme, as per the order. According to sources, a few hospital managements are unhappy with the direction to allocate 50% of the beds to coronavirus patients as they argue that the bigger hospitals too had kept aside lesser than 30 beds for them.
11 August 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||YSRCP veteran leader Sambasiva Raju no more||Former Transport Minister Penumatsa Sambasiva Raju died after prolonged ill-health, at a private hospital in Visakhapatnam on Monday. The YSRCP veteran leader was 88. He is survived by his two sons and a daughter. Having started his political career as the samiti president in 1958, Sambasiva Raju got elected to Assembly for the first time in 1968. He went on to become a Minister during the Chief Ministerial tenure of N. Janardhan Reddy in 1992-93. Sambasiva Raju had represented the erstwhile Sativada and Gajapathi Nagaram Assembly constituencies for eight times . He was the lone MLA to be elected unanimously from Gajapathinagaram. ‘Political mentor’ The YSRCP veteran is considered to be political mentor of many leaders including Municipal Administration Minister Botcha Satyanarayana and Vizianagaram MLA Kolagatla Veerabhadra Swamy. The last rites of Sambasiva Raju were performed with State honours at his native village of Moida in Nellimarla mandal. Policemen fired three rounds into the air.
11 August 2020||VIZIANAGARAM,ANDHRA PRADESH||JNTUK ties up with US firm||JNTUK University College of Engineering, Vizianagaram, entered into an agreement with NatSoft Corporation, a U.S.-based multi-national company, to take up skill development training programmes and make budding engineers as entrepreneurs in future, according to college principal G. Swami Naidu. The company will establish a ‘Blockchain Center of Excellence’ on the college campus very soon. The centre will offer internships and training programmes for students and provide innovative solutions to various technical challenges. Constant research on subjects will also be taken up under the supervision of experts and faculty members.
11 August 2020||August 11 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||A walk in the park!||
11 August 2020||August 11 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Business gone sour||
11 August 2020||August 11 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||Hard times||
11 August 2020||August 11 2020 00:00 IST,ANDHRA PRADESH||High-level arrangements||
11 August 2020||Adilabad,TELANGANA||Dogs feast on half-burnt bodies of virus victims in Adilabad||COVID-19 victims in Adilabad are being deprived of dignity post-death, as stray dogs are feeding on their semi-burnt bodies. Photographs and videos of dogs gnawing at the bodies went viral on social media. The situation has arisen as bodies were neither burnt till the end nor was enough firewood provided by local authorities. Insult to injury The body of an adult requires at least five to six quintals of firewood to be burnt completely, whereas the civic officials are providing less than three quintals. To add insult to injury, municipality officials are reported to leave burning bodies midway, not caring enough to stay till the end and hence inadvertently leaving body parts behind for dogs to feed on. “Once fire is lit to the funeral pyre, both family members and the municipal workers are leaving the burial ground and there is no one to see if the bodies are burnt completely,” said a resident, whose mother succumbed to the deadly infection in Adilabad recently. He alleged that the government is not providing enough material for the cremation, as a result of which they are forced to get additional firewood, ghee and other materials for cremation. “They workers were putting old cycle tyres in the pyre, so that the bodies can burn quickly,” he said. In Adilabad, bodies of COVID-19 victims are burnt in a makeshift graveyard on the outskirts of Mavala village, nearly 10 km from the district headquarters here. It is learnt that stray dogs were feeding on the half-burnt body of a 44-year-old man from KRK Colony, who died on August 5, and the municipal sanitary workers left his body half-burnt. ‘Not a corpse’ Repeated attempts were made by The Hindu to contact District Collector Sikta Patnaik, but she remained unavailable. However, Assistant Municipal Commissioner CVN Raju denied that the bodies were left half-burnt and claimed that dogs may have been eating carcass. “It was an animal carcass (sic). However, the officials have ordered an inquiry into the matter. So far, we have conducted seven funerals at the same spot,” he said. The issue can compound the ongoing health crisis. Incidents of dogs dragging half-burnt or buried bodies were reported earlier in the State. If some parts of a half burnt body rotting away for two to three days are dragged by dogs into residential areas, it could pose a threat to health of people. Besides, it is not safe for municipal workers to visit the sites where bodies are rotting, a health official said.  The officials have anyway ordered an inquiry into the matter. So far, we have conducted seven funerals at the same spot. C.V.N. Raju, Assistant Municipal Commissioner, Adilabad
11 August 2020||BHADRADRI-KOTHAGUDEM,TELANGANA||Major mishap averted at KTPS||A major mishap was averted when hydrogen gas leakage from the turbo generator in the 250 MW ninth unit of the Kothagudem Thermal Power Station (KTPS)’s Stage-V in Palvancha town was detected and plugged in time by the technical staff on Monday. According to sources, hydrogen gas suddenly leaked from the turbo generator of the unit while being put into operation after an overhaul at about 10.30 a.m. The technical team personnel promptly noticed the leak and fixed it under the supervision of the engineers concerned. The incident created panic among the staff working nearby the generator for some time. Sources in the KTPS said that power generation will be resumed in the ninth unit soon after a thorough inspection of the leak repairs as per the safety procedures in the next 24 hours.
11 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Telangana COVID tally crosses 80,000-mark||Telangana crossed 80,000 COVID-19 cases on August 9. With 1,256 new cases on Sunday, the total has reached 80,751. In five days (August 5-9), up to 9,793 cases were recorded. A total of 1,02,697 tests were performed in this period. Fewer positive cases were recorded on Sunday as the testing dropped. While over 21,000 tests were performed in the past five days (August 4-8) leading to detection of around 2,000 cases per day, only 11,609 tests were performed on August 10 and therefore 1,256 cases were detected. The new cases on Sunday include 389 from Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation (GHMC), 86 from Rangareddy and 74 from Sangareddy. While 11,609 tests were conducted on Sunday, test results of 1,700 persons are awaited. The death toll reached 637 as 10 more COVID-19 patients died. Of the total 80,751 cases, 22,528 are active cases while 57,586 people have recovered. A total of 6,24,840 tests have been conducted so far. While cases continue to plummet in GHMC, they are increasing in other districts. Regarding bed availability, 3,298 oxygen beds and 838 ICU beds were available in the 56 State government hospitals on August 9. A total of 942 oxygen beds and 491 ICU beds were available in 91 private hospitals.
11 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Bairamalguda flyover inaugurated||One more flyover at Bairamalguda, part of the Strategic Road Development Plan (SRDP), was launched by Minister for Municipal Administration and Urban Development K.T. Rama Rao on Monday. The structure is the sixth to be launched, among the 14 planned as part of the L.B. Nagar package in SRDP with an expenditure of Rs. 448 crore together with property acquisition cost. L.B.Nagar left hand side flyover, vehicle underpass, two flyovers near Kamineni Junction, and Chintalkunta vehicle underpass were the other structures previously launched. The right hand side unidirectional flyover is of 780 metres long , with 400 metres constituting viaduct and the remaining, the length of ramps. It has cost Rs. 26.45 crore for construction. A statement from the GHMC said the technology for sub-structure of the flyover is used for the first time in India. Pre-cast and post-tensioned technology has been adopted in major elements of the sub-structure and super structure, which has helped reduce the work at site and save significant amount of time, the statement said. It also reduced the risk factor of accidents, and inconvenience to traffic. Construction of the flyover will facilitate free flow of inner ring road traffic from Secunderabad up to Owaisi Junction, the statement said. As per the project proposal, the structure, together with the left hand side flyover, unidirectional second level flyover and corresponding loops, will provide 95% traffic solution at the Bairamalguda junction and 43% solution at Sagar Road junction. The work for left hand side flyover is 36% complete, while the same for the second level flyover and the loops is yet to be grounded. After inauguration, Mr. Rama Rao along with minister for Education P.Sabitha Indra Reddy and Mayor Bonthu Ram Mohan, visited photo gallery exhibited at the site. MLC Yegge Mallesham too was present aside of GHMC Project wing officials.
11 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Minister attends funeral of COVID victims to allay transmission fear||Dispelling fear among citizens about possible transmission of coronavirus should they participate in a funeral of COVID-19 death funeral, Prohibition and Excise, and Tourism Minister V Srinivas Goud set an example by taking part in the funeral of a 85-year-old man in Mahabubnagar on Monday. Mr. Goud, who and rushed to console the bereaved family after learning about the death, said it was pathetic and unthinkable that close blood relatives were shying away from attending the funeral. “This must stop now, as the dead need to be given a decent funeral,” he told The Hindu . Recalling the yeoman service rendered by the victim, the Minister exclaimed if even Good Samaritans were discarded and junked, it sends across a bad message about the dwindling ethos. Clad in PPE, he went to the farm of the victim around 4 p.m., where his three sons performed the last rites but none of their family members took part. “At least 10 people must attend a funeral. I was appalled by the inhumane attitude,” he said. He assured that he would take part in cremations and burial services of COVID-19 victims henceforth in the district and if possible across the State. “If there are any unattended or unclaimed bodies of COVID victims and their sons are not willing to take up the responsibility, I will not hesitate to be a pallbearer and walk the talk. Every person needs a decent funeral and the pandemic should not be allowed to alter the relationships among relatives, friends and dear ones,” Mr. Goud said. ‘Show moral support’ He said that his Cabinet colleagues and lawmakers across Telangana should take up the initiative to attend funerals and give moral support to the bereaved families. “If no one comes, I will take up the responsibility to ensure a decent last rites defeating the respective religious sentiment,” he said. He said that last month, when a famous general physician from Mahbubnagar, who was the classmate of former Andhra Pradesh Chief Minister Y.S. Rajasekhara Reddy in medicine, succumbed to the infection, none from the medical fraternity attending his funeral.
11 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Rythu Bima premium released||The State government has released Rs. 1,173.54 crore towards payment of premium for the Farmers’ Group Life Insurance Scheme – Rythu Bima – for the year 2020-21. In the orders issued on Monday, the government has released the amount that includes Rs. 1,141.44 crore towards premium amount at Rs. 3,486.9, including GST per every insured farmer, and Rs. 32.1 crore towards stamp duty for insuring 32.73 lakh farmers in the age group of 18 to 59 years or those who were born between August 14, 1961 and August 14, 2002, both days inclusive. Rs. 5 lakh insurance The insurance cover under the scheme would be for one year from August 14, 2020 to August 13, 2021 and on the death of any insured farmer, his/her family would be paid insurance benefit (claim) of Rs. 5 lakh, irrespective of the cause of death. The scheme was first introduced in 2018-19 on August 14, 2018. Minister for Agriculture Singireddy Niranjan Reddy thanked Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao for releasing the funds. He stated that the State government had paid Rs. 1,775.95 crore towards premium payment to Life Insurance Corporation of India (LIC) for implementation of the scheme during the last two years. A total of 32,267 farmers who died of various reasons during the last two years, mostly various illnesses, the LIC had paid Rs. 1,613.35 crore as insurance claim at Rs. 5 lakh each to the immediate legal heir of the farmer concerned. Claims of another 1,800 farmers who died are under the examination of the insurance company and once it is done, their families would be paid Rs. 90 crore as claim, the Minister explained.
11 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Sizeable flood continues into reservoirs despite falling trend||In spite of the falling trend of flood into the major reservoirs in the upper Krishna Basin in Karnataka following receding rains in the catchment areas, sizeable inflows were reaching Almatti, Narayanpur and others across Krishna and its tributaries as on Monday night. The Central Water Commission (CWC) has assessed that over 14.65 tmc ft of water would reach Almatti in 24 hours till 8 a.m. on Tuesday and it would be about 14.3 tmc ft each into Narayanpur and Jurala in the downstream. The inflows in Almatti were at 1.3 lakh cusecs on Monday evening and the outflows were over 1.09 lakh cusecs. Similarly, Narayanpur was getting 1.3 lakh cusecs with a discharge of over 1.09 lakh cusecs. However, Jurala was still getting a flood of 1.95 lakh cusecs at 9 p.m. on Monday and the discharge was nearly 1.66 lakh cusecs from 25 spillway gates and another 28,000 cusecs after power generation. Mahabaleshwar area recorded 5 cm rain in the 24 hours period up to 8.30 a.m. on Monday and it would help the inflows into Almatti sustain further. Flood chances However, the chances of release of flood from Hidkal dam across Ghataprabha, a major tributary of Krishna, have increased with the reservoir still getting about 17,700 cusecs flood and the flood cushion remaining less than 4 tmc ft. The project has a storage of 47.15 tmc ft on Monday morning against its capacity of 51 tmc ft. Similarly, the chances of surplus of Tungabhadra dam have also increased with the CWC forecasting inflows of about 8 tmc ft water in 24 hours period up to 8 a.m. on Tuesday. Against its capacity of 100.86 tmc ft, the reservoir had storage of 76 tmc ft around 6 p.m. on Monday. The reservoir was getting over 1.07 lakh cusecs of flood in the evening. Srisailam reservoir in the downstream of Krishna was also getting around 1.77 lakh cusecs flood from the upstream at 9 p.m. on Monday and the CWC has forecast that it would get about 16 tmc ft water in the 24 hour period up to 8 a.m. on Tuesday.
11 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Think tank to ‘demystify’ coronavirus statistics||A think tank titled Center for Monitoring COVID (CMC) was set up on Monday by Administrative Staff College of India (ASCI) in partnership with two industry bodies — Federation of Indian Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FICCI) and Federation of Telangana Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FTCCI). The CMC intends to research, analyse and publish reports on coronavirus in Telangana, and will be a think tank for government, general public and media on specific areas related to COVID management. Members of the think tank said they will release COVID Analytics Report (CARE) for Telangana on a daily basis and it will contain the analysis and explanation on disease progression, and plans for better treatment. “The objectives of daily CARE reports are to demystify COVID statistics, focus on the key statistics such as active cases, treatment, infrastructure and capacity utilisation,” stated a press release, which added that CARE intends to balance ‘negative reporting in media’ with ‘positive stories in media’. The reports will be available on websites of ASCI, FTCCI, and on social media. Pushing ‘positive stories’ In the first report published on Monday, they compared positive cases, active cases, recoveries and deaths recorded on August 8 and August 9, and cumulative statistics. Headlines of news reports, excerpts from it, were published too under the heading ‘Positive Media Stories’. Subodh Kandamuthan from ASCI said, “It is important to forecast the disease progression. Past data alone is not adequate for capacity planning for COVID treatment. CARE attempts to forecast the treatment capacity utilisation so that government can take active steps.”
11 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Techie steps in to provide hot meals to quarantined families from August 15||Beginning this Independence Day, at least 400 families affected by COVID-19 can be assured of hot meals twice a day even as they remain in quarantine. “Any COVID-positive families near Hyderabad in need of food can contact 9505906289. This service is free and we can accommodate up to 400 families. We are launching this service from August 15th to mark Independence Day (sic),” tweeted Prasanna Kumar on Monday. Within no time, people started posting messages for help. “During the lockdown period in March-April, we distributed food and groceries to about 10,000 people in Hyderabad. I have realised food has once again become a problem for COVID-affected families in quarantine. That’s why I am launching this programme,” said Mr. Kumar, who runs a software company in Bengaluru and has dabbled in the startup space. His effort is aided by a clutch of philanthropists and volunteers who sought to remain anonymous. Cooking centres “We have set up two centres for cooking food at Malkajgiri and Miyapur. Some of the affected might want dry rations; we are willing to supply that,” he said. Since the beginning of COVID-19 lockdown, the Greater Hyderabad Municipal Corporation has teamed up with an NGO to supply food throughout the city. Using stationary food kiosks, mobile platforms and even door delivery, the civic body has been reaching out to the affected. As per official statistics, the civic body has dished out 1,30,18,162 free meals between April 5 and August 5. The effort of the civic body has been aided by NGOs, philanthropists and Good Samaritans who have pitched in during the economic and social distress triggered by COVID-19 lockdown, during the migration of workers from South to North amid job losses. As thousands of COVID-positive individuals are being asked to stay in home isolation, citizens of Hyderabad again are stepping in to fill a societal need.
11 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||HC notices to government over Congress leaders’ PIL||Telangana High Court on Monday said that if any person believes that there was a treasure beneath the rubble of the demolished Secretariat buildings he/she can approach the Archaeological Survey of India. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy made this observation while hearing a PIL plea filed by Congress leaders seeking a direction to the State government to allow them to examine the site. The bench issued notices to State government seeking its response over the PIL petition. Chief Secretary, Home Secretary, Director General of Police and Hyderabad Police Commisisoner were the respondents in the petition. Congress leaders Mohd. Ali Shabbir, A. Revanth Reddy, Anjan Kumar Yadav and Konda Vishweshwar Reddy and others initially filed a writ petition and their lawyer counsel mentioned about it before the bench three days ago. Since the petitioners were seeking an order in the plea connected to people, the bench accorded it PIL status and heard it on Monday. The bench noted that a public representative does not have the power to investigate anything, be it intentional or unintentional referring to the petitioners’ claim that there was treasure beneath the rubble. Such issues cannot be finalised by public representatives, the court said. The petitioners’ counsel T. Rajinikanth Reddy told the bench that Congress leaders had approached the Home Secretary and the DGP seeking permission to visit the demolition site. Since the two top officials did not respond over the representations, the petitioners had approached the court, Mr. Reddy said. Government Pleader A. Santosh Kumar attached to Advocate General office sought two weeks of time stating that AG B.S. Prasad would appear to present government stand on the matter. He sought adjournment of the hearing for two weeks. The bench posted the plea for hearing after two weeks.
11 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Farmers advised against excessive use of fertilizer||Minister for Agriculture Singireddy Niranjan Reddy has asked the farmers to reduce the use of chemical fertilizer as their use in Telangana is higher compared to the national and international average. Speaking at a meeting with representatives of fertilizer companies on the supply of the soil nutrient supplements for the Vaanakalam season, the Minister said use of fertilizer was 173 kg per acre in Telangana against the national average of 51.2 kg and world’s average of 78.4 kg. He stated that excessive use of fertilizer is not only harming the nature of the soil but was also increasing the threat of pest and insect attacks. An analysis of soils in the State had found that the content of potash was more than required but that of nitrogen was less. Paying heed to Agriculture Department’s suggestion and scientists’ advice will help farmers prevent some problems in the beginning itself, he noted. Stating that farmers had already cultivated crops in 1.17 crore acres this season against nearly 80 lakh acres by the same time last year, the Minister said the Centre had allocated 22.3 lakh tonnes of fertilizer to Telangana for the Vaanakalam season and 16.15 lakh tonnes of it had already been supplied to the State. Last year, the supply by the same time was only 8.05 lakh tonnes against the allocation of 19.55 lakh tonnes, he explained. The Minister said the farming community had completely approved the government advice of regulated farming by cultivating cotton, paddy and redgram on a large extent. Secretary (Agriculture) B. Janardhan Reddy and others attended the meeting.
11 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Central govt. pats Telangana for innovative HITAM app||The State government’s initiative in introducing Home Isolation Telemedicine and Monitoring (HITAM) app for monitoring and providing telemedicine facilities to patients in home isolation has received appreciation from the Central government. The Central team headed by NITI Aayog member Vinod Kumar Paul complimented the innovative effort of the government. He said the details of the app would be shared with other States along with the good work done by Telangana government in other areas related to COVID-19 management. Testing ramped up The State ramped up testing which was crucial in controlling the pandemic recently. The State and Central governments would work together on the action plan to flatten the curve. He expressed satisfaction over the preparedness levels in hospitals, infection control measures, providing treatment to patients and other aspects. Mr. Paul and his team concluded their two-day visit to the State after inspecting the facilities and holding a meeting with senior officials led by Health Minister Eatala Rajender at BRKR Bhavan on Monday afternoon.
11 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||On what basis price fixed for land sold to director Shankar: HC||Telangana High Court on Monday sought to know from State government how can it allot a land having a market value of Rs. 2.5 crore per acre to a person at the rate of Rs. 5 lakh per acre. A bench of Chief Justice Raghvendra Singh Chauhan and Justice B. Vijaysen Reddy, hearing a PIL plea challenging the allotment of five acres of land to film producer and director Shankar, wanted to know what was basis for the government to fix the price of land at the rate of Rs. 5 lakh per acre. The land located in Mokilla village of Shankarpally mandal on Hyderabad outskirts coming under Rangareddy district was allotted to the director. A citizen challenged the government’s decision stating that the land was allotted at far less price than the market value. According to the petitioner, the land would fetch at least Rs. 2.5 crore per acre in the market. After perusing the counter affidavit filed by the government, the bench said the market value of the land at the time of allotment was Rs. 20 lakh per acre but the prevailing market value was Rs. 2.5 per acre. The bench said it did not understand why the land rate was fixed Rs. 5 lakh per acre. “Even if it was the decision of the Cabinet, it cannot abuse the power by passing orders for allotment of lands at such less rate. The decision of the Cabinet should be on economic basis,” the bench remarked. Government pleader A. Santosh Kumar attached to Advocate General’s office told the court that the Cabinet took a decision on allotment of the land on June 18, 2019 after taking into consideration different factors. He sought two weeks of time stating that AG B.S. Prasad would present the government’s contention in the matter. The petitioner’s counsel A. Satyam Reddy said the allotment of land at such price was not justified on any ground. Referring to the counter affidavit of the government that 300 persons were likely to get employment following construction of a world class studio on the land, the bench said even then the allotment of the land at Rs. 5 lakh per acre was not justified. “This land seems to have been sold for peanuts. The government cannot justify stating that it was the Cabinet’s decision,” the bench said. It noted that the Supreme Court had earlier said that a procedure had to be followed whenever a parcel of government land was allotted to any person. The petition was posted to August 27 for next hearing.
11 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Eamcet from Sept. 9||The entrance test for engineering stream of EAMCET will be conducted on September 9, 10, 11 and 14 with the prior approval of High Court. The dates will be notified after taking the permission of the court, the State Council for Higher Education said in a press release. The council also announced common entrance tests for some other professional and vocational courses after wide ranging discussions. As per its schedule, the education common entrance test (ECET) will be conducted on August 31 and polytechnic common entrance test (PolyCET) on September 2. The release added that the council had already informed the High Court that it will initiate conduct of tests in August-end or September. The undertaking was given during hearing on common entrance tests and final semester exams for university exams. A decision on final semester exams will be taken in pursuance of Supreme Court directions, the government had already observed. Sources said a decision on admissions to Intermediate first year will be taken after September 1. The digital classes in government schools for classes VI to X will begin on August 20. Fifty percent attendance for teachers in schools will be made compulsory from August 17.
11 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Video call at DPH office to keep virus at bay||As one of the measures to check transmission of COVID-19, a video call system has been put in place at the office of Director of Public Health G. Srinivasa Rao in Koti. Visitors wishing to submit requests or lodge grievances can speak to him through the system instead of meeting in person. A corded phone with camera is placed at the reception desk of the office building with a similar phone on the senior official’s desk. Dr Rao said it would help prevent transmission of the infectious disease, if either he or the visitor were to have it. Asked why visitors were not allowed to video-call him only from his office building and not from any other location, he said it might become cumbersome to manage a deluge of calls. It has been a little over five months since the first COVID case was detected in the State, on March 2. Doctors, nurses, Class-IV employees, government officials and Health Minister Eatala Rajender have been at the forefront of COVID-19 management. All of them have been attending meetings regularly and meet hundreds of people. However, Mr. Rajender and Dr Rao apart from Director of Medical Education K. Ramesh Reddy and other senior officials have, so far, managed to stay safe. How has he been able to stay safe despite being in a vulnerable position? Dr Rao attributes it to observation of precautions and a good dose of luck.
11 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||2,000 boxes of N95 masks for police||Maheshwara Medical College and Hospital, Hyderabad, under its initiative ‘Maheshwara Free PPE Program’ handed over 2,000 boxes of N95 masks to Director General of Police M. Mahender Reddy at State Police headquarters here on Monday. The hospital management also offered a free master health check-up programme for homeguards free of cost. To support the initiatives by State government, the hospital has initiated Maheshwara Free PPE Program to do its part in safeguarding the medical fraternity in the states of Telangana and Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, Delhi and Karnataka by donating PPE kits and N95 masks to the government COVID-19 hospitals. A press release issued by Maheshwara hospital said World Health Organisation has recommended standard protective equipment such as N95 masks, PPE kits, and surgical masks with an offset to their limited availability.
11 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Three youths killed in separate road accidents||Two teenagers were killed after the two-wheeler they were travelling on crashed into a road median at Pahadi Shareef here in the late hours of Sunday. Overtaking lorry Police said that the duo, Shashikanth(18) a student and his friend Sai Kiran (19) a carpenter from Kandikal Gate area in Uppuguda, were trying to overtake a lorry. “Shashikanth was riding the bike. It grazed past the lorry, as a result he lost control on the wheel and fell off the bike. They suffered severe head injuries and died on the spot,” police said, adding that the youngsters were not wearing helmets. On Sunday morning, they went to Shadnagar and were returning home when the accident took place. A case was registered and the bodies were handed over to the family members after the autopsy at the Osmania General Hospital morgue. Two-wheeler skids Meanwhile, at Nallakunta, a 23-year-old private employee died on the spot after his bike skidded. The victim, Eric Antony Hitten, a resident of Nallakunta was going on his bike when the accident took place around 5 a.m. near Bajaj Electronics in the area. Investigators suspect that Eric was driving the bike at a high speed and suddenly applied brakes. As it was raining, and the road was slippery, the bike skidded and he died on the spot, police said. The victim was not wearing a helmet. A case was registered and a probe is on.
11 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||Five held for burglary, Rs. 1.28 crore seized||A 24-year-old car driver and four of his accomplices, who were involved in burglary at a realtor’s house in Tolichowki last month, were arrested by the Hyderabad police here on Sunday. The police recovered 1.28 crore cash, a two-wheeler and a mobile phone from the accused. The accused are Mohammed Afsar (24), a car driver; Mirza Ashwaq Baig (22), Rehman Baig (23), a Zomato delivery boy; Mohd Ameer (20), a plumber; and Syed Imran (23), an electrician. All are residents of MD Lines in Tolichowki. Police said that the accused broke into realtor Asaduddin Ahmed’s house on the intervening night of July 22 and 23 and decamped with Rs. 2.50 crore. According to police, the accused Afsar and Ashwar previously worked for Ahmed and were aware of his huge cash transactions. On July 21 ,the realtor along with his wife and children went to his farmhouse at Shamirpet. Next day, Afsar and Ashwaq along with three others broke into the realtor’s house and committed the offence. It came to light only on July 23 when Ahmed returned to his house. Soon, he rushed to Golconda police station and lodged a complaint, following which teams were formed to identify and nab the accused.
11 August 2020||HYDERABAD,TELANGANA||Stone laid for BDL facilities||Defence Minister Rajnath Singh today laid the foundation for creation of Seeker Facility Centre and Warhead Production Facility at Bharat Dynamics Limited (BDL). The foundation was laid virtually at a function held in New Delhi by the Minister in the presence of Minister of State of Defence, Secretary (Defence), Secretary (Defence Production), Additional Secretary (Defence Production) and senior officials from the Ministry of Defence and Commodore Siddharth Mishra (Retd), CMD, BDL, Directors and senior officials of BDL present in Hyderabad.
11 August 2020||Hyderabad,TELANGANA||State Page - with arranged pic||The Telangana State Dairy Development Cooperative Federation (TSDDCF) launched battery operated vehicles on Monday. Federation chairman L. Bhima Reddy, managing director G. Srinivas Rao accompanied by senior officials flagged off the vehicles this afternoon. The launch of eco-friendly vehicles forms part of the federation's plans to take its Vijaya Telangana brand dairy products to the doorstep of the consumers. The federation planned to deploy more vehicles in the coming days and said unemployed youth could utilise this by availing of the subsidies provided on the vehicles.
11 August 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||International Driving School set for inaugural in Sircilla||The modern International Driving School with world-class driving training facilities is getting ready for inauguration at Sircilla in Rajanna-Sircilla district soon, said Transport Minister Puvvada Ajay Kumar. He was speaking to newsmen here on Monday after inaugurating a driving simulator at the Office of the District Transport Officer. The International Driving School is fast nearing completion under the aegis of the Minister for Industries and Information Technology K T Rama Rao at the textile town of Sircilla. The premier driving school of international standards will be inaugurated in about ten days, the Transport Minister said. The State Transport Department is in the forefront of harnessing the digital technology for the benefit of people, he said, adding that the “RTA m-Wallet” App is being extensively used by around 70 lakh vehicle users and the number of users is all set to reach one crore mark soon. The introduction of an e-bidding system of fancy numbers a few years ago helped in augmenting revenue for the government in a transparent manner devoid of political pressures. As many as five key services in the Transport Department have recently been brought under the online portfolio, he noted. The Minister said the department is aiming to reach the level of enabling the aspirants of learner's licences to take the requisite driving tests from their homes online through the slot booking system by using the Facial Recognition technology soon. Plans are afoot to modernise driving test tracks and construct logistical parks encompassing restrooms for drivers and godowns in and around Hyderabad as well as all the district headquarters town are in the pipeline On the impact of the coronavirus crisis on the revenue collection, he said the Transport Department's monthly revenue collection slightly dropped from Rs. 350 crore to Rs. 300 crore at present.
11 August 2020||KHAMMAM,TELANGANA||Poor bearing brunt of COVID pandemic: KVVPS||Stating that the poorest and marginalised sections were bearing the brunt of COVID-19 the most, Kula Vivaksha Vyatireka Porata Samithi (KVVPS) State general secretary T. Skylab Babu has sought scaling up of public health services to protect the vulnerable communities from the pandemic. Speaking at an online seminar on the topic “Significance of public health — social justice” conducted by the KVPS on Monday evening, he charged both the State and Central governments with leaving the poorest of the poor and voiceless masses in the lurch during the current COVID-19 crisis. The governments’ response to the pandemic has so far been grossly inadequate lacking concrete measures to deal with the crisis and help the distraught people, he alleged. He demanded that the State government take urgent measures to send mobile medical teams to Dalit colonies to provide COVID-19 diagnostic and treatment services to the needy. The public health care services should be expanded in a mission mode to stave off the coronavirus spread and save people’s lives, he said. Mahabubnagar Government Medical College Superintendent D. Ramkishan, KVPS Khammam district president M. Prasad and general secretary N. Manohar, among others, participated in the webinar.
11 August 2020||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||NSP water release schedule announced||The total 6.25 lakh acre ayacut under the Nagarjunasagar project left bank canal, spread in undivided Nalgonda and Khammam districts, will be irrigated with 50 tmc ft water following an on-and-off method, officials of NSP said on Monday. The water release for vaanakalam operations that started on August 7, following Chief Minister K. Chandrasekhar Rao’s instructions, would continue till November 28. As per the schedule, the release will be done in seven wetting phases. The first one will be for a continuous 24 days to facilitate sowing and initial operations, and the remaining will follow a nine-day on and six-day off method.
11 August 2020||NALGONDA,TELANGANA||Mass plantation held at 12th battalion||District Collector Prashant J. Patil along with personnel at the 12th battalion of the Armed Reserve Police, participated in a mass plantation exercise on Monday. A total of 600 mango saplings were planted in five acres of the battalion’s campus at Anneparthy. On the same stretch, on the Narketpally-Addanki State highway and the NH-65 (Hyderabad-Vijayawada), along with Assistant Collector Pratima Singh he inspected the recently-planted avenue plantation.
11 August 2020||RAJAVOMMANGI (EAST GODAVARI),TELANGANA||ITDA PO, forest staff inspect land to be distributed||Integrated Tribal Development Agency (ITDA-Rampachodavaram) Project Officer C.V. Praveen Adithya and forest staff on Monday conducted a joint field study to inspect the land proposed to be distributed among the forest dwellers under the Recognition of Forest Rights (FoFA) Act in the Rampa Agency.Mr. Adithya inspected the land along the stretch of tribal villages Urdaakulapadu, Vankarai, Ameenabad, and Maaredupaka in Rajavommangi mandal. The ITDA and the forest authorities are examining the land that is under the Podu cultivation and claimed by the forest dwellers. Interacting with the forest dwellers during the field inspection, Mr. Adithya explained them that the land, to be distributed under the RoFR Act, would be eligible to get all the benefits such as Rythu Bharosa, crop loans and other incentives being offered by the State and central governments. Mr. Adithya also visited the 1.2 MW hydropower plant at Vetamaamidi village in Addateegala mandal, where the power plant was recently revived with the assistance of the State government, NABARD and NEDCAP.  During a video conference with the officials concerned, East Godavari Collector D. Muralidhar Reddy announced that the Agency in East Godavari was selected to be developed into a ‘cashew cluster’ by promoting cashew cultivation on the land, to be distributed under the RoFR, by forming Farmers’ Producers Organisations.
11 August 2020||SANGAREDDY,TELANGANA||Farmers stage protest in front of bank||Demanding the authorities to take action against a person who cheated them in the name of renewing crop loans, some farmers stage a dharna in front of the Union Bank of India, (previously Andhra Bank), at Donti branch, on Monday. According to sources, one Manne Manohar reportedly collected thousands of rupees from each farmer with a promise to get crop loans renewed in the bank. Farmers trusted him and gave money demanded by him as his father and mother work in the bank. Farmers allege that Manohar collected lakhs of rupees and ran away from the village. They urged the bank authorities to take action against Mr Manohar and those who cooperated with him.
11 August 2020||SIDDIPET,TELANGANA||Plea for compensation as per prevailing market rate||The oustees of Gouravelli reservoir have been demanding compensation as per present market rates as their lands were notified more than a decade back, but compensation was not paid so far. They also found fault with the authorities over issuing of notices informing that the amount would be deposited in the court. Gudatipally village in Akkannapet mandal will get submerged under Gouravelli reservoir and some of the oustees have been fighting for fair compensation. The project displaced families (PDF) recently received notices from the authorities asking them to opt between the Rs. 8 lakh per acre that was offered by the government in the past as per GOMS No. 123 or as per Gazette Notification 55. They were also given 30 days time to respond, failing which the amount will be deposited in the court. Yalla Kanaka Reddy and others have submitted a memorandum to officials in this regard on Monday. “We have filed a writ petition before the High Court as we were offered compensation far below the market rate. On April 30, 2019, the High Court directed the government to pay compensation as per prevailing market rates. Surprisingly, on August 8, 2020, we received notices stating that we have to accept Rs. 8 lakh compensation as GOMS No. 123 or compensation as per Gazette Number 55 will be deposited in the court. This is nothing but threatening the oustees,” said Mr. Kanaka Reddy, one of the oustees in his letter. “Offer us a compensation package between Rs. 15 lakh to Rs. 17 lakh per acre or construct houses within two kilometre radius of Husnabad in 200 yards and pay the remaining amount as per prevailing market rates,” said Nalla Srinivasa Reddy, one of the oustees from Gudatipally.
11 August 2020||August 11 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||SRDP: over 500 trees to be translocated||A large majority of the trees to be translocated from Botanical Garden, Kothaguda, to facilitate construction of a flyover under the Strategic Road Development Plan (SRDP) are of subabul and bamboo species. According to information available, about three-fourths of the trees belong to these two species, which, according to the norms of the tree protection committee under the Forest department, do not require translocation, and may be felled to make way for public infrastructure projects. Marginal cost GHMC, however, is getting the translocation done at marginal cost of below Rs. 10 lakh, through a voluntary agency Vata Foundation, which has been offering such services for the past 10 years. The amount will be spent on chemical treatment of branches and roots, and procurement of soil, informed P. Uday Krishna from Vata Foundation. “We have been translocating trees free of cost wherever they are marked for felling to make way for public infrastructure and other projects. Here, GHMC has requested us to do it, although trees were not marked for felling and are to be translocated as per the minister’s instructions,” Mr. Uday Krishna said. Minister for Municipal Administration and Urban Development K.T. Rama Rao had earlier issued standing instructions for translocation of trees where they obstructed infrastructural projects. Accordingly, a total of 212 trees will have to be translocated from a portion of the Botanical Gardens, for widening of the road in relation to flyover construction. The trees will be shifted to a forest block nearby, where they will have to be maintained by GHMC for the coming two to three years. Vata Foundation has also got the nod for translocation of more than 300 trees from the Uppal road, the site of an elevated corridor being constructed by the Roads & Buildings department. Majority of these trees, located on the central median, are of Ficus religiosa (Peepal/ Raavi) species. Initially, the R&B department had applied for permission to cut more than 1,000 trees for this project. The District Tree Protection Committee, after inspection of the site, granted permission to fell only 427 trees, and ordered for translocation of 50 trees. The remaining trees were to be retained. However, as shared by sources, over 200 trees marked for protection have been felled without permission by the executing agency, as they stood on the central median. PIL filed After the news was published by The Hindu , a PIL was filed by Vata Foundation in the High Court challenging the illegal felling, prompting the department to come round for translocation. “A real estate firm has volunteered to have the trees in their project near by, with all expenditures covered,” informed Mr. Uday Krishna. Vata Foundation has translocated over 1,600 trees so far in Hyderabad, Warangal, Nagarkurnool and Nalgonda districts, with survival rate ranging between 50% to 100%. Thanks to the monsoons, survival rate now could be high, hopes Mr. Uday Krishna.
11 August 2020||August 11 2020 00:00 IST,TELANGANA||Fine-feathered friends||
11 August 2020||GURUGRAM,||Two held for abducting engineer of private firm||A senior engineer with a private firm was allegedly kidnapped, stripped naked, and filmed by two young men in a bid to extort money from him. According to the police, on Sunday, the two were on their way to kill him when he managed to jump out of the car near Vatika Chowk on Sohna Road after the vehicle slowed down at the traffic signal. He informed the police control room. The accused, Sahil and Aman, managed to drive away then, but were later arrested. The 28-year-old engineer had gone to meet his female friend at a hotel on August 8 night when the duo kidnapped him. When the engineer and his friend came out from the hotel around 11 p.m., Sahil, who was known to the woman, and his friend Aman bundled the man in their car and drove away. The role of the woman is being investigated.
11 August 2020||New Delhi,||Students fret over technical snags on day one of open book exam||The first phase of online open book examinations for final year students at Delhi University, which had faced severe criticism, finally took place on Monday with scores of students panicking and complaining about technical issues. Palak*, a BSc Physical Science student at Maitreyi College and is from Rajasthan, who had set up a Wi-Fi connection at home for the exams, wasn’t able to upload her answer scripts on the university’s portal. “Electricity had also gone while I was taking the exam. So I was already anxious,” said Ms. Palak. With two minutes left for the exam to end and her answer scripts not uploading, she uploaded it as pictures and mailed them to an email id provided by the university. Since the university had called for PDFs of the answer scripts, she had to send a second mail after the exam got over. With three more exams to go, Palak is worried about what she will do next time. Same was the case with Deepak Kumar, a BA programme student from the School of Open Learning. He was unable to submit his answer sheet on time and had to mail it after the exam, but did not receive any confirmation of receipt. Lack of time Others complained about the lack of time to complete the paper. Ranjani Ghosh, a third year student, wrote to the university complaining about the lack of time given to write the exams and upload the answer scripts. Out of four hours, Ms. Ghosh argued that half the time went on uploading her answer scripts onto the portal, leaving very little time to answer the paper. Students also complained about the question paper itself. Zubair Khan, a BA Political Science student from SOL, informed that he was given two papers to attempt. Hindi as well as ‘Delhi Medieval’ papers turned up on his portal even though the latter is scheduled for August 13. He downloaded that paper as well. Students from the zoology and history departments complained about not being able to access their paper and unable to download it even though the exam had started according to the schedule. Many complained about having to send in their papers late and not receiving any confirmation.   (*name changed to protect identity)
11 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Independent fact-finding reports are critical: Aruna Roy||Social activist Aruna Roy on Monday said that the need for independent fact-finding reports has become more significant because one cannot trust investigating agencies in the current socio-political scenario. Ms. Roy made the statement while presenting the fact-finding report prepared by the National Federation of Indian Women in the February 10 incident during which the police clashed with Jamia Millia Islamia University students protesting against the Citizenship (Amendment)Act and National Register of Citizens. “A fact-finding report done by us in which there is no prejudice, but just recounting of facts is extremely important. Such reports have become critical to the well-being of our democracy… We must understand that the freedom of investigating agencies is tainted. We can’t fathom whether the investigating agencies can be trusted,” she said. She also expressed disagreement with police investigation into the communal riots that took place in the Capital, in which Delhi Police have been questioning those who protested against the CAA. Ms. Roy also compared police brutality in Delhi with that of black American man George Floyd, who was killed by a police officer in a U.S. city in May. “This has been happening to our various protesters over the years… this kind of torture, blatantly in the open zone, where everyone can watch is even worse,” she said. Abuse during protest According to the report, in which the fact-finding team claimed to have spoken to victims, students, teachers, activists, medical professionals, administrative staff, and legal professionals, there was a targeted sexual attack on women and protesters. They were allegedly attacked in their private parts. Use of chemical gas The report also emphasised on the use of a “chemical” gas used as a crowd-control measure which the police had denied at the time. The team said that doctors refused to conduct tests for “chemical gas” due to which the composition of the “chemical” remained unknown along with its long-term consequences. The team said that “women were molested by policemen”. The NFIW demanded special judicial inquiry into the incident and also reminded authorities that no FIR had been registered into the matter.
11 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Policeman loses life in accident||A Delhi Police personnel was killed and another sustained injuries when a speeding car driven by an inebriated youth rammed into their patrolling vehicle in north Delhi in the early hours of Monday, the police said. A senior police officer said that the deceased has been identified as Head Constable Wazir Singh and the injured as Constable Amit. Police said that the accused Tushar Gupta (19), a resident of Model Town, is studying in Singapore and came to India in March due to the pandemic. According to the police, Gupta was returning home after meeting his friend in his car and rammed into the patrolling vehicle near Khalsa College around 1.30 a.m.. The impact of the collision was such that the patrolling vehicle overturned, skid for 10-15 feet and injured the two police personnel. Amit, who was driving the vehicle, rescued Singh with the help of people and shifted him to a hospital where he succumbed to injuries, the officer said. He added that Amit sustained injuries and has been discharged from hospital. Police said that Gupta was also injured and has been arrested. In the medical report, the doctors said the youth was under the influence of alcohol at the time of the accident, police said.
11 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||3 policemen among five arrested for robbing businessman in city||Five persons, including three Delhi police personnel, were arrested for allegedly robbing a businessman at gunpoint in Vasant Kunj area, said a senior officer on Monday. The police said on August 9, Naveen Sehrawat, director of a business firm, had lodged a complaint of robbery at Vasant Kunj (North police station). In his complaint, he had alleged that four masked men entered his office and told him that they were policemen. When he asked to show their ID cards, one of them slapped him and another one pointed a pistol at him and threatened to shoot him. They asked him to hand over the cash to them. Staffers thrashed “The staffers at his office tired to call the police but they were thrashed. One of the employees raised an alarm. This panicked the robbers and three of them managed to flee by jumping off the balcony, while one who was later identified as Jai Kapoor was held,” the FIR said.  A senior police officer said: “The arrested policemen were identified as Sandeep Kumar, Manu Kumar and Amit Kumar. It was confirmed that they had earlier extorted the businessman and they have come again to take money. We are going through their records to find out if they were previously involved in any other criminal cases.”
11 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||DDA scheme makes EWS flats more affordable||The Delhi Development Authority (DDA) has launched an Online Housing Scheme 2020 for allotment of around 900 economically weaker section (EWS) flats in Narela with a 40% concession in the price. Officials said that allotment of flats under the scheme will be under the first come first served basis and the concession has been provided on the construction cost. The scheme was launched on August 7 and as of Monday, it received 200 applications. “Applicants applying for flats under this scheme will have to deposit an application money of Rs. 10,000 which will be adjusted against the cost of the flat but will be non-refundable in case of surrender or cancellation. The desirous applicants will apply online and will have a choice to book a specific flat on first come first served basis,” officials said. Reserving flat According to a notification issued by the urban body, applicants will be given a window of 30 minutes to deposit the application fee online. “Till this period of 30 minutes, the flat will not be available for selection by others. Once the application money is paid, the flat will be kept reserved for that applicant,” the notification read. Officials added that the demand-cum-allotment letter will be generated online and sent to the respective applicants. “The cost of the flat is to be deposited within 90 days from the date of issue of demand-cum-allotment letter. The application money will be forfeited if the demanded amount is not paid by the allottee within the due date as stipulated in the letter and the flat will be made available for allotment to others,” a DDA official said. These are the flats which were initially offered under the 2019 scheme but were lying vacant because of less demand.
11 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||NSUI brief||The NSUI on Monday organised a protest outside the Ministry of Human Resource Development demanding a fee waiver for six months and postponement of all examinations due to the COVID-19 crisis. The protesting students were detained outside the Ministry and several NSUI leaders were detained.
11 August 2020||Gandhinagar,||Gujarat raises fine to Rs. 1,000 for not wearing mask in public||In a bid to stem the spread of COVID-19, the Gujarat government on Monday increased the fine for not wearing mask in public places to Rs. 1,000 from the present Rs. 500. The decision came after the Gujarat High Court in its order last month asked the government to collect a minimum fine of Rs. 1,000 from those found without mask in public places. “Following the High Court directive, the penalty for not wearing mask in public will be Rs. 1,000 from August 11,” Gujarat Chief Minister Vijay Rupani said. To stop human-to-human transmission of the virus, Mr. Rupani urged people not to come out of their homes to celebrate festivals, including Janmashtami which falls on Tuesday.
11 August 2020||Mumbai,||Uddhav urges PM to release financial aid for State urgently||Chief Minister Uddhav Thackeray, while demanding immediate release of financial aid from the Centre, told Prime Minister Narendra Modi that the losses suffered by Maharashtra suffered as a result of Cyclone Nisarga and the heavy rain in Mumbai last week are estimated to be over Rs. 1,500 crore. Mr. Modi had held a video conference with CMs of six States — Maharashtra, Kerala, Assam, Karnataka, Bihar and Uttar Pradesh — suffering from natural calamities such as heavy rainfall and floods. During the meeting, Mr. Thackeray said, “A national level committee, led by PM Modi, should be set up, which will work towards better coordination between States during times of natural calamity, and also ensure speedy relief action.” Mr. Thackeray’s statement comes from the background of lack of coordination between Maharashtra and Karnataka last year, resulting is massive floods in western Maharashtra. He also demanded that the inter-State flood management system have representation from the Central government. The video conference was also attended by Defence Minister Rajnath Singh and Union Health Minister Dr. Harsh Vardhan along with officials from the Central government and National Disaster Response Force. Massive losses in Mumbai The CM told Mr. Modi that Mumbai had faced losses worth Rs. 500 crore in just one day due to the heavy rainfall on August 5. “Location under possession of central government’s Commerce ministry can be handed over to Mumbai’s civic body to set up Mahul pumping station. This will help to drain water at Hindmata, Dadar and Vadala,” Mr. Thackeray said. He also highlighted that authorities chose the easy way out for developmental projects, which damages the environment. Protecting biodiversity “The proposed broadgauge conversion of Akola-Khandva metergauge can be taken outside Melghat Tiger project. It will not help tigers but also be more useful for people,” Mr. Thackeray said, adding that Maharashtra will always take the lead in protecting biodiversity.
11 August 2020||Mumbai,||‘Some seized properties belong to my trust’||Fugitive diamantaire Nirav Modi’s son Rohin on Monday told the Bombay High Court that a few of the properties seized by the Enforcement Directorate (ED) in connection with the Punjab National Bank (PNB) scam belonged to a trust owned by him (Rohin) and they were not purchased with alleged proceeds of crime. Mr. Rohin Modi’s lawyer, Abhimanyu Bhandari, made the submission before a Division Bench of Justices S.S. Jadhav and N.J. Jamadar. Additional Solicitor General Anil Singh, appearing for the ED, however, argued that though some of the properties in question were owned by the Rohin Trust, the purchasing amount for them was paid by Mr. Nirav Modi, a key accused in the PNB scam, and his wife Ami Modi. The Bench was hearing a petition filed by Mr. Rohin Modi challenging confiscation of properties purportedly belonging to the Rohin Trust. On June 8, a special court set up under the Prevention of Money Laundering Act ordered confiscation of movable and immovable properties belonging to Mr. Nirav Modi. The order was passed in accordance with Section 12 of the Fugitive Economic Offenders Act, on an application filed by the ED, which is probing money laundering charges in the fraud case. Mr. Nirav Modi was, in December 2019, declared an “economic fugitive offender” under the Act. The properties ordered to be confiscated include bank accounts in India and England, and residential and commercial properties in India, the UAE and the U.K., allegedly purchased by Mr. Nirav Modi from proceeds of crime. Mr. Bhandari on Monday told the HC that a flat in the iconic ‘Samudra Mahal’ building in Worli and several other immovable properties were owned by the Rohin Trust. The flat was purchased in 2006 and not (from) proceeds of crime. The adjudicating authority (the special court) ought to have heard Mr. Rohin Modi before ordering confiscation of those properties (both movable and immovable), that were owned by the Rohin Trust, Mr. Bhandari said. He urged the HC to direct the ED to maintain status quo vis-a-vis the properties owned by the Rohin Trust and to not auction them so that Mr. Rohin Modi could approach the special court seeking to be heard. The ED’s counsel, however, opposed the plea and said all the confiscated properties were purchased using proceeds of crime as they were purchased by Mr. Nirav Modi and his wife .
11 August 2020||Mumbai/Panaji/Nagpur,||BJP’s Somaiya, his wife test positive for COVID-19||Former Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) MP Kirit Somaiya on Monday announced that he and his wife Medha had been detected with COVID-19 and hospitalised. Earlier in the day, MLC from Osmanabad, Sujitsingh Thakur, said he and some of his kin had tested positive. ‘Situation serious’ Meanwhile, BJP leader Devendra Fadnavis on Monday said the COVID-19 situation in Maharashtra was serious and accounted for 42% of all deaths nationwide due to the infection. Mr. Fadnavis, the Leader of Opposition in the Assembly, was in Goa to pay a courtesy visit to Chief Minister and party colleague Pramod Sawant. Speaking to reporters in the neighbouring State, Mr. Fadnavis said the Maha Vikas Aghadi government must increase testing and set up more isolation facilities. He said RT-PCR and antigen tests must be carried out in correction proportion for effective detection. Special burial In Nagpur, A 74-year-old man, who died of COVID-19, was buried on municipal land after a local Christian cemetery said it would only allow burial of his ashes after cremation. The victim, who was undergoing treatment at a government hospital since August 1, died on Sunday morning. He was a member of the local Protestant church, his son said. “We wanted a regular traditional burial without cremation for which we were not getting permission,” the son said. It was getting late and the Nagpur Municipal Corporation authorities were waiting for the family’s approval for the last rites. “So, we had to take a decision and they were ready give us a burial place at their Mankapur crematorium premises. My father was buried there as per the Christian tradition,” he said.
11 August 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Major drug racket busted at Nhava Sheva, two held||The Directorate of Revenue Intelligence (DRI) and customs department busted a major international drug racket, and seized 191 kg heroin worth Rs. 1,000 crore from Nhava Sheva port in Navi Mumbai on Saturday. According to investigating agencies, the smugglers had concealed the drug in plastic pipes with a bamboo finish and declared it as Ayurvedic medicine. Two customs house agents — Meenanath Bodake from Nerul and Kondibhau Pandurang Gunjal from Mumbra — who had documented the import, have been arrested. They were produced before a local court which sent them to judicial custody for 14 days. The consignment was seized after a customs officer suspected a misdeclaration in consignment at Jawaharlal Nehru Port Trust at Nhava Sheva. On examination of the container, orange-coloured gunny bags imported by Sarvim Exports, which had been declared as Glycyrrhiza glabra or licorice, were found, said an officer from DRI. “The plastic pipes were covered in wooden bark, which appeared to be pasted on. When we cut through the bark, we found a green-coloured plastic pipe. Inside the pipe was a powdered substance, which was confirmed to be heroin,” the officer added. Each pipe had drugs worth Rs. 5 crore. The consignment came from Afghanistan and three people from Delhi — Suresh Bhatia, Mohammad Nauman and Mahendra Nigam —were also nabbed. Mr. Bhatia runs Sarvim exports. The trio was brought to Mumbai on Monday.
11 August 2020||Navi Mumbai,||Minor girls die after getting trapped under wood||Two minor girls died on Sunday night after being trapped under a heap of wood. Manju and Ranju Vishwambhar Chaurasiya (9 and 11) were sleeping in a godown where their father stored wood. Around 9 p.m., their dog jumped on the heap of wood kept beside the sleeping girls. The wood fell over and the girls got trapped. “Hearing the noise, the parents rushed to rescue them. However, the wood was heavy and the girls suffocated. They were declared dead on arrival at a hospital,” a police officer from Daighar police station said.
11 August 2020||Pune,||Pune’s Dagdusheth Ganpati cancels public celebrations||In view of the COVID-19 situation in Pune district, the renowned Dagdusheth Halwai Ganpati temple, in a break with a 127-year-old tradition, will not hold public ceremonies during the Ganesh Chathurthi festival on August 22, members of the Dagdusheth Halwai Ganpati Trust said on Monday. The celebrations would be be held inside the temple itself, Ashok Godse, president of the trust, said. “The COVID-19 pandemic has cast its shadow over all festivities this year, be it the Pandharpur Wari or Eid . Likewise, we, too have decided to celebrate the Ganesha festival on the temple premises in an extremely simple manner, without pomp or ceremony. There will be an online facility for devotees to watch the daily aarti (ceremony),” Mr. Godse said. He further said that this year, the trust would not be constructing any replica of a historic Indian temple during the festivities. Among Pune’s five ‘Manache Ganpati’ pandals, the Dagdusheth Halwai trust has a unique 77-year-old tradition of constructing a replica of an iconic Indian temple during the Ganesh festival, primarily to showcase India’s heritage and history through its temple architecture. The other four famous pandals, too, are likely to announce celebrations on a reduced scale. Every year, a stately procession of the ‘Manache Ganpati’ idols queue up for immersion. The procession is led by Kasba Ganpati, which was established in 1893, followed by Tambadi Jogeshwari Ganpati, Guruji Talim Ganpati, Bhau Rangari, and Dagdusheth Ganpati. The last time the city had witnessed muted Ganesha festivities was during the 2009 swine flu pandemic. “Given that the index patients in the State were from Pune during the swine flu pandemic as well, the city had witnessed less than 50% participation in the festivities. Like today, there was a general feeling of fear and dread pervading the city at that time as well,” city-based political analyst and observer Rajendra Pandharpure told The Hindu . Mr. Pandharpure said while there was a ray of hope among the big pandals in April that the COVID-19 situation might improve in August, that optimism had been dashed with the alarming spike in cases. “The pandemic has had a profound socio-cultural impact on the Ganesh festivities, an important part of Pune’s social fabric. Given the massive economic downslide caused by the pandemic, the donation system — the very sustenance of these pandals — has completely collapsed as people struggle for survival,” Mr. Pandharpure said. The non-celebratory mood in the Peth area of ‘Old Pune’ — where the major Ganpati pandals are sited — has severely impacted a number of businesses dependent on the Ganesh festivities. Mr. Pandharpure said in April-May, pandal managers were hoping that at the very least, the rate of infection would lessen in Pune. “However, that has not happened with the city reporting more than 1,000 cases and the district an average 3,000 cases a day. Furthermore, there has been a breakdown in faith in the State health infrastructure. People do not have much hope in government health facilities. People in Peth are wary of stepping out given the prohibitive costs of treatment at private hospitals,” he said. Earlier in June, the State government had decided to cancel the annual pilgrimage made on foot by lakhs of warkaris (devotees) to the temple town of Pandharpur, carrying palkhis (palanquins) bearing the padukas (footprints) of saints Dnyaneshwar and Tukaram. The step had been necessitated in the wake of surging cases not only in Pune, but in neighbouring Satara and Solapur as well. However, in a bid to uphold the 800-year-old tradition of Ashadhi Wari, the authorities had permitted the padukas to be carried by road to Pandharpur in Solapur district.
11 August 2020||Pune,||Maharashtra’s case count nudges 5.25 lakh||After two consecutive days of reporting 12,000-plus cases, Maharashtra recorded 9,181 new COVID-19 cases on Monday, as the State’s total case tally rose to 5,24,513. As many as 293 more deaths took its fatality toll to 18,050. The lower spike in cases has to be viewed in the context of significantly lower number of samples — 48,000 — being tested in the last 24 hours as opposed to the 70,000-plus samples tested over the past few days.  Active cases go up In fact, with Monday’ surge, the State’s active cases have climbed to 1,47,735 from 1.45 lakh a couple of days ago. With 6,711 recoveries, the cumulative number of patients discharged has now reached 3,58,421. “Till date, of a total 27,73,520 laboratory samples, 5,24,513 (18.91%) have been tested positive with nearly 48,000 samples across the State being tested in the last 24 hours,” State Surveillance Officer Dr. Pradeep Awate said, adding that the State’s recovery rate stood at 68.33% while the case fatality rate was 3.44%. As per State Health Department figures, Pune district reported nearly 1,700 new cases and 43 deaths, taking its total case tally to 1,14,703 while its death toll reached 2,771. The Pune district administration, however, said the number of active cases was less than 26,500 with the district’s recovery rate more than 73%. 925 cases in Mumbai Mumbai city reported 925 new cases as its total cases touched 1,24,307 of whom only 19,172 are active. With 46 more deaths, the city’s death toll has risen to 6,845. Raigad saw 18 deaths, as its fatality toll rose to 319 while 162 new cases took its total case tally to 11,689. Sangli in western Maharashtra reported 16 deaths, taking its death count to 140. The district reported more than 200 fresh cases, taking its total cases to 4,876 of whom 2,649 are active. In the Mumbai Metropolitan Region, Thane district reported 15 fatalities and 330 new cases as its death toll rose to 1,213 while its total case tally nudged the 38,500 mark. The Mira-Bhayander civic body reported 10 deaths, taking its mortality toll to 333. With 109 fresh cases, its total cases have gone up to 10,082. Ahmednagar reported 643 new cases, as the district’s total case tally rose to 9,754 of whom 4,556 are active. Seven more deaths took the death count to 104. Kolhapur district in Pune division reported an alarming surge of 579 new cases to take the district’s total case tally to 9,464 — of whom 5,831 are active — while 12 deaths saw its fatality toll climb to 230. Jalgaon reported 403 fresh cases as the district’s total cases rose to 14,841 of whom 4,283 cases are active. With five more deaths, its death toll has risen to 616.
11 August 2020||Beijing,||China slaps sanctions on U.S. Senators||China on Monday sanctioned 11 Americans, including Senators Marco Rubio and Ted Cruz, in retaliation for similar U.S. moves prompted by Beijing’s crackdown in Hong Kong. Washington last week accused 11 officials of suppressing “freedom and democratic processes” in Hong Kong, including city leader Carrie Lam, and announced plans to freeze their U.S. assets. It was the toughest U.S. action yet in response to Beijing’s introduction of a sweeping and controversial new national security law for the territory. Beijing said the measure was a violation of international law and “grossly interferes in China’s internal affairs”. Bad behaviour “China has decided to impose sanctions on some people that behaved badly on Hong Kong-related issues,” Foreign Ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian said on Monday, with Human Rights Watch director Kenneth Roth and National Endowment for Democracy president Carl Gershman also on the list. Mr. Zhao did not give details of what the sanctions would entail. “The Chinese government’s announcement of unspecified sanctions against me is little more than an effort to distract attention from its wholesale assault on the rights of the people of Hong Kong,” Mr. Roth said in a statement issued by Human Rights Watch. Republican Senators Rubio and Cruz established themselves as two of the most vocal supporters of Hong Kong’s democracy movement last year, when the city was convulsed by huge and sometimes violent protests. Beijing has accused “external forces” of fomenting unrest and responded to the unrest by imposing the security law in late June, sending a political chill through the semi-autonomous finance hub. Elections postponed Since then, the city’s leaders have postponed local elections, citing the COVID-19 pandemic. Authorities have also issued arrest warrants for six exiled pro-democracy campaigners and launched a crackdown on other activists. The U.S. measures come three months ahead of the November presidential election in which the incumbent Donald Trump, who trails his rival Joe Biden in the polls, is campaigning hard on an increasingly strident anti-Beijing message. As public disapproval has grown for his handling of the pandemic, Mr. Trump has pivoted from his previous focus on striking a trade deal with China to blaming the country for the virus crisis. Washington and Beijing have sparred on multiple fronts in recent months, and both sides have already imposed sanctions on each other over China’s mass internment of mostly Muslim minorities in Xinjiang. Mr. Trump on Thursday ordered Americans to stop doing business within 45 days with popular Chinese apps WeChat and TikTok. The order claimed TikTok could be used by China to track the locations of federal employees, build dossiers on people for blackmail and conduct corporate espionage. Mr. Zhao said on Monday that Washington’s Hong Kong-related sanctions “will only make the world more aware of U.S. hegemony, bullying and double standards”.
11 August 2020||Farasin,||Palestinian family in cave home faces eviction||Ahmed Amarneh’s home, with a wooden door opening onto cushion-lined rooms, is not the first Palestinian residence in the occupied West Bank to receive a demolition notice from Israel. But it may be the first built inside a cave which the Jewish state has threatened to destroy. Mr. Amarneh, a 30-year-old civil engineer, lives with his family in the northern West Bank village of Farasin, where Israel insists it must approve any new residential construction and can tear down homes built without permits. “I tried twice to build (a house), but the occupation authorities told me it was forbidden to build in the area,” Mr. Amarneh said, using a term for Israel used by some Palestinians. The Oslo peace accords of the 1990s gave the Palestinians self-rule in parts of the West Bank. However, some 60% of the territory dubbed Area C, where Farasin is located, remains under full Israeli civil and military control. The United Nations considers Area C as occupied Palestinian Territory. But Israel has increasingly allocated land there for construction of Jewish settlements — communities considered illegal under international law. Not ‘illegally built’ Convinced he would never get Israeli approval to build a home in his village, Mr. Amarneh set his sights on a cave in the foothills overlooking Farasin. Mr. Amarneh said he figured that as an ancient, natural formation, Israel could not possibly argue that the cave was illegally built, while the Palestinian Authority (PA) agreed to register the land in his name. Mr. Amarneh, whose handyman skills are considerable, sealed the entrance to the cave with a stone wall and installed a wooden door at its centre. He fashioned a kitchen, a living room and sleeping areas for himself, his pregnant wife and their young daughter. There is even lodging for guests. He said he had been living there for a year and half, but received a demolition notice from the Israeli authorities in July, along with 20 other Palestinian families in Farasin. Demolition notices given The Israeli military branch responsible for civilian affairs in the West Bank, COGAT, said demolition notices were served to some Farasin residences because of “structures that were illegally built, without the necessary permits and approvals”. Mr. Amarneh said he was “surprised” to learn that he had built anything illegally. “I didn’t make the cave. It has existed since antiquity,” he said, holding his young daughter in his arms. “I don’t understand how they can prevent me from living in a cave. Animals live in caves and are not thrown out. So, let them treat me like an animal and let me live in the cave.” Arab residents established the village of Farasin in 1920, said local council head Mahmud Ahmad Nasser. It was abandoned during the 1967 Six-Day War, the year Israeli occupation of the West Bank began. But from the 1980s, former residents began to return to the area. Mr. Nasser put its current population at around 200. The PA officially recognised the community of Farasin in March, but the COVID-19 crisis has prevented it from providing electricity to the area, the local council said. COGAT had indicated in April that it might suspend some scheduled demolitions due to the pandemic. But, according to the Israeli anti-settlement campaign group B’Tselem, Israel in June demolished 63 Palestinian structures. Roughly 4,50,000 Jewish settlers live in the West Bank, alongside some 2.7 million Palestinians. Farasin residents, aside from fearing the possibly imminent arrival of bulldozers, said they have spotted a caravan belonging to a Jewish settler in the area, who appeared to be setting up a home.
11 August 2020||Paris,||U.S. COVID-19 case count crosses five million||Face masks became compulsory in tourist hotspots in Paris on Monday amid warnings of a resurgence of COVID-19 cases, as infections in the U.S. topped five million. In Berlin, thousands of children returned to school on Monday after the summer break, sporting masks which are compulsory in common areas like school courtyards. Schools in some other German regions also reopened, though with differing rules on masks. Resurgence in Europe People in Paris aged 11 and over are now required to wear the masks in crowded areas and tourists hotspots. These include the banks of the Seine River and more than a 100 streets in the French capital. Several French towns and cities have already introduced similar measures, as well as parts of Belgium, the Netherlands, Romania and Spain. Globally, nearly 20 million cases have been officially registered. The death toll is at least 7,31,500 worldwide since virus emerged in China last December, according to a running tally from official sources compiled by AFP. The U.S. is by far the worst-hit country with nearly 1,63,000 deaths. On Sunday, it reached the extraordinary milestone of five million COVID-19 cases, according to according to John Hopkins University. The figures came as President Donald Trump was accused of flouting the Constitution by unilaterally extending a virus relief package. The package was “absurdly unconstitutional,” senior Democrat Nancy Pelosi told CNN. Fellow Democrat and Senate minority leader Chuck Schumer, appearing on ABC, dismissed Mr. Trump’s unilateral measures as “unworkable, weak and far too narrow.”
11 August 2020||Kabul,||Taliban agrees to begin talks ‘within a week’||Afghan peace talks are expected to begin within days after authorities announced on Monday that they would soon start releasing hundreds of Taliban prisoners accused of brutal attacks. The fate of some 400 Taliban prisoners has been a crucial hurdle in launching talks between the Taliban and the Afghan government. Thousands of prominent Afghans on Sunday approved their release at the end of a three-day “loya jirga”. “Our stance is clear, if the prisoner release is completed, then we are ready for the intra-Afghan talks within a week,” said Taliban spokesman Suhail Shaheen. Mr. Shaheen said the first round of talks would be held in Doha, Qatar. “The Afghan government will start releasing the 400 Taliban prisoners within two days,” said National Security Council spokesman Javid Faisal on Monday. The prisoner exchange was a key part of a deal signed by the Taliban and the U.S. in February, which saw Washington agree to withdraw its troops from Afghanistan in return for a pledge from the insurgents to hold peace talks with the Kabul government.
11 August 2020||Taipei,||U.S. official lauds Taiwan’s success against virus||A U.S. Cabinet member heaped praise on Taiwan’s democracy and its success in battling COVID-19 as he met the island’s leader on Monday. Health Secretary Alex Azar is in Taipei for a three-day visit billed as the highest level visit from the United States since it switched diplomatic recognition from the island to China in 1979. On Monday morning, Mr. Azar met President Tsai Ing-wen. “Taiwan’s response to COVID-19 has been among the most successful in the world, and that is a tribute to the open, transparent, democratic nature of Taiwan’s society and culture,” Mr. Azar told Ms. Tsai. Ms. Tsai thanked the U.S. for supporting its bid to be part of the World Health Organization (WHO), a body Beijing keeps the island frozen out of.
11 August 2020||Quetta,||Quetta, Pakistan, Aug 10, 2020 (AFP) -||An improvised bomb planted on a motorbike killed six people in Pakistan’s restive southwestern Balochistan province on Monday, police said. A vehicle carrying personnel from the country’s anti-narcotic force was believed to be the target of the blast in Chaman town, said senior police official Razzaq Cheema.AFP
11 August 2020||Islamabad,||Pak court indicts former president Zardari in graft case||An anti-corruption court in Pakistan on Monday indicted former president Asif Ali Zardari through video link in a graft case where he was accused of influencing authorities to release loans to front companies. As he could not appear in the court due to illness , the indictment was carried out through video link, making it the country’s first such indictment.PTI
11 August 2020||August 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Isolating China, as proposition and the reality||The latest round of talks, August 2, between the Military Commanders of India and China, did not produce any breakthrough, and the situation along the Line of Actual Control (LAC) in the Ladakh sector thus remains essentially unchanged. All that is evident is that China has indicated a willingness to resile from occupying territory beyond its 1960 Claim line. A return to the status quo ante prior to May this year, is nowhere in sight.  Meanwhile, a war of words between India and China has broken out. India’s External Affairs Minister has promulgated that “the state of the border and the future of our ties (with China) cannot be separated. That is the reality.” China’s riposte was to reiterate that their troops “were on its side of the traditional customary boundary line”. This was followed, thereafter, by China wading into and criticising what is essentially India’s internal matter, viz. , the changes effected to the status of Jammu and Kashmir in August last year.  China-U.S. ties and rhetoric In the meantime, relations between the United States and China continue to deteriorate. Talk of a new realignment of forces taking place, with the U.S. and China leading different camps, is very much in the air. After years of cooperating with one another, the U.S. and China are currently at the stage of confrontation, with both seeking allies to join their camps. The rhetoric has begun to resemble the Cold War era and both sides are even willing to display their military muscle. This places several countries, especially in Asia, in a difficult position as most of them are loathe to take sides — especially with a belligerent China as neighbour.  The contrast between the U.S. and China could hardly be greater. While the U.S. may not necessarily be the first choice for many countries of Asia and the Asia-Pacific region, in the case of China it is clearly more feared than loved. No one in Asia (Pakistan is perhaps an exception) nurses any doubts about China’s ‘imperialist ambitions’, or about Chinese President Xi Jinping’s authoritarian world view. Beijing’s virtual takeover of Hong Kong, paying scant regard to the concept of ‘one country two systems’, has only confirmed what had long been known about China’s intentions under Mr. Xi. Well before this, the region had been a witness to China’s rampant land grab in the South China Sea. In the 1970s, China grabbed control over the Paracel Islands from Vietnam. In the 1990s, it occupied Mischief Reef in the Spratly Islands, an area of the South China Sea that the Philippines had always considered its territory. In the 21st Century, China has continued with the same tactics of taking control over territories belonging to smaller neighbours; one which attracted international attention was the Scarborough Shoal confrontation in 2012, when Chinese Marine Surveillance Ships came into direct confrontation with the Philippine Navy.  Aggressive and expansionist In March-April this year, while the rest of the world was wrestling with the COVID-19 pandemic, China further stepped up its aggressive actions, renaming almost 80 geographical features in the region as an index of Chinese sovereignty. Complaints galore also exist about China’s expansionist attitudes beyond the South China Sea; Taiwan, Japan, Vietnam, Indonesia and South Korea have all complained about China’s menacing postures in their vicinity. China’s favourite approach, it would seem, has been unilateralism rather than compromise, when dealing with its smaller neighbours. Implicitly also, it reflects the unwritten code of the Belt and Road Initiative and the Maritime Silk Road.  Notwithstanding all this, China is far from being quarantined. Hardly any country in Asia is willing to openly confront China, and side with the U.S. Many countries, especially those in East Asia, are unwilling to be seen taking sides at this juncture, their explanation for this being that China was always known to be over-protective of the South China Sea, considering it a natural shield against possible hostile intervention by outside forces inimical to it. Neither the presence of U.S. aircraft carriers in the South China Sea, the presence of China’s missile sites in recently reclaimed areas, or the wariness that most Association of Southeast Asian Nations display vis-à-vis China, has been enough to make countries in the region openly side with the U.S. and against China. Meanwhile, China is determined to press home its advantage, irrespective of international law or regional concerns.   In a strong grip  What is specially disconcerting is that despite a series of diktats from Washington to restrict economic and other relations with China, the United Kingdom’s decision to end reliance on Chinese imports and call off its Huawei 5G project, and growing anti-China sentiments heard across Europe — all of which make for good copy — China remains unfazed. China seems confident that its stranglehold on the global economy ensures that it does not face any real challenge. It would be wise for India to recognise this.  It is equally necessary to realise how fickle some of these countries can be when it comes to economic issues. Australia is a prime example. The latter is a member of the Quad (the U.S., Japan, Australia and India), that is widely seen as an anti-China coalition. Nevertheless, at a recent meeting in Washington between U.S. Secretary of State Michael R. Pompeo, the U.S. Secretary of Defence Mark Esper, the Australian Foreign Minister and the Australian Defence Minister, Australia made it clear that China is important for Australia, that it would not do anything contrary to its interests, and a strong economic engagement was an essential link in the Australia-China relationship. Likewise, the U.K.’s Secretary of State for Foreign and Commonwealth Affairs, Dominic Raab, recently stated in its Parliament, that the U.K. wants a positive relationship with China, would work with China, and that there was enormous scope for positive constructive engagement.  It is thus more than evident that few nations across the world are willing to risk China’s ire because of strong economic ties that have been forged over the years. Economic ties are proving way stronger than military and strategic ones. Even in Asia, while a majority of ASEAN countries have grave concerns about China’s predatory tactics, with the ASEAN having become one of China’s biggest trading partners, it adopts a default position. viz. , “not to take sides”.  India and the neighbourhood At this time, when the dice should actually have been loaded against China, it is India that is finding many of its traditional friends being less than helpful. While India’s relations with Pakistan had nowhere to go but downhill, India’s present stand-off with China has provided Pakistan with yet another opportunity to fish in troubled waters, including the production of a “fake map” of Pakistan, which includes parts of Indian territory such as Siachen, Jammu and Kashmir and Gujarat.  India’s relations with Nepal, meanwhile, have hit a road block. Relations have soured in recent months, and Nepal has gone to the extent of publishing new maps which show the ‘Kalapani area’ as a part of Nepal. In Sri Lanka, the return of the Rajapaksas to power after the recent elections does not augur too well for India-Sri Lanka relations. It is, however, the strain in India-Bangladesh relations (notwithstanding the warm relationship that exists between Bangladesh Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina and Indian leaders), that is a real cause for concern, since it can provide a beachhead against Chinese activities in the region.  Beijing moves ahead China is, meanwhile, busy ‘stirring the pot’ elsewhere in South Asia. In July, Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi organised a virtual meeting of the Foreign Ministers of Nepal, Afghanistan and Pakistan,. Here, he proposed taking forward an economic corridor plan with Nepal, styled as the Trans-Himalayan Multi-Dimensional Connectivity Network, and expanding the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor (CPEC) to Afghanistan, touting benefits of new economic corridors on the lines of the CPEC.  China has also made headway in Iran to an extent, again at India’s expense. Iran and China are reported to be currently pursuing an economic and security partnership that would involve massive Chinese investments in energy and other sectors in Iran, in exchange for China receiving regular supplies of Iranian oil for the next 25 years. China has also dexterously positioned itself to circumvent India’s monopoly over the Chabahar Port, by providing a munificent aid package for the Chabahar-Afghanistan Rail link, thereby undercutting India’s offer of aid and assistance for the rail project.  Geo-balancing is not happening to China’s disadvantage. This lesson must be well understood, when countries like India plan their future strategy. M.K. Narayanan is a former National Security Adviser and a former Governor of West Bengal
11 August 2020||August 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Making up for shortfalls in GST collection||Two weeks ago, the Central government announced that it has released the Goods and Services Tax (GST) compensation dues to States for 2019-20. The total compensation was Rs. 1,65,302 crore while the compensation cess fund collected was Rs. 95,444 crore. The shortfall was made up by excess collections in earlier years as well as some of the balance of inter-State GST from earlier years. This raises the question of how the compensation will be made in the current year. Background of the cess The GST compensation cess has an interesting background. GST subsumed several taxes, including those which were the preserve of the States, such as sales tax, and therefore required an amendment to the Constitution of India. As the amendment affected the Seventh Schedule (which delineates the jurisdiction of the Centre and the States), it required ratification by the legislatures of half the States. That is, this Constitution Amendment needed wide political support. Prior to GST, States exporting goods to other States collected a tax. GST is a destination-based tax, i.e., the State where the goods are sold receive the tax. This implies that manufacturing States would lose out while consuming States would benefit. In order to convince manufacturing States to agree to GST, a compensation formula was created. The Constitution Amendment Bill, introduced in 2014, and passed by the Lok Sabha, had two provisions. First, it provided for a 1% tax on inter-State trade, which would be assigned to the supplying State. Second, it made provisions for a law to be passed by Parliament to provide compensation to States for loss of revenue for a period up to five years. However, a Select Committee of the Rajya Sabha recommended that the compensation be guaranteed for a period of five years. This was accepted when the Bill was passed by the Rajya Sabha, and subsequently by the Lok Sabha. As tax receipts of manufacturing States had been protected by the guarantee, the provision of the 1% tax on inter-State trade was dropped. The cess fund The modalities of the compensation cess were specified by the GST (Compensation to States) Act, 2017. This Act assumed that the GST revenue of each State would grow at 14% every year, from the amount collected in 2015-16, through all taxes subsumed by the GST. A State that had collected tax less than this amount in any year would be compensated for the shortfall. The amount would be paid every two months based on provisional accounts, and adjusted every year after the State’s accounts were audited by the Comptroller and Auditor General. This scheme is valid for five years, i.e., till June 2022. A compensation cess fund was created from which States would be paid for any shortfall. An additional cess would be imposed on certain items and this cess would be used to pay compensation. The items are pan masala, cigarettes and tobacco products, aerated water, caffeinated beverages, coal and certain passenger motor vehicles. The Act states that the cess collected and “such other amounts as may be recommended by the [GST] Council” would be credited to the fund. In the first two years of this scheme, the cess collected exceeded the shortfall of States. In the third year, 2019-20, the fund fell significantly short of the requirement. This was on account of slowdown in tax collections as the economy slowed down coupled with negative growth in sectors such as motor vehicles which contributed to the cess fund. Issue and possible resolution Most economists expect negative real GDP growth this year, and nominal GDP to be close to last year’s level. As indirect taxes are levied on the nominal value of transactions, this is likely to result in significant shortfall for States from the assured tax collection. A key source of the problem is that the 2017 Act guaranteed a tax growth rate of 14%, which is unachievable this year. Whereas no one could have foreseen the pandemic and its impact on the economy, the 14% target was too ambitious to start with. Given the government’s inflation target at 4%, this implied a real GDP growth plus tax buoyancy of 9%. That this was an unrealistic target is evident from the shortfall last financial year, when the lockdown was for less than two weeks. As we have discussed above, the Central government is constitutionally bound to compensate States for loss of revenue for five years. The assumed rate of growth of a State’s GST revenue is set at 14% by Parliament through the 2017 Act. There are several possible solutions to this issue. First, the Constitution could be amended to reduce the period of guarantee to three years (thus ending June 2020). This would be difficult to do as most States would be reluctant to agree to this proposal. It could also be seen as going back on the promise made to States when they agreed to subsume their taxes into the GST. Second, the Central government could fund this shortfall from its own revenue. States would be happy with this proposal. However, the Centre’s finances are stretched due to shortfall in its own tax collection combined with extra expenditure to manage the health and economic crisis. It may not be in a position to give further support to States. Third, the Centre could borrow on behalf of the cess fund. The tenure of the cess could be extended beyond five years until the cess collected is sufficient to pay off this debt and interest on it. Fourth, the Centre could convince States that the 14% growth target was always unrealistic. The target should have been linked to nominal GDP growth. If the Centre can negotiate with States through the GST Council to reset the assured tax level, it could then bring in a Bill in Parliament to amend the 2017 Act. The Constitution makes it obligatory for the Centre to make up for shortfall by the States. The cess collected will not be sufficient for this purpose. The GST Council, which is a constitutional body with representation of the Centre and all the States, should find a practical solution. M.R. Madhavan is President of PRS Legislative Research, New Delhi
11 August 2020||August 11 2020 00:00 IST,||The main bricks to use in India’s steel frame||When the Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) announces the results of the Civil Services Main examination every year and the list of successful candidates, amidst all the fanfare it is legitimate for us to reflect on a few fundamental questions: Are the right type of men and women being inducted into the higher bureaucracy? Is there any mid-career review of their performance, so that the misfits and the dishonest are weeded out? Both these questions are extremely relevant if we want to see an upgradation in the quality of service to the poor. Still a major draw The UPSC has, without doubt, a strenuous protocol. The process is clinical and as objective as possible. There is reason to believe (unlike many of its State counterparts) the UPSC is an honest organisation which allows no latitude to the few venal elements that may occasionally be inadvertently drawn into the various stages of the selection process. Evaluating civil service recruits for their intelligence and integrity is a difficult exercise if one takes into account that many attributes go into the fabric of a credible and performing civil service. Also, we are too diverse a nation, with a huge population of rising expectations to construct a one-size-fits-all reform formula. What is heartening is that several lakh Indian youth take the examination every year. Its popularity continues to grow despite the many hurdles which include a preliminary weeding out test, possibly because the challenges of a position in public service are still attractive and incentives in the form of salary and allowances are enlarging. I am happy that there are many success stories of children from the hitherto neglected sections of society making the grade. All this despite the cynicism with which many citizens now view a public servant, high and low. The competition is intense and spectacular. Only about 900 candidates, that is less than 4% of those who appear for the preliminary examination, ultimately get appointed. The change now When my generation made a bid for selection in the 1960s, we were just about 15,000 to 20,000 candidates in the race for the same number of openings. There was also no preliminary examination which now cruelly eliminates a majority of applicants. The current stiff process of selection induces many of us in my age group to believe that most of us would not have passed muster under the present scheme of the examination. In the UPSC list released a few days ago, 304 candidates were from the General category and 78 from the Economically Weaker Sections. Other Backward Classes (251), Scheduled Castes (129) and Scheduled Tribes (67) constituted the rest of the group of successful candidates. Women among these were about 150, one of them bagging the third rank among all appointees. Undoubtedly, this phenomenon has brought about a new attitude and drive to achieve, which were not fully visible earlier. As usual there are a number of engineers who have made the grade. Two candidates from Tamil Nadu were visually challenged. Nothing can touch us more. Success stories of disadvantaged members of society such as these candidates should help to dilute the age-old prejudice against those who are challenged. The enormous care taken by successive governments to make our higher civil services reflect social diversity is commendable. This is as it should be in a country where despite all the gory happenings of violence in some regions, there is a desire to push forward to empower the poor and weaker sections. On the ground However, can we rest content with the incremental progress that we have achieved towards transforming the image of the civil service? Not at all. My reservation is mainly on account of the two major charges levelled against the higher civil services, especially the Indian Administrative Service and the Indian Police Service (IPS) wherever we go within the country. These are to do with the glaring insensitivity to the poor citizen and the greed that still afflicts a segment of the civil service. The District Collector and the District Superintendent of Police are the two powerful and visible symbols of the administration. There are 739 districts in India and as many Collectors and SPs. Although the penchant of many State governments to create more small districts escalates administrative expenses, tiny districts make officials more easily available to the common man in distress, who looks up to the officialdom for assistance almost on a daily basis. If a Collector and an SP are inaccessible (as is the case in most of our districts) it shows the whole administration in a bad light. There are a few young officers who are different from the majority and put their heart and soul into the task of alleviating the miseries of the poor. It is this band of officers who should somehow be enlarged and quickly. The sheer workload of a Collector and SP may prevent them from finding time to interact with every citizen. But this reality does not convince the citizen who feels squarely aggrieved that only the rich and not the poor can get things done in post-Independence India. This unfortunate situation is exacerbated by the fact that officials at the lower levels of the bureaucracy are either insensitive or demand illegal gratification to provide a service which is the fundamental right of every citizen. In spite of admirable reforms, major and tiny, brought about by the present central government, the common belief is that very few things get done at the bottom of the pyramid of government without greasing somebody’s palm. As someone put it, in many countries in the West, a citizen will have to offer a bribe to persuade a civil servant to omit doing something which he is legally required to do. In India, one will have to resort to bribing a public servant to compel him to do something which he is enjoined by law to do. Nothing can be a more damaging commentary on the state of our civil service. State of the police I am particularly concerned about the situation that prevails in our police stations. There are more than 15,000 of them in the country. A number of them have no doubt distinguished themselves with their readiness to serve the not-so literate and the poor. Sadly, a majority still have a blemished record of ill-treating the poor. As a result, a police station has become an institution that is shunned by the law-abiding citizen. This is where I would like to see a qualitative improvement in policing which has to be ushered in by the new IPS recruits. Wherever they see injustice or violence against unsuspecting citizens, it will be for them to rise in protest and instil sense in their subordinate ranks as well as their supervisors. There is a real danger of the image of the Indian Police diminishing further if the incoming young officers just mark their time and do not put their foot down when it comes to unethical practices. We have a large core of enlightened senior IPS officers who can mould the character of the new entrants. If they do not play this desperately needed role, they will have betrayed the confidence that the father of the civil service, Sardar Vallabhai Patel, reposed in the IPS and the IAS. R.K. Raghavan is a former CBI Director and a former High Commissioner of India to Cyprus
11 August 2020||August 11 2020 00:00 IST,||The whys of death by suicide||It is not surprising that the unfortunate death by suicide of a young actor has stirred the nation, and with good reason. Sadly, the haranguing of disconcerted individuals on television and ugly exchanges on social media have evoked strong reactions in some of us who live and work with persons with experiences of distress and mental ill health. If foul play was indeed the reason behind the death of Sushant Singh Rajput, then justice must be served. However, the manner in which we see events unravel today are unsavoury and detrimental to many. Flippant associations between weakness and depression, erraticism and bipolar disorder are shame-inducing and counterproductive to the larger narrative of seeking help, ensuring justice and promoting social cohesion and well-being. More so, when these opinions are emphatically asserted by ‘celebrities’. What lies beneath? Death by suicide is a public health challenge, a cause for social concern and a philosophical question. It is tethered, amongst other talking points, to existentialism, meaning-making and sociality, and is a cause of moral and social panic. The sociologist Emile Durkheim attributed ‘anomie’, or feelings of alienation and social isolation, to a breakdown in social equilibrium, which he theorised increased the propensity for one to die by suicide. Thomas Joiner’s framework that places the experience of thwarted belongingness, perceived burdensomeness combined with an “acquired capability” to self-harm, owing to a range of factors that include childhood trauma, resonates with us. Around the same time as Rajput’s passing, a young client, Ms. Lakshmi (de-identified), who was accessing mental health services, also died by suicide. As she lay in hospital, she hoped she would be saved. She said she had taken a “drastic” step that she now regretted, as she felt “frustrated” by frequent interpersonal conflicts with family members and defeated for not feeling “understood” for her mood swings. She had dreams of marriage, gainful employment and stability. The scramble to make ends meet, to find meaning in work and life, to experience comfort and kinship in social relationships — our pursuits vary. The cards that we are dealt with in life influence, and perhaps even limit, our choices largely. Undoubtedly, those who face systemic oppression, social disadvantage and discrimination have it harder, leading them to feel dispensable even. Ethnographies of suicides explore intersections of historical perspectives, psychology, sociology, psychiatry, tradition, regional cultures, altruism, rituals, alienation, social decline and defeat, etc. So, what lies beneath? The conflict between individualism and a sense of community? The favouring of particular archetypes? Or loneliness, which, as Fay Bound Alberti discovers, is often shrouded “in shame” for reasons that relate “historical connections between loneliness and personal failing”? In June, an elderly couple died by suicide fearing an uncertain future, consequences of physical ill health and economic constraints, experiencing loneliness as their kin distanced themselves. The danger of ‘othering’ people Professor Lars Anderson defines loneliness as “an enduring condition of emotional distress that arises when a person feels estranged from, misunderstood, or rejected by others and/ or lacks appropriate social partners, for desired activities, particularly activities that provide a sense of social integration and opportunities for emotional intimacy”. Therefore, we argue that beneath the regrettable suicide of many is an emotional disposition that triggers feelings of alienation, loneliness, hopelessness, frustration and worthlessness. In a country of 1.3 billion, people can still be lonely, assailed by identity politics; gender, caste, class or status-based privilege or disprivilege; ascribed notions of appropriate versus inappropriate behaviour; and a dominant narrative that is ableist, neurotypical, pro-positivity, anti-grey and dissociated from the experience of mental flux. This desolation may be further accentuated when faced with ethical and social dilemmas. ‘Othering’ such persons, as a result, may pressure them into conforming, resulting in the loss of authenticity. Losing the ability to know oneself and act by one’s values, and suffering the inability to find and sustain connections that matter, takes away from the joy of a universal human existence. Both state and society need a rethink and are culpable if losses around fearless self-expression, creative pursuits, individualistic mind journeys and diverse social relationships are all opposed for a singular narrative. Our society extends compassion and empathy on the one hand, but discriminates, bullies and segregates on the other. Perhaps, humility could guide us through a collective soul-searching exercise. Let’s think twice before we treat anyone who doesn’t fit into a well-packaged treasure as marginal. Vandana Gopikumar is Co-Founder, The Banyan, and a minority mental health researcher; Sanjeev Jain is Professor, Department of Psychiatry, National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences
11 August 2020||August 11 2020 00:00 IST,||The WHO’s relevance is fading||COVID-19 has infected more than 19 million people, claimed over 0.7 million lives and devastated economies. As the pandemic transcends geopolitical boundaries, one is forced to ruminate on a counterfactual with a series of timely global health interventions by the World Health Organization (WHO) duly supported by governments. An early warning and timely policy measures by the WHO would have forewarned countries and set their preparatory efforts in motion for mounting a decisive response strategy. Slow response With regional offices in six geographical regions and country offices across 150 countries, the WHO was expected to play the dual role of a think tank and oversee global responses to public health emergencies. It was reported that the earliest COVID-19 positive case in China was reported in November, but China informed the WHO about the disease only in January. With the WHO country representative stationed in Beijing, it is unlikely that widespread transmission went unnoticed. Then, even though confirmed cases were reported from Japan, South Korea, Taiwan and the U.S. in January, the WHO continued to downplay the severity of the virus. It took some inexplicable decisions and actions such as declaring the pandemic as a public health emergency of international concern only on January 30 and ignoring Taiwan’s hints of human-to-human transmission and requests on sharing “relevant information”. Further, the WHO went on to praise China’s response to the pandemic. WHO was severely criticised for its poor handling of the Ebola outbreak in 2014 as well. Incontrovertibly, the relevance of the health agency has been fading. The WHO has been reduced to a coordinating body, beholden to the interests of rich member states. Its functional efficiency has been disadvantaged with organisational lethargy, absence of decisive leadership, bureaucratic indolence, underfunded programmes, and inability to evolve to meet the needs of the 21st century. Director General Tedros Adhanom has been criticised for his leadership abilities during this pandemic. In contrast, Gro Harlem Brundtland, former Director General of the WHO (1998-2003), spearheaded the global health response with a host of significant policy decisions. She focused on projecting WHO as one entity and publicly reproached the Chinese leadership for its response to the 2003 SARS pandemic. The timely containment of SARS despite an unfavourable response from China bears the stamp of her decisive leadership. Relying on rich member states WHO is funded through assessed contributions made by the member states and voluntary contributions from member states and private donors. While assessed contributions can be spent as per the organisation’s priorities approved at the World Health Assembly, the irregular voluntary contributions are allocated in consultation with the donors. While voluntary contributions accounted for nearly 80% of the budget in 2018-19, assessed contributions merely constituted 17% of the total budgetary support. The challenges owing to constrained finances encumber autonomy in decision-making by favouring a donor-driven agenda. While the WHO has failed in arresting the pandemic, governments across the globe are equally responsible for their inept handling and ill-preparedness. However, that does not vindicate WHO’s tardiness in handling the crisis. Many countries, especially in Africa and Asia, rely predominantly on the WHO for enforcing policy decisions governing public health. Political leanings and financial compulsions of WHO cannot betray that trust. The burden of their expectations must weigh heavily on every policy decision taken by the global health agency, for when the WHO fails, many innocent lives are lost. Meenakshi Sharma is a development consultant
11 August 2020||August 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Hospitals afire||The shocking deaths of at least 19 people in special facilities for COVID-19 management in Vijayawada and Ahmedabad have exposed the deep rot in regulatory processes for institutional and commercial building safety. While 11 died in the Andhra Pradesh incident, where a hotel had been taken over by a private hospital to run a COVID-19 care centre, nine patients perished in the blaze in a Gujarat hospital intensive care unit (ICU). These ghastly incidents which claimed the lives of those who were getting treatment or recovering from an infection in supposedly secure conditions lay bare the lack of preparedness among States to manage the expanding pandemic, and hasty contracting procedures. In a familiar pattern, civic and fire authorities who were expected to monitor the safety of such buildings have sought to pin responsibility for the carnage on the owners of the properties. They are being held responsible for failure to obtain a no objection certificate or, in the case of the hotel-turned-COVID-19 care centre, carrying out electrical upgrades for safety. This is clearly untenable, as the Supreme Court of India observed about a decade ago in the Uphaar cinema fire tragedy case in Delhi, pulling up authorities including the Union Home Ministry for abdicating responsibility and passing the buck on to the management of the institution. In the Ahmedabad ICU blaze, patients expected the institution to offer the highest levels of safety, but suffered as it was ill-equipped to fight a fire. Safety regulation of buildings used for health-care delivery is a subset of the overall need to regulate hospitals, and States should use the recent deadly fires as the occasion to launch much-delayed reform. In the absence of safety systems, many died of fire and smoke inhalation, while those who survived had nothing but luck to count on. This situation cannot be allowed to continue. The National Building Code of India, with additional fire safety provisions for hospitals, is the basis for hospital accreditation systems, but these should be made mandatory and enforced in all States. If smoke alarms and sprinkler systems, along with local fire-fighting aids are available, loss of life can be eliminated. All patients should also be covered by substantial life insurance. Evacuation systems for ICU patients need to be part of the building design. Often, hospital buildings are regularised for unapproved constructions by State governments acting thoughtlessly. Schemes introduced to regularise building violations are clearly anti-social in character. The many fires in institutional buildings and their terrible toll should lead to a full inspection of all such facilities for safety, with civil society keeping up the pressure on governments to act.
11 August 2020||August 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Misplaced priorities||The extended lockdown might have slowed down the spread of the novel coronavirus in India in the beginning, but in the absence of large-scale testing, tracing and isolation of the infected and their contacts, the virus has been spreading with renewed vitality. If it took 168 days to reach one million cases on July 16, it took just 21 days to double to two million on August 6; deaths too increased from 25,599 on July 16 to 41,641 on August 6. In recent weeks, the number of daily new cases reported across India has been increasing. Similarly, the number of deaths per day has also been rising; it crossed the 1,000 mark on August 9. Till mid-July, the daily fresh cases reported were well under 35,000 but increased to over 50,000 since July 29 and have been staying above 60,000 since August 6. Since August 3, India has been reporting the most cases in the world, surpassing the U.S. That the seven-day average test positivity rate is 9.4% underscores the large number of infected people and the compulsion to increase the tests carried out each day. The low daily testing numbers are also reflected in low tests (over 14,000) per million population. After Delhi, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh too have increased the number of rapid antigen tests done each day. The low sensitivity of this test might help in reducing the test positivity rate, as seen in Delhi, but may not actually help in containment. Particularly so when there is an over-reliance on rapid antigen tests and negative results from them are not validated with the molecular test. If the ICMR shares only the data on the number of tests done each day, neither the States nor the Health Ministry provide a break-up of different tests and the number of positive results through each method, making the data not very useful. Though Kerala has reported only over 35,500 cases so far, the compulsion to ramp up testing cannot be overemphasised, particularly in districts where community transmission has been documented. Andhra Pradesh (over 2,35,525) and Karnataka (1,78,087), which initially appeared to have contained the spread, have the third and fourth highest number of cases, respectively, in India. Aggressive testing through fever clinics in Chennai helped halve the number of daily fresh cases to 1,100-1,200, and further reduction became possible in the last few days. The renewed commitment to trace contacts, including non-family members, in Chennai since July has helped in knocking down the numbers to below 1,000. After putting up a good show initially, contact tracing has been nearly absent since mid-May in some States, one of the reasons why cases spiked and spread. After the mega cities, a spike is now seen in the smaller cities in Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka and Maharashtra. The daily confirmed cases and deaths in Gujarat and Telangana during the pandemic give an impression that the States’ priority is to manage the data. This does not augur well for India.
11 August 2020||August 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Honouring Mr. Tilak (From an editorial)||The telegram we published regarding the action of the Collector of Dharwar towards the Dharwar Municipality for closing its schools in honour of Tilak’s memory, will have aroused feelings of bitter resentment in the country. Persecuted all his life by Anglo-Indians on the one hand and his own countrymen on the other, Mr. Tilak is now beyond the foul breath of calumny; and words of hatred, now expressed, would only recoil with double effect on the speakers. We do not know if there are many among the official hierarchy who would echo the insulting epithets used by this Collector who is base enough to call Mr. Tilak a “notorious unrepentant criminal.” Whether the enemies be many or few, the persistence of hatred after death is, we take it, an unconscious tribute, mixed with an amount of chagrin, to the success of the ideals and methods associated with Mr. Tilak’s revered name. The bureaucracy and Anglo-India do not as yet seem to repent the treatment they gave him; they but add to their own notoriety, for he passed away in the height of his success. The people of Dharwar, we are informed, are greatly incensed at the Collector’s outrageous demand on the Municipal council. They have indeed, good reason, for not only is one of India’s great sons insulted but the people’s power as embodied in Municipal government is challenged.
11 August 2020||August 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Press boycotts Congress (R) meeting||Owing to the “callous” treatment meted out to pressmen, they decided to-day [August 10] to boycott the coverage of the proceedings of the Central Parliamentary Board of the Ruling Congress [New Delhi] which met under the presidentship of Mr. Jagjivan Ram. More than 30 pressmen were waiting at the Prime Minister’s residence, as the meeting was being held at the adjoining house. The security guards refused to permit pressmen to enter the premises even after the meeting was over on the plea that they had no orders for permitting them to enter the meeting place. And by the time pressmen got access to the place where the meeting was held, all the leaders had left. Thereupon, the pressmen decided not to publish news of the meeting in any of the daily papers.
11 August 2020||MUMBAI,||BCCI gets govt. nod to stage IPL in UAE||The Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) has received the Central government’s nod to stage the Indian Premier League (IPL) in the United Arab Emirates this year, with the formal approval coming on Monday. IPL governing council chairman Brijesh Patel confirmed to The Hindu that the BCCI has “received all the requisite government clearances”. As a result, the IPL will be played in Dubai, Abu Dhabi and Sharjah from September 19 to November 10. The IPL governing council was informed on August 2 that the government had verbally cleared the proposal to hold the tournament overseas following the COVID-19 outbreak in India. However, the formal go-ahead was delayed. Besides the Ministry of Sports and Youth Affairs, the move also required clearance from the ministries of External Affairs and Home Affairs. Title sponsor on Aug. 18 Meanwhile, BCCI secretary Jay Shah released the invitation for Expression of Interest (EOI) for the IPL 2020 title sponsorship through a media statement. The invitation specifies that rights are available until December 31. Business conglomerates with a minimum turnover of Rs. 300 crore are eligible to apply. The EOI must be submitted by 5 p.m. on August 14. The eligible firms will have to email their bids between 11 a.m. and 1 p.m. on August 18. Since the last governing council meeting, the IPL has been without a title sponsor, with Vivo India “suspending” its five-year deal. Given the economic situation following the pandemic, the BCCI is expecting the new sponsorship deal to be considerably lower than Vivo’s Rs. 440 crore per edition. Patel said, however, that “the response from the market” was “encouraging”. A Patanjali spokesperson confirmed to PTI on Monday that the ayurveda-based FMCG brand is exploring options to bid for the title rights. The others understood to be interested include Amazon, Dream11, Byju’s and Amul. While Dream11 is the official partner of the IPL and BCCI, Byju’s is the title sponsor of the Indian cricket team. Both firms have investments from Chinese entities.
11 August 2020||Thiruvananthapuram,||I am happy I got the break: Ananthapadmanabhan||K.N. Ananthapadmanabhan, who was included in the Emirates ICC International Panel of Umpires, said he was expecting the nomination and added it was a result of his perseverance and hard work. The 50-year-old former Kerala captain, who began his umpiring career in 2006, said he could sense that he was inching closer to the nomination after he officiated in many important matches last season. “After Nitin Menon was selected to the Elite Panel, there was an opening in the International Panel and I thought I had a good chance. I had umpired in some important matches last season like the Ranji Trophy final, Syed Mustaq Ali Trophy final, IPL, the ‘Test’ between India-A and England-A and was part of the umpires exchange programme with South Africa. ““I am happy that I got the break,” said Ananthapadmanabhan. Reliving a cricketer’s life He added that after retirement, he took to umpiring as he felt it was the closest and the easiest way to relive a cricketer’s life. “I chose umpiring because for me it was the easiest way to be part of the game again.” Former India captain S. Venkataraghavan and former Elite Panel umpire Simon Taufel were the two personalities who influenced him. and he learnt a lot from both of them. “Venkataraghavan was a towering personality. He was widely respected. I was always in awe of him and wanted to be respected like him. Simon Taufel was another highly respected individual who was the best umpire in the world. His classes during seminars were very informative. He taught me how pre-match preparation is important for an umpire,” he said. Ananthapadmanabhan said senior umpires like C. Shamsuddin and S. Ravi used to share their experiences and help others like him. Umpiring from both ends for a session during last season’s Ranji Trophy final was the most memorable moment of his career. “It was a high-pressure match and the other umpire, Shamsuddin, got injured and couldn’t take the field on the second day. The replacement umpire was due to arrive only in the afternoon. I was told to umpire from both ends till he arrived and I did a good job and there were no complaints.”  Venkataraghavan was a towering personality. I was always in awe of him and wanted to be respected like him.
11 August 2020||San Francisco,||Magical eagle lands Morikawa first Major||Collin Morikawa claimed his first Major championship win on Sunday, delivering a magical eagle on the 16th hole in a bogey-free round of 64 at the 2020 PGA Championship. The 23-year-old American, who turned pro just 14 months ago, did the unthinkable by winning in just his second Major appearance. Morikawa, who is ranked 12th in the world, eventually finished 13-under 267. Five-way tie for fourth Third round leader Dustin Johnson had to settle for a tie for second with England's Paul Casey. Johnson shot a 68 and Casey closed with a 66 to reach 11-under 269. Jason Day, Matthew Wolff, Bryson DeChambeau, Tony Finau and Scottie Scheffler all finished in a tie for fourth, three shots adrift of Morikawa.  The scores:   267: Collin Morikawa (USA) 69, 69, 65, 64; 269: Dustin Johnson (USA) 69, 67, 65, 68, Paul Casey (Eng) 68, 67, 68, 66; 270: Tony Finau (USA) 67, 70, 67, 66, Scottie Scheffler (USA) 66, 71, 65, 68, Bryson DeChambeau (USA) 68, 70, 66, 66, Matthew Wolff (USA) 69, 68, 68, 65, Jason Day (Aus) 65, 69, 70, 66.
11 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Shooters’ 2019 bounty set to fuel the awards chase||Indian shooting had an unprecedented season in 2019. India topped the medals table at all four World Cups (Delhi, Beijing, Munich and Rio). The crowning glory came at the World Cup Finals in China, where the shooters topped the medals tally. When the selection panel meets to decide on the government sports awards soon, the shooters’ performances will be prominently discussed. The driving forces behind India’s grand show were the two 18-year-olds, Saurabh Chaudhary and Manu Bhaker. It may be recalled that the two had won the individual air pistol gold at the Youth Olympics in Buenos Aires in 2018. Incredibly, the duo swept all four gold medals in mixed air pistol at the World Cups in 2019. Saurabh, who had won the Asian Games gold in 2018, won two individual gold medals at the World Cups last year. India swept the air pistol event as another Asian Games medallist, Abhishek Verma, won the individual air pistol gold in two other World Cups last year. Remarkably, Manu won the mixed air pistol gold in the Asian championship with Verma, and the World Cup Final gold with a Russian. Manu, who had won the Commonwealth Games gold, did win the women’s air pistol gold in the World Cup Final in 2019. Saurabh, Manu and Abhishek are in the race for the Arjuna awards this time, along with Elavenil Valarivan, Shahzar Rizvi, Om Prakash Mitharval and Chinki Yadav. The 21-year-old Elavenil ended the season as World No. 1 in air rifle after clinching gold in the Rio World Cup and World Cup Final in Putian. In 2018, Shahzar had won the gold in the World Cup in Guadalajara and the silver in Changwon. Om Prakash Mitharval had won the free pistol gold in the World Championship in 2018. He was also part of the golden mixed air pistol team that year in the Guadalajara World Cup.
11 August 2020||KOLKATA,||Rajat Chauhan eyes World, Olympic levels||Ace compound archer Rajat Chauhan is hopeful of achieving his targets of becoming a World champion and winning an Olympic medal. If he performs well, the first target is within reach. In order to achieve his second, he has to switch to recurve, as compound competitions are not part of the Olympics. “I expect to get a job (the post of Deputy Superintendent of Police in Rajasthan) in a month. I have to win a National or international medal within two years for my job to be confirmed. “I will use the time to achieve my dream of becoming a World champion,” Chauhan, hailing from Jaipur, told The Hindu . “After securing my future, I will move to recurve and will try for the 2024 Olympics. My gut feeling says I will do well in the Olympics.” About four years ago, Chauhan, a World championships silver medallist in 2015, had switched from compound to recurve in search of Olympic glory. “I have seen the difference in treatment to Olympic athletes and non-Olympic athletes. That’s why I have a keen desire to excel in the Olympics.” Fine-tuning skills Chauhan, who returned to compound archery in order to land the job, utilised the lockdown period to reflect and work on improving his game. He lost eight kilos and reduced his bow length and weight to suit his transformed physique. “After reducing weight, I felt some changes were needed to bring precision into my shots,” said the 25-year-old, an Asian Games gold and silver winner in team events. Chauhan was thankful to World Archery for providing a scholarship of $5000 during the lockdown. “There are no competitions and no prize money. So, I don’t have any earnings. This fund has been useful for my training. I try to help a few needy archers as well. “Since I helped others (donated Rs. 2.11 lakh to the Rajasthan COVID fund and contributed to a combined effort to feed 1800 people daily for two months), I got this assistance.” Prior to chasing his Olympics dream, Chauhan wants to perform well at the 2022 Commonwealth Games.
11 August 2020||New Delhi,||India’s medal count will be in double digits at Tokyo: Deepa Malik||India’s first-ever woman Paralympic medallist, shot-putter Deepa Malik, believes the country’s medal count will be in double digits at the Tokyo Games next year. “At Rio we had doubled the medals, we were a squad of 19. We had two gold, a silver and a bronze. In 2018 (Asian Para Games), we were a squad of 194 and won 72 medals. It has already set the benchmark,” Malik told paddler Mudit Dani during his chat show, ‘In The Sportlight’. “The sensational thing about Tokyo next year will be India bagging Paralympics medals in double digits,” added the 49-year-old, who had claimed a silver at Rio de Janeiro in 2016. Malik had won the silver in Rio after throwing the shot put to 4.61m.
11 August 2020||HYDERABAD,||Officials in no hurry to resume sporting activity||‘Wait and watch’ seems to be the policy the top brass of the Telangana State Government handling sports has adopted with regard to resumption of sports activity. A combination of factors like funds, shortage of coaching staff and increasing number of COVID-19 cases in Hyderabad have forced the officials to wait for a few more weeks even though Sports Minister V. Srinivas Goud announced last week that stadia and academies could be reopened. Logistical problems And, stadia administrators told senior officials at a meeting last week that unless they were provided sanitisers, thermal guns, oxymeters and masks in order to implement the safety guidelines, they were not in a position to resume training. “If anything goes wrong, we will be held responsible. So, given the option we would like to wait for a few more weeks,” they said. “For instance, entire halls and sports equipment have to be sanitised every day. In athletics, equipment like javelin, discus need to be sanitised at the end of each athlete’s training,” one of the administrators told The Hindu . Another stadium administrator said with none of the National Sports Federations finalising any calendar, there was no need for SATS to be in a hurry to reopen stadia. Coaches issue Also, there are only 30 SATS coaches (23 of them on contract basis with meagre salaries) in all across the State, leading to a serious scarcity. “We have given a representation to Mr. K.T. Rama Rao, Telangana IT Minister, about the need to regularise the coaches’ services and he directed senior officials to resolve this long-pending issue,” he said.
11 August 2020||KOCHI,||World Athletics against national federations gagging coaches||Being a top Olympic sport, athletics is keen to attract a bigger audience and also to get closer to its fans. The coronavirus pandemic may have destroyed the competition calendar this year but it has helped the sport’s world body to understand its stars and fans better. “Our most important assets, our athletes, have communicated better and in a more personal way. We want to have greater connectivity with our athletes,” said Sebastian Coe, the president of World Athletics, while speaking during the webinar organised by the Asian Athletics Association on Monday. “And we want athletes to continue to communicate with their fans. We also want to make the sport more understandable and acceptable to our fans with new formats and better levels of presentation.” Strong bond During the webinar titled, ‘Athletics in the eyes of the media’, it was made clear that telling the stories of the athletes helps the sport build a strong bond with the fans. But there is a hitch in India and probably in many other countries too. Some of the country’s top national coaches, especially foreigners, have frequently said that they have been barred from talking to the media. Contract issues  A couple of coaches have even revealed that there is a clause in their contract regarding this and recently, a leading coach was strongly warned after he spoke to a journalist. This, along with the absence of live television coverage, restricts the sport’s growth in the country. But World Athletics is completely against national federations or employers gagging coaches. “No, they should not be barred from talking to the media,” said Jackie Brock-Doyle, World Athletics’ executive director of the communications department, in reply to a question from The Hindu . The future Sheikh Ahmed Al Fahad Al Sabah, the president of the Olympic Council of Asia who inaugurated the seminar, said the pandemic offered a good time to sit around and think what to do for the future. Dahlan Al Hamad, the president of the Asian Athletics Association, revealed during the meeting that the Asian Championships will be held at Hangzhou, China, from May 20 to 23 next year.  We also want to make the sport more understandable and acceptable to our fans with new formats and better levels of presentation
11 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Carlsen leads Ding in second set||Looking to win the second set and draw level, Magnus Carlsen carved out a classy 46-move win over Ding Liren in the opening game on the second day of the semifinals of the $300,000 Magnus Carlsen Chess Tour Finals on Monday. Ding, who managed to claim the first set on Sunday after denying Carlsen a win with white pieces in the Armageddon game, surrendered to the World champion’s brilliance in this positional encounter after the Norwegian seized the initiative in the middle game. In the other semifinal, Daniil Dubov defended an inferior position in 91 moves against Hikaru Nakamura to draw the opening game.  The results: Semifinals: Set Two: (Game One): Magnus Carlsen (Nor) bt Ding Liren (Chn); Hikaru Nakamura (USA) drew with Daniil Dubov (Rus).   Set One: Ding bt Carlsen (Score tied at 3.5-3.5 but Ding was declared the winner after the drawn Armageddon game); Nakamura bt Dubov 3.5-2.5 .
11 August 2020||Mumbai,||Tendulkar to ‘virtually’ flag off IDBI Marathon||Indian cricket legend Sachin Tendulkar will ‘virtually’ flag off the IDBI Federal Future Fearless Marathon on August 15, with over 6,000 runners having already registered for the event. “Mental and physical fitness have always been important and is even more so today,” Tendulkar, who is the brand ambassador of IDBI Federal Life Insurance, said in a press release.PTI
11 August 2020||CHENNAI,||Amid pandemic, three infants get life-saving liver transplants||Despite various difficulties and restrictions due to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, three babies — all yet to celebrate their first birthday — got a fresh lease of life in Chennai. The three had the same rare disease, biliary atresia, and received transplants at a private hospital in Chennai, on consecutive days. A statement issued by the Dr. Rela Institute and Medical Centre said the three babies from Nellore in Andhra Pradesh, Bengaluru and Delhi respectively, were diagnosed with biliary atresia which occurs in one among 10,000 children. In the condition, bile ducts that drain bile from the liver to the intestine are not properly formed. Last option With progressive jaundice and liver failure, the children’s families were informed that only liver transplants could save their children. The hospital statement said the families decided to defy the odds amidst the pandemic restrictions and logistical difficulties to undergo the transplants. “At the hospital, we implemented strict infection control policies on the staff and the parents to ensure that the children and the donors were safe,” said Naresh Shanmugam, paediatric liver specialist at the Dr. Rela’s. Chairman and managing director of the hospital Mohamed Rela said liver transplants for babies with biliary atresia were challenging as the children would have associated abnormal blood vessels that require reconstruction. Procedure tweaked “For reconstruction of these tiny blood vessels we use venous grafts from cadavers. Due to COVID-19, cadaveric organ donation was practically nil and so we had to improvise and perform the surgery without the need for venous grafts,” Dr. Rela said. He added that since these children were from other States, the parents had to get a lot of documents ready for travel and for the regulatory committee to clear organ donation. Chief Executive Officer of the hospital Ilankumaran Kaliamoorthy said the hospital has performed 100 paediatric liver transplants in less than 18 months. “These three kids could not be kept waiting until the pandemic is over. The transplants are an example of how safely we can perform complex surgeries by following strict infection control protocols even amidst the pandemic,” he said.
11 August 2020||August 11 2020 09:02 IST,||Sudoku - August 11, 2020||A mind game and a puzzle that you solve with reasoning and logic. Fill in the grid with digits in such a manner that every row, every column and every 3x3 box accommodates the digits 1 to 9, without repeating any. The solution to yesterday’s puzzle is given below:
11 August 2020||August 11 2020 00:00 IST,||‘Using the crime novel to discuss social issues is in our blood’||Death in the East , the fourth of Abir Mukherjee’s retro crime novels featuring Captain Sam Wyndham of the Calcutta Police and Sergeant Surendranath ‘Surrender-not’ Banerjee, opens in 1922. The novel switches between Assam of 1922 and 1905 in Whitechapel when Sam was a constable. “I am partly doing this because I feel I need to grow as an author,” says Mukherjee over the phone from London. “In book five, I felt I needed to challenge myself in an additional way. Sam’s narrative will be interspersed with chapters in Suren’s voice.” When he started writing the series, Mukherjee wrote from a white, Englishman’s point of view. “Sadly, I didn’t feel that I could write from an Indian’s point of view despite being Indian. Now I am more comfortable and I hope I am getting slightly better as a writer. I feel able to speak in Suren’s voice.” Despite being genre fiction, whodunits are a good way to explore social conditions. “I grew up in Scotland, where there is a tradition of social commentary. Using the crime novel to discuss social issues is in our blood. There are several reasons for that. First, a detective has access to all levels of society, from the prince, all the way to the prostitute. It is a good character, a good vehicle. Second, a lot of the issues in society today, such as terrorism, drugs, people trafficking, and the issues that I am looking at 100 years ago, have a law-and-order angle.” ‘Interesting dichotomy’ The author says while the police are fighting the good fight now, it was more ambiguous earlier. “In the Calcutta Police Museum, the displays for the modern day war on terror or drugs show the police as heroic. However, when you go back to before Independence, it is the freedom fighters who are heroic. I found that dichotomy interesting.” The books (published by Penguin Random House) are enormous fun and Mukherjee has created a fascinating cast of characters, including the lovely Annie Grant. Mukherjee is not willing to commit on whether Sam and Annie will get together. “Sam is a damaged individual. He suffers from what we call Post Traumatic Stress Disorder nowadays, but there was no name for shellshock then. He is a widower and has undergone a lot of trauma. He needs to sort himself out first. Also I don’t know if I want them to get together. The chase is interesting. I am happily married and have two lovely children but I stand by what I said,” Mukherjee says. Creating suspense Suren will be married or find some sort of romantic affiliation before Sam, Mukherjee concedes. So Sam looks to be set for the archetypal loner detective. “He is going to have his circle of friends. There will be Suren, there will always be an Annie. But at some point, there will be a falling out between Sam and Suren,” he says. The foundation for the disagreement has been set at the end of Death in the East when Suren visits Sam in Indian clothes and asks to be called Surendranath and not Surrender-Not. There does not seem to be any way the two could agree on the Freedom Movement. “I am not so sure,” says Mukherjee. “Not all the British in India believed in the English divine right to govern. I don’t think it would be completely outrageous to say that in the end Sam would be convinced of India’s need for Independence. He is not your average Englishman. He has seen too much in the war, to be blinkered. My gut feeling is there will be a coming together between the two around the story I really want to tell, that of the Bengal famine,” he says. The famine in 1943 resulted in the death of an estimated three million people. To get to 1943, Mukherjee is thinking of moving things forward. “I am thinking of not writing a book for every year like I have been doing, ( A Rising Man is set in 1919, A Necessary Evil in 1920 and Smoke and Ashes in 1921) rather writing a book for every two years. I don’t want to rush to get to ‘43 because I am also scared of dealing with the topic.” It is a widely held view that the famine was man-made due to colonial wartime policy. “It is a part of British history that has not been talked about. Unlike Germany or Japan, Britain has never had that mirror held up to its face. I have been lucky that the books have grown in popularity here and in America. I am getting to a point where I hope that when I come to write that story, I will have enough readers to actually make a dent in the psyche.” Talking about the genesis of the crime series, he says, “In school I was asked to write an essay about the Bengal famine. I used the argument that, while we lambaste and denigrate the Germans for what happened, we don’t even look at the Bengal famine. I got a C and I swear, that has been the inspiration for this. That anger was the cause of the series.”  Writing a series of books, has its pros and cons, he says. “As a writer if you say this is the start of a series, it helps publishers with their initial gamble. Second, you build a familiarity with your characters. Readers are invested in Sam, Suren and Annie. It took me till book three to effectively do what I set out to do, which is to be a pacy thriller and highlight the mustard gas experiments carried out by the British. I felt I achieved 75 to 80% of what I wanted. The downside of writing a series is not about having to come up with a new plot, but challenging yourself as an author rather than churn out books by the numbers.” Mukherjee says his next book is going to have nothing to do with India. “It will deal with issues such as how we view capitalism and will be different from anything that I have written. I have started writing it. Now, I spend my mornings with Sam and Suren and afternoons with this new idea. It is keeping me fresh.” The 45-year-old Scottish-Bengali author says the setting is one of the most important elements in a crime novel if done right. “I chose to set my books in Calcutta because it is a unique place. One of the strangest places I have ever been. I can understand the Bengali bombast, and the Bengali penchant for pretending to think instead of actually doing any hard work. I have seen it in myself. I am glad it is not laziness but genetics ( laughs ). “I think setting is important because it can change your novel from being a crime novel to being about a place. William McIlvanney’s Laidlaw (the 1977 novel is considered the first tartan noir), was a love song to Glasgow. We grew up reading Agatha Christie and the golden age of the country house crime novels. That has no relevance to me. They are great stories but did not have the relevance for me that Laidlaw did.” The mention of Christie brings us to the classic closed door murder in Death in the East . “It is my tribute to Christie. She was an innovator in so many ways. She introduced things that we now take for granted in crime fiction such as the unreliable narrator or as in the case of Murder on the Orient Express, where everyone is the murderer, or And Then There Were None, where there is no detective… I think most crime writers want at some point in their life to write a locked room mystery.” We will soon be seeing Sam and Suren on screen as the series has been optioned. “Kunal Nayyar from The Big Bang Theory wants to play Suren and has come on board as executive producer,” Mukherjee says.
11 August 2020||August 11 2020 00:00 IST,||‘It’s tough to gauge what is real on social media’||With her sophomore feature film, actor Janhvi Kapoor finds herself drawn into the discussion around nepotism on social media, once again. Encountering trolls and backlash is not unusual for the 23-year-old daughter of late actor Sridevi and producer Boney Kapoor. “It’s not the most fun situation to be in,” she chortles, as we speak on a video call ahead of the release of her latest film, Gunjan Saxena: The Kargil Girl . “Some people feel like I’m not deserving of the opportunities I’ve gotten and done nothing to deserve it, which, in a way, is true, but there is a section that won’t settle for any result, however hard I work.” Kapoor made her debut in 2018 with Dhadak , a Bollywood adaptation of the critically-acclaimed Marathi film, Sairat . Earlier this year, she acted in Zoya Akhtar’s segment in the Netflix horror anthology film Ghost Stories . While her third appearance, Gunjan Saxena: The Kargil Girl , was made for the big screen, it was later acquired by Netflix for a direct-to-digital release, due to the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. “Before this recent chatter started, there was a lot of encouragement on social media [for Gunjan Saxena ], so I’ve seen the attitude shift on social media, and it’s tough to gauge what is real and what’s not,” says Kapoor. Everyday sexism The actor says she channelises the criticism, even if they are unfounded, into enhancing her performances. In the biopic of Saxena, a 25-year-old Flying Officer, who was the first woman to enter the combat zone in the 1999 Kargil War, Kapoor had to navigate the technical aspects of playing a pilot. In the film, she traverses the journey of Saxena from a 16-year-old enthusiast to a 25-year-old professional. “When I had seen Dhadak , Janhvi was this innocent, pure and vulnerable person with big eyes. Someone who wanted to do a lot with her life but was a bit timid. I knew if we cast her as an Air Force officer, the world would think, ‘how could she do this?’ That’s the intention of casting her since that’s also the journey of Gunjan ma’am, who was an unlikely hero,” explains filmmaker Sharan Sharma, who is making his directorial debut with the biopic. On her path to becoming the first woman pilot in the Indian Air Force to go to war, Saxena encountered various levels of misogyny, from everyday sexism to the impervious boys’ club to lack of infrastructural support like women’s changing rooms in the all-male Udhampur air force base. “Misogyny is, unfortunately, a part of all our daily lives,” says Kapoor. “It is quite subliminal sometimes and it’s also a result of conditioning. But the kind of sexism Gunjan ma’am faced or we depicted [in the film], I don’t think I have experienced that in my own life.” In order to evoke emotions, Kapoor relied on her immediate environment on the sets and the support of Saxena, who she could rely on for feedback and insights. “As an actor, I don’t derive from my personal memory bank, that’s a different kind of approach. I prefer limiting my realm of reality to what’s in front of me and limiting it to the frame,” she informs. Getting the right actors Saxena’s father, played by Pankaj Tripathi in the biopic, was integral to her success and enabled her to break the glass ceiling. His unwavering support and progressive outlook on gender equality shaped the fundamental years of Saxena’s life. “Getting the right actors to portray that energy was important,” recalls Sharma. “Pankaj and Janhvi naturally formed that bond and she naturally idolises him and his work. Personally, for me, it was like the chemistry between Simba and Mufasa [in The Lion King ], because there is mutual respect and understanding but they are not friends.”  Gunjan Saxena is Kapoor’s second Netflix appearance this year. Shot for a theatrical release, visuals and sounds of the fighter jets in the film is an integral part of the experience. Is she nervous that those aspects may be diluted on a streaming platform? “Sharan told me, ‘You don’t realise how important sound is and it can make or break a scene’. So I’m hoping people have good sound systems or can connect to speakers,” she laughs. “But if not, I still believe in the emotion of the film.” The pandemic has also disrupted her shooting schedule for Dostana 2 , which she hopes will resume soon. “ Rooh Afza is ready but we are waiting to see how the [release] plays out in terms of the pandemic,” says Kapoor. For now, her focus is firmly on the release of Gunjan Saxena , an important film in the nascent stage of her career.  I knew if we cast Janhvi as an Air Force officer, the world would think, ‘how could she do this?’ That’s the intention of casting her since that’s also the journey of Gunjan ma’am, who was an unlikely heroSharan SharmaFilmmaker
11 August 2020||CHANDIGARH,||Protest against farm ordinances||Farmers of as many as 10 outfits on Monday staged a ‘two-wheeler’ protest in Punjab, opposing the Centre’s recently promulgated agriculture-related ordinances and amendment to the Electricity Act. The protests were carried out under the banner of the All India Kisan Sangharsh Coordination Committee, an umbrella body of over 250 farmer and farmworker organisations, in most of districts of the State. Farmers were seen shouting slogans against the recently promulgated ordinances by the Centre, which included the Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Ordinance; the Farmers (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and the Farm Services Ordinance and the Essential Commodities (Amendment) Ordinance. They demanded an immediate withdrawal of these ordinances, besides revocation of the amendment to the Electricity Act. Darshan Pal, convener, AIKSCC, Punjab chapter, said the protests were aimed at highlighting the plight of farmers. “We staged demonstrations outside the residences of MLAs, Ministers and conveyed our demands. We have already written a letter to Prime Minister Narendra Modi. If immediate steps to address our problems are not taken, we will intensify our agitation,” he said. The outfits that participated in the protest included the Krantikari Kisan Union, the Bharti Kisan Union, Ekta (Dakaunda), the Punjab Kisan Union, the Kirti Kisan Union, the Jamhoori Kisan Sabha, the All India Kisan Sabha (Punjab), the Kisan Sangharsh Committee, Punjab, the All India Kisan Sabha (Ajai-Bhawan), the Azaad Kisan Sangharsh Committee and Jai Kisan Andolan. Kisan rail sought Separately, Union Food Processing Industries Minister Harsimrat Kaur Badal has urged Railway Minister Piyush Goyal to start a dedicated ‘kisan rail’ with refrigerated bogies from Abohar in Punjab to Bengaluru in Karnataka and to Kolkata in West Bengal during the harvest season of ‘kinnow’ fruit crop between December and March to benefit farmers of Punjab, Rajasthan and Haryana. Ms. Badal, in her letter, said Abohar functioned as the focal market for aggregation of ‘kinnow’ and handled 25 lakh tonnes of produce every year. “The kisan rail originating from Abohar could take ‘kinnow’ to the southern and eastern States where there was a big market for the fruit,” she said. Ms. Badal added that the biggest market for the fruit was in Bengaluru and Kolkata, even as a significant quantity was exported to Bangladesh. She said she had been assured by the farmers and traders of the region that the ‘kisan rail’ would be utilised to full capacity.
11 August 2020||New Delhi,||Low positivity, high recovery rate: city’s improving COVID-19 numbers||The State government’s COVID-19 management statistics for the last week reveal that the Capital has been able to maintain a high recovery rate and low positivity rate despite opening up after lockdown. While the positivity rate has remained stable at 6%, the recovery rate has slightly increased from 89.57% last week to 89.79% for the week ending August 9. According to the government’s figures, the positivity rate has remained stable since mid-July — at 6% for week-long assessment periods (July 20 to 26, July 27 to August 2 and August 2 to 9). The numbers show that the total beds occupied across city hospitals remained stable at 3,000 with 77% of the total beds vacant. The deaths due to COVID-19 came down to 107 between August 3 and August 9 compared to 177 between July 27 and August 2. Decline in deaths According to government data, the number of weekly deaths due to the disease has registered a declining trend for the eighth consecutive week – from 504 in mid-June to 107 till August 9. While the government’s statistics posit that only 7.4% of the total cases detected in the Capital are active, these have registered a slight increase this week. There were 10,356 active cases between July 27 and August 2, which increased to 10,729 between August 3 and 9. Delhi, at 89.79% recovery rate, continues to be better than the national rate of 65.43% and remains among the states with the highest recovery rate in India. For every million people in Delhi, 58,963, samples were tested – higher than last week’s figure of 53, 683. The number of patients at city hospitals, however, has registered a slight increase. There is an upward trend after a sharp decline recorded between July 13 and 19. The number of patients occupying beds at city hospitals till the week ending July 19 was 3,499; this fell to 2,825 by July 26 before increasing to 2,886 till August 2 and to 3,084 till August 9.
11 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Lockdown hit treatment under PMJAY’||The nationwide lockdown had a significant negative impact on inpatient care utilisation under the Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (PMJAY), with claim volumes falling by more than 50% compared with the months leading up to the lockdown. Wide variation was witnessed across States and procedure types, according to official data. The steepest decline (more than 75%) was registered in Assam, followed by Maharashtra and Bihar, while much smaller declines (about 25% or less) were observed in Uttarakhand, Punjab and Kerala. Of particular concern were significant declines in admissions for child delivery and oncology. There was also a sharp fall in cardiovascular surgeries, according to “PMJAY Policy Brief (8): PM-JAY Under Lockdown: Evidence on Utilization Trends’’. PMJAY is the flagship scheme of the Government of India and is essentially a health insurance scheme to cater to the poor, lower sections of society and the vulnerable population. The scheme offers financial protection in case of hospitalisation due to medical emergencies. According to the brief, women, younger and older populations (under 20 and over 60) were more affected than men. Among procedures, planned surgeries such as cataract operations and joint replacements suffered a decline of more than 90%, while haemodialysis declined by only 6%. The average weekly claim volumes during the 10 weeks of lockdown were 51% lower than the weekly average observed during the 12 weeks prior to it. The decline in claim value was even steeper. There was a small but perceptible shift in PMJAY utilisation from public to private hospitals, with several possible explanations for this trend. “The 64% decline in oncology volumes across India during lockdown was concentrated in a few States. In the public sector, which plays a smaller role in oncology care under PMJAY, there was a 90% decline in claims in Maharashtra, and a 65% decline in Tamil Nadu. The utilisation of neo-natal packages declined by 24% during lockdown. There was a slight shift from public to private hospitals for neo-natal care, and the largest declines have been observed in the public sector in Tamil Nadu and Madhya Pradesh. The health implications for newborns of such a sharp decline are of course a concern,’’ the brief said. Health experts have said that ensuring least possible impact on key health programmes will be an ongoing challenge that merits continued close monitoring. The 12-page brief noted that while access to medical facilities was one of the few exceptions to stay-at-home orders during the lockdown, careseeking behaviours and healthcare provision were nevertheless significantly affected. Several factors “Several factors could explain this — on the supply side, hospitals may be preoccupied with COVID-19 preparations or caseloads, resulting in fewer resources for non-COVID-19 cases. This may be particularly relevant in public hospitals, which have been the primary focus of the policy response, and could extend to activities such as submitting pre-authorisation requests or claims documents, as required under PMJAY.’’ It said that private hospitals may reduce services out of fear among health workers that they will become infected or among owners that their business outlook will be jeopardised if they are perceived to be treating COVID-19 patients. On the demand side, PMJAY beneficiaries might delay or forgo treatment due to the fear of infection at a hospital, they may not be able to reach hospitals due to public transport shutdowns and mobility constraints, or the nascent economic crisis may affect financial considerations related to seeking care. The analysis covers 22 weeks of data, from January 1 to June 2. “The analysis is based on claims data drawn from the PMJAY Transaction Management System (TMS). The main indicator of claim volumes [utilization] is non-rejected pre-authorisation requests. It should be noted that not all States are fully captured in TMS, including Goa and Rajasthan. Less than half of Gujarat’s hospitals use the TMS portal but the authorities report aggregates, meaning that overall trends are accurately captured in the analysis, but procedure wise analysis heavily under-reports Gujarat trends,” it said.
11 August 2020||New Delhi,||707 fresh cases reported, tests for the virus drop by 48.5%||Only 707 new COVID-19 cases were reported in Delhi in the past 24 hours as the number of daily tests dropped by 48.5% compared to the average of the last three days, according to a health bulletin released by the government on Monday. Tests on Monday The number of tests on Monday’s bulletin has been mostly low as it reflects tests done on Sunday, said officials. The total number of cases stood at 1,46,134, but of this, 1,31,657 people have recovered and there are 10,346 active cases. Also, 20 more deaths have been reported, taking the total number of deaths to 4,131. The number of people under home isolation has slightly gone up from 5,227 to 5,637 over the past five days and the number of people admitted at hospitals has gone up by 3,058 to 3,115 during the past two days. Both figures had dropped considerably in July. But the number of new cases has been less than 1,500 for the past 25 days, which is less compared to June. On June 23, daily new cases touched almost 4,000 – highest so far – and since then it has been dropping. Of the total 12,323 tests done in the past 24 hours, 73.13% of the tests were rapid antigen tests, which have shown a low positivity in the city compared to RT PCR tests. Though Delhi has a capacity to do around 11,000 RT PCR tests in a day, only 3,311 such tests were done in the past 24 hours. Also, the positivity rate, which is the percentage of people who test positive, has dropped from 12.2% on July 1 to 5.7% on Monday. The number of containment zones in the city was 477 as on Monday.  The total number of cases stood at 1,46,134, but of this, 1,31,657 people have recovered and there are 10,346 active cases. Also, 20 more deaths have been reported, taking the total number of deaths to 4,131 Government bulletin
11 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘Lockdown hit treatment under PMJAY scheme’||The nationwide lockdown had a significant negative impact on inpatient care utilisation under the Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (PMJAY), with claim volumes falling by more than 50% compared with the months leading up to the lockdown. Wide variation was witnessed across States and procedure types, according to official data. The steepest decline (more than 75%) was registered in Assam, followed by Maharashtra and Bihar, while much smaller declines (about 25% or less) were observed in Uttarakhand, Punjab and Kerala. Of particular concern were significant declines in admissions for child delivery and oncology. There was also a sharp fall in cardiovascular surgeries, according to “PMJAY Policy Brief (8): PM-JAY Under Lockdown: Evidence on Utilisation Trends”. According to the brief, women, younger and older populations (under 20 and over 60) were more affected than men. Among procedures, planned surgeries such as cataract operations and joint replacements suffered a decline of more than 90%, while haemodialysis declined by only 6%. The average weekly claim volumes during the lockdown were 51% lower than the weekly average observed during the 12 weeks prior to it. The decline in claim value was even steeper. There was a small but perceptible shift in PMJAY utilisation from public to private hospitals, with several possible explanations for this trend. “The 64% decline in oncology volumes across India during lockdown was concentrated in a few States. In the public sector, which plays a smaller role in oncology care under PMJAY, there was a 90% decline in claims in Maharashtra, and a 65% decline in Tamil Nadu. The utilisation of neo-natal packages declined by 24% during lockdown. There was a slight shift from public to private hospitals for neo-natal care, and the largest declines have been observed in the public sector in Tamil Nadu and Madhya Pradesh. The health implications for newborns of such a sharp decline are of course a concern,” the brief said. Health experts have said that ensuring least possible impact on key health programmes will be an ongoing challenge that merits continued close monitoring. The 12-page brief noted that while access to medical facilities was one of the few exceptions during the lockdown, careseeking behaviours and healthcare provision were nevertheless significantly affected.  Several factors “Several factors could explain this — on the supply side, hospitals may be preoccupied with COVID-19 preparations or caseloads, resulting in fewer resources for non-COVID-19 cases. This may be particularly relevant in public hospitals, which have been the primary focus of the policy response, and could extend to activities such as submitting pre-authorisation requests or claims documents as required under PMJAY.” It said that private hospitals may reduce services out of fear among health workers that they will become infected or among owners that their business outlook will be jeopardised if they are perceived to be treating COVID-19 patients. On the demand side, PMJAY beneficiaries might delay or forego treatment due to the fear of infection at a hospital, they may not be able to reach hospitals due to public transport shutdowns and mobility constraints, or the nascent economic crisis may affect financial considerations related to seeking care. The analysis covers 22 weeks of data, from January 1 to June 2.
11 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||Lockdown shut down 78% of rural work||Almost 80% of rural Indians saw their work coming to a standstill during the COVID-19 lockdown, with only 20% getting work under the Centre’s employment guarantee scheme, according to a survey conducted by Gaon Connection Insights and the Lokniti-Centre for the Study of Developing Societies about two months into the lockdown. However, three out of four respondents said they were satisfied with the manner in which Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led government has handled the COVID-19 pandemic situation. The survey, based on face-to-face interviews with 25,300 respondents, was carried out in 179 districts across 20 States and three Union Territories, according to a report on the key findings published by Gaon Connection on Monday. Survey of hardship With two out of every three Indians living in the villages, the survey sought to document the hardships faced by rural India after the pandemic struck. More than 68% of respondents faced “high” to “very high” monetary difficulties, with 23% forced to borrow money during the lockdown. While 8% sold a valuable possession such as phone or watch, 7% mortgaged jewellery, and 5% sold or mortgaged land. Over 70% of households reported a drop in total monthly household income compared to pre-lockdown months, including 75% of poor families. There was some relief for ration card-owning households, with 71% saying they got wheat or rice from the government during the lockdown. Health services were affected, with 38% having gone without necessary medicine or medical treatment often or sometimes during the lockdown. In Assam, as many as 87% of households said they did not receive the required treatment. Among households with pregnant women, 42% did not get pregnancy check-ups or vaccinations. In West Bengal and Odisha, that figure was as low as 29% and 33% respectively. Employment was hit, with 78% respondents seeing their work largely coming to a standstill. Over 60% of skilled workers and manual labourers faced a complete shutdown. Among migrant workers who returned home during the lockdown, 23% migrant workers said they walked home from work sites. Over a third of migrant workers said they want to go back to the cities to work.
11 August 2020||Ghaziabad,||Pandemic casts its shadow on Janmashtami celebrations||As the COVID-19 pandemic casts its shadow on Janmashtami, businesses associated with the festival in the Mathura-Vrindavan belt are struggling for survival. The worst hit are the artisans who dress up the idols of Lord Krishna. Spread across villages of Mathura and Aligarh districts, thousands of artisans specialise in creating poshaks (dresses), mukuts (head gear) and kanthi mala (holy sandalwood rosary) of Lord Krishna and Radha that are supplied to different parts of the country and even abroad. “This ‘season’ —July and August — has gone almost dry,” said Mohd Gulzar, a third-generation mukut-making artist. “It is an art that has been passed on by our forefathers,” said Mr. Gulzar who gives job work to women in neighbouring villages. “I give the finishing touch to each one of them,” he said with a tinge of pride. Mr. Gulzar said around 60%-70% of such artisans are Muslims. “The previous stock hasn’t been sold because of lack of demand and the raw material has become expensive.” Goverdhan Agarwal, who runs the popular Goverdhan Mukutwale shop in the heart of the sacred city, echoes his point of view. The fourth-generation businessman said he had never seen such a dull Janmashtami. “The sales have come down to less than 20%. The temples are closed for public and the devotees are too scared to come.” Most of the business, he added, comes on Saturday and Sunday, but the State government had declared lockdown on both days. “We can’t do much except for waiting for our Thakurji to come to our rescue.” Another group that is affected is that of artistes who perform in Raaslilas and Ramleelas. “The administration had denied us permission to perform. If the film shooting could start, why not Raasleelas,” said Anil Swami, who runs Shri Ramleela Sabha with 40 artistes. “We make Rs. 2-Rs. 3 lakh during the festival which helps us sustain through the year.” The district administration has announced that all the temples in the region would remain closed for devotees till August 13.
11 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||CBI searches two Ambience group firms||The Central Bureau of Investigation on Monday conducted searches at four locations in three cities in connection with a case against two private companies, unknown government officials and others for alleged illegal construction of a mall in Gurugram. The searches were carried in Delhi, Chandigarh and Panchkula. “Businessman Raj Singh Gehlot, a resident of Delhi, Ambience Limited, Ambience Developers and Infrastructure Private Limited and unknown officials of Haryana Urban Development Authority, Town & Country Planning Department, have been named in the case,” said an agency official. The case has been instituted on the direction of the Punjab and Haryana High Court following allegations that the mall was constructed illegally on 18.98 acre of land by blatantly flouting the building by-laws and statutory provisions in collusion with others.  Last month, the Enforcement Directorate had searched the premises of Aman Hospitality Private Limited (AHPL), other companies of the Ambience group, and its directors in connection with a bank fraud case. A total of Rs. 16 lakh in cash and Rs. 24 lakh in foreign currency (16,120 euros, 5,115 pounds and $6,302) were seized from the house of Mr. Gehlot, it was alleged. The ED is conducting the probe on the basis of an FIR registered by the Jammu Anti-Corruption Bureau against AHPL and its directors for alleged money laundering in the construction and development of the 5-star “Leela Ambience Convention Hotel” located near the Yamuna Sports Complex in Delhi. According to the Directorate, a sizeable part of more than Rs. 800 crore taken in loans from a consortium of banks for the hotel project was diverted and also round-tripped using a web of companies. Employees of the Ambience group and associates of Mr. Gehlot were allegedly made directors or proprietors of such companies and he was the “authorised signatory”.
11 August 2020||New Delhi,||HC issues notice to UPSC after plea says quota for disabled neglected||The Delhi High Court on Monday issued notice to Union Public Service Commission (UPSC) on a plea challenging this year’s preliminary examination notice for direct recruitment to civil services on the ground that it neglects the minimum reservation to be provided to disabled persons. The petition by Sambhavana, a registered society of the disabled for the disabled, claimed that the UPSC’s notice reserves only 24 vacancies for persons with disabilities out of a total 796 ‘expected approximate vacancies’. This, the petition filed through advocates Krisha Mahajan and Ajay Kumar Chopra, said was below the four per cent mandatory reservation under section 34 of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities (RPwD) Act, 2016. The plea submitted that four per cent of 796 vacancies work out to is 32. An HC Bench asked the Commission to give details about the method of computing vacancies in the All India Civil Services for which it carries out the recruitment process. “The notice becomes a fraud on the Act since it gives four percent reservation of 796 expected approximate vacancies. To reserve something of that which does not legally exist is to legally give nothing,” the petition said. The petition said the UPSC’s notice was “illegal as what is certain and clear for the disabled under the RPwD Act,2016 is made vague, ambiguous and uncertain by the device of expected approximate vacancies”. The Civil Services (Preliminary) Exam 2020 is scheduled to be held on October 4, 2020 for 24 All India Services.
11 August 2020||New Delhi,||‘Ensure timely provision of textbooks to children and salaries to teachers’||Deputy Chief Minister Manish Sisodia has directed the Urban Development (UD) department to ensure timely provision of textbooks and salaries at municipal schools to students and teachers respectively, failing which they should be taken over and administered by the Directorate of Education (DoE) under the Delhi government, sources said. Letter to Principal Secy They also said Mr. Sisodia had written to the Principal Secretary of the UD department, who is also the Director (Local Bodies), on the basis of a complaint alleging that schools run by the municipal corporations and especially the North Delhi Municipal Corporation, were yet to distribute textbooks to their students despite five months of the current academic year having lapsed. The government had disbursed an amount of Rs. 853 crore for primary education to the three civic bodies of which Rs. 393.3 crore had been provided to the North body, the Minister said. According to the complaint, this amount was yet to be utilised for the provision of textbooks to students and to ensure timely salaries for teachers. Action sought from dept. The Deputy Chief Minister has also sought an action taken report from the department. The step, Mr. Sisodia had argued, would be in the interests of both students and teachers at such schools if civic bodies were “unable to perform their primary duty” in this regard.
11 August 2020||New Delhi,||Govt. approves devices worth over Rs. 3 crore for virtual court hearings||The Delhi Cabinet on Monday approved a proposal for the procurement of six routers and as many Network Attached Storage (NAS) devices to enable the virtual proceedings of courts and digitisation of court records during the pandemic. The routers and NAS devices will be installed in court complexes of Delhi’s district courts like Tis Hazari, Rohini, Karkardooma, Saket, Patiala House and Dwarka, the government said. The estimated cost for the procurement of routers is Rs. 1,58,26,638 and the estimated cost for the procurement of NAS devices is Rs. 2,16,00,000. The government said the approval of the Cabinet will pave the way for all litigants to view and attend court hearings virtually. The provision of NAS devices and routers, the government added, is intended to facilitate virtual hearings at district courts for the convenience of lawyers, litigants and subordinate judiciary. “The procurement of six routers will enable the district courts to cope with the requirement of dedicated 1GBPS leased lines in all court complexes for smooth functioning of courts,” the statement read. The government said the approval to this effect came after requests for better Internet connection.
11 August 2020||New Delhi,||HC instructs DU to issue digital degree certificates||The High Court has ordered Delhi University to ensure that digital degree certificates must be issued to students, who require them due to any urgent deadlines, within a period of one week from registration on the online portal www.digicerti.du.ac.in . Justice Prathiba M. Singh said that the students are free to register on the portal by giving their details, including their academic qualification and name of their college. “Upon the same being completed by the students, digital degree certificates for the students shall be issued within a maximum period of one week, after completing the verification etc.,” the court said. The High Court’s order came while hearing pleas of doctors, who have graduated from various medical colleges in Delhi in 2017 and 2018. The doctors wished to pursue their post graduate medical education in the USA. For the said purpose, they had applied for issuance of degree certificates. However, the same were not issued by DU on the ground that the contract with the printer had expired. To streamline the process of issuance of degrees and to eliminate the need for students to physically go to the DU campus for obtaining certificates, the court had on previous hearings directed the DU to come up with a protocol for issuance of digital degree certificates.
11 August 2020||New Delhi,||AAP accuses BJP leader’s relative of taking bribe||The Aam Aadmi Party on Monday alleged that BJP councillors take money for different developmental works in their area. Besides, it released an audio of a purported conversation between a contractor and a BJP councillor’s relative about money given for different construction works. The party demanded the BJP to take action against the accused and his associates and Delhi Police to register an FIR. BJP’s response Responding to the allegations, Delhi BJP media head Ashok Goel said that the AAP government was allegedly involved in multiple scams and hence raising “baseless accusations”. “Everyone knows about Chief Minister Arvind Kejriwal. First, Kejriwal and AAP will make baseless allegations. Then he apologises in the court,” Mr. Goel said. Addressing a press conference, AAP leader and Political Affairs Committee member Durgesh Pathak released the audiotape of Nishant Pandey, brother-in-law of BJP councillor Rajni Pandey, and alleged that the brother-in-law handles all corruption in the area.  Taped conversation “There are three parts of the conversation. In the first, the builder says that he has paid Rs. 7 lakh, out of which Mr. Nishant has taken around Rs. 4 lakh and the junior engineer has taken Rs. 3 lakh. For another building, Mr. Nishant has taken Rs. 2 lakh and the engineer Rs. 2.5 lakh. In the third , Mr. Nishant said he is unhappy because a person has just given him Rs. 1.5 lakh and not settled the total amount,” the AAP leader said. He said that if the Delhi Police does not arrest these people within 48 hours, then it will be clear that the BJP is also part of this “corrupt nexus”. “The person’s voice on the tape is of Mr. Nishant, who is known as lender in his area. People say that you can get away from Gabbar Singh but you cannot get away from lender Pandey [Mr. Nishant],” Mr. Pathak said.
11 August 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||After father, son dies of virus in Odisha||A software engineer who had come to perform his father’s last rites in Odisha’s Ganjam district died of COVID-19 here. His father was also a victim of coronavirus. U. Satyanarayan Rao, working in a Bengaluru-based IT firm, died in a private hospital on Monday. His father U. Shankar Rao had succumbed to the infection in a COVID hospital in Ganjam district on July 14. After performing the last rites, the son had fallen ill and was admitted to the MKCG Hospital, Berhampur. He was subsequently discharged upon feeling well. He had planned his return to Bengaluru on July 26. However, he complained of severe breathing uneasiness at the airport and was rushed to hospital. After a two-week hospitalisation, the engineer died. Ganjam remained the worst affected district of Odisha, with 13,088 positive cases and 137 deaths. Khordha district has been witnessing a steady rise in COVID-19 cases. It has so far reported 6,663 cases, the second highest after Ganjam.
11 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||‘78% of rural India stopped work during lockdown’||Almost 80% of rural Indians saw their work coming to a standstill during the COVID-19 lockdown, with only 20% getting work under the Centre’s employment guarantee scheme, according to a survey conducted by Gaon Connection Insights and the Lokniti-Centre for the Study of Developing Societies about two months into the lockdown. However, three out of four respondents said they were satisfied with the manner in which Prime Minister Narendra Modi-led government has handled the pandemic situation. The survey, based on face-to-face interviews with 25,300 respondents, was carried out in 179 districts across 20 States and three Union Territories, according to a report published by Gaon Connection on Monday. The survey sought to document the hardships faced by rural India after the pandemic struck. More than 68% of respondents faced “high” to “very high” monetary difficulties, with 23% forced to borrow money during the lockdown. There was some relief for ration card owning households, with 71% saying they got grains from the government. Health services were affected, with 38% having gone without necessary medicine or medical treatment. Employment was hit, with 78% respondents seeing their work largely coming to a standstill. Over 60% of skilled workers and manual labourers faced a complete shutdown. Over a third of migrant workers said they want to go back to the cities to work.
11 August 2020||New Delhi,||AAP govt. misleading people on job scheme: BJP||The BJP has accused the Aam Aadmi Party government of misleading the people by “re-launching” its employment scheme, which had “already failed” two years ago. Delhi BJP president Adesh Gupta alleged that the government had spent Rs. 34.41 crore on the same scheme two years ago when only 334 people got employment. Leader of Opposition in the Delhi Legislative Assembly Ramvir Singh Bidhuri wrote to Chief Minister demanding that the government release names and details of the nature of employment it had helped provide in the public domain. “The Kejriwal government had promoted the Rojgar Mela in 2018 but failed to provide jobs. Likewise, this year also the govt. has announced that both job providers and seekers can register on the government portal. This scheme is only for a show off,” Mr. Gupta alleged.
11 August 2020||BHUBANESWAR,||Infant dies in ambulance||A one-year-old boy died inside an ambulance when its driver and accompanying pharmacist allegedly took a long lunch break in Odisha’s Mayurbhanj district on Monday. Niranjan Behera and his wife Gita from Ambajoda village under Betanati police station had admitted their son to Pandit Raghunath Murmu Medical College and Hospital at Baripada. When his condition worsened, the doctors referred him to SCB Medical College & Hospital, Cuttack. The ambulance had barely travelled 3 to 4 km when the driver and the pharmacist stopped for lunch. Mr. Behera pleaded with them to rush them to Cuttack, but in vain. “The two came after about 90 minutes,” alleged a relative. When the infant became motionless, the two took them to Community Health Centre, Krushnachandrapur, where doctors declared him dead.
11 August 2020||NEW DELHI,||DCW rescues 13-year-old domestic help||The DCW on Monday said a 13-year-old girl, who belongs to Jharkhand, was rescued from Model Town area where she was forced to work as a domestic help without pay. The minor was rescued on Sunday night following a tip-off. The panel also said minor was beaten by owners. “...The girl will now be going to the CWCafter which an order for FIR and recovery of her wages shall be passed,” the DCW said.
11 August 2020||August 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Water baby||
11 August 2020||August 11 2020 00:00 IST,||Tracing the virus||
